Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
0w H,'g-/cc
RIport Ne. P-4006-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$8.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
March 28, 1985
This document has s resticted distibution and may be used by reeipients only in the perfnce of
ther olikcd dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. I



CUIRENCY EqUIVALENTS
Ecuador has a multiple exchange rate. In addition to the current
official exchange rate of S|.67-US$l (which applies only to petroleum exports
and some selected imports), there is an intervention rate of S/96.5-US$1
applicable to all other imports and non-oil exports. There is also a free
market rate applicable to tourism and capital movements which was fluctuating
around S/.119=US$l as of January 1985.
Currency Unit: Sucre (S/.)
Intervention Rate
Calendar 1984                   January, 1985
US$1      =  S/.79                 =  S/.96.5
S/. 1     =  US$.01               =  US$.O1
S/. 1,000 =  US$12.66              =  US$10.36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BEDE      -  Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador
(Ecuadorian Development Bank)
CEPE      -  Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana
(state petroleum company)
CONADE    -  Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
GTZ       -  Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Agency for Technical Cooperation)
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
IEOS      -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias
(Ecuadorian Sanitary Works Institute)
IESS      -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social
(Ecuadorian Social Security Institute)
IETEL     -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Telecomunicaciones
(Ecuadorian Telecommunications Institute)
INECEL    -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion
(Ecuadorian Electrification Institute)
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
MINE      -  Ministry of Natural Resources and Energy
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USZ ONLV
ECaOADO
PUBLIC SECTOR        Et  PMOJECT
LOAN AND POJCT SUmWR
Borrower:           Republic of Ecuador
RegcStizg Agencies: Up to US$2.5 million would be on-lent to CEPE, INECEL and
IETEL with remainder used by Finance Ministry, CONADE and
Ministry of Natural Resources.
Amuut:              US$8.0  million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayable over 17 years including 4 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Ptroect
Duscription:        The project would help Improve Ecuador's public sector
management to make better use of scarce financial and
human resources. The main areas of assistance are:
Ci) to introduce improvements in the national planning
and budgeting systems by (a) strengthening the macrn-
economic framework for planning and budgeting, including
better management of external debt; (b) improving prepar-
ation of the national budget; (c) putting in place a
pilot financial information system and training account-
ing professionals to use it; Cd) strengthening public
investment monitoring; and (e) studying means for a
phased reduction of revenue earmarking; and (ii) to
support general management improvements where the state
performs important economic activities by (a) helping to
design a new system for monitoring performance of public
enterprises; (b) providing direct assistance to key
public enterprises (oil, power, and telephone companies)
as well as to mining development initiatives; and (c)
streamlining procurement and other administrative
practices.
Risks:              Successful implementation of the proposed project depends
on continued Government commitment, improved coordination
among Central Government institutions and arrangements to
facilitate contracting of the needed consultant
services. Righer-level officials are committed to the
management assistance proposed; consultations
during project preparation have helped assure commitment
from middle level technicians as well. The provisions
for Project Coordiiator and advisory committee should aid
in achieving better coordination among key agencies. The
proposed use of a management service for contracting
consultants should minimize delays in that regard.
This doumcnt has a restd ditribution and may be ued by rfepients only in the perfonance of
tlvir ofrflw dute Its contents may not otherwi be discosed without World Bank authortion.



- ii -
ZaUmated Costs:                                     Loa!aa
--CUS$ million)--
Improed PlaninAg ad Budgetlng             3.5      3.3       6.8
Gconeral llgt. Iprv. in State Icon. Act.   1.3     3.5       4.8
Project Coordination                      0.1       -        0.1
Baseline Costs                            4.       6.8      11.7
Unallocated                               0.4      0.6       1.0
Price Contingencies                       0.4      0.6       1.0
Total Project Costs 1                     5.7      8.0      13.7
lBank                                     -       8.0       8.0
Central Goverment & Dec. Entities        5.7       -        5.7
Total                                    5.7      8.0      13.7
Istinated
1986      1987        1988       L989
US$  llbions by lank Fiscal Year
Annual                      1.8        3.7        2.0        0.5
Cumulative                  1.8        5.5        7.5        8.0
late of Return:     n.-.
1/ The tax content of the project would be negligible.



TERNATIONAL BME FOR IKCOEXlSTICTION AND DEVKLOFKNT
REPOsT AND      uA         OF THE RESW  OF TE  I
TO TIM BUCUTIVE DIR$CTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO TRR
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR YOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR  PANhCEXNT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$8 million to help finance
a public sector mnnagement project. The loan would be repayable over 17 years
including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Borrower would onlend about US$2.5 million of the loan in dollars to
decentralized agencies such as the state oil, power and telephone companies
(CEPE,INECEL and IETEL) at the same interest rate and terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THECONOK!
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 5094-EC
entitled 'Ecuador: An Agenda for Recovery and Sustained Growth- was
distributed to the Executive Directors on Oftober 5, 1984. The subsequent
raragraphs reflect the findings of that report as well as those of a Bank
mission which visited Ecuador in November 1984, to analyze the public
investment program. Annex I provides the main social and economic indicators.
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. In 1967, petroleum was discovered in Ecuador's Amazon
region and in 1972 the country became a net oil exporter. In 1973 world oil
prices quadrupled and Ecuador's export earnings dou'led. During the
seventies, Ecuadorian income and output expanded rapidly, perhaps at a rate
unprecedented in its history. At constant 1983 prices, per capita GNP
increased from US$1,190 in 1972 to US$1,430 in 1983, placing Ecuador firmly
among the Bank's middle-income borrowers.
4.        Between 1960 and 1980, much social progress was made.  Life
expectancy increased by ten years; death and infant mortality rates dropped
by more than 40 percent; and school enrollment expanded rapidly. By 1980
virtually all children were attending primary school and a third of the
relevant cohort attended schools of higher education. Today's citizens are
better educated, in better health, and better fed than at any other time in
Ecuador's history. Nevertheless, owing to the low level from which Ecuador
started, Ecuador's social indicators lag behind those of other countries with
similar levels of per capita income. Moreover, the benefics of growth were
not evenly distributed. While a sizeable middle class emerged, about 40
percent of the urban and 65 percent of thie rural population live in absolute
poverty.



5.        Highly concentrated ownership of productive resources and unequal
access to public services explain much of the skewness of Ecuador's income
distribution. For example, 60 percent of the country's farmers derive their
livelihood from only 11 percent of the arable land. Their farms are
small-less than 5 hectares-and tend to be of the poorest quality.  Low
levels of education, primitive cultivation techniques, scarce use of
technical inputs, and limited access to credit and to commercial marketing
channels contribute to low farm productivity and incomes. But uneven
distribution of the oil income also accounts for the disparities in social
conditions. Thus, during the 1970S only about a quarter of total public
investment was channeled to the rural areas, where 56 percent of the
population and most of the poor live.
6.        As many other Latin American countries, Ecuador is now beginning to
emerge from a severe recession. Ecuador not only suffered from declining
international oil prices and suspension of commercial bank lending, but also
from the ravages of the Nino current which in 1983, practically wiped out
cocoa exports (a major source of foreign exchange), severely damaged the
countryside, and forced the country to import foodstuffs, domestic production
of which normally suffices for the countryts needs. Per capita income
dropped in 1982; in 1983 it dropped again, this time by more than 5 percent.
While statistics are scarce, unemployment has surely risen, there have been
some bankruptcies, and Ecuador's financial and industrial sectors are
undergoing severe liquidity problems.
The Impact of Petroleum
7.        While the immediate causes for E-uador's economic downturn may be
traced to falling oil prices and suspension of commercial bank lending, these
factors only exacerbated impending problems, as the country had embarked on a
unsustainable economic course. After the initial burst of oil exports in
1973, the country's volume of exports remained practically constant; export
earnings increased mainly because the international price of oil went up, and
the country's income increased because the terms of trade turned sharply in
its favor. By 1980, the increased income made available since 1975 by
relatively higher export prices was adding 8 percent to Ecuador's yearly
income. The increased expenditures of the public sector-through which much
of this income passed-were partially responsible for the improvement in the
nation's living standards and physical infrastructure, as well as for
accelerated industrial production.
8.        This income had perverse effects as well.  First, it slackened
efforts to collect taxes from the non-oil portion of the economy. Thus,
while petroleum revenues doubled relative to GDP between 1973 and 1983,
non-oil taxes, including social security contributions, fell from 17 percent
of GDP in 1973 to 10 percent in 1982 and total revenues, relative to GDP,
stagnated. Second, because oil taxes were painless for the Ecuadorian
consumer, there was an incentive to earmark them for various
subsidies--imports, housing, roads, and education-and to keep domestic
petroleum product prices frozen at the level of 1972. By 1980, the
Ecuadorian consumer was paying only US$0.10 for a gallon of gasoline. The
subsidy implicit in the difference between world prices and domestic prices
was equivalent to about 8 percent of 1980 GDP,,



9.       Third, the abundance of revenues and their ease of collection
diminished incercives to contain the growth ot public sector expenditures.
Revenues relative to GDP increased from 26 percent in 1973 to 29 percent in
1980, current expenditures went up from 16 percent of GDP in 1973 to 22
percent in 1980. Public sector savings decreased to such an extent that tb-
surplus of 1973 (equivalent to 3 percent of GDP) became a deficit equivalent.
to 5 percent of GD? by 1980 and 8 percent by 1982. Because of its status as
an oil exporter, Ecuador was able to finance this deficit abroad with ease,
but at a price. The public external debt more than doubled between end-1979
and end-1983; economic adjustment was deferred until Ecuador found its access
to foreign funds severely limited. The abundance of oil income also affected
Ecuador's exchange rate, allowing it to appreciate in real terms without
causing financial problems. This made imports cheaper for Ecuadorian
industrialists and consumers, but it also meant that non-oil exports
suffered. With the important exception of shrimp, non-oil exports grew
slowly in volume after 1974. Like the public sector, the external sector
would also have encountered problems after 1980 had it not been for recourse
to large external borrowings.
10.       Monetary policies complemented both exchange rate and fiscal
policies.  Low interest rates--indeed, negative in real terms-led to a
decline of financial savings relative to GDP. But Ecuador's financial system
expanded credit rapidly in nominal and real terms, despite poor domestic
resource mobilization, because foreign banks and the Central Bank provided
it with resources. By 1983, three-fifths of the resources of the finance
companies and over one-third of the banks' came from the Central Bank.
Financial institutions, then, like the public and external sectors, became
dependent on petroleum, through the Central Bank, and ultimately on external
borrowing, through guarantees. They too encountered severe problems when, in
1982, petroleum receipts stagnated and Ecuador's access to external funds
became severely limited.
Recent Events
11.       During 1981-82, the terms of trade turned against Ecuador as oil
prices declined. Export earnings fell by about eight percent in 1982.
Despite a reduced volume of imports, the current account deficit of the
balance of payments exceeded US$1 billion, about nine percent of GDP. To
finance it, the Authorities borrowed short-term and used dp about US$460
million of the country's international reserves, almost depleting them in the
process. When the economic downturn worsened in 1983, Ecuador had to manage
with severely limited financial resources as foreign banks restricted their
net, new lending to US$430 million. To make matters worse, the Nino
current's climatic shifts, which had inflicted some damage in 1982, continued
to ravage the countryside with floods.
12.       The Authorities' attempts to deal with the crisis have been, for
the most part, prompt and in the right direction. First, they dealt with the
exchange rate. In 1982, the sucre was devalued for the first time since 1970
and thereafter was adjusted frequently. It now stands at a rate which is as



-4-
attractive for exporters as it was in 1970, before the oil boom allowed it to
appreciate. Second, they dealt with the liquidity crisis by temporarily
prohibiting or limiting many imports and renegotiating principal on the
external private and public debt. Negotiations with the commercial banks for
a multi-year rescheduling covering maturities falling due in 1985-1989 were
concluded in the first quarter of 1985. Temporary import restrictions were
eliminated as the liquidity of the Central Bank improved.
13.       A fiscal austerity program was put in place by 1983 in cooperation
with the IMF. The public sector deficit was reduced from about 8 percent of
GDP in 1982 to about 1.4 percent in 1983 and virtually eliminated in 1984.
Ecuador also complied with the rest of the IMF program. Partly as a result,
inflation was more than halved in 1984, to about 20 percent, the balance of
payments was practically brought into equilibrium, and growth resumed. A new
IMF program for 1985-1986 was approved by the IMP board on March 11, 1985.
Among other things, this program anticipates a public sector surplus
equivalent to 3.4 percent of GDP for 1985 to be achieved by raising revenues,
especially from petroleum exports, and holding down expenditures.
14.       Finally, decisions taken prior to the crisis began to bear fruit in
1983. For example, owing to positive results of exploration efforts
undertaken as far back as 1980 and the implementation of a secondary recovery
program, oil production and oil exports rose 11 and 39 percent, respectively,
in 1983.
Outlook
15.       The present Administration which entered office in August 1984, is
the second one to be democratically elected after nearly a decade of military
rule. The Government's economic philosophy essentially supports the market
as an efficient resource allocation mechanism, with minimal Government
intervention in economic affairs. Since coming to office, the Administration
has taken a number of important and politically difficult corrective
measures: it has again devalued the sucre, it has raised domestic petroleum
products prices; it has raised interest rates close to positive real levels;
it successfully concluded negotiations for multi-year rescheduling of its
external debt; it has eliminated many import prohibitions; and it has moved
to free prices in the agricultural sector. These are important measures in
the right direction; they should encourage efficient utilization of resources
and stimulate exports, agricultural production and domestic savings.
16.       Owing to the devaluations of the sucre in the past two years, oil
exports now amount to 18 percent of GDP. Virtually all of this income
accrues to the public sector. Present prospects indicate that in future
years, the oil sector will at least maintain its importance in the economy.
Realization of the country's growth potential requires extremely careful
management of this income. In particular, it will require continuation of
frugal fiscal policies and tight monetary policies, very much along the lines
of the 1985 program agreed to with the IMF. A public sector surplus
channelled to the private sector via the monetary system may be required to
avoid inflationary pressures and to maintazn an adequate flow of resources to
the private sector. This delicate balance between public and private sector
needs underscores the importance of good public sector management.



- 5 -
17.       This balance is all the more important because Ecuador is likely to
continue facing a shortage of foreign exchange in the next few years,
especially if oil prices continue to stagnate or decline. In addition,
Ecuador, like many other developing countries, will face greater difficulty
than in the past in obtaining financing for its development effort from
commercial sources. Yet, the country has abundant resources. With a good
public investment program. continued improvement of sector policies, and
tight monetary policies, the exchange rate should remain attractive for
exporters. Under these conditions Ecuador could grow some 3 to 4 percent per
year on average in 1985-1990 and attain equilibrium in both its overall
fiscal and external accounts, remaining, therefore, creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART 1I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
18.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. Altogether, the Bank and IDA have extended
31 loans and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$628.2 million net of
cancellations. As of September 30, 1984, US$420.3 million of this amount had
been disbursed. The IFC has invested in five firms in Ecuador, including a
large textile company, a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise
and a development finance company. As of September 30, 1984, commitments for
these operations amounted to US$28 million, of which IFC held US$10.4
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC operat'ons as of September 30, 1984.
19.       ExeLation of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity, reflecting the
insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a const-aint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's
economic and soc4al development. In recent years, the Government and Bank
staff have worked together to step up disbursement of Bank loans. Among
other initiatives, a Special Action Program for the country provided for
revolving funds in five projects. As a result of these general efforts,
disbursementr rose from US$26 million in FY83 to US$82 million in FY84. The
country has recently set up a monitoring committee for all externally
financed projects which should reinforce efforts to accelerate
disbursements. The Bank plans annual portfolio implementation reviews to
detect and resolve specific obstacles to execution of Bank-financed
projects. Ecuador's average disbursement rate for 1981-1984 has been higher
than the average for Latin American countries.
20.       Bark and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and po-wer, where there were substantial bottlenecks to be
overcome. To date, approximately 30 percent of Bank Group lending has been
for infrastructure. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for
transport were to improve the country's road network and two were to help
finance the expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Three power operations aimed
at improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first
livestock development loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a
diversification in the Bank Group's lending program away from infrastructure.



-6-
Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other loans and credits for
agriculture and fisheries, seven loans to support industrial development, and
two for pre-investment studies. These productive sector loans comprise 52
percent of total Bank lending to Ecuador. Bank Group support for social
sectors-education, water supply and urban development-now accounts for
about 18 percent of total Bank lending.
21.       Turning to the future, the Bank strategy is to support Government
initiatives in macroeconomic end sector reforms over the medium term. Bank
lending would build on a core program for industry, agriculture and infra-
structure to meet the following objectives: Ci) the completion of a physical
and social infrastructure base capable of fostering development; (ii) the ex-
pansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors; and (iii) the strengthen-
ing of agencies to implement projects effectively. Additional projects would
support policy improvements in energy, agriculture and the general develop-
ment framework. The proposed public sector management project would help im-
prove the Government's analytical ability to determine policy and its capa-
city to monitor economic performance. In addition to the design and adoption
of adequate sector policies, Bank lending will emphasize the generation of
exports and employment. Besides the public sector management project recom-
mended in this report, the Bank is preparing small-scale enterprise, DFC, and
agriculture sector operations. The small-scale enterprise and DFC credit
operations would increase production and improve employment prospects for the
population. Both the agriculture sector project and the industry projects
would support policy improvements in their respective sectors. In addition
to Bank lending, the IFC is analyzing several possible operations,
principally in agribusiness and fisheries.
22.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral
sources. IDB has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Loans outstand-
ing from IDB to the country as of December 31, 1983 totalled about US$850
million equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power,
agriculture, industry and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the coun-
try have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry conces-
sional terms. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development
lender in the immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented
projects continuing to account for a large share of its lending program. By
December 1983, USAID had about US$92 million in outstanding loans to Ecuador
(including undisbursed). Its program concentrates on urban development,
agriculture, health and the private sector. In addition to maintaining close
contact with USAID, IDB and other aid agencies to assure compatibility of
programs, Bank staff have organized a full public sector investment review
which could serve as the basis for a Consultative Group meeting of Ecuador's
creditors. Such a meeting is being considered for this calendar year.
23.       As of December 31, 1983, the public and publicly-guaranteed medium-
and long-term external debt of Ecuador (including undisbursed) totaled about
US$7.3 billion, of which US$1.1 billion was undisbursed. Of the former sum,
the Bank group provided about six percent; the IDB about twelve percent and
USAID two percent. Through 1988, the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding
and disbursed public foreign debt is expected to remain below seven percent,
and the Bank's share of total public foreign debt service is projected to
remain bctween three and four percent.



PART III - THE PUBLIC SECTOR
24.       As indicated in Part I, the role of the public sector in the
economy grew dramatically after 1972, as petroleum revenues increased marked-
ly.  Between 1973 and 1982, the public sector grew twice as fast as GDP, its
value-added tripling over the period. Total public expenditures rose from 23
percent of GDP in 1973 to 34 percent in 1982. Although oil revenues financed
this expansion at first, when the public sector required more funds than
could be acquired from petroleum, Ecuador turned to foreign borrowing. By
1982, this borrowing capacity had been exhausted and the public sector had to
adjust to more realistic limits.
25.       The Bank undertook a comprehensive study of Ecuador's public sector
as part of the 1979 country study: "Ecuador: Development Problems and
Prospects". Subsequently, it analyzed aspects of the public sector in the
context of the 1984 country economic memorandum and public investment review
exercises. The present Government, which took office in 1984, has informed
the Bank of its determination to intensify the adjustment of the economy and
to improve the efficiency of the public sector. There are many areas in need
of rationalization, but as a first step, the Government has expressed its
desire to gain better control over the budget process, the execution of
capital investment projects and the performance of public enterprises. It
has sought the Bark's assistance in defining and financing these and
ancillary efforts intended to improve the management of the public sector in
general.
The Government Structure
26.       The Republic of Ecuador, according to its Constitution, has a demo-
cratic government with three separate branches.   The National Congress con-
sists of 71 representatives directly elected for a four-year term. Supreme
Court judges are named by the Congress for four-year terms. The President
and the Vice President, also directly elected, preside over a cabinet of 12
ministers. The ministers are responsible for their respective portfolios
and the 52 semi-autonomous entities attached to their ministries. To this
group belong CEPE, the state petroleum enterprise, INECEL, the national power
company and IETEL, the national telecommunications company, which together
account for about 30 percent of public investment. The country's 19
provincial councils and 134 municipalities have functional autonomy. They
own 14 municipal enterprises as well as small shares, together with the
central government, of 17 provincial power companies. Some 39 autonomous
institutions include universities, port authorities and national monetary and
finance institutions, such as the Central Bank, the national public sector
development bank (BEDE) and the social security instituteh (IESS).  Finally,
there are 128 advisory and coordinating bodies.
27.       The core agencies dealing with development policy and economic
management are the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MOF), the Central
Bank, the Monetary Board, the National Development Council (CONADE), whose
secretariat serves as the planning agency, and BEDE. MOF and CONADE are
jointly responsible for planning and monitoring public development projects.
Foreign exchange, financial and monetary policies are managed by the



Central Bank and the Monetary Board. Public debt is monitored by the Central
Bank and managed by the MOF, but the latter's capacity for analysis of debt
management options is very limited. The Office of the Presidency has a small
unit in charge of administrative development which mainly serves as a source
of information for the President. The current Vice President has taken on
the task of spearheading administrative reform efforts, especially the
streamlining of complicated administrative procedures which have, in the
past, discouraged economic activities. The Brazilian Government, which has
undertaken similar initiatives, has sent experts to Ecuador to provide
assistance in the simplifying of paperwork.
The Budget Process
28.       The budget process is the principal instrument to program and im-
plement public sector activities. However, the formulation of the public
sector budgets is a complex and fragmented process. The National Budget
represents only about 64 percent of tax revenues and, excluding transfers to
other public sector entities, around 45 percent of public expenditures. The
remaining tax revenues are directly allocated among the budgets of autonomous
entities and to local governments through the widespread practice of
earmarking, i.e., pre-assigning a fixed portion or amount of a revenue source
to a specific recipient. This system curtails the control policy makers can
exercise over the planning and expenditure of public resources and in
particular over investment projects and their execution.
29.       Of an estimated Sl.270 billion in 1985 tax revenues, all but 46
percent are committed through various forms of earmarking. The resulting
disadvantages are substantial: amounts are alloted to recipients
independent of their justifiable needs and only dependent on the development
of the revenue source; there is almost no incentive for rigorous control of
expenditures by recipients; earmarking renders budgetary programming
exceedingly difficult; finally, the Administration has to calculate
constantly the earmarked portions of revenues and the respective shares of
recipients.
30.       A significant portion of earmarked revenues (five to ten percent)
is destined to a special extrabudgetary account to provide revenues to
municipalities and provinces. It was set up in an attempt to introduce
revenue sharing and to replace a large number of minor municipal taxes so as
to centralize distribution of funds to local Government. Recently amended
provisions of the Constitution and the National Budget Administration Law
require that the National Budget be unified and MOF therefore recently has
begun to integrate earmarked funds into the National Budget in order at least
to centralize administration of separate funds. The IMF has provided
assistance to the Government in technical aspects of budget consolidation.
Still, a good number of funds and accounts exist outside the budget. The
process of eliminating these funds will be slow and must take into account
measures of administrative and legislative ref..rm which will ensure that the
interests and vested rights of recipients are observed.
31.       Budget preparation follows different courses for current and for
capital expenditures. Budgeting of current expenditures by MOF follows the
traditional incremental approach (increases over last year's levels).
Capital expenditures are programmed by CONADE which receives project requests



-9-
from the public agencies and sends a budget proposal to MOF. A draft
National Budget is then prepared and transmitted to Congress. Because of
weaknesses in macroeconomic forecasting capabilities, however, revenues are
generally overestimated. For the period between 1979 and 1983, the annual
average shortfall for each tax group was over 14 percent. Similar weaknesses
in the recording and analysis of overall public debt, especially with the
complications introduced by reschedulings, limit the Finance Ministry's
ability to analyze options for financing the capital budget through borrowing
over the medium term. Although the National Budget is prepared in program
budgeting format (that is, expenditures are stated explicitly in support of
program objectives), in practice it is not used as a programming tool.
Programs are too aggregated and goals too generally stated. The absence of
quantitative indicators does not permit an evaluation of goals accomplished.
32.       Execution of the National Budget is a continuous process of nego-
tiation in which program managers experience a high degree of uncertainty.
Expenditures are authorized according to allotments by the Budget Directorate
of MOF. These authorizations are made on the basis of availability of funds
and, if funds are inadequate, disbursements against authorizations are often
made at the discretion of the Treasurer. This cash-management approach to
budget execution often results in different emphases than those indicated in
the budget document. Fiscal management is made difficult because information
on budget execution is scattered among the different public sector
decentralized agencies, and is in different formats. While it is relatively
easy for MOF to keep track of spending authorizations--monitoring of which
has been computerized since 1983-information on actual expenditures arrives
very late, sometimes more than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
33.       The Government's accounting system is based on an adequate legal
framework adopted in 1981. Public sector agencies have been gradually
introduced to this system through training courses conducted by the
Comptroller General. Several factors result in less than ideal accounting
practices, however. First, not all public agencies have yet had access to
the training; second, the Comptroller General emphasizes ex-post control
rather than financial information needed for forward-oriented
decision-making, and third, the public sector has not in the past accorded
much importance to financial reporting and the accounting professionals are
thus not particularly well-paid and trained.
National Project System
34.       A national project system was established by law in 1975.
According to the system, CONADE is to provide the general and sectoral
framework and to rank projects. MOF is to finance the investments within
resource availabilities, and programming units of the executing agencies are
to identify, formulate and evaluate projects. BEDE may lend to public
agencies that need funds (beyond those available from the budget or operating
surpluses) to undertake investments. However, actual performance varies from
this theoretical framework. Macroeconomic projections for planning purposes
are made separately and not always consistently by MOF, the Central Bank and
CONADE. CONADE's role as coordinator has been limited in recent years. Its
project inventory has deteriorated and links with agencies have loosened.
Nevertheless, there are now indications that CONADE is regaining its
importance as a development planning agency.



- 10 -
35.       CONADE has recently develrped a project monitoring system, with IDB
assistance, which has been tested on one or two projects. This system is not
fully installed nor is it truly a management information system with a hier-
archy of data aggregation. At the same time, BEDE has been charged with par-
allel responsibility for monitoring progress of many major investments. A
special ministerial committee, chaired by MOF, on which CONADE, BEDE, and
Central Bank are represented, has been set up to facilitate execution of ex-
ternally financed projects.
Structure of Entities Performing Key Economic Activities for the State
36.       After decades of creating semiautonomous or independent agencies in
an ad hoc fashion to fulfill public functions (principally service delivery
and natural resource exploitation) Ecuador's Administration is now faced with
a multitude of these institutions, including some very powerful ones, and no
consistent framework for their overall supervision or performance monitoring.
The classification of these decentralized entities does not follow any
economic rationale. Commercial enterprises are categorized with noncommer-
cial; large state enterprises are treated more like a branch of government
than some smaller ones. Typically, the entities "attached" to a ministry are
governed by a company statute and a sector law. Some are subject to
procurement lawc and civil service rules, while others are not. The relative
autonomy of the decentralized entities depends on their age, ability to build
an independent power base, access to income other than the National Budget,
and the strength of the central ministry in their sector.
37.       In addition to the lack of a regulatory framework for the overall
supervision of these enterprises, there are no clearly defined guidelines
,which could help coordinate their activities and establish generally accepted
targets of performance nor is there any institution which could uphold such
guidelines and promote efficiency of these enterprises. In the new
atmosphere of austerity, the Government strongly desires to assure efficient
management by users of public funds through introduction of norms and
systematic review of performance. Creation of a system to set financial and
social targets and operational objectives for decentralized state entities
could lay the foundation for better supervision of these bodies. This could
include a unit to promuce coordination and centralized information on these
entities (see para. 57).
38.       Among the enterprises of the public sector performing economic
activities, a few stand out because of their importance for the public sector
and the national economy in general. These enterprises--described below--are
exclusively owned by the State and, as monopolies, have been particularly
prone to management problems. However, they perform essential services for
the economy, realize a very substantial part of public investment and are
large employers. They are principally in natural resource exploitation,
strategic industries and basic economic infrastructure, activities reserved
to the State by the Constitution.
Petroleum Operations
39.       The most important enterprise in this class is CEPE, the state
petroleum enterprise. Set up in 1972, attached to the Natural Resources and



- 11 -
Energy Ministry (MRNE), it acts as the state body to explore, exploit, pro-
cess and market petroleum and petroleum products. Petroleum accounts for 72
percent of Ecuador's exports. Investment planned for exploration alone for
the 1984-1990 period amounts to US$610 million, although this may be attenu-
ated by recent contracts with multinational petroleum companies for explora-
tion.
40.       CEPE's efficiency dropped during its period of expansion.  Its cur-
rent expenditures rose twice as fast as its income. Since it was not held to
any performance standards or required to pay dividends, few incentives ex-
isted to improve efficiency or even to monitor the costs of production. On
the other hand, since petroleum products are marketed domestically at regu-
lated prices and since most petroleum export revenues are earmarked for other
sectors, CEPE has little control over petroleum-generated income. The cur-
rent Administration, with its private sector orientation, has given CEPE man-
agement the task of converting the enterprise into a lean and efficient or-
ganization. CEPE, in response, has begun to introduce improvements in ac-
counting and financial management, and to analyze the legal framework, admin-
istrative structure and procedures to identify other areas for efficiency im-
provements. With USAID assistance, CEPE will examine ways to improve its
marketing techniques.
Power Ceneration and Distribution
41.       INECEL, the national electrification institute, was founded in 1961
as a public enterprise attached to the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Energy. Its main activities as the public enterprise to generate, transmit
and regulate electric power were taken up in 1973. INECEL gradually has been
acquiring major equity in most provincial power enterprises. However, like
CEPE, it is not free to set the rates charged to electricity consumers.
INECEL's annual investment budget over the 1982-1985 period amounted to
US$400 million in current terms, or i6 percent of public sector investment.
Together with its subsidiaries, it is one of the biggest consumers of
s-ubsidized fuel for power generation.
42.       INECEL's management problems are partly related to its position as
a public sector agency (which can fall back on transfers from the Central
Government if operating costs are not met) and partly to the size and
organization of the electricity sector. Because of a lack of overall
coordination, INECEL's departments operate with a great deal of internal
autonomy; contacts among them are informal and personal, rather than
systematic. No management information system exists to permit adequate
supervision of this large organization. Financial reporting of the
subsidiary provincial power companies is not consolidated into a single
sector or enterprise statement, so sectoral performance is difficult to
monitor. Public transfers in the form of fuel subsidies have been passed on
to the consumer via lower rates. Poor financial performance is evidenced by
low or negative rate of return in most recent years for INECEL and most
subsidiaries as well as dependence on financial assistance from the
Government to fund the sector's investment needs. Concerned about the
organizational problems, INECEL has initiated an arrangement with ENDESA, a
Spanish power company, for technical assistance in institutional
improvements, including analysis of alternative organizational structures and



- 12 -
procedural reforms. It is also revising its financial plan to take into
account the recent debt rescheduling and petroleum price changes, as well as
the needs of the sector to achieve a greater degree of self-financing.
Mmidn
43.       Mining, another economic activity reserved by the State, has so far
played a minor role in the economy. The present Government stands poised to
undertake a major effort, through the MRNE, to revive this sector, for its
employment and export potential. The Government intends to attract private
interests to this sector rather than set up a state mining enterprise. The
major stumbling block for a broader involvemeint of private companies in min-
ing has been ill-defined conditions regulating private mining activity. The
1974 law on Mining Development and its regulations have not provided a
climate conducive to private investors and contractors. In particular, taxa-
tion provisions are ambiguous. The Government recently has taken the first
steps to establish a consistent and attractive framework for private inter-
ests in the mining sector, by promulgating a new regulation removing the
worst inconsistencies from existing legislation. As a next step, it intends
to improve the provisions governing the fiscal aspects (e.g., tax incentives)
to make it more attractive for investors and contractors and at the same time
make it easier to administer. The Government furthermore has decided to es-
tablish a set of guidelines spelling out its policies towards contractual
relations with the private sector. Against the background of a highly
competitive international mining industry, both measures will require careful
preparation in order to successfully revive mining activities.
Teleco  nications
44.       IETEL, the state telecommunications enterprise, attached to the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications, was set up in 1972. It is
responsible for the planning, development, operation and regulation of all
systems of national and international telecommunications services. As such,
it plays an essential role in the economic and social development of a
country characterized by its topographic divisions. At this time, the
company's services provide neither the coverage nor the reliability needed
for rapid economic development. IETEL, similar to INECEL, has taken over
nearly all formerly independent systems. It has to cope with a number of
problems related to this former structure. For example, the somewhat unclear
definition of the powers of regional managers results in overlapping and
duplication of functions requiring additional efforts for coordination among
regional managers and with IETEL's general management. Furthermore, low
tariffs result in inadequate cost recovery, which is exacerbated by weak
financial management. IETEL management is aware of the need for
administrative reforms and plans to begin an institutional diagnosis soon.
Other Agencies Performing Economic Activities
45.       There are a number of other "attached  entities and public
enterprises in Ecuador's public sector. Many are of considerably less
economic importance than those described above. Some are part of the Defense
Ministry complex and therefore less susceptible to improvements through
outside technical assistance. Others are already being provided assistance



- 13 -
through direct project lending from the Bank or other international
agencies. For instance, strengthening of the semi-autonomous institutions
attached to the Agriculture Ministry will be supported by a proposed Bank
agricultural sector loan and by a USAID-financed review of these
institutions. Several public sector financial institutions are receiving
management assistance through industrial, agricultural and housing project
loans. Port authorities and water companies have received assistance in the
past.
46.       There remain, nevertheless, several important decentralized enti-
ties which, while not ready at this time for assistance under the proposed
project, could be candidates in the near future. The Social Security Agency,
IESS, plays a large role in public sector investment--mostly housing projects
and personal or mortgage loans to members--but it is a highly inefficient
agency, as measured by excessive administrative expenditures and number of
employees. Furthermore, its investments are at negative real interest rates,
which is quickly reducing the value of reserves. IESS is governed by a Board
of Directors on which Government representatives are in the minority and
pensioners representatives are a strong influence. This fact makes the
Government's desire to correct the most serious management problems very dif-
ficult to implement. If a decision to introduce reforms can be reached,
however, technical assistance for management improvements would have a high
return. Similarly, the national water and sanitation institute, IEOS, has
been plagued by ill-defined functions and weak management. Its
organizational status (attached to the Health Ministry) is currently under
review. Should this institutional issue be decided soon, IEOS could also
benefit from management assistance. Therefore, the possibility of assisting
additional decentralized entities, such as IESS and IEOS, in a modest way
through this project would be kept open. A Government request in this regard
vould be reviewed by the Bank and, if appropriate, could be funded from the
unallocated portion of the proposed loan.
Administrative Problems
47.       The public sector has been plagued by cumbersome and inadequate
administrative procedures resulting in long and costly delays in such key
activities as procurement, business registration, and trade transactions.
Procurement procedures, for instance, are governed by a 1976 law which seems
to be rather broadly worded, but a host of regulations and subsequent
restrictive practices adopted by some of the institutions involved, have led
to rather unwieldy procedures. These developments led to the increased use
of exemptions, partly written into the 1976 law, and partly included in
special legislation. Institutions dealing with emergency works, such as
flood-related reconstruction, seek to apply special rules to their
procurement decisions, to avoid normal regulations. Similarly, Government
regulations for business and commerce have proved a disincentive to
entrepreneurs rather than encouraging economic growth. To counter these
problems and, in order to facilitate public sector administration by more
rational procedures, the President has recently given a mandate to the
VicePresident to prepare new legislation governing the entire area of public
contracting, and to streamline (or "de-bureaucratize") Government procedures
in general.



- 14 -
Past Bank Technical Assistance Projects in Support of the Public Sector
48.       Two technical assistance projects have been funded by Bank loans in
the past. Both were for pre-investment studies and were coordinated by
FONAPRE, an agency of CONADE. The first (Loan 1230-EC for US$4 million of
May 24, 1976) was to finance the preparation of rural development projects,
in particular to establish a rural planning unit of JUNAPLA, the predecessor
of CONADE, and to help prepare rural development projects. The project took
eight years to implement because contracting procedures proved very complex,
terms of reference for consultants had not been defined in advance and co-
ordination between executing agencies was insufficient. All of these
obstacles have been addressed in the proposed loan, so as to reduce
possible delays in implementation (paras 63 - 65). Despite its execution
problems, the project helped establish a rural planning unit, whose functions
eventually became part of the new Rural Development Secretariat, and produced
a number of studies, one of which led to a Bank loan for the Tungurahua Rural
Development Project. A Project Completion Report currently is under
preparation. The second (Loan S-006-EC for US$11 million of November 3,
1977) was to finance general pre-investment studies. Loan funds are nearly
all disbursed. Eleven studies have been satisfactorily completed; the
remaining three studies are expected to be finished by their respective
deadlines. In addition the project has helped to Improve organizational
effectiveness of FONAPRE. A 1982 Bank loan to INECEL, which included funding
for institutional strengthening in the areas of finance, organization, and
data processing, was cancelled by mutual agreement when the Government was
unable to take adequate measures to improve INECEL's financial situation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       As indicated above, the Government seeks to strengthen its ability
to control public sector expenditures and make timely decisions to facilitate
execution of public investments. It also wants to promote efficiency in
decentralized agencies and public enterprises and promote private sector
participation in development. During the August 1984 Bank mission to discuss
the draft country economic memorandum with the newly-installed
Administration, the possibility of Bank assistance for these public sector
management improvements was identified. UNDP and GTZ helped to finance
preparation of the proposed project, but their resources are not sufficient
to finance the full execution of the activities proposed. Likewise, USAID
financed a study of technical assistance needs for economic management for
the use of the new Administration, and will be financing some studies
complementary to the project proposed here (tax administration, fiscal
policies, petroleum marketing). Preliminary discussions regarding the
project's content tcok place during the 1984 Annual Meetings and in a
follow-up preparation mission in November. Appraisal took place in January
1985. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report. Annexes III to VI
contain supplementary project information. Negotiations were held in
Washington from March 21 to March 22, 1985 and the Ecuadorian delegation was
headed by Mr. A. Dahik, Economic Advisor to the President.



- 15 -
Project ObMectives and DescriptioL
50.       The main goaln of the proposed project are to help the Government
improve its systems for macroeconomic management and the efficiency of public
investment. These are goals calling for a sustained effort, especially where
rigidities have a legal foundation which requires reform. Emphasis for this
initial project would be placed on carrying out activities which could yield
operational improvements relatively quickly, and laying the base for medium-
term institutional strengthening through training and analysis of possible
legislative reforms. Follow-on assistance to address broader public manage-
ment goals could be provided as a second stage.
51.       This project would support programs to:
(a) Introduce improvements in the national budget process, includ-
ing public investment planning, to transform this system into an effective
instrument of fiscal policy, management and control and to better coordinate
the planning/budgeting process with macroeconomic realities. Subactivities
would be:
(i)   strengthening the macroeconomic framework of annual op-
erational plans and budgets and the capacity to analyze
external debt management options;
(ii)   improving guidelines for budget preparation to
facilitate consolidation and to transform the process
into more of a program budgeting exercise;
(iii)   improving control over budget execution by bettering the
financial information system of the public sector,
including training of accounting professionals;
(iv)   redesigning existing monitoring systems for public
investment to make them more useful for managers and
more timely for any corrective actions needed; and
(v)   analyzing means of reducing revenues earmarking.
(b) Make more efficient the State's involvement in economic
activities by:
(i)   laying the basis for better integrating decision-making
in decentralized agencies with Government priorities
through proposals for establishing a system to oversee
and centralize information on public enterprises;
(ii)   Reducing the decentralized public sector's managerial
and financial burden on the Central Government and
increasing its contribution to economic growth through
management improvements in key public enterprises,
specifically, CEPE the petroleum company, INECEL the
power company, and IETEL the telephone company;



- 16 -
(iii) developing an incentives system to attract private
investment to the currently underdeveloped mining
sector; and
(iv) streamlining administrative (including procurement and
contracting) procedures which now cause serious delays
at considerable cost to public agencies involved in
economic activities.
Strengtbened Macroeconomic and Debt Analysis
52.       This component, which would account for nine percent of project
costs (excluding contingencies), would help develop a better macroeconomic
framework for ase during budget preparation. CONADE, which makes projections
and assumptions short- and medium-term planning, would improve its current
macroeconomic models to incorporate financial policies and a flow-of-funds
approach, and develop a computerized data base. MOF's Public Credit
Secretariat would strengthen its debt reporting system and develop a program
for analyzing the impact of different debt management alternatives (e.g.,
interest rate changes, reschedulings). Both activities would be coordinated
with the Central Bank.  Sixty months of consultant services are programmed.
Improved Budget Process
53.       The budget preparation component would account for about 14 percent
of total project costs (excluding contingencies). The main focus for this
technical assistance would be the General Budget Directorate of the MOF, with
some involvement of the programming and budgeting units of the line
ministries. Officials involved in the preparation of the budget would,
supported by the proposed technical assistance, design an institutional
framework for and start implementation of an adequate program budgeting
system. About 60 months of consultant services have been programmed for this
activity.
54.      In order to obtain better data on actual use of funds authorized,
special emphasis would be placed on establishing a financial information
system that would provide timely budget execution data to MOF officials (28
percent of project costs). This would allow for corrections to be made in an
optimal fashion, taking into account unspent balances, rather than in the
form of inefficient across-the-board cuts or postponements of priority
investments. To do this, expansion of MOF's computer-based information
system (now only used by the Treasurer and Budget Secretariat) would be
supported to facilitate the budget formulation and monitoring process. On a
pilot-basis, key sector ministries would be brought into this information
system. Upgrading of the accounting staff in public agencies through
training in the use of financial information systems to permit them to play a
more modern, managerial-oriented role would also be financed under the
project. Both consultant services (108 months) and supporting computer
equipment would be provided for the system design and training.



- 17 -
HonitorKig Investmenta
55.       This activity would account for six percent of project base costs.
CONADE and BEDE already have efforts underway for computer-based systems to
generate data on project progress. These would serve as the basis for a more
coordinated program to serve all central institutions (CONADE, MOF, the
Central Bank, and BEDE) so that the most essential information needed for
monitoring public investment progress is provided to top level decision-
makers. This activity should improve the Government's ability to prepare and
modify annual operational plans as well as to determine the need for special
facilitative action for lagging investments. Since budget expenditure is one
of the principal measures of project progress and is more affected by unfore-
seen budget constraints than current expenditures, this activity would be
closely coordinated with the above-described assistance for improved budget
processing. Twelve months of consultant services and supporting computer
equipment are programmed.
Reducing E    rking
56.       Finally, an analysis of the actions needed for reducing the
pervasive earmarking of revenues would be undertaken by the MOF with
technical assistance from this component (about eight months of consultant
support and one percent of project costs). Resulting recommendations could
form the basis for proposed legislative changes to help overcome the
earmarking-related rigidities of the budget process.
Superlision of Decentralized Entitles
57.       During the initial phase of this component, a new system for
Central Government monitoring of decentralized entities would be designed
(under the general supervision of the Vicepresidency) including
recommendations for an appropriate institutional framework, the preparation
of a more coherent regulatory framework for these decentralized agencies,
recommendations for dealing with state shares in mixed companies and
proposals for reducing the number of coordinating bodies to conserve scarce
time of top-level decision makers. During the follow-up phase, the entity
(new unit or other institutional arrangement) responsible for coordinating
and centralizing information on public information on public enterprises and
other decentralized agencies would be supported by consultants and, as
needed, equipment and training. It would develop and initiate systems for
setting performance objectives, for obtaining and consolidating information
and for evaluating performance results against targets. Observation visits
to other countries and participation in international seminars could also be
financed. About 36 consultant months are estimated to support this
component, which would account for nine percent of total project costs,
ekcluding contingencies.
Public Enterprise Mauaginnt
58.       About 29 percent of total project costs would be allocated to this
activity initially. CEPE would receive a subloan of US$1.2 million to
finance advisory services (about 60 months), training and equipment necessary



- 18 -
to continue reforms in financial management and introduce changes, as needed,
in the legal framework affecting CEPE, in administrative procedures now used
by the company, and in the organizational structure to permit better
coordination of internal units. INECEL would receive a subloan of US$1.0
million to support the continued assistance from ENDESA in administrative
structure, as well as help strengthen INECEL's capacity for financial
analysis of the company's operations. Sixty months of assistance is
estimated for this activity. However, because of the importance of a
financial rehabilitation plan for INECEL (para. 42) as an indication of the
company's commitment to management improvements, a copy of such a plan
approved by the Government would be furnished to the Bank as a condition of
disbursement for the INECEL subloan (para. 5, Schedule I of the draft Loan
Agreement). IETEL would receive a subloan of about US$300,000 to undertake a
diagnostic study of its organization and management to define areas for
reform. Twelve months of short-term visits have been programmed for this.
Finally if other public enterprises become candidates (para. 46) for
technical assistance subloans, a limited amount of funding could be made
available from the unallocated reserve.
!ining Development
59.       Technical assistance to the MRNE's Directorate of Geology and Mines
to define fiscal and other incentives and model agreements for private sector
involvement in mining development would be financed, for which about one
percent of project costs (eight months of consultant services) has been
allocated. An interministerial advisory cnmmittee has been constituted for
the Government's efforts in this regard.
*prov e  Administrative Practices
60.       This component, which accounts for two percent of project costs,
can eventually result in considerable savings for the public sector.
Consultant assistance (about six months) under the supervision of the
Vicepresidency to help rewrite regulations to streamline complicated
procurement practices would be provided. Training and observation visits of
personnel who are attempting to reduce paperwork and simplify administrative
procedures would also be financed. The Government, through revised and
simplified regulations, aims to reduce the current significant delays which
executing agencies experience in obtaining equipment or initiating contracts,
and which private entrepreneurs experience in cases where economic activity
is excessively regulated.
Project Emecution
61.       MOF has agreed to employ a full-time Project Coordinator,
satisfactory to the Office of the Presidency and CONADE, as a condition of
effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). An
interim coordinator (who will also be responsible for USAID-funded assistance
in the fiscal area) has already been contracted to assure that project
momentum is maintained until the regular Coordinator is on board. The
full-time Coordinator would be responsible for overall coordination of
project execution. He would be contracted by MOF and would work regularly
with the executing agencies. Furthermore, MOF, CONADE and the Office of the



- 19 -
Presidency would each name representatires to an advisory group to assist the
Project Coordinator. Since this group viould assure the Coordinator's
day-to-day access to the key participating institutions, its formation would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.01(d) and 5.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Because of the importance of keepizag a top-quality professional as
Project Coordinator and of assuring that he can devote full attention to the
coordination of project activities, his services would be financed from
resources of the proposed loan (under one percent of project costs). The
Coordinator and the general advisory group would operate under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and would be maintained for the entire
project execution period (Sections 3.01 (b) and td) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Coordinator would be the principal contact for all
project-related matters and would be responsible for assuring that
consultation is maintained with the anpropriate officials of the Government
and the Bank on items such as terms of laference, contracting of consultants
and procurement of goods. He would also prepare periodic progress reports.
In order to provide flexibility of scope for this project, the Project
Coordinator would also be responsible for reviewing with the advisory group
any requests for new or expanded assistance and making recommendations to the
Bank. The Bank in turn would review the availability of funding and
appropriateness of the request in light of project objectives, before
agreeing to reallocation of funds. This flexibility is not expected to
result in revisions of more than ten percent of current allocations.
63.       The HOF's General Budget Directorate would be responsible for the
execution of the budget process and financial information component and the
earmarking study. The MOF Public Credit Secretariat would be responsible for
assistance to improve its debt management capacity. The MOF training office,
in coordination with Comptroller General's Office, would be responsible for
the financial information training component. CONADE would coordinate the
assistance for improving macroeconomic analytic capacity and, in cooperation
with BEDE, would supervise the project investment monitoring component.
CEPE, INECEL and IETEL would each execute the activities financed by their
subloans, in accordance with subsidiary agreements satisfactory to the Bank,
the signing of which would be a condition of disbursement for each respective
subloan (Sections 3.01 (e) and para. 4, Schedule 1 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Vicepresidency would oversee the technical assistance for
the supervision system for decentralized agencies and the preparation of
improved administrative procedures. The Natural Resources Ministry's Mining
Directorate would oversee the technical assistance for Mining Development.
64.       To assure timely contracting of consultants for projects, the
Government has decided to contract with UNDP's Office of Project Execution
(OPE) to recruit and administer contracts for individual consultants and
firms which would carry out each Central Government activity; OPE would be
used selectively for the subloan-financed technical assistance for the public
enterprises. Signing of the agreement with OPE would be a condition of
disbursement for the Central Government components (Section 3.02 (b) and para
6, Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). OPE estimated overhead of eight
percent of value of contracts has been incorporated in the cost estimates per
consultant months. Project executors are expected to use experienced



- 20 -
consulting firms for major components in order to simplify the contracting
process and to assure quality and timeliness of advisory services. These
consultant firms are likely to make use of Ecuadorian expertise for the
project where this would enhance the understanding of the environment in
which reforms or new procedures are to be introduced. Substantive
backstopping would be part of normal supervision by Bank staff, which would
closely follow project execution and provide advice as needed.
65.       The scope uf each component has purposely been designed to be
practical and quick-results oriented. This should help assure that project
execution could take take place in about three years. Draft terms of
reference have been prepared for all components (see Annex IV). The
tentative implementation plan is included as Annex VI. Progress of each of
the activities under the proposed project would be regularly reviewed against
the implementation plan by the Bank and the Government and any schedule
adjustments mutually agreed upon.
66.        No major legislative changes are required for the success of this
first-phase project. However, to the extent that recommendations for such
changes develop in the process of project execution, they could form the
basis for any follow-on project, if mutually agreed.
Project Cost and Financing
67.       Total project costs net of taxes are estimated at US$13.7 million,
of which US$8.0 million, or 58 percent, represent foreign exchange (see Annex
V for detailed project costs table). This includes an unallocated amount
equal to US$ 1.0 million (US$600,000 o' the proposed loan), or nine percent
of base costs, to cover physical contingencies for equipment, unforeseen
additional consultant months for the activities described and the possible
inclusion of assistance to IESS or IEOS (para. 46). Price contingencies are
based on international inflation of 7.5 percent in 1986 and 8 percent in
1987. Inflation for local costs in dollar equivalents represents eight
percent for 1986-1987 since foreign exchange policy is currently to keep the
value of the sucre approximately in line with the dollar. The proposed Bank
loan of US$8 million would cover 58 percent of the project's estimated
financial requirements, or all of the foreign exchange costs. The local
costs would be covered by the Central Go-ernment (US$4.5 million), and for
appropriate components, by CEPE, INECEL and IETEL (US$1.2 million).   The
Government would be the Borrower and would onlend in dollars the portion for
the decentralized agencies at the same interest and terms as the Bank Loan
(Section 3.01 (e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       A total of 424 staff-months of external consulting services is
required to execute the project. This comprises the bulk (88 percent) of
expected foreign expenditures. Costs per consultant-month have been based on
1985 prices for similar contracts for top-rated management consultants in
neighboring countries.
Procuremtent and Disbursement
69.       The proposed loan would finance consultants' services, Project
Coordinator's salary, some computer hardware and software and foreign costs



- 21 -
of training. Contracting of consultants would be in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" (Schedule 5, Section II of the
draft Loan Agreement), with which UNDP/OPE has considerable recent
experience. Computer equipment and software amounting to about US$0.7
million would generally be procured through international shopping including
quotations from at least three suppliers. Where only a small amount of
equipment (under US$20,000) is needed for pilot-testing, local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank would be used (Schedule 5, Section I of the draft
Loan Agreement).
70.       Disbursement of the loan is estimated to require about three and
one-half years. The Bank loan would disburse: (i) 100 percent of the costs
of consultants services (including the Project Coordinator) ; (ii) 100
percent for directly imported equipment and 85 percent of the expenditures
for locally purchased equipment; and (iii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for training and observation visits. Disbursements for
contracts with a value of up to $30,000 and for training would be carried out
against statements of expenditures. Documentation for this group would be
kept in country files for review during supervision and would be audited
regularly.
71.       To accelerate the initiation of the project, a Special Account
would be set up for the payment of project costs. The Bank would advance up
to US$900,000 to the Account (about four months of project expenses), which
could be used to pay all foreign and local expenditures, if the Government so
chooses (Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). To
permit the early initiation of key services, especially those of the Project
Coordinator, retroactive. financing for eligible expenditures after March 1,
1985 up to a total of US$200,000 would be permitted (Para. 3, Schedule 1 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
72.       The proposed project is expected to help the Government begin to
address certain of its most important public management problems, principally
those affecting economic management and the country's natural resources, in a
coordinated fashion. It should result in the design and installation of
better performance monitoring systems for general budget execution, public
sector investments and state-owned enterprises. Higher level Government
officials, who have focused their attention on public sector management
problems in a comprehensive way, are convinced of the need for the project;
consultations during preparation have helped assure commitment from
middle-level technicians as well (especially in the Budget Directorate).
73.       Nevertheless, traditional bureaucratic independence will slow the
establiz.iment of mechanisms for coordination of planning, budgeting and
monitoring of public sector activities. The provision of a full-time Project
Coordinator and an advisory committee representing key participating agencies
is intended to permit early detection of problems in execution and the
proposal of solutions. There is also the risk that the country's commitment
to administrative reform will not be maintained. To the extent that this
project includes only selected targets, e.g. budget, major state enterprises,



- 22 -
where e ficiency improvements should be of spec al interest , it should
succeed in laying the bases for prolonged commitment to better public sector
management on the part of the Government.
PART V - LGAL  SToIJIEUTS AND ATORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, and the !;eport of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
75.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text of this report and are listed in section III of Annex III. Special
conditions of effectiveness for the loan would be the employing of the
Project Coordinator and the establishment of an advisory group representing
the Office of the Presidency, CONADE and MOF. A special condition of
disbursement of loan funds to each participating decentralized agency would
be the signature of a satisfactory subloan agreement between the Borrower and
that agency. For the INECEL component, an additional condition of
disbursement would be the furnishing to the Bank of a financial
rehabilitation plan approved by the Government. Finally, the signing of a
management service contract with UNDP/OPE would be a condition of
disbursement for the Central Government components of the project.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VL - RE      W ON
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 26, 1985
Washington, D.C.



--23-~~ ~                                       ANNEX I
* -23-      TAILB  3                                          pas i of
1004(10000400 o. U)
TlOAL                              253.       263.0       283.0
ASZCIN.14L                          t7.0       U.S        0.0
m_      C61                             ..       350.0     130.              2100.0                  2349.3
(lI UINS Of OIL "WALUr)            151.0      223.0      S71.0              t99.3                 L122.8
-wLf  - wia susnmu
?WRAUON.H10-It" (11V_U1)          462.0      5044.0     7966.0
3RSA0101AU0  (2 Or "VAL)            54.4       33.,       45.5               00.3                   40.8
NPIUA?IU   OJCTZ0U
POPULATIOn 1  3  20 (NIJr)                                2.5
TATIOUMV MUOIATIMO CM"L)                                 V2.0
IoPULTOUm UKEXIlI                                         1.9
NMIUATIOS DRUM1
353 so. a0.                       13.0       20.7        27.5              33.7                    52.9
NI N. 1111. 1. L1A                94.1      120.6       12Z.7              92.4                   156.3
POUUATUO A51300113T1R (2)
0-1  1U                          04.0        5.3        44.t              39.9                    31.6
15-G6 YU                          3Z.0       30.S        32.?               0.0                   61.1
*5 Am AIM                          3.0        3.5         3.4               0.1                     7.1
1TOTA                              2.9        2.6 I       2.0               2.4                     1.0
4.9        4.2        3.6                3.0                    3.7
Mu 33n 3413 (CM ?IOJ)               40.0       43.2       37.0               31.3                   23.4
a    WUSR 4  (PU TWO)1             16.0        12.9        5.4                6.1                    5.5
C35 ISVSU   UCTI   1                 3.A        3.2        2.6                2.0                    1.0
VDJILT 71UIIIUC
IOWYOSI. U 0 L   0)                 *-        9.0        AZ3 2 d
am  CZ Oi KUI  W )                  ..         ,,        34.0 I.           4o..
MU  OF MO   O. PO CATA
(1f90-71100)                      104.0      101.0      101.0              110.3                  110.5
M  CAiT  SO19LT or
041.033  (2 or JU1UDUK)          84.0       9:.O        97.0             110.0                   126.0
11rO1  (C015 FM DAY)              49.0       33.0       52.0               67.3                   69.7
or mum3 AND" Al ran             23.0       27.0        20.0 /i           34.t                    34.5
C11. CAC  1-4) DU61  wnA            25.1       13.5        7.4                S.7                    3.2
U-.s
LugI W    . AST KM  (128)           30.7       35.9       02.3               64.7                   07.4
13341 NM. 34  (n  a )             160.0       107.3       75.1              60.6                    s4.2
*C1351O S1 VAYIS (V10W)
TOTAL                             12.3 /AA   34.0       42.0 /f            65.4
W34                               32.5       70b 76.0   64.071             76.1
UISAL                              1.9 ^.     7.0        13.0 7!           40.2
(3 OF POIAT1OU
OTAL                                ..       22.4       32.3 It            12.9
..                                            ..        0.0 7!            07.0
311L3                               ..         ..        13.0 7r           24.5
PIfL.UOIU NI YsIwCIIm            2070.0      2820.0      760.0            1917.7                  1003.5
POM. NO 3 3  PI306               2340.0 a   1360.0       570.0             813.5                   704.4
ypb. Mm f0 L 3BD
TOU31L                           530.0      420.0      500.0              367.2                  326.3
113A1                            300.0 5   300.0          ..              411.5                  201.5
UISAL                               ..     440.0           ..           2636.3
A43S1 0113S N  lOSPPtTAL              ..       17.1                         27.3                    20.0
TOUL                               5.1t       3.2         5.3 /A
31AL                       ..         ..         .                  ..
13R1 N0. OF NUOUS/30
TOTAL                              2.5..  .. 43..
5134.                              2.         2-
ACs  To uge. (s OFr )MJ
TOL^L                             3Z-^                  45.0                 *
DRU                               75.          .           .                 ..



-24-                                                 ANNEX I
S A 1L L     t                                        cu  of  5
UOCtal  IMIllDDLt  S                   X S
MST            ~~~(HOE? UCIU   rT UTEMTI
moLk          MOUNT          MID~~~~XXDLE INCON      NIODO   IO
zzTEL          LA!T. ARIUCA 6 CAR            t11011
ADJUIS=    OLUNT MoI
IRUNAIS  TOTL                       13.0        17.0       107.0ag1 03s.                               101.1
MALI                     67.0       9n.0       110309 Zi           106.3                    105.5
FUIWt                    79.0        95.0       105.0 to           104.5                     96. I
*UCOIuDI TOTM.                      12.0        22.0        *0-3.                                       59-1
KAU                      13.0        21.0        19.0 4             **.3                     Go. 
FZHAL9            ~~10.0       23.0        41.0 r             44.3                     50.6
VOCATIOUIL Cs  3i COMA)               29.0        11.1        11.1 /             33.0                     21.6
PUIL-TEACUR RATIO
"avmv                               39.0        38.0        36.00              30.1                     25.1
UECONLDUI                           11.0        14.0        17-0               16.6                     20.5
ADULT LITERACY 33 CZ)         t        7.-        64.0        85.5               76.5                      75.6
PASISZIR CARS/TNOUSAD PoP              2.1         46          6 h               44.0                     54.7
ADSO RczIRSw/SNOUAmo POP             38.&       289.61      39.0               225.6                    164.9
TV ZUCSVIU/TS0HUIAND POP               0.5        25.6        65.9              L07.2                    123.8
NEWSPAPER (VDAILY  C1114
INTURST) CIUCULATIOI
PIZ rOUUID PorPATION                51.1        42.6        54.0               63.5                      6. 3
CIMW    AWAL ATNDANCZC TA.                         3.6          ..                2.6                      2.9
TOTAL LAIO  PO0IC  (ThOUS)          1446.0      1la.0       2560.0
131*d1  (Pt.CZmT)                   16.3        19-1        21.3               23.2                     34.5
AGILXCULTU3  (AIICR)                57.4        51.0        51.6               31.5                     40.7
-IWUSTIT ( r  CnY)                 19.4        22.2        17.1               23.9                     23.3
PAITCXPAYIOVI RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.7        32.2        32.3               32.2                     42.9
NALZ                                s5.0        52.1        50.5               49.3                     54.7
VEMAL                               10.6        12.3        14.1               15.2                     31.0
IMOUIC DEIZSDNC  RATIO                 1.5         1.5         1.5                1.4                      0.9
PErCZ OF 07 PRATE  NCa
U,7EVID rY
- U   52 07  SEBOLD                   ..          ..          ..sz.                                       ..
511036  22 01 UOD      S              ..          ..          ......
LOWEST 2O2 OF WUSEHOLDS
0Z S1 402 OF WOUSLDS                  .           ..
ZSTINATKD AISOLUTE POETY ZICONE
LZVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
U..                                               ..       470.0              28.2.
UlLU                                  ..          ..       320.0              184.0
ESTIUAED DIATIV  PMs IMCDI
LVEL (US$ PEP. CAPITA)
URD                                   ..          ..       53.0               522.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       428.0              372.4
ESTSlATED POP. VELOU ASOL!
POVERTY ZECO   LEVEL (C)
URSJ                                   ..                   40.0...
RURAL                                 ..          ..        65.0
NOT AVAILAI
ROT APCASL
N OTS E 
/a   The gup averagSe for each indicator are population-vaigb:td arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries aong the
Indicators depends on availablity of data and Lo not uniform.
/b   Unleoe  otherwae. noted. 'Date for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 end 1961; 'Data tor 1970' between 1969 and
1971; nd data for 'Mot Deet Estimate' between 1930 and 1982.
/c  Intarcanel 5rowth rate to 3.2Z (1962-74); /d 1976; /a 1979; /f 1977;  "1951; 7b Percentage cosputed on the bnais
of total mabor of occupled housong unlt.; 7  1975; 2  1974; 7  1978.
JUNE, 1984



-25-                                                                            AiMi  I
_              ,mnmm  maa. , mime..                                                  3 of 3
m__   U ~     Sb dmams dio    Vm.  m...  e t _             r _    IV.b Oa  Mbiltmmu _d .slMm . It Ibaud _5 .. b  *ilm  tha b   my _-4 to _ mmswmml
mmqUabm  _sm            So ON  Si of .amedlmsd  i            soi m   wa"    mwd _  far        twon_es to e       iiq l, duem. 'n  d_mlm*   mmb             , _eb   I.
b_werib  elas me samildi.  Idihid It""m. mdi = mm_url_m  m.f. awm._ difhum .  blu. _  ,l...d.
Vb  umismee, on." i." I   aim "b          mdii po_ w .4mb edijei  emmdl m   U) Piii 1mw one              * . e1        blA. m_m   Ble IbAul lusep dmm    d  oh.
mlftuth,ili t. low    em. Umti Sli     ago qMhm.- ps"1 a1_ _am d . urn  inN                      = _1i   md   Md lI. 63 de Sm abs   i b w.,     mm. *e 1e em-m. Sm  m
mIgog   smb  .mim.mmm gaudm   lb  mhusp   .   mmim  _gleg                        IIl*bacmw  inm _I.. u" to      illil.. 'm        sil.  dm    lmimp *il    _ *_.Smm     s m.
"t-o  so 1*1- .|-".                                                                         *_ wa     -40"   k   fnwOM-Fuf%t   atse    th    Me  W-t" r~109t1, a 1 .  t     uslw   golu d  |w
Imup ba dm5 Cm. lbs mev     m.      1-1 b        lu ad   mCowell              di      . Immmb-mlb                                          a 1;di  m.0    emi   "mmli.. mt l.
mmutmlAmd im vsSmaici al.t1 .1mw  -di5.ilci Im e.mmbl.  ibm. .in,.mm. em. m.5_ wmfal I. mamulim lb  sham  dim  i m.Imt li                           w  t W"b  mf _rmles ,1md
Itbaaoml         bM  mm m                                  r  Wmimm  mmmlii                              rule!g4zJ-  "O"'m _d  _el  Celonb pm   s.m -msim,
e.d   P                "M" _      14Ze,   1"Alft _m  d_lI.      _. low.                     _       .    _ Uset r_
M~lolpe         - se lmml.    m.l                             ,          .lmfd
GIW        L915 d5                               I.2  all. Ii,   Pri     -.                       rsit lm i l. a.  -4 1,           a    fa _        t    ,          a
_?~ mm* mum minim.                                                                        lepgl.wmma  .id lwl5, q _;;*5  a m { "      mdilFen-  o-mll, Coil.
_0211. l     ad gap_1     A. 1.u. _b sm   VW 0.S                                                                 di.  M, _ Uli.hmi. -_               di Sieplim__  _bdm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urOnot                                                                 !      fi NW"|  _ai_l-t Wo_1r  No'd 01                *  *'.e ,flm_ 
* _.X..mnhJ5MJt - ri mm. 1.15mm mnome  -Mmmtm    lr    515mm.                              40Mi 1. r  p1 lmf . C  l u*m.c  u-f.m  __ a'ulmim.d MIRti _d
,005didi.   smaim .m          . m  eela wil  mWeek . Pe bal-I) lm ei                             aill       m... u kek   .   itf. bm4.lml  aim -iSmt Rvltb.i - -.,umi Po  lmFdi
NW    Idam. o       I_   ltmi * _  er 1111 .m,Sm"    bsg. o r;ol                                                                   1145m IIdIW .l   m le COW               l a e l   *1 let-
_ w10. md  11,da..Ia 1                                                                               mm l             it Ied_   Im                      belld  m.d
Im*_l11flLflPS!A. damul qiA.me                    t _ lm.  ls.,ad gs                                     , _                            a               t *-    m
f _c.lu. mmas   m.1 md1i   d. _i1.                                                            w_eimm. mie. mldar.i.. mim  m   lmkb aiim  i.ml.i ..c.md............... _a glm. 
f _*w m      _.m.m.1.11_ lfmf s   m_- _.   d  a ll mImisilmal m  of     l.miam  mid MIi. A   m.dm W   t                                  llt..
n.t *M s"am dm1 0.                                                                                                      *   1 19.11. mE r-i_  r da.m    ,w ete  "  di m.
P._                    off'M~lb   ld ua
Ur  M- M_-CrruP"MI   tb  tm b-@W _e                                             *           tr_M.Jt-* MW   *  *-t_. *U *r_eol_ Tl > Id 't_* rl  " ~
zr_/t t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yId~.                                                                        r-f  "l_55d  - Satl_ mu_   _d _e_S_t {  1 _W_* Wlelal dI_
W          a W _ii,  aiba ma amidl INIS.a_It .B                                 _i1_    male.. mi mum I 5 .de ~Wft o                     s sim.   mmrd. l _r,
A at-  -              ~    ft, wee t_r -a         -wont-   t _t 1 rrl obeg1eZ,  _      orloorgogrwel P1
lliie.smaf                       La_..       m  m."inum   M lt.a r t  r  -  1                      b                 bu                       i
Imilu   mm..getafrwte age, Emm,Ikmdam..                 Aet                            o mb     . WN=U   w  fai  mlllliml ilmag   om..  l
-wou _      Lit h.  rr   94    OPPOI-OO *-*     _1__  1, _og I  pt *  o' g  g-i1tyt-z
:=)' pefleog. P.*" - -=                  41.  _haresl    -    ON. clegoo .9-{
_lt             of         wia    m mltil aM. "F p         . bla       , am  a                                      _..           *.T _       re.l  muu. *_
114LIU NIM            -   ![ m  t-  _. tifi_tll  4_ d  o"It&C  wgu                                               1-91 froole_t _z
--"Wz   1        0M   .  -1111 wra-   Chl   t0"rar_o  .etLir                                      .   Mu     A._ e vrw -1 gz-z  _z   e  =      m  It        a- .,, 
M                    mtm mmwe  a *uS  mulowes rmm   mf-eW el ler  imewm.. 00                                            aitq   miu- ab st   e.mMa         as"    mm
sini.,.   PI.jeu.  mm).mmmm imh    m.Smli.tF  imum   "iM- di ibm.o                         mamid  sa eies.e  t        l-otum.-   etr   uw lt
u" im a e r  t5r.  rowm          emt r me _ l ma _   W  d-    - i       i a1d the            o..l"IR vou lgg            l_ " m        ogm   rlm Sr  se_I mm   _rege
ismin. ltb  muimfi. Iesoley _ Pm ima dam bu t         1h Cle,   ludsi                             m-.  m  -km t. mm reim   - m .    C. m.m _lsml.
-ell  Ing Proje r 1eed  6@           fe- -9 aft 0.m-  L._ Ch. rol                                                                          c-vot  *1o  *19      _ -_td h
_r. u _  d_mi. Irr  14. IWIi Om.ai,io. _ a          an  mm l;tiibil.                            1-         _      _            _   -  *11 t1       t r_*  _ -
ulmuli  mmliumm.  PA   myogs1  S. Ibm mm1        mm di "i-mdie.                           P1       27.       a    fV-     foo
I.. one  of          m  m*  I    te  medti d.         1 n__ t    U .lS,                       a,            a * _           r t m        I r rhm- _* rtet
s ram  mm lS da            .. lb ._ _a        m Saimawe....              bm.   m.PCm..m ft_f                            L W     , I F m... ufi_,. ., *  . _
~ f_                r*  ~iXlr                        t, uMl o:  M                         _ ----h =             _ts_ k          X 
Mu  Le    S t-    l   ei             Sr  *m m                   ia-    .l                                                 e  m      l t    *             me.
-=1m                                      d i _              - z.                   _            _                       a _U  ImP"- '_ r    _u _1_ t
_b   Y      _ tMo  _- MC tv                                                                                    -  dwg-Cc.  f _      -d-
jaIjtbmwm _ I. ibm tadieup is. pmm.lmhlmm  immb mm imutme                                  lisinibs imuFhi, -ue n            -wI          .151Mm.       Ie il.
- i|ii~Tb. im*uB _nlmm.m.l-S mmS _    tieiSiS. am. baa eah       i *_ iS *_liii maeilO   i    I    Itr.s di  m SI                      q _ mee _*_     .eim. CIS
ii.Efl_ e_m -_*m di _l. lb               r ram.     rbd sa . lb                              iel.deil, __ *itdiid.
---ed m     e.l -l C.-"..&                                                                   i            '- Iis.         e-f        - l       a- les-Ie i 5.4  S-
for-   _ s  _ u _  _.1.  O. nm.   -    el-.s.lei, Smm...   ld .,.                                             e _.1  !ee_,.   .   .
__-D~~~m. _e1 e Si  __ t_.. enl_ *de *_ ute. iLmi.eiI_                                  ulimalm   limil.
iC n.  e  i   deem.                                                             11 .1  m..       U                     .  abt e,         . _    si ,       -s _m_
m                                               meti lk. J--em                                                         l    umm   i. _ .   itC ieoe"e _U    m__   -od
_     _________ _____        __ 9- bi        .Ie1.(t.  :m_ m. u                                                                                        __l_        fmi  d"
*oli.- 91          a Isf -9amogl1es i-im         atmmh 1 .1- di S                                                                   L. *ll-  si nllIen blSmi
.me imiwmmCa iil.  m  ld  m_I-  _a                                         el qe       i E t eldew r _  re ft  reggel lam   -l _e,. oune.M. Iat  Cose
5 l              I            -          - t_lll                                                              kem l.. at   b  t  -  wu    _ . _ -     la _.    m   asd
0-X_~~~~~~~~n                           w  bwa  _.9 o nr                            LM           gpft           _         - 7_*UW _wI_t- b_ _ egn  C.
selp"CO_OOLI   G. W .                        2                                                 _ l    di  mai.                    mt *d _al     _s         2 1   i_ e,m-- e
-            -*-t_e _.  hIub m              iL _- _mim mm  Sm 11                                    Em, __       ai.s- or IV b e_         _.       mmeesl
5ma. -aS -l    o 5 me. is,. _  It a.|z-             .            eq111e1111P                                                 M                 lb-  aft  -MM x
111112sld________                                                                                  et"I   mt.1    z- se   _e  _u allue d i_ Is _Ad*r,e
1112.                                                                                        S _IMu* feWa. m1 - diUdI  upeoS _r tm.d    wuf    m          IS Sm e -Lt e...
_np *Elm 1_X nEw,*e        w 
*s_ 5  mb.t wte rIm,_                                                                           I_  l  delif -i SI *ilmcis il SewS imSIm mor-. -
~m     "w   W e-        or   .tuL-C. .&     * t-  m.,S Mon   _a 1.
_~~~~~ f  t s_S_r_ _.                       _ a,o
-   di ebil-lulIhu           b _. .         iM _ao I b             -t                                                                    _L_ _.             - _
mm.mlateg  p lam  ei    ,m.ms.mm emalL mul   Pera.. om e diL                               )-Pl.lb              -goPMNm rcgi9                        o.
im.lIS  iiniaamilJlu main  II. amm di  a  tbF mm  a.S.m"t                   ..                Seef.5 m. jooggmori  .mladleq bmm.lm. c.  edma    Iol..  ee.*l,
,_fteld or qW I .040 n               d            vem                                     l  a  elt  i eL    _.1         Ia .1m.m   h,-_lam -e-m  m
m-a-m  u    Obeget .-_ U. m.-  s. mm  1 _                                                                                      m 4  t  a ,
-_ _n__   _w_wIAMM_
__~~~~~_   -- -1--                                -Cpted ,                            V       MU AMM                   __1 4, CM     t           1_ g-_
-OWgooegm     .4=     14 PPPIaa-I.io   )   taleu s   dal. lid,as.P                   o           0IA iue1   VawSm labG .Il.,. m. ,Iq.emmo di   OBBIPS Imb. i..,
-go-to  ogget      Smme twr       t.we.il m.di mm                             4  do-Il.  T.un    Send.5im -ILO.,.. yotmepelee mmco
mu".lm  lalu of i"  1.h ovetk      mme deritS   Mbmmm-aes toldnS  -ft.                     Idiml-Aceqal W-  Lab. f.r   15 istepm . tmmS. lSam.4  eto  Ceml.la m
,weeLm. mm,m  mm2  meqaldi  'mimic" ,tU---Mm dlemm. mai-   "I-                               iIIthi~             mme  mu rec-0 mmmm    i11.   1m1m.:i..I
=4odi  mm whiMmi      t lm'm   u.am. Pola    omil1lm   -een. muIt liOmI                      m.d i11Isi 1mm..od-   t
L-gay Pe. 101,14%ucoggs(IfmFell  IA-OeiuI =ui %.f -Lhc-. te. Smks. m                                                                                            m eq
Oell On   1i..gwtg        nIf Po. m.1..ad    wos   ve-         e g    me.~                     .Ispm.e   ildm   ea.  ia                                m.i .
I-34,                                                          la  in.mm di.  i tl.c    amm1, -1emIale..1ahmmeluoeSml.
day .11,1i0  bli    M.ail  eaw.  .dmS   tbla.bal   tmim.rin.m    iI1m    b.a    ai-iO    mslMererm.4
mmw    a  mliS    5,ti  inaIam  iiu....mm M" d  imrs m.u. 2                                                   bum ,diMeerold  ub I  mm P-le mm   u. I.
Emi.ydgge mme tole, tu miaS11 mlmsm.  inaem    e    lII                                        bni.mssi..   Is.1.  I
mmm   - w  dmuhliamre   -.mP eSmlm OA  Iola.uI i=   alpi  ieq 1.tomae1    ol-ldl*Coad bo
is. la. .a_4 mE  ..si Eml            e mmrdm      BMWsl  mms=m    .im. LInlem               DOfmd'dqalm5.1._m_d_5                                     - bSm ` iIim
ofmm   mi  d 4mm smJe.   u   ml             1mmItfe  dailmid m. *bm.  in                     mm,.m. ilbm o0 me.                I'. meu  AL-1 I.ma.  di samsm  5. I-e.w
Imla   eq li inlmm    Idilim  S -t-l .mSd pu ll,. . el I.m                        bMLabid..                             M      _M            .     M:
F.a  emi. di abi  ICmew.mbad  1m mllmeci. I                 mm- wadc.c
awdiedaa.  Ewhe. i     Sba  m  iiml  d  elm th.amaam 21iw                                   1SiIl3l.iT.lm-lm  m,,lim -sma   aie.  d  s4.m.r  SmuD". WmU
di  IaI o   ami m  a  i,t   icl lb u=1110m                hi Poe ettoe. lb                    ubdbllmmm    t.iiasS                      wi.
onsa..m.  ai  bmIpi fe       -al.    s "ame tmm    m  ISO.                                                     iam...tee2I.m                           Il
c-   . Ifteng ow b1m-a.                                                          elIIl   ll slw.. ill  immamamimi  mil.d eor                    n   Icam
an ear imI the toolys gaw 4hel  la  ijtul  s.aS.   a.miLII. S abe.m.
. ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    i
au   ungetgog, ld  I"mo     ulsb Wiisii   ggoge.  oriD mm    re 4i1



-2C-
or FM cap   (Im                                           i           -     _--  -
-    Aml uma   )    h f 3           r aL lazIWt hkAa (U
1aolgag                                      Olim go EL at     mm _mtm  1S75 Pam)
amum Mtm)
13            130-70 19140  13606         1970     1N5     l3       115
oum  _k  .S    a/                          12,J                 5.       9.1     0.9   IOL0    100.0   1OL0    100.0
1.73.              4o        LS   4.2       8L9      17.9    12.1    13.5
Iat7 G Ni.t                               4,155.0             73      1L2      43      19.7    27VA      2.8    32L4
kwh.                                      6,39.0              6.3      9.1     0.1    353    s3s         3.0     54.1
CAt                                          *9.12             .5.      LI7    0.0        A.4     79.7    74.1    75.3
Cmaaa2,19.                                                    1L8       U.S   -10.3    182        3.7      21      16.9
_dt oa f                                    2AA                2.7    12.2       3.7    11.9       a0      1.4    20A.
1_.a  f Cl                                  2,019.0            09       I.9 -S11         21.5     30.     25.7    15.7
GWMiWmti  bv1aw                             2,Z01.0            na.    13.7    i.&.    124         19.0    21.      11.1
Qmpkim of Nkwliia 2ma Cl)
t    Frm)   lbth.
ISO     1581     11W      1S       134
*          100.0   100.    100.0  I00.0   100.0
Pds,                                                           72.5    79.3    8L5       90.2    79.9
ensa F    sam3 5.0    41.3                                                     593     69.5    6L2
ft_                                                          17.7    18.0      2.2      .7      1.7
_wftu                                                          27.5     3.7     17.5      9.      3m
etlmum D=iuz                                                  7.5      L5      5.       4.5      5.3
-a.ad Cr                                                      7.1      4.0      Z.      1.1      LI
labh      _                                                   2.S      2.1      5.7     1.1      89
ftu                                                          1L00     8l       3.6      3.1      43
mIm_   D1 00.0    1.O   100.0                                                               .0    100.0
F.7      5.9     5.5      A5       6.
d_min                                                      LO9      9.6    10.1    153        I8.
rwhim    ad  qdp                                               35.     31.5    32.5    2169        7.1
M=                                                            40J      4.1      51.9    41.3    41.
GW kfktm,1 987    227.2    35.0    39    A S
_ kW Cmzm  W dmli-)                                           25.      8.0      30.0    4.1      6L5
cmk  MfIm Din"                                                255 -'.  D*.l   22.7    2.
Dgt Swim Rum                                                  1142     2L.S   1561    1D.7   157.
=of MM    in                                                  15.9    157.0   15.2        "      135
AD a 2 cc CW
1975    1960     1M33
- m
010310t l _                                                      2S.2    27.7     S.3
a                                  _3.0 72.2    20.
aip   C)    Z aicit -)                                                -3.4    .4.6    -14
8.5    10.1       6.9
Foard  hmq                                                              1.4              0o
130570  197040  131041  W13-0
am
mW      D=ata Cx)                                                       5.8      9.!      0.9     2.
(M 3w CqihR a  ah Ras                                                   2.4      6.5    -1.       0.3
_dtIm    h Raa) Wb/                                                .5 L   13A      n.a.     na.
m                                                                       0.7      3.0    16.0      6.0
ifin1 - ,fum                                                           -0.4      0.2    D.a.      3..
To  St .frky                                                            LO       03  .s          03
&d -        aamm   -  open"   at fee2w cmt s  a        10M   mu  m  tIu Web   lath.t ct
b - fprm  - fw 120.4    197441  $             134 Ib,M  k_wp        ft=.



-27-
m   uu  W                          -M  L CL   M
raia  as  (am, lnim
Q P  CQpkaz  1U10 (135)
Acmd         lktim61             -JCt
1160    116#    112     1J        1       15       117      1990
t         Om f 0 b_ s&,m                       -47LB -1.6 -125.0  -13.0   -23.0   -313.0  -311.0   -00
f a*  i & hwim                              2.975,6 3,L0.0 2,75.0  2,  .0  2,361.0  3,06.0  369.0  3,00
f           q       ' of a &    vim          3,67.4 4,3.4  3.95.o  2,31.0   ,01.   3,0o  3, 0  1,20L.
lrt   Q 0 e                                       0.0     0.0    20.0              =.      Lu        u0.0      o.
Czuz dAoot  iMl                                  71.6  -1o3.A  -19.0  -10".   -212.0  -803.    -21.0  -50.0
Diuet ki_   __1    t                             70.0   10.0   40.0         .0      50    1.0   120    200.0
a0fiia1 t M                                      30.2      25       0        0        0       .0      0.0      0.0
32 low (u)                                       70LS   sao.   -321.3    216.      10.      15.0   27.    40.0
offic.fil                                      22L3   419.3  -122.2    59.0       a...   -10.0    1750    200
ftm.479.5   511.5  -140.0    177.4    I.S.                                                 25.0   10.0   200.0
--q Cwtm                                        13I  -35.1   957.3    -2.L          .S.      LO.     L0.     -
am       efiai1 mmm  (-_ iaumm)                 -3303   27A9   '40.0  -155A         56.0   103.0   -14.0   -40.
sau Zmrind oial imr'in 1m4I.7 M                             7 M 49.A   d19.4    706A.    39A         7A0   31L0
a0flial   _          -4.2                                 LS      1.4      35       2.7      2.9      2.       25
(as m , of Iqrta)
11_0    1161    190     1963
- -_
=. DAz        t at 30 1i                        972.9 1.12L5   277.2    74.9
Gancamsione                                     14.7   2L5    15.A    364
Elamiee                                        3.7     1.5     1J      13.9
33_ -   0.5 -   -
ftb  3tilat_al                                11.0    3L5    13.7      27
Y    iWAcaacaa~JO1                          956L2 1,0.I1  31A        706.3
ffiial e       t    2z   63.3  Y5.7    127.1
no,,                                         36.0    51.    41.2      47.2
Ob  3k2til11                                  43    47.7    72.5       31.7
CtXr                                         627.3   65L0      "4    502L3
L im ,
1It b,tatmdht   Did  a.I                       3,31.0 4.15  3,919.0  6.2J.7
ffil                                         1,351.0 1,739.2 I,59  1,63.A
109.4   151.3  173.1 b   01.0
33                                            3.3    36.5    3L2       35.
OtwCfficiid                                1,24A3 I,5.M.  1,37L    1.0M
other                                        1,977.8 2.401.5 2.1   4,600.0
_Aibm  n&t                                     1,039.7   w9.6  I,OD.1  ltlllJI
lta1  be Irnvi. 1Mam                       556.6  92L9 1,I1.6    S73.6
7U_zLwt                                       L35   461.2   56L1   365.3
27t.1   431.7   539.5    50.3
kIbt Svim  m a Z of la                           1L7    30.    403 
I= 3btal DID                                      3.3    3.6    4.4        3.2
ld        Itot1l p    dio ma                        5     3.6    1.S 9     6.3
Oi dt viC*atl  dib Myzft                        33     2.5    2.9        .0
D 33UW r aD                                       L:      0.9    0.        0.6
Xl iA^Mt.  _ dAuII*ML                            -               -    -
ML deb mw      oml. die arnim                     0.2      .1    0.i       0.1
u.n. -  ~   M  ammilmbl.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~se



-28-                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BAK GROUP OPDRIONS IN ECUADOR
A. STATKNU OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1984)
---US$ million---
Amount
Loan or                                                 (less cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
16 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                223.3  37.6      -
1157      1975     Ecuador     Education                4.0   -        0.2  1I
1229      1976     Ecuador     Seeds                    3.0   -        -
1230      1976     Ecuador     Technical
Assistance             4.0   -        1.2
1429      1977     Ecuador     Highways                17.5   -        5.9  1/
1459      1977     Ecuador     Agriculture             15.5   -        5.6
S006      1978     Ecuador      Technical
Assistance            11.0   -        0.8
1644      1978     Ecuador     Rural Development       18.0   -       15.9
1776      1980     Ecuador     Guayaquil Urban
Development           31.0   -       26.5
1879      1980     Ecuador     Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit          20.0   -        0.7
1882      1980     Ecuador     Highways                55.0   -       38.2
1991      1981     Ecuador     Rural Development       20.0   -       18.8
2044      1982     Ecuador      Rural Development      17.0   -       15.9
2096      1982     Ecuador      DFC                    60.0   -        9.5
2135      1982     Ecuador     Housing                 35.7   -       34.8
2171      1982     Ecuador      Education              16.0   -       15.0
2221      1983     Ecuador      Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit          40.6    -      18.9
Total                                     590.6  37.6
of which has been repaid                138.0   2.1
Total now outstanding                     452.6  35.5
Amount sold                     3.2
of which has been repaid     3.2          -     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA            452.6  35.5
Total undisbursed                                       207.9
I/ Undisbursed balances cancelled after 9/30/84.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is upadated
twice a year and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



-29-
ANNEX II
Pape 2 of 2
5.   3ATUsIBNT Of ZC INUUhfS (C  of SsptMr 30, 1964)
Type of     (amount in US$ million)
Fiscal Year                                Bualnes    Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.       Textlles     3.7       0.2      3.9
1969, 1973,   Co pania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981, 1982     S.A. (COFIEC)               DFC          -         0.5      0.5
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Indus-
trial San Carlos, S.A.    Sugar Mill   5.0        -         5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
1984          Cemento Nacional (CEM)      Cement       12.0       1.0     13.0.
1980          Adams. Andina, S.A. 1/       Pulp and
Paper       3.3       1.0      4.3
1981          Compania Minera Toachl,
S.A.                       Mining        1.0      0.3       1.3
Total gross commitments                  25.0       3.0     28.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    15.9      1.7      17.6
Total commitments now held by IPC         9.1       1.3     10.4
Total undisbursed                         -         -        -
1/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982



-30-
Al51S III
Page 1 of 1
ECUADOU
PUBLIC Ser  GT POJCT
SUPLIKUTAK!^R  PROJECT DATA SUET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to prepare project: 8 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  HOF with assistance from Bank staff
(c) First presentation to the Bank: July 1984
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: January 1985
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 22, 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1985
Section II - Special Bank Iupleeentation Actions
Terms of reference for most components were drafted with the help
of Bank staff during project preparation.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) A Project Coordinator satisfactory to the Bank and operating under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank would be employed as a
condition of effectiveness and maintained during the whole period
of project execution (paras. 61 and 62).
(b) An advisory group, with members and functions satisfactory to the
Bank, would be formed as a condition of effectiveness, and
maintained during the project execution period to provide guidance
to the project coordinator (paras. 61 and 62).
(c) About US$2.5 million would be on-lent by the Government in dollars
to CEPE, INECEL and IETEL at the proposed loan's standard variable
interest rate and terms. Satisfactory sub-loan agreement between
the Borrower and each agency would be a condition of disbursement
for the respective agency's component. The furnishing to the Bank
of a revised financial rehabilitation plan for INECEL approved by
the Government would be a condition of disbursement for the INECEL
component (paras. 57, 63 and 67).
(d) The Goverment would engage as a condition for disbursement of the
Central Government components a project management service
(UNDP/OPE) to handle recruitment and contracting of consultants
(para. 64).



-31-
ANNEX IV
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR ANAGEMENT PROJECT
WORKING PAPERS IN SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT
LCIPA Working file. include the following supporting documents for
the proposed Ecuador Public Sector Management Project:
1.   Draft Terms of Reference for:
a) Strengthening of macroeconomic planning framework,
including a debt reporting system.
b)   Design and implementation of a program budgetLng system,
including flnancial information.
c)   Design of measures to reduce earmarking.
d)   Design and implementation of a management lnforsation
system for monitoring public sector investment projects.
e)   assistance to improve the framework of decentralized
agencies.
f)   Assistance to improve key decentralized agencies (CEPE,
INECEL, IETEL).
g)   Definition of policy and legislation for mining
investment.
h)   Design of improved procurement procedures.
2.   'Social Security in Ecuador," report of consultant C.
Mesa-Lajo, December 1984.
3.   "Public Sector in Ecuador," report of consultant R. Petrel,
December 1984.
4.   Report on Public Enterprises in Ecuador by UN/DTCD advisor J.
Barenstein, November 1984.
5.   Laws relating to budget administration, special funds
(earmarking), project system investment monitoring and mining.
6.   'Accounting and Auditing in Ecuador," report of consultant J.
Wesbury, November 1982.
7.   Governuent Accounting Manual, (Ecuador) Comptroller General,
1984.



-32-                          A_5X V
ECUADOR
PUDLC SECTOR )I&N&GIIWZ PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
(US$; 1M08)
COM_nten Local                                 Total   Percent
I.  Improved Planning and Budgeting        3,430    3,340      6,770       58
Macroeconomic and Debt analysis      450      600      1,050       09
Budget Preparation                   900      680      1,580       14
Financial Info. System               440    1,010      1,450       12
Traininig for Fin. Info. System    1,350      510      1,860       16
Project Monitoring System            270      480        750       06
Earmarking scudy                      20       60         80       01
II. General Management Improvements
for entities performing economic
activities                            1,290    3,500      4,790       41
Public Enterprise framework          230      800      1,030       09
CEPE                                 440    1,200      1,640       14
INECEL                               380    1,000      1,380       12
IETEL                                100      300        400       03
Mining                                45       60        105       01
Streamling Admin. Procedures          95      140        235       02
III. Project Coordination                    110      -          110       01
TOTAL BASE COSTS                      4,830    6,840    11,670       100%
Unallocated (9%)                        430      600      1,030
Price Contingencies (82 86-87)          420      560        980
TOTAL PRO.ECT COSTS                        5,680    8,000    13,680
Category
Project Coordination                    110      -         110
Consultant Services                      -     5,880    5,880
Counterpart Staff/Logi. Sup.          4,180      -       4,180
Equipment and Supplies                  340      710    1,050
Training-related expenses               200      250       350
Totals                          4,830    6.840   11,670
Contingencies and Unallocated           850    1,160    2,010
Totals                          5,680    8,000   13,680



-33-
P=VI
p  I of 4
"LC Sif N rAO
>Ct it - -i,   _
ftoj.ct Ceqmitf                    kulta               FM6            137             FM8
A. ToW1zgt ph11e iuWm
1. ---    _r__ -
ruidm ccpatin
I.)  Rw the baugut peomu: - Cuu1usitmo CootAZCt
- Ipwied tuodh1 C5pUd        NO) sit sit alt alt .1
wud 1lmt:r             @d
- Nm mbaf     Em for              o  ait alt sit adt
- a'.  mitimn   for
statisicl dBta iystems
1.2. For debt reportizW - MM1tms" axitraczai
- Dqmof m,Pc old optem
wA inod  for nwal    m
- Definition at v frI m*
- 03~.M!Z~  zsptm            me   sit.alt alt alt aix aLt
-T_ ic    meeds (re-)dv-                            4)
- ;aovl of *rv sIstm
2.~~~ ~ ~ 1|trlr-ads bage                               dt qm rt t          t d
- 2 =awE  bdp t- 
ad caitl ame it; 
2.1. PnpeatLon ar  oni    -  xatwscotracted   ID@
en hdigmed
- tN  -nq pm                 U
-s ~
- Ta,uata                     OL adt alt &it alt &it alt alt aIt
T-faldzgplan
-  ml for aettfg gls         ans      &t alt alt
aI ptepm-i      -i
. _Amul for  cor iizdh-               ass      au  alt
- LvEsv Of   .ms
- Lst of -
for m  hugt peri
2.2. FIrAl   ofacimn Syysti
(n15)                - ~uulzt  s contracted
- Nds for 11 a_a s 



-34-
AN-VI
' Pap2nf4
erot Co wx                         bit.                                  FMI    FM7
- titezd. FIS de-             -   SI  III __ 11            L  _ I Li
9pd   w1  iMIlrted
sit alt die  aLt sit adt
_ B_inztat1oupea s                            *a1t  dat   alt   t dt at
- Lst of  di ficstimow
- A=t.lFS tra                       p  TT TTm TIT   m         m
caues
2.3. bduc1z  eusisdn Of
public rewens          - cmuultuts wex cti                            9
-_owof nw    . rA
- tPidatim a                                          S
_ure at reform
-As           an al- #
tenutive zweru  shuuii
3. rupov1z the information
systi for public iwst-
Dn tonirg                   - Omuutat witrected
- Systm dnfimI
- Data co lactl   fjx
- Og.izatlon for hapl]-                 ita
-  mview of  eation,                       8
list of wdificatlx_
- AMs rm t of sdftla
- Ned itmqpdts  into                           S
tim  ,s tm
tion
B. Iuy          effaciy of key
eom  -1 ativtles..
1.1. tPE                   - Qxaml.cus cmtractld.
- AMrc r m lor refous
lxxi alyumst
- Action                            < deipmd
I  ~--    



-35-
.       VI
Pp 3 of 4
C NNrM
0FUR= SECN SMGE .
Sam
frcojct Cou"                       uztaF!6                              Fl87             Fi88
Alt Umtiv  rnztS
_TWm  __                               nagat alt alt ait alt sit
-_ plzz plan.                              s
1.2. IN=                   - 0a,mut-tts  tractud 
-Report m probl  an sl     a slo               ssq
t_cinudutlou for
teE.
- Struictme aid functis      sw
_      c veforms . ,alte sit sit ait ait alt
bdmld ad lilmne
- Cmumvl sysn of oper-               salt alt sit alt alt ait
_ Tra                                     ssi it
1.3.  n                   - Owu3twE  mtracted                                           .
- nr.vlw of umucture
*sl,  id Isi
- kialyul of manoamntu
_l .y          5 _ 7                9
- hvlsi of prodotam az               s
-? -
- hvl.u of Mtoii                    s
-    11dations an                       ss 5
a detailM  mrpa for
2. Daeoo   of am Inciive
sys   for t1ulg izduutzy
- eawzftrts cautrafted   X
- REvis of f scain-            so
- Proposa" for Cnrac-       a sE
Uml ancata
-          f~lon for a      a SSj 
-ise ode.



* -36-                             AMi VI
-     4 of 4
~~toject ~~~at          bSIut                J!86           FY87            PUP
..   mmlr           -     I            Ia. Ier I
- 3.tion p Ian ab d
- Inou.tin  syst              a      i    st iXt lae  at
- Dgulatny a*d lmtt-                     rrr
tul dw    z.-
- Plm for rducion cf              oso
--
4. Stremnub1f vuk contrath
-        -8 coact
- havie  of pst1Z  pro-  No
nor" a                     e
- -
- hld  draft 1aut             @l
wits id  ddliin_
lettei  lids teff/lwiti  dE ctivit1as
a - arlyu. 
a- avke
i. - lqiilein n Iiutullatlm
t - a wjob rfiiie
r - rei
T -to am                                                  ..
emltio of tmf mated



