Docuezit of
The World Banlk
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
ReportNo.13125
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2516-EC)
JUNE 10, 1994
Public Sector Modernization Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwvise be disclosed without World Banki authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS
ARCOE        Analisis Referencial del Contribuyente Ecuatoriano (Cross Reference System for the
Ecuadorian Tax-Payer)
BEDE         Banco Ecuatoriano de Desarrollo (Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BNF          Banco Nacional de Fomento
CB           Banco Central (Central Bank)
CEPE         Corporaci6n Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana (Ecuadorian State Petroleum Corporation)
(now PETROECUADOR)
CIAT-BID     Centro Interamericano de Administradores Tributarios (Inter-American Center of Tax
Administrators)
CISCEX       Comite Interinstitucional de Seguimiento de Credito Externo (Interinstitutional
Committee for External Debt Monitoring)
CONACYT   Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologfa
CONADE       Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Council)
CONAM        Comisi6n Nacional de Modernizacion del Estado (National Commission for the
Modernization of the State)
CONUEP       Consejo Nacional Universitario de Educaci6n Piblica (National Universitary Council
for Public Education)
DEUDEX       Sistema de Manejo de la Deuda Externa (External Debt Monitoring System)
DGA          Direcci6n General de Aduanas (General Directorate of Customs)
DGR          Direcci6n General de Renta (General Directorate of Taxation)
EEC          European Economic Community
EMETEL       Empresa Estatal de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications Company)
(previously IETEL)
FIRBA        Fundaci6n para la Investigaci6n de Recursos BioacuAticos (Foundation for the
Investigation of Bio-Aquatic Resources)
GEMA         Spanish Customs Information System
IESS         Instituto Ecuatoriano del Seguro Social (Ecuadorian Social Security Institute)
IETEL        Instituto Ecuatoriano de Telecomunicaciones (Ecuadorian Telecommunications
Institute) (now EMETEL)
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INEC         Instituto Nacional de Estadfstica y Censos (National Institute of Statistics and the
Census)
INECEL       Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificaci6n (Ecuadorian Institute of Electrification)
INEMIN       Instituto Ecuatoriano de Minerfa (Ecuadorian Institute of Mining)
MICIP        Ministerio de Industria, Comercio, Integraci6n y Pesca (Ministry of Industry,
Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries)
MOF          Ministerio de Finanzas y Cr6dito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
MRE          Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores (Ministry of Foreign Relations)
PBs          Private Banks
PEs          Public Enterprises
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PETRO-
ECUADOR  Empresa Estatal de Petr6leos del Ecuador (Ecuador's State Petroleum Enterprise)
SENDA        Secretarfa Nacional de Desarrollo Administrativo (National Secretariat of
Administrative Development)
SIDUNEA      UNCTAD Customs Information System
SIGMA        Sistema de Informaci6n para la Gesti6n Econ6mica (Information System for
Macroeconomic Management)
UNCTAD       United Nations Commission on Trade and Development
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ecuador
Public Sector Management Project (Loan 2516-EC)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Ecuador - Public Sector Management Project (Loan
1516-EC) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II contributed by the
Borrower is comprehensive, thorough, and in agreement with the PCR assessment.
The Public Sector Management Project's objectives were to: (i) strengthen the Government's ability
to formulate and implement the medium-term policies through the development of informatic systems for
budgetary and macroeconomic management; (ii) improve the efficiency of public investment; and (iii)
strengthen the organizational structure of key public enterprises.
This project, as most of its kind, includes a large number of components. On balance, and a slow
start in project implementation notwithstanding, the more important components, including the interventions
in the macroeconomic area and in two of the largest public enterprises in the country, Ecuador's State
Petroleum Enterprise and National Telecommunications Company, were successful. A major activity
concerning the restructuring of the Ecuadorian Institute of Electrification was cancelled because the entity
was not able to finalize the contract for consulting services required to implement the reform.
The PCR is of good quality and provides a thorough assessment of results. Based on its findings,
the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, the institutional impact as substantial, and sustainability
as likely.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution snd nay be uwed by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2516-EC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................... H
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE. .                                 1
A. Project Identity .1
B. Background .1
C.  Project Objectives and Description.                                         2
D.  Project Design and Organization.                                            3
E. Project Implementation.                                                     4
F. Results.                                                                    4
G.    Sustainability and Institutional Development            .5
H. Assessment by Component.                                                    6
1.  Bank and Borrower Performance .16
J.    Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM Projects .17
K. Project Relationships .18
L. Consulting Services .19
M. Project Documentation and Data .20
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..21
A. Introduction .21
B. Impact of the Loan .21
C. The Bank's Role .26
D. Project Coordinating Unit .27
E.    Relationship between the Government and the Bank .28
F. UNDP and OPS Role .28
G.  Conclusions and Recommendations .29
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION    ..32
Table 1:  Project Timetable .32
Table 2:  Loan Disbursements .33
Table 3A: Project Financing .34
Table 3B:    Project Cost Breakdown by Component .35
Table 4:  Status of Loan Covenant .36
Table 5A: Missions .37
Table 5B:  Staff-week Cost Summary .38
Table 6:  Related Projects .39
Table 7:   Studies ...                                                        40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2516-EC)
PREFACE
(i)   This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Sector Management
Project in Ecuador, for which Loan 2516-EC in the amount of US$6.0 million was approved
on April 16, 1985, signed on January 15, 1986, and became effective on July 30, 1986. The
Loan was closed on March 31, 1993 (the original loan closing date was September 30,
1989). The Loan was fully disbursed.
(ii)   Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Public Sector Modernization
Division of the LAC Technical Department (on behalf of the LA4 Country Department).
This report is based on an examination of the Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports, Project
Correspondence, Financial Statements, Audit Reports, and the studies and progress reports of
the consultants contracted under the Project. In addition, interviews were conducted during
the final supervision mission with personnel in the Project Coordinating Unit and personnel
involved in the various components. Part II of the PCR was prepared by the Government of
Ecuador.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2516-EC!
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The discovery of oil and the availability of foreign lending led to the growth of
Ecuador's public sector at a rate which, between 1972 and 1982, was twice that of GDP.
The negative external shocks of the eighties had strong repercussions on the economy of
Ecuador, especially on the internal and external balances of the Government. The crisis
required an efficient response and quick readjustment of public finances to realistic levels.
The response, however, was hampered by weak public administration, lack of effective
control mechanisms, and a highly complicated legal environment. The Government needed
to strengthen its ability to control public policy and expenditures, to improve monitoring of
its investment projects, and to alleviate the burden imposed on the budget by public
enterprises. The latter required a comprehensive financial and organizational restructuring
and an increase in private sector participation.
Objectives
2.    The Public Sector Management Project was designed to enhance the Government
capacity to formulate and implement short- and medium-term policies through the
development of informatic systems for budgetary and macroeconomic management, the
strengthening of personnel skills, improvement in the efficacy of public investment, and the
strengthening of the organizational and financial structure of key public enterprises.
Implementation Experience
3.    The time necessary to organize and manage the initial stages of the Project were
substantially underestimated. This was caused by a variety of factors. Given the economic
crisis of the mid-eighties, the attention of the Central Government was initially focussed on
urgent short-term policy matters. Also, there was little Government commitment to and a
certain lack of understanding of the objectives of the Project. With respect to the
institutional and financial restructuring of the three public enterprises (PETROECUADOR,
INECEL, and EMETEL), delays were due partially to difficulties in the process of
contracting outside entities for consulting services and partially to bureaucratic inertia.
While some activities were brought on stream before 1989, most components of the Project
were developed after 1989. This was brought about by a change in Administration as well as



iii
a renewed effort from the Bank to implement and refocus the Project. This latter effort was
crucial to the eventual success of most components of the Project.
Sustainability
4.    The Project had a strong impact on the two major public enterprises (EMETEL and
PETROECUADOR), directly through the implementation of modem financial and accounting
systems, which have strengthened their ability to function efficiently, and, indirectly, through
the legal changes which have awarded these enterprises a greater level of independence from
the Central Government. The effect on the Central Government is harder to assess because
the intervention involved a variety of areas of public sector management. Progress was made
in improving communication between different Government offices and expanding the flow
of information through the modernization of critical information systems. In addition, in
terms of the development of personnel skills, the funds allocated to technical training paid off
as reflected in the high level of utilization of the equipment provided under the Project.
5.    The Project has produced a large number of studies, which, by their very nature,
must be measured in terms of their impact on formulation and evaluation of public sector
policies. The policy impact was significant since many of the studies were conducted in
close contact with the Ministry of Finance. The action plans and legal drafts developed by
various studies has resulted in a number of new laws in the areas of trade, fiscal reform, and
the mining sector that replaced old laws that were inefficient and obsolete. Only in the case
of a few studies, particularly those developed at the beginning of the Project, has there been
little translation into action. This was either the result of recommendations deemed
unsatisfactory by the Ministry of Finance or the result of changing Administrations that did
not have the same policy agenda.
6.    The information systems developed under the Project have started the process of
introducing a modern framework for financial and macroeconomic decision-making, and
improving accountability and efficiency. These systems are being used, but have not always
been sustainable. The most pressing problems in terms of the sustainability of the
information systems is the lack of sufficiently skilled staff to operate the systems and update
the software, and of adequate maintenance funds for equipment. Another concern is that
additional effort is required to improve integration of informatics across different computer
applications to expand the access to information within the public (and private) sector. In the
case of the two public enterprises that succeeded in implementing modern financial and
accounting systems, the reforms in PETROECUADOR are being strengthened by the fact
that the enterprise is expanding its system to include the computerization of inventory
movements, while EMETEL's reforms have recently stalled.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.    Numerous lessons are to be drawn from this Project. Close supervision and measured
intervention are necessary to avoid lengthy delays during the initial stages of implementation,
particularly when loans have multiple components and when the responsibility for the various
components of a loan is divided among multiple executing agencies, as was the case in this



iv
Project. Furthermore, the Project suggests that inter-institutional coordination, specificity of
the objectives, and a smaller number of components pays off as far as implementation time
and component success are concerned. The importance of continuity in the Government
officers's responsible for coordination and management of the Project cannot be sufficiently
stressed. The unusually large number of management changes in this Project created breaks
in the flow of activity and loss of efficiency. Bank flexibility over the means to achieve the
stated purposes of the loan without losing sight of objectives is necessary when delays in the
implementation cause the Project to be managed by different administrations with widely
changing policy agendas and base of support. Finally, more emphasis should be placed on
developing the internal skills of Government and implementing reforms of the public
employment and wage structure to enhance the Government's ability to attract and retain
technically skilled staff.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2516-EC'
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Project Name:     Public Sector Management Project
Loan Number:       2516-EC
Regional Unit:     Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country:          Ecuador
Sector:           Public Sector Management
B.    Background
1.    At one time Ecuador had one of the best economic performances in Latin America,
particularly after the discovery of oil in 1972, as well as a history of stable prices; however,
the Government of Ecuador subsequently used the proceeds from oil to finance public
consumption, and foreign debt to finance its deficits. Once the availability of foreign lending
was severed in 1982 and Ecuador's terms of trade started to deteriorate in 1985, the debt
burden rose to levels that forced the Govermnent to undertake several programs of economic
adjustment. The adjustment program of 1983 centered on fiscal deficit reduction, some trade
liberalization, exchange rate adjustment, and rescheduling of the debt. The program was
successful in almost eliminating the public sector deficit by 1984, halving inflation, bringing
the balance of payment to equilibrium, and resuming growth. The administration of Febres
Cordero, which took office in 1984, stated its willingness to exert fiscal discipline and to
improve the efficiency of the public sector. However, fiscal discipline was undermined
because the Central Government controlled only 30 to 40 percent of public expenditures.
Many public entities, such as CEPE, fell outside the budgetary control of the Central
Government, while others, such as the Transport Ministry, had earmarked funds that could
not be decreased without legislative intervention. Furthermore, weak public administration,
complex laws, and weak controls on public investment limited the ability of Government to
function efficiently.
2.     The need for a Bank-financed project was identified during the August 1984 mission
based on discussions with the new Government. The Public Sector Management Project was
then developed to: (a) strengthen financial management and introduce consistent accounting
methods; (b) improve the use of the scarce financial and human resources available to the
public sector; (c) improve macroeconomic planning, including fiscal reform and debt
management; (d) develop modern information systems and personnel skills; and (e) support
structural reform in several public sector enterprises. However, dramatic events, including a
sharp drop in oil prices in 1986 and an earthquake the following year that halted oil
production, shattered fiscal resolve, worsened the balance of payments, and caused the



2
Government to suspend debt servicing on commercial bank external debt. These shocks to
the economy were partly responsible for delaying the implementation of the Project until late
1987. By the time the Borja Government took office in 1988, the fiscal deficit had increased
to 10 percent of GDP, inflation accelerated to an annual rate of 86 percent, foreign reserves
were nearly depleted, and the current account deficit stood at 12 percent of GDP. During
this period, the Project became critical in providing the Government with the technical
assistance in matters of macroeconomic planning necessary to implement stabilization
program of 1988.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
3.    The Project's principal objectives were to improve the Government systems for
budgetary and macroeconomic management; to improve the efficiency of public investments;
to develop financial information systems; and to strengthen the organizational and financial
structures of selected public enterprises.
4.    The Project, as originally designed, consisted of:'
PART A      Improving the Borrower's management, planning, and budgeting
systems by: (a) strengthening the Ministry of Finance and the Central
Bank's macroeconomic analytical capacity, including the development
of a computerized database, and a program to analyze the impact of
debt management alternatives; (b) establishing a computerized financial
information system; (c) developing and implementing a program
budgeting system; (d) carrying out training programs for planning,
accounting, and budget professionals in the public sector; and (e)
carrying out a study leading to recommendations for actions needed to
reduce budgetary earmarking.
PART B      Establishing a computerized system within MOF for monitoring the
execution of public investment projects.
PART C      Enhancing the efficiency of public enterprises by: (a) improving the
management capabilities of CEPE (now PETROECUADOR); (b)
strengthening INECEL's institutional and financial structure; (c)
carrying out a diagnostic study on IETEL's (now EMETEL)
organization and management to explore possible reforms; and (d)
providing technical assistance to other public enterprises.
PART D      Carrying out a study to define fiscal and other incentives for private
sector participation in the mining sector.
PART E      (a) Establishing systems for setting performance objectives and for
evaluating public enterprises and other decentralized entities; and (b)
improving the Borrower's procurement regulations.
1. See Table 3B in Part III for cost breakdown.



3
5.    Various components were added during the life of the Project. In 1988, to respond to
the new necessities of the Government, two activities were approved to enhance the
institutional strength of (i) the Direcci6n General de Rentas (the agency for tax collection),
and (ii) the Direcci6n General de Aduanas (the administration of customs). The component
devoted to debt management was amplified to create mechanisms to coordinate the flow of
information between the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, BEDE, and CONADE. The
purpose of this was to extend the benefits and efficiency gains of the debt management
system implemented in the Ministry of Finance to other related parts of Govemment. In
1989, technical assistance was given to FIRBA for a study on bio-aquatic agricultural
development. This study was to complement the Government's attempts to develop
nontraditional exports. In 1992, the INECEL component was terminated under request by
the Government, and part of its funds allocated to other components. EMETEL's component
was amplified to implement the recommendations of the diagnostic study. Some additional
subcomponents were modified or discontinued.
D.   Project Design and Organization
6.    Given the importance of a top-quality professional as Project Coordinator and the
necessity for his/her full attention to the Project, the services of the Project Coordinator were
financed by the Project. A three-member, high-level advisory group was intended to provide
policy direction and guidance to the Project Coordinator; however, no such body existed
beyond the preparation stage of the loan. Individual unit managers of MOF were responsible
for the execution of activities within their undersecretariats. To facilitate procurement, the
Government contracted UNDP/OPS to administer contracts to the individual consultants and
firms servicing the Central Government, and, on a selective basis, the public enterprises. In
the public enterprises, counterparts were assigned by each enterprise to work full time with
the Project consultants.
7.    The lack of institutional continuity in Project management, from the PCU and the
Government to the Bank was an obstacle for the timely implementation of the Project. Two
changes in government and six different finance ministers resulted in the appointment of six
different project coordinators over the life of the Project. The apparent lack of
communication between successive Project coordinators interfered with the efficient transfer
of management responsibility. However, the close relationship between most of the
coordinators and the Ministers of Finance expedited the implementation of some of the
Project components.
8.    The fact that the Project included components not directly under the control of MOF,
but required the collaboration of the senior management in the PEs, also delayed the
implementation of the Project. It is clear that closer supervision by the Bank in the post-
1988 period was critical in expediting the fulfillment of certain Project objectives. In
particular, Bank interventions in the initial stage of each component and in some difficult
transitions were instrumental in facilitating -- and sometimes rescuing -- the implementation
and the ultimate success of various component. Bank officials, for instance, seized the
opportunity to initiate the mining study within INEMIN; this activity would not have been
developed otherwise. In the case of EMETEL, a conflict developed over the quality of
output proposed by their first contractor. This conflict stalled progress and had the potential



4
to be fatal to the subcomponent. Strategic intervention from the Bank was essential in
motivating EMETEL to reach a solution. EMETEL closed the contract and implemented its
reform by contracting another firm.
E.    Project Implementation
9.    The time necessary to organize and manage the initial stages of the Project were
substantially underestimated, particularly with respect to the portions of the Project geared to
the institutional and financial restructuring of the three public enterprises
(PETROECUADOR, INECEL, and EMETEL). The delays were due to difficulties faced by
public enterprises when contracting outside entities for consulting services. This was the
result of Ecuador's restrictive laws over participation of foreign consultants and the terms of
reference for the bidding process issued by the enterprises themselves, which were found too
demanding by the potential bidding firms. Specifically, in the case of INECEL, senior
management's lack of commitment to reforms was the key factor responsible for INECEL's
failure to comply with Government regulations and for its inability to proceed. Closer
monitoring and focussed interventions by the Bank during the initial stages of the Project
might have facilitated the resolution of some of these conflicts.
10.   The Central Government portion of the Project moved slowly through the first two
years, registering some successes, in particular, the installation of the debt management
system, the study on earmarked revenues, and the development of the macroeconomic policy
component. The slow pace of implementation was due to weak commitment on the part of
the Government, a failure to understand the broader purposes of the Project, and bureaucratic
inertia. In 1989 the Project started to develop in its entirety. The new Government was
facing a large budget deficit, high inflation, and a worsening foreign position. The
Government responded with a stabilization program that increased petroleum prices, devalued
the currency, decreased fiscal expenditures and initiated tax reform. The components of the
Project dealing with macroeconomic, fiscal, and trade policies became a key tool of the
Finance Minister for the design and implementation of policy. In addition, the financial
information systems enhanced the Government's ability to respond to economic conditions in
a timely manner. By the end of 1989, when some of the destabilizing pressures had
subsided, the Government began to pay increased attention to the medium-term goals of
structural reform. Finally, the Duran Administration, whose political platform includes an
aggressive reform platform and an ambitious approach to economic management of the
country, was inaugurated in August 1992. The objectives of the Project, in terms of public
management, coincided with those of the Government. In particular, the Project was
instrumental in assisting Government to promote reforms in the areas of the budget, taxation,
tariff structure, and trade. The Government has already engaged in a 35 percent devaluation
of the sucre and moved toward a flexible exchange rate, a 100 percent adjustment in
domestic petroleum prices, and reduced the 1992 budget deficit from a projected 7 percent of
GDP to 2.5 percent.
F.    Results
11.   The Project has produced a large number of studies, (a list of these studies, its cost
and their relevance/impact is presented in Table 7), some of which have had far reaching
legislative consequences; introduced initial measures toward a modern framework



5
for financial and macroeconomic decision making; improved the accountability and efficiency
of one major public enterprise (PETROECUADOR) and the accounting system of EMETEL;
and improved the skills and technical capacity of both the Government and the above public
enterprises. The more focussed components, such as PETROECUADOR and EMETEL, met
Project objectives. The major exception was rationalizing INECEL, which failed to begin
the reform process due to contracting difficulties and weak institutional commitment that
ultimately brought about the termination of this component. SIGMA, DEUDEX, and (in
general) the installation of equipment and training of professionals improved skills, capacity,
and efficiency of Government. The direct impact of the studies is less measurable. However,
many of the studies were conducted in close contact with the Ministry of Finance and have
generated action plans and recommendations instrumental in the design of the new laws on
trade, fiscal reform, and the mining sector. Some studies produced little action. In these
cases, either the recommendations were considered unsatisfactory by MOF or they were met
with considerable political opposition. The studies of the rationalization of Ecuatoriana de
Aviaci6n, for example, provided concrete action plans that were ignored by Government at
the time. In other cases, the implementation of study recommendations have been caught in
the trauma of intense political transition in Administrations. For example, the development
of a system for budget projections was carried out during the first years of the Project;
however, when the Administration changed it was not implemented.
G.   Sustainability and Institutional Development
12.   The policy impact of the studies was substantial, particularly as measured by the
extent of legal changes resulting from legislative drafts prepared under a number of studies.
This has had a visible effect on, among others, trade policy and fiscal reform, and has
permanently changed the policy framework, as manifest in the new Government application
to GATT, for example.
13.   The informatics developed under the Project, mainly SIGMA, DEUDEX, and
installment of equipment across MOF, are being utilized. The integration of the
macroeconomic information network across different public entities (SIGMA) has yielded
positive results, although to date several key undersecretariats in MOF and other public
entities are not connected, while the existing connection are not fully operational. The debt
management system was used for debt renegotiations but now has become obsolete (see para.
22). The open architecture of the equipment installed in MOF (basically modern
microcomputers and software) provides a sound platform for increasing capacity and
automatization. The most pressing problems in terms of the sustainability of the information
systems is the lack of sufficiently skilled staff to operate the systems and update the software,
and of adequate maintenance funds for equipment. Another concern is that additional effort
is required to improve integration across different applications to expand the access to
information generated in various offices of the MOF and the CB.
14.   Part C of the Project has been basically successful with the exception of INECEL. In
the case of PETROECUADOR, the fact that its accounts have been satisfactorily audited for
two years lends some degree of credibility to the sustainability of the reform measures. The
decision to move toward a more open architectural design of the information system has
slowed progress in the short run, but augurs well for the increased efficiency in the not too



6
distant future. The success of the restructuring of EMETEL, as recent developments
suggest, has not translated into sustainable reform. Both EMETEL and PETROECUADOR
now have modem, commercially oriented accounting, financial, and management information
systems. In the case of PETROECUADOR, financed from the company's own cash flow,
the system is being expanded to include the computerization of inventory movements. It also
has ongoing training programs for its accounting personnel, which will provide a cadre of
highly trained accountants to handle the expected expansion of activities. In the case of
EMETEL, the strengthening and expansion of the system was to be financed under Loan
3052-EC, which however has been cancelled. The successful mining sector study, which
resulted in the recent Mining Law, gave rise to a new TA loan that has recently been signed.
15.   The Project had a strong impact on the institutional development of one major public
enterprise and partially of another, directly, through the implementation of modem financial
and accounting systems, and indirectly, through the legal changes that have awarded these
enterprises a greater level of independence from the Central Government. The effect on the
Central Government is harder to assess because the intervention was less focussed. While
substantial progress was made in improving communication between different Government
offices and expanding the flow of information, yet more must be done to maximize the gains
from the implementation of the systems. The completion of the efforts started under the
Project to comply with the new Budget Law will have permanent effects on the transparency
of the Government accounts (see para. 31).
16.   The new Government Reform Program suggests that the reforms initiated under the
Project will not only be sustained but expanded. While debate on the reform program is
intense, the Ecuadorian Congress has recently passed both a Customs Law and the Law for
the Modernization of the State, the drafts of which were assisted by the Bank. The Law of
the Modernization of the State is a blueprint for a major restructuring of the public sector. Its
main tenets are the rationalization of State functions and public employment, the
decentralization of government functions, and the privatization of public enterprises. Even
with new legislative mandates, the Government still lacks sufficient internal expertise to
implement such a program and will need further assistance to design and coordinate the
execution of its projected reform agenda.
H.   Assessment by Component
17.   Components and Subcomponents under Part A: Improving the Borrower's
Management. Planning, and Budgeting Systems.
18.   Aal: Macroeconomic Policy Studies (US$255.030.00). This subcomponent was
designed to assist the Government in the formulation of timely macroeconomic measures. It
resulted in eight studies that provided the Government with: (i) macroeconomic analysis for
formulating policies and strategies for internal and external financing; (ii) analysis of the
economic environment of the country and of stabilization policies; (iii) an historical overview
of the recent changes in the principal economic indicators; (iv) a study analyzing non-oil tax
revenues, with policy recommendations for fiscal reform; and (v) a study on monetary
policy.



7
19.   The major expenditures under this component were for the development of a series of
reports on macroeconomic policy. A firm was contracted to study several areas including the
preparation of a budget to implement the program for maintaining minimum standards of
living, the development and execution of a system to improve the administration of the
Treasury, the development of a strategic plan for increasing tax-collection, the installment of
a system for estimating budget projections, and an analysis of macroeconomic policies for
internal and external financing strategies. In particular, the budget projection portion was
intended to have an impact on Government ability to design fiscal policy. Prior to the
Project, many problems vexed the budget preparation process. These included the fact that
revenue projections were developed separately from expenditure projections, and no effort
was made to reconcile the two sides of the budget. It was not possible to analyze the deficit,
debt formation, and investment opportunities. Also, fixed expenditures were not
disaggregated between wages and other expenditures making it impossible to design policy on
salaries or to determine the impact of salary policy on the medium term; price level changes
were not included in the projections making those projections irrelevant and obsolete; and
finally, no system was in place to prioritize investment projects. The budget study proposed
reforms to the system by developing a Lotus 1-2-3 program that, while easy to use, offered a
sufficiently complex projection system able to calculate alternative scenarios, make inflation
rate adjustments, and assure consistency of revenue and expenditure projections. Training
and user manuals were also provided as part of the study. None of this material, however,
was implemented due to a change in Administration. Further, it would appear that much of
the information did not mirror the realities of Ecuador, and, thus, would not have been
readily implementable.
20.   Several other consultants provided services to the MOF. One consultant developed an
analysis of the macroeconomic system, particularly in the areas of stabilization, the exchange
rate system, macroeconomic models, anti-inflationary policy, and trade policy. The contract
was suspended by the MOF due to dissatisfaction with the outputs. Another study was
developed on the macroeconomic changes in the principal economic indicators in the previous
10 years. The aim was to evaluate historically macroeconomic policy and the program of
economic reform, to serve as a guide for future policies. The level of analysis and
suggestions were considered acceptable by the MOF. To enhance the Government
independence from oil revenues, a study analyzed non-oil revenues of the Central
Government, in particular, the level of non-oil revenues during the period 1970-88 in the
larger context of the financial sector. In addition, the study reviewed the proposal of the
Government concerning direct and indirect taxation. The study identified various aspects and
problems, analyzed the options faced by Government to increase its revenues, offered
quantitative estimates, and recommended future actions. These recommendations were
important in the preparation of the plan for fiscal reform. In particular Decreet No. 1732 of
1990 includes specific recommendations such as compulsory periodical reporting of public
entities, and the establishment of utility payments by public entities. Finally, the Project
made available to the Minister of Finance a short-term personal advisor whose functions
were to assist in the development and execution of the recommendations made by the
external consultants and to coordinate with the Central Bank and MOF the realization of
special studies.
21.   Aa2: Information System for Macroeconomic Management (US$74.413.76. The
information system, SIGMA, was designed to improve the flow and availability of economic



8
and financial information to various public entities, including MOF, MRE, CB, CONADE,
SENDA, CONACYT, CONUEP, and MICIP. The system connects these institutions
through cable and allows access to information originated in CB. Only a few of these
institutions (CONADE, INEC, MRE and partially MOF), however, have developed an
intrainstitutional network to use the system. The office of the President of the Republic is
connected to the system by a modem. CB was given assistance to collect and organize
information on the domestic and international economy. The software permits the
systematization of textual information such as legislation and policy announcements as well
as numerical statistics, particularly macroeconomic series such as production, prices, imports
and exports, consumption, and employment. The numerical statistics are on a daily,
monthly, or yearly basis and include approximately 8,000 economic variables. These
variables can be easily manipulated within the program to obtain graphs, depict trends, and
provide regression estimates, or be extracted for use with other statistical packages. The
system thus provides internally consistent information necessary to analyze the public sector
in its financial and monetary aspects, the real economy, and the external position of the
country so that the Government can effectively formulate, monitor, and evaluate short-run
economic policies.
Since August 1992, when the Government established an incentive plan for voluntary
retirement, to the present, the staff of the SIGMA office has halved. This required
establishing priorities in terms of series updating. The CB is awaiting a decision by the Vice
Presidency that would allow the CB to sell data services to meet the growing demand from
both the private sector and other public entities for access to the data in SIGMA. This
commercial activity would further the purpose of the system and assure long-term
sustainability.
22.   Aa3: Studies on Fiscal Reform (US$307.274.00). In 1990 and 1991, efforts were
concentrated in the following principal areas: (i) reform of foreign trade policy; (ii) planning
and control of the financial evolution of the public sector; and (iii) structural reform of the
public sector. Following the plan announced by the Government for foreign trade reform, a
technical group, including the consultant financed by the Project, was established to
formulate the new tariff structure, a new regime for custom taxes based on the cost of
customs services and the simplification of the custom procedures for importers and exporters.
As a result of a proposal by the same consultant, the process for the elimination of
quantitative restrictions of imports and exports began on January 1, 1991. Additionally,
efforts were made to integrate with the Grupo de Cartagena by working on the definition of a
Common Minimum External Tariff at the Lima meeting in November 1990.
23.   To improve the planning and control stage of the financing of the public sector, a
trimestrial financial program was developed for the consolidated public sector which
establishes criteria for projection and planning. To reduce public sector expenditures by
approximately 10 percent, a complete revision of the National Plan for Expenditures was
announced. Also, the public entities were targeted to terminate the interinstitutional practices
for common deficit financing that were used to hide the deficits of public entities. Proposals
were advanced for the structural reform of the public sector. The Project produced a
preliminary analysis of public entities and the legal basis for their establishment with the
ultimate purpose of reevaluating their raison d'etre. The result was a set of general
recommendations for the rationalization of the public sector. While, at the time, these



9
recommendations were not acted upon, they served as a framework for further discussion.
Furthermore, a successful attempt was made to solve some of the deficiencies in the
availability of fiscal information by requiring compulsory and periodic fiscal reporting by all
public entities to the MOF.
24.   Aa4: Public Debt Monitoring System. System for the Analysis of Tax-Payers. and
Evaluation of Automatized Custom Systems (US$699.382.45). The system for monitoring
the public debt, DEUDEX, was an early success. DEUDEX was developed, implemented,
and operational by August 1988. The activity included a preparation study on the operations
and requirements of the Subsecretariat of Public Credit to recommend improvements on
public debt management; to evaluate personnel and their training needs; to evaluate the
provisional list of proposed equipment; and to describe mechanisms to coordinate information
between the Central Bank and the Subsecretariat of Public Credit. The study was followed
by the design of a debt management system that facilitates studying alternative debt
management options; its installment; the training of personnel; and the preparation of
necessary program documentation, user manuals, and maintenance instructions. The Project
also provided the necessary equipment. A firm was contracted to install the equipment
together with the necessary electrical support, and to provide maintenance. Between 1989
and 1990, CISCEX was formed with the purpose of standardizing procedures and integrating
the informatics network. This resulted in the extension of DEUDEX to the CISCEX system
to service the Central Bank, CONADE, BEDE, and MOF. The system was key to providing
the Government with the tools and the necessary information for refinancing the public debt.
Debt management requires substantial coordination between internal and external
information. The modern approach is to develop homogeneous systems (such as
UNCTAD's) across countries. This forces a reevaluation of DEUDEX in a larger context.
Furthermore, the system is beginning to suffer from obsolescence: policy-makers have
complained that the system is slow, that information is not sufficiently updated, that there are
numerical inconsistencies between data in DEUDEX/CISCEX and other available data;
moreover, partial information cannot be extracted. Other problems are the lack of
sufficiently powerful equipment to run the system and personnel to keep it updated; in MOF,
for instance, the function of the equipment devoted to DEUDEX/CISCEX is limited to data
input. These problems have caused CB to consider the purchase of an alternative debt
management system.
25.   During the latter stages of the Project a decision was made to assist an ongoing (BID-
financed) program to implement an information system to improve tax collection, and to
enhance the administrative structure of the Direcci6n General de Rentas within MOF (see
para. 5). The Project provided four months of interim financial assistance for consultant
payments to CIAT-BID between the first and second stages of the BID programs to assure
continuity. ARCOE is a pilot plan for the development of a system to store information on
commercial taxpayers for use by the tax administration as a cross-check on taxpayer
declarations. Because of limited resources, efficiency called for maintaining information on
a select group of taxpayers. Two thousand firms representing 95 percent of tax revenues are
included in the data base. Information is stored for a period of five years and includes tax
declarations, prepayments, value-added tax payments, specific tax payments, and income
statements. Inferences can be drawn on firms' purchases and sales, and the data can then be
reconciled to determine whether tax declarations are consistent with the rest of the
information. Any compatible computer with sufficient memory and a hard-disk can operate



10
the system. The interim financing is intended to finance activities in several areas,
including: (i) a study and assistance in preparation of legal reforms; (ii) strengthening the
organizational reform of the DGR, particularly in the decentralization of the system and in
training; (iii) the development of a national fiscalization plan for 1993/94 and strengthening
of sanctions; and (iv) further improvements in ARCOE's system of capturing and verifying
taxpayer information at the decentralized level. While the ARCOE system has developed a
sophisticated mechanism for verifying commercial taxpayer information and for providing
improved reporting and revenue capture procedures, there is little evidence of technological
transfer to counterparts within DGR. The interim financing is, in part, aimed at training
some 350 officials in the use of the system and in strengthening the identification and audit
of individual taxpayers based on compliance profiles.
26.   For the last part of this subcomponent, a group of consultants was hired to visit
Colombia and Spain to evaluate each country's automated customs system, respectively
SIDUNEA (which was developed by UNCTAD) and GEMA, as to their applicability to
Ecuador. The systems were evaluated following several criteria including satisfaction of
countries that have implemented the systems, difficulty of installation with respect to
Ecuador's specific needs, level of automation, technical characteristics (such as electricity
requirements and interfacing options), architecture, and software and hardware necessary.
The consultants' recommendation to adapt SIDUNEA to the Ecuadorian context, however,
was not accepted.
27.   Aa5: Equipment to Facilitate Foreign Trade and to Modernize Customs
(US$72,957.50a. To address the problem of airport traffic and tariff evasion, the
international airports of Quito and of Guayaquil were equipped with an electronic system for
the random selection of passengers for inspection. While the system has been in place and
operational since December 1992, customs officers have not used the system on a regular
basis. It would appear that the reason for non-use lies in the desire of customs officials to
retain discretionary control over inspection.
28.   To monitor the activity and increase the effectiveness of customs, equipment was
purchased and delivered to customs posts across the country. Equipment provided under the
Project, which includes safes, typewriters, registers, and calculators for use by the customs
officers, should facilitate the collection of import and export duties and facilitate the
monitoring of the flow of goods into and outside the country.
29.   Aa6: Studies for the Reform of Commercial Policy (US$158,463.40). Reform of
commercial policy is fundamental for successful economic policy. Several consultants were
hired to study policy options and prepare legislative drafts. The objective of one of the
studies was to evaluate alternative paths to reduce the level of tariffs through exchange rate
policy, fiscal and monetary policies, and the policy on capital mobility. The results of the
study became the conceptual framework for the Reform of Tariffs. A Special Technical
Commission for the Reform of Tariffs was established to review the studies; organize
meetings and discussions; and execute the steps necessary to gain the legal approval of the
Reform plan. The consultant hired to head the Commission was not able to complete his
assignment as Secretary of the Commission. Another policy aspect, which was discussed
during the negotiation stages of the Project, was the eventual joining of GATr by Ecuador.
A consultant provided a study that considered the impact of such a decision on the country,



11
including recommendations for negotiations and joining GATT. At the time of the
preparation of the study little action occurred and the recommendations and the study were
not acted on. While the current Government has applied for membership, there is no
evidence that this particular study prepared under the Project has had any impact on current
negotiations. In fact, there appears to be no awareness of its existence. Clearly, other
activities under the Project related to tariff reform did have a positive impact on Ecuador's
ability to negotiate membership in GATT. These include the elimination of non-tariff
restrictions on trade, the simplification of the tariff structure, the reduction of tariff rates,
and the simplification of custom procedures.
30.   Ab: Establishment of a Computerized Financial Information System within the
Ministry of Finance (US$511.452.17). The goal of this component was to integrate financial
information and management decision within the MOF. While this component had a late
start, between June 1991 and December 1992 several LANs were installed in different
undersecretariats with the help of specialists. Equipment, including personal computers, dot
matrix and laser printers, and software (mainly WP, Lotus and utilities), was installed in
most sections of the MOF and in the provincial offices of the Government. Computer
training was provided by the seller of the equipment at no additional cost. The effect of
computerization has been immediate in terms of the efficiency gains and the timely
availability of budget execution data to MOF officials. Some of the equipment has been in
place and utilized for over three years. Officials have expressed their satisfaction and
expressed the need for more equipment. However, a serious issue of equipment maintenance
is evident. While there have been few breakdowns to date, an insufficient amount of funds
has been allocated to maintenance and provision of supplementary materials (toners, ribbons,
paper, and diskettes). The absence of funding may hamper efficient use of the equipment.
Further technological integration in the budgeting and accounting procedures of the public
sector, which is required by the new Budget Law approved in December 1992, should
enhance the usefulness of installed equipment.
31.   Ac: Development and Implementation of a Program Budgeting System
(US$159,172.33). The original purpose of this subcomponent was to create an integrated
system for budget management. Due to contractual arrangements between the Government
of Ecuador and the Spanish Government to develop the above, this subcomponent was
initially suspended. However, contractual difficulties with the Spanish contractor, including
disagreement over the type of computerized system to be implemented, caused the
Government of Ecuador to seek another solution and restore this component. In June 1993,
the Project began to finance the initial stages of an open-architecture decentralized budgeting
system. The system will register public sector transaction and automatically create balance
of operations through a comprehensive classification of expenditures and operations. The
consultancy included an assessment of the current technical capacity of the Subsecretariat of
the Budget at MOF and the initial development of the system for accounts record keeping
and elaboration of the budget in accordance with the Budget Law. The Project also financed
the development of the key technical norms necessary for the implementation of this law.
The consultant involved in this latter activity held a series of seminars to acquaint relevant
personnel in public institutions with the requirements of the law. This subcomponent, which
was completed at the very end of the Project, is of critical importance given the impending
legal requirements of the Budget Law and the fundamental necessity for transparency and
control in the government budget process. One of the tasks of the PPF of the TA for the



12
Modernization of the State is to assist the Government in the installation of the new
computerized public sector budget system, which has been initiated under this subcomponent.
32.   Ad: Develop Public Sector Professionals' Skills in the Areas of Planning. Accounting.
and Budgeting (US$67,083.55). Seminars and training were offered in the areas of public
finance control to personnel in the Direcci6n de Auditoria Petrolera in the Budget Office.
Computational equipment was also provided for use in that office. Officers of the
Ecuadorian Government attended seminars on matters of procurement, accounting, and
budgeting that were found useful.
33.   Ae: Studies to Recommend Actions Needed for the Reduction in Budget Earmarking.
(US$63.226.0O) Both the Government and the Bank stressed the importance of this
component, which was designed to study ways to reduce the earmarked portion of the
budget. In the beginning of the Project, earmarked revenues represented approximately 60
percent of total revenues. As a result, Government discretionary control over the budget
allocation process was severely limited. The study was to analyze the legal instruments used
to establish earmarking and propose reforms to modify existing legal provisions while taking
into account the political difficulty associated with such a reform. The MOF approved of the
contents of the study and its level of analysis. A substantial decrease in earmarking (from
about 60 to 40 percent of the budget) has already occurred. Any new proposal is now
constrained by the new Budget Law.
34.   The same consultant was contracted to study the finances of local government. This
included an analysis of the fiscal environment in the Provincial Governments and
Municipalities, local revenues and their remittance to the Central Government, and the
methods of local debt financing. It also examined the assignment of functions to the different
levels of government and possible associated changes, and offered recommendations for the
reform of revenues and expenditures. The study resulted in the development of a program
called "Finances of Local Government" which was designed to improve the financial and
debt situation of the municipalities and is linked to the ongoing Bank Municipal Development
and Urban Infrastructure Project (Ln. 3285).
35.   B: Install a Computerized System within MOF for Monitoring the Execution of the
Borrower's Investment Projects (US$0). By unilateral decision of the Government, no
activities were initiated to meet this goal.
36.   Components under Part C.
37.   Ca: Improving the Management Capabilities of PETROECUADOR through the
Installation of a Modern Commercially-Oriented Accounting System (US$1.749.437.57).
PETROECUADOR is the most important public corporation of the country, given that it is
responsible for all exploration, extraction, transport, processing, and distribution of
petroleum and natural gas. It provides more than half of all Government revenues and
represents 8.6 percent of GDP. PETROECUADOR (then CEPE) used an outmoded and
inefficient management system, had inadequate data processing capacities, and internal
accounting practices that did not conform to generally accepted principles. This component
was designed to increase the efficiency of this entity by streamlining the organization,
improving the financial and production management, designing and implementing a



13
computerized management information system, and improving the skills of mid-level
management. The component was highly successful in assisting a fundamental managerial
reform of the company. The design and attribution of responsibilities for the activities under
this component of the loan were conventional: PETROECUADOR establish'ed institutional
counterparts, and an ad hoc commission was created to guide and supervise the execution of
the Project. There was stability and continuity in the staff of both PETROECUADOR and
the consultants with whom a contract was signed in 1989. This resulted in the installation of
the new financial and accounting system that, coupled with the inventory and revaluation of
fixed assets, enabled PETROECUADOR, for the first time since independent audits were
begun in 1985, to obtain an auditor's opinion (albeit qualified). It is expected that the
accounting anomalies revealed by the audit of the 1991 accounts will have been corrected for
1992, and the next audit will result in a "clean" opinion on PETROECUADOR's accounts
for the first time ever.
38.   Through the assistance of a major consultancy, PETROECUADOR has been able to
develop an integrated system of financial accounting. Lately, management has opted for a
more decentralized system of integrated accountability and a more open architectural
framework for the information system in an effort to encourage management responsibility at
the decentralized level, and to reduce operating costs of the system. PETROSIP, the
decentralized system, is an effort to create financial accountability within "cost centers."
The system, which is expected to be completed by November 1993, is fundamental in
assuring the sustainability of the reforms and testifies to the willingness of management to
maintain an efficient and modem system.
39.   Cb: Strengthen INECEL's Institutional Capabilities and Rationalize its Structure
(US$0). INECEL was an original candidate for rationalization and reform. However, the
entity was unable to finalize the contract for consulting services required to implement the
reform. Among the reasons for this failure, one can identify the perceived complexity of the
Project by the senior management of INECEL, the senior management confusion over the
raison d'etre of the reform, and the resulting unwillingness of management to implement the
Project, administrative changes (changes in Government resulting in changes in
management), and the Law for National Consultancies. The law defines strict rules over the
ownership and location of firms that can obtain contracts. Under this ruling, after one year
of work, the first version of the terms of reference for the bidding procedure was approved
by INECEL in March 1987. The document was then revised repeatedly until a date for the
bidding process was established in 1991. The firms that were invited to bid for the contract
openly complained over the binding rules and conditions of the document. The bid was
singularly unsuccessful: of the approximately 10 firms that were expected to bid, only one
firm made an offer. The offer, which was judged technically acceptable, was excessive
relative to the available funds. Finally, after five years and numerous attempts, the
Government decided to terminate this component and, with the approval of the Bank, to
reallocate the funds to other components. This seems to have been the only reasonable
decision, given INECEL's history of noncompliance (a major loan was extended by the Bank
to INECEL in 1982 and then canceled) and the delays in the implementation of Loan 2713-
EC for the improvement of the power sector (4th closing date extension). More recently, the
latter has acquired momentum, and management has been more willing to implement reform
measures.



14
40.   Cc: EMETEL's Organization and Management (US$1.029,926.00).  The initial
purpose of this component was to develop a diagnostic study of IETEL (currently EMETEL).
The intent was expanded to include a restructuring of the firm's financial and accounting
practices. This was very important, since IETEL provides all telephone services. From the
beginning, IETEL was the most committed to the program among the public enterprises.
Indeed, IETEL was the first to sign a contract to implement its component. However, after
the contract was signed with a special consortium in November 1988, relations between
IETEL and the consortium deteriorated rapidly, and work was suspended in February 1989.
The reasons for the conflict were the difficulties encountered by the consultant with the local
partners it took on in agreement with local public consultancy laws, and the nature of the
preliminary report prepared by the consultants on the status of IETEL. The assessment of
IETEL implied by the report was not accepted by IETEL's senior management who moved
to dismiss the contract. The contract was formally canceled in March 1991 by the mutual
consent of all parties involved. IETEL's management and Project team remained in place,
but it took another year of discussions between the Bank and MOF to move IETEL towards
contracting both the design and implementation of a financial and accounting management
system. The suspension of Loan 3052-EC in 1991 provided an additional incentive for
IETEL to proceed with the reform.
41.   In April 1992, a new contract was signed with the same firm that had productively
completed the PETROECUADOR component. This contract was successful. It resulted in
the installation of a commercially-oriented, modem computerized accounting and financial
system that took into account the information and control needs of the firm. The new system
includes procedures to deal with invoicing, investment, and fixed asset assessment. The
consultants provided training to accounting personnel in computers, system use, and
accounting methods; seminars to senior management to familiarize them with all aspects of
the new system; and full documentation. Moreover, a complete inventory and fixed assets
revaluation was undertaken. For the first time in the history of the company, an opinion was
issued by an independent audit company on IETEL's accounts for 1992. While the opinion
was qualified, this was an improvement over the 1990 and 1991 accounts audit when the
auditors declined to issue an opinion. As of 1993, however, a preliminary report identifies
many accounting errors and inconsistencies, suggesting that continued effort is required to
take full advantage of the system developed on the basis of this assistance. The consultants'
work included an inventory and revaluation of IETEL's fixed assets, which had not been
done since the company was formed 20 years ago, in 1973. The new accounting system
allows for a constant revaluation of fixed assets and thus results in a more realistic balance
sheet. While the company still faces serious problems, this component was effective in
improving EMETEL's financial management. The success of the contract, however, did not
translate in a permanent commitment from the part of EMETEL's management as the need
for cancellation of loan 3052 has shown.
42.   During 1992, the Congress of Ecuador passed the new Telecommunications Law that
separated the regulation of the industry from operations, which was assigned to EMETEL.
This enhanced the company's administrative, operating, economic, and financial authority as
well as independence.
43.   Cd: Provision of Technical Assistance in Other Public Enterprises (US$103.148.60)
Today, Ecuador's main exports include petroleum, cacao, coffee, bananas and shrimp. The



15
fishing sector, important for its export potential, and for the level of domestic provision of
food, has become the primary source of foreign exchange after petroleum. While individual
producers have been mainly responsible for developing the fishing sector, an effort was made
within the Project to integrate individual efforts in the areas of bio-aquatic research and
technology by offering some institutional assistance through FIRBA. Complementary to the
research activities financed by EEC, FIRBA completed a study to analyze the economic,
technical, financial, and organizational aspects of investment projects selected by MICIP with
the ultimate objective of further developing the fishing sector, strengthening FIRBA's
institutional capacity, and delegating from MICIP to FIRBA an extended operational and
managing role in that sector. This activity was not directly related to the objectives of the
Project and was approved by the Bank as an exception given the keen interest demonstrated
by the Minister of Finance and the President of Ecuador.
44.   A consultant was contracted to provide a diagnostic and recommendations for the
restructuring of Ecuatoriana de Aviaci6n. The study consisted of two parts. The first
analyzes the organizational structure; evaluates the most important financial data; identifies
the largest deficits by operative and geographic area; evaluates the accounting system; weighs
the opinions of the managers of the firm; examines the budget process and commercial
strategy; and, finally, analyzes operational aspects such as routes, number of passengers, and
maintenance investment. This study, together with an international market situation report
and accounting support, is the base for the development of the strategic plan of action which
includes annual cost trimming by a total of $11 million, the modemization of the company's
fleet, and the identification of business opportunities. The study's recommendations,
however, were ignored; in fact, the study was handed over to the Advisor of the Minister
and remains unavailable. While the recommendations of the study provided sound specific
actions to be taken, a political decision was made to ignore them. The recommendations
included immediate reorganization of flights and offices in the exterior, a more timely review
of financial information on the company's status, renovations of the antiquated fleet, full cost
recovery, reductions of expenditures including personnel costs, merging of Ecuatoriana with
TAME, and strengthening of other services provided by the company as revenue generators.
Ironically, while these studies were shelved in 1989, together with recommendations
concerning fleet renovation and restructuring, by 1993, the company's fleet has been reduced
to one government-owned cargo airplane and one commercial airplane, two idle airplanes,
and leased airplanes. Insolvency had become increasingly evident, and, by 1994, the
company stopped flying.
45.   The same consultant also developed a study on the situation of PEs that includes a
quantitative assessment of their financial standing, the level of financial independence, their
debt, pricing behavior, employment levels, and cost structure. This study resulted in a
proposal to create a holding company of the PEs. Instead, the Government created within
MOF the Direcci6n de Empresas PuIblicas which became an effective tool for monitoring and
reviewing the budgets of the major PEs. This was critical for improving fiscal policy
control.
46.   D: Study for the Involvement of the Private Sector in the Development of the Mining
Sector (US$131.063.00). This component was successfully implemented. The consultants
engaged in the Project for the new Mining Law were found completely satisfactory, and their
recommendations were key in drafting the new Law of Mining. The extent of this law is far



16
reaching and defines the mining industry as a priority sector both for investment and for its
potential as a source of employment and economic development for the country as a whole.
The Law provides for: a restructuring of the mining sector to improve transparency and
accountability; developing mechanisms to evaluate the performance of the mining sector and
the efficiency of its development; and for the mineral extraction from new ores to increase
national production, government revenues, and the number of jobs in the economy. Progress
made in this sector gave rise to the new project on mining development (Mining
Development and Environmental Control).
47.   Ea: Establishing Systems for Setting Performance Objectives and Evaluating
Performance of Public Enterprises and Other Decentralized Entities (US$33.000.O). This
subcomponent provided assistance to analyze the legal framework of the public sector and to
prepare a proposal for its reform and deregulation.
48.   Eb: Improving the Borrower's Procurement Regulations (US$3.100).  The reform of
the Law of Public Contracts, which has regulated public procurement since 1974, was one of
the important components of the Project. The law, which was designed to formalize the
contracting of public construction and purchase of goods and services, was not able to adapt
to the changing and expanding needs of Government. In addition, the procedural norms
established by the law are excessively cumbersome and impede prompt and efficient
contracting. The lack of clarity of legal dispositions makes the interpretation of the codes
and agreement of the contracting elements difficult. Often the contract is awarded not to the
most competitive bidder but to the one that is judged by the Committee of Contracts as
compliant; this introduces an undesirable level of discretion in the selection process. The
Project financed a study to analyze the problems with the current law and to propose
recommendations for the draft of a new procurement law. While this is a very small effort
and far short of what is needed, the hope is that it will provide the Government with a
stimulus for further activity in this critical area.
1.    Bank and Borrower Performance
49.   A major problem initially was the lack of commitment by the Borrower with was due
to two factors: (a) the economic crisis of 1986 which stirred attention toward pressing policy
issues, and (b) to the withdrawal of the CONADE component as envisioned in the
President's Memorandum. This lack of commitment is evidenced by the following facts: it
took a year and a quarter for the Project to become effective after receiving Bank approval;
no progress was made for the first two years; and the closing date of the loan had to be
extended three times for the Project to be completed. Closely related to this problem was the
insufficient level of understanding of the Project objectives. This fact, which may have
arisen from the lack of clarity and specificity in the legal documents', and the numerous
changes in ministers of finance and Project coordinators, implied that the Bank had to brief
repeatedly the Borrower to keep the Project on track. At some junctures, the MOF did not
1. While the legal documents should provide a sufficiently flexible framework for project implementation, it should also
clearly identify the main objectives of each component. In the case of the public enterprises components, the main objective
of modernization of the financial and accounting system was not clearly articulated.



17
realize the opportunities offered by the Project and failed to use them under the pressure of
day-to-day tasks.
50.   The Project became effective in June 1986. This corresponded to a very difficult
period on the economic front. The prices of Ecuador's main export, oil, plunged causing a
20 percent decrease in export earnings. The sudden shortage of Government revenues and
foreign exchange created a fiscal and external crisis. In this critical period, the Bank should
have offered increased attention and supervision. The lack of a specific effort in this regard
contributed to the stalling of progress toward Project execution. During this period the
Project was given low priority and not allotted sufficient time.
A trend started to develop on the part of the Borrower to use the loan as a means to finance
activities not clearly related to the original Project objectives. This was the case, for
example, with FIRBA, which the Bank cleared as an exception given the export potential
implied by the activity. The danger, however, of this approach is the fragmentation of the
loan concept.
51.   Starting in mid 1989, substantial effort was needed to revive the Project and adapt it
to the changing needs of the Government. The extent of the reorganization of the Project is
reflected by the number of staff weeks put into the Project in 1989, which jumped from an
average of 7.5 weeks per year during the previous three years to 20.7 weeks, comparable to
the time spent in the year of the design of the Project'. Intervention was managed on a
component-by-component basis and numerous efforts were made to facilitate development
and resolve conflicts. In the case of EMETEL, the Bank was instrumental in motivating the
firm to close the contract with the consortium that had come under litigation over the quality
of its output. This intervention was essential for the eventual success of EMETEL's
component. Similarly, the Bank encouraged the Government to stop the implementation of
an outdated, closed architecture, and expensive mainframe program budgeting system, and
instead consider the adoption of a modern open system. In other cases, such as the mining
study and procurement regulations, Bank officials took the initiative where the Government
had not.
52.   Effective progress toward full implementation was made by agreement between the
Bank and the Government through Work Programs on clear and specific targets that
eventually allowed the Project to reach -- and in some cases exceed -- some of its stated
objectives.
J.    Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM Projects
53.   Several lessons can be drawn from this Project. The first is the need for close
supervision and measured intervention. Loans that have multiple components and some
components that do not fall directly under the responsibility of the main executing agency
necessitate close monitoring. This was the case for this Project, where responsibility was
spread among various sections of the Ministry of Finance and three major public enterprises.
Often, delays were caused by management inertia; this needs to be identified and promptly
corrected. This suggests the need for greater inter-institutional coordination, as well as that
1. See Table 5B in Part Ill.



18
specificity of the objectives and a smaller number of components pays off in better
implementation, adherence to schedules, and ultimate achievements of objectives.
54.   The importance of continuity should also be stressed. There were six different
Project Coordinators during the life of the Project. This created breaks in the flow of
activity and efficiency loss. Longer-term commitments for the position of Project
Coordinator should be required of the Borrower.
55.   The necessity for adaptability on the part of the Bank to adjust to changing conditions
and needs is paramount. This was particularly evident during this Project, which evolved
through three different administrations with varying ideologies, different economic programs,
as well as a changing political base of support. Prompt and adaptable response from the
Bank in the second period greatly increased Project policy impact. Furthermore, being
perceived as somewhat flexible will draw the Borrower to be more open about difficulties
encountered and will therefore permit the Bank greater access and influence. Naturally,
flexibility must be contained within the framework and purpose of the loan. This entails
adaptability of inputs and activities to reach more effectively the stated objectives of the
Project. Enhancing the Government ability to formulate macroeconomic policy, for instance,
can be achieved by developing studies on a variety of issues; it is indispensable to work with
the Govemment to both meet the urgent needs of policy-making as well as the need to
develop longer-term economic stability. The fact that the loan agreement did not specify the
inputs required to reach its stated objectives facilitated the implementation of this Project.
56.   Finally, the lack of internal expertise and the danger that, once external expertise is
removed, reforms will come to a halt is a constant problem. Attention should be given to
this during the design stage of the loan to apportion sufficient resources to minimize the
problem. In this loan, substantial funds were allocated to technical training. This investment
has paid off as the utilization of equipment shows. More emphasis should be given to the
Govemment's ability to attract expertise and retain it on a permanent basis. In the case of
Ecuador, as of other Latin American countries, wages of public officials are too low to be
competitive with the private sector. This problem can be tackled by supporting programs to
rationalize public wages and employment. Rationalization of public employment and wages
will make the Government more competitive in attracting expert professionals to its ranks.
K.    Project Relationships
57.   The relationship between the Government and the Bank was greatly improved by the
Project, which gave rise to a number of initiatives that increased collaboration between the
Bank and the Government. These include the Mining Development and Environmental
Control Project, the Telecommunications Project (EMETEL), the Municipal Development
and Urban Infrastructure Project, and the project on the Modernization of the State, for
which a Project Preparation Facility Advance was approved. The development of the debt
management system was also very relevant to the Bank's concerns, particularly in view of
the very high debt to GDP ratio of the country (104 percent in 1992).
58.   The Minister of Finance acted as the National Director of the Project and was always
directly involved in the Project execution. For this reason, the Project became a very



19
effective means for the Bank to engage in a broader dialogue over important policy and
institutional issues linked to Project output. Furthermore, the Project Coordinator generally
also served as a personal advisor to the Minister. This implied that while sometimes the
attention of the Coordinator was concentrated on urgent policy issues and away from the
development of the Project, most often the arrangement facilitated greater influence of
Project activities on current policies.
59.   The administrative role of UNDP/OPS was not completely satisfactory, particularly in
the beginning. A source of complaint was the delays and the bureaucratic procedures
associated with the approval of contracts submitted by the Government and cleared by the
Bank. In the case equipment purchases, price guaranties had sometimes expired by the time
procurement was approved. In some cases, this required reprocessing. Administrative fees
were also deemed excessive by the Government, which expressed its unwillingness to
contract with UNDP in future. This was the first experience of the UNDP Resident
Representative Office in Quito with a Management Services Agreement. As a result, there
appears to have been some trial and error in the developing relationship. In particular, the
decision-making process within UNDP required that most authorizations be approved from
New York. This in turn led to substantial delays in procurement and contracts. Part of the
delay, however, also resides in poor advanced planning on the part of the PCU, resulting in
requests for approval at the last minute. The delays and the changing interpretation of
UNDP's role as facilitator, administrator, and executor led to substantial disagreement
between MOF and UNDP at several stages in the Project. Changes in the delegation of
authority within UNDP now permits a greater reliance on the local office for some decisions,
which will have an effect (in future projects) in eliminating delays as well as lowering the
cost of services (lower overhead, especially a result of national hiring). Under the Project,
UNDP fees were approximately 7 percent, while under more recent contracts that rate
became approximately 3.5 percent.
L.    Consulting Services
60.   Most consultants hired under the loan performed satisfactorily. More importantly,
many were able to have a far reaching policy and legislative impact both in the short-run
policy design and execution, and in the design of medium-term structural changes. Some of
the consultants were advising the Finance Minister and had direct access to the decision
making-process. The lack of internal expertise made this function even more important,
particularly in the areas of macroeconomic, financial, and debt management.
61.   Concerning the public enterprise components, after EMEIEL broke relations with its
first consulting company, it signed a contract with the consultants employed by
PETROECUADOR. These consultants proved to be very competent on both occasions,
producing first-class work, on time, and within budget. Relations between the consultants
and the clients were business-like and efficient.



20
M.   Project Documentation and Data
62.   The documentation for the Project is detailed and comprehensive. The financial
information, invoices, and contracts were judiciously kept. Most studies and progress
reports were also available to the Bank. The few exceptions correspond to cases where the
Minister of Finance considered the content of the study politically sensitive and treated the
document as confidential. In those cases, however, detailed assessments of the studies were
made available by the Minister.
63.   The main documents for Project execution were the Loan Agreement and the
President's Report. The Supervision Report of December 1986 contains an Attachment
amending the allocation of funds to the various components to reflect the withdrawal of
CONADE from the original contemplated loan of $8 million to the $6 million stated in the
Loan Agreement. A Staff Appraisal Report, which was not available for this Project, would
have been helpful for measuring results against their set target.
64.   The preparation of the PCR gained from the quality of the supervision reports and
from the progress reports prepared by the PCU, particularly the extensive reports by one of
the Project Coordinators. Assistance from the PCU during the PCR mission greatly
increased access to relevant materials and facilitated the preparation of this PCR.



21
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2516-EC)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Introduction
65.   Loan 2516-EC, signed between the Government of Ecuador and the Bank in 1986 for
a technical assistance project in the area of Public Sector Management, was considered a
positive and fruitful effort by the Government to make the public sector more modem and
efficient.
66.   The various components and activities carried out during the life of the Project
covered sensitive areas of the public sector that demanded urgent structural changes.
67.   This chapter analyzes, from the borrower's perspective, the significance of the Project
for the development of the country and corresponds to Part II of the Project Completion
Report required by the Bank. It provides an overall assessment of the impact of the project,
the Bank's role and the borrower's management, and summarizes general conclusions and
recommendations for future projects.
68.   The report has been prepared following the Bank's guidelines for the preparation of
PCRs.
B.    Impact of the Loan
69.   At present, it is not possible to have an exact account of the concrete results of all the
Project components. The diversity of sub-components, the short time elapsed since the
completion of the Project, and factors inherent to the internal situation of the country during
the life of the Project make an overall assessment difficult. It is feasible, though, to make a
general diagnostic evaluation of the substantial contributions of the Project in various areas.
70.   The institutional reforms implemented greatly contributed to the efficiency of several
public sector enterprises. Reforms included administrative rationalization, and installment of
modern computer equipment and information networks. Furthermore, the modernization of
the State was promoted through reforms in the areas of budget, customs and tax. The
support received by the Project in the design of legal measures to complement the reforms
resulted in the drafting of several laws. In particular, the Budget Law, which has been
approved, and both the Law for the Modernization of the State and the Customs Law, which
are now under Congressioral consideration, are fundamental for the renewal of the public
sector.
71.   The Project tackled strategic areas that needed to be updated and renewed. The
national counterpart lacked the necessary analytical capacity to carry out the structural



22
diagnostics, and to design policies to reform the public sector as a whole. The same lack of
capacity hampers the prospects for long-term sustainability of the structural reforms and their
consolidation. Funds that are available to the Government and could be used to consolidate
the gains achieved by the Project, are not always efficiently allocated towards those ends.
72.   There is not always an appropriate target audience in developing countries to benefit
effectively from technical aid provided by the multilateral organizations. In the case of
Ecuador, the lack of integrated training at all levels of the bureaucracy and an obsolete
technological environment result in poor and inefficient services. Modern computer
technology and training are required to improve public services. Given the critical
importance of technical assistance and technology transfer from the international
organizations for the future of the public sector, it is imperative to complement the assistance
with the technical training necessary to develop a cadre of professionals able to understand
and optimally utilize the available technology.
73.   The Project provided the tools needed by the Government to adapt and respond to the
changing economic environment. Key areas of fiscal and macroeconomic planning were
identified, and tools developed to formulate modern economic policies. Particularly during
the final stage of the Project, the national counterpart tried to make the best possible use of
the Project in this direction.
74.   Project's design and selection of the components responded to the need for
strengthening the capacity for policy-making and improving the available technology.
Implementation did face, however, various obstacles, and the prescribed goals were not
always met. Among the information services developed under the Project, few have the
capacity to effectively share information, and are still in the process of being perfected and
coordinated. The agencies involved need to develop a plan to better coordinate their
services. This should consolidate the fragmented information into a solid and reliable
information flow that could be accessed by a large number of people.
75.   Some components, such as INECEL's, were never implemented, while others
(particularly some macroeconomic background studies), even tough implemented, did not
have the expected impact. These imposed costs that should be avoided in future projects,
through enhanced monitoring and selection mechanisms.
76.   Remaining components, however, were successfully implemented. Close monitoring
was required to insure success and reinforce the gains. Some essential aspects of the Project,
with regard to budget analysis and implementation by the treasurer's office, tax collections,
public investments and planning need to be unified under an adequate institutional framework
to improve policy formulation and coordination among the various executing agencies.
77.   The contributions have been valuable. The changes introduced in the beneficiary
institutions have been positive and have effectively met some of the reforms' objectives.
Much of the technology that hampered the provision of services in 1986 is now available,
and prospects exist for improving it. The impetus on modernization and the new role of the
private sector offer increased confidence that the process of resource rationalization will
achieve favorable results, also in the long-run.



23
78.   Following is a summary of the impact of the Project in the main beneficiary entities:
I.    Ministry of Finance
79.   The Public Sector Management Project covered a multiplicity of activities and
provided important and invaluable assistance, especially during the term of Minister Mario
Ribadeneira. With the help of the Project, he introduced and promoted the main institutional
and economic reforms encouraged by the Government, among which, the budget, customs,
and tax reforms. These reforms were an essential part of the modernization plan of
President Duran-Ballen, and received a very positive support from the Project, thanks to the
Bank's acknowledgement of the importance and priority of these reforms. In particular,
direct assistance was given to structurally reorganize MOF; implement the Public Sector
Budget Law and relative bylaws; draft the National Service Customs Law and relative
bylaws; and improve procurement and contracting procedures in the public sector.
80.   The loan provided assistance to the Ministry of Finance in the following areas:
I. 1. Subsecretariat of Public Credit:
81.   The loan initiated the reform of this Subsecretariat to improve the efficiency of its
operations. The capacity for macroeconomic analysis was strengthened; a computerized
financial information system was developed and installed; assistance was provided for the
analysis of the macroeconomic environment to formulate internal and external financing
strategies, and exchange rate stabilization policies; and a study analyzing the variations in the
economic indicators during the last ten years was carried out.
82.   Not all of these innovations have been effectively applied or properly utilized. For
instance, while the External Debt Management System has been effective in the short-run, it
has not produced the long-run results envisioned in the design of the Project due to a lack of
trained personnel. The main problem is that the data on external debt is not regularly
updated and is, therefore, unreliable. With an improved and continuous flow of information,
the system could provide a more valuable contribution. Other systems, like the Economic
Management Information System (containing variables on oil revenues, inter-bank rates,
movements in the international monetary reserves, etc.) will increasingly provide more
reliable and timely information for the formulation and coordination of economic policies.
I.2. Subsecretariat of Revenues
83.   The Project strongly supported tax and customs reforms; contributions were
significant and results could be easily identified. In the area of tax reform, with the
collaboration of other international organizations, tax administration at the national level was
improved; the areas of financing, human resources, tax regulations and control were
strengthened; and, in the area of taxation, management was integrated with computer
technology. The General Directorate of Taxation has been strengthened and restructured, a
modern nationwide taxation plan has been developed, and a computerized system for tax
control has been installed. As it has been recognized by tax authorities, however, not all
innovations are being fully applied and their scope could be broader.



24
84.   As for customs reform, the assistance provided was crucial to encourage reform in
this sensitive area, characterized by inefficiency and corruption. It is necessary to know
Ecuador's reality to understand the complex customs problems faced by the country. This is
why any reform process in this area confronts more resistance and obstacles than usual. The
efforts to develop a modern and expedient customs legislation, that restricts corruption and
stimulates trade, find tenacious opposition. For months the new Law remains untouchable in
Congress. The process to computerize customs operations, supported by the Project,
confronts similar resistance. Computer systems are not effectively employed because of
customs officers' resistance to them.
1.3. Subsecretariat of the Budget
85.   There were improvements made in the systems for managing MOF's budget planning
and preparation, and monitoring public investment and financial information. Also, progress
was made in the Government's management system.
86.   The Project assisted the restructuring of the Subsecretariat, and the preparation of the
Public Sector Budget Law. Efforts were made to coordinate the short- medium- and long-
term planning for public investments, and the financial planning of projects to be executed;
prepare studies on the budgetary cycle; develop and implement the system for preparing
programmatic budgets; implement training programs for public sector professionals in the
areas of planning, accounting and budget; and carry out a study to investigate measures
necessary to reduce earmarking (a principle incorporated into the new Law). All these
elements improved the general productivity of the subsecretariat and the skills of its
personnel. The developments in these areas have been substantial, and the Government cites
them as an example of the important actions undertaken to modernize the State.
87.   It should be recognized that the Government not always followed the
recommendations of budget advisors financed by the Project. Some of the proposals were
rejected and other alternatives for budget management and reform were chosen.
Nevertheless, the studies were valuable and enriched internal debate in the Government,
contributing in the end to the implementation of one of the most ambitious reforms
undertaken during the last years.
II. Petroecuador
88.   This institution carried out training programs, established advisory services, and
introduced reforms in management procedures and the institution's organizational structure,
including the acquisition of the necessary equipment, and expert advice on the
implementation of a modern accounting-financial system. This was complemented by the
changes in the legal and institutional framework brought about by the implementation of the
Petroecuador Law.
89.   The implementation of this component was successful. The efficiency in the
contracting process permitted that the various stages of implementation be carried out
according to the terms of reference and within the time prescribed. Timely decision-making
permitted the development of one of the best accounting systems in the country and certainly
the best within the public sector.



25
III. EMETEL
90.   EMETEL, at the insistence of the Bank, decided to participate in the Project, even
though it showed some resistance to changes and renovation of its bureaucratic system. To
the benefit of the country, in spite of some inconveniences caused by the termination of its
first contract, the Project went on. Within the context of the State modernization plan, the
structural changes initiated by the Project will translate, in the long run, into a meaningful
contribution for renovating the telephone system nationwide.
IV. INECEL
91.   Originally the Project included INECEL. The objective was to improve its
institutional capacity by rationalizing its organization in coordination with its subsidiaries.
Training and the provision of the necessary equipment were contemplated.
92.   INECEL experienced many obstacles which resulted in the termination of this
component. The causes for terminating this component were INECEL's continuous non-
compliance and lack of collaboration in providing documents, terms of reference, and other
requests made by the Project Coordinating Unit and several Bank missions.
93.   The decision of the authorities was to terminate the agreement with INECEL and
reallocate the funds to other priority areas in need of Government's attention.
V. Others
94.   The Project carried out various studies in a variety of areas, following the
Government's priorities and needs. Some of these studies had an effective and practical
impact, while others did not meet the proposed objectives or, simply, were not considered
satisfactory by the authorities.
95.   Among the studies that have a direct application and effective contribution are the
budget and tax revenues analyses, the advisory services to INEMIN that contributed to the
enactment of the new Mining Law, the support to CONAM for deregulation in the public
sector, and a report on the eventual joining of GATT by Ecuador.
96.   The Ministry of Finance has emphasized the loan's contribution in the drafting of the
Mining Law that restructured and improved the efficiency and effectiveness of the mining
sector. Moreover, the experience gained from Loan 2516 stimulated the design of a Bank
project specific to the mining sector ("Mining Development and Environmental Control").
97.   Likewise, CONAM has stressed the usefulness of this loan in the implementation of
the "Central Government Rationalization" program through which the consistency between
constitutional guarantees and the content of the norms issued by the Executive since 1927
were analyzed. As a result, many norms that are inconsistent, interventionist and hinder
economic development were identified and are expected to be repealed. To this end, a first
draft of a Presidential Decree was prepared and submitted for Presidential approval.



26
C.   The Bank's Role
98.   The Bank, in its efforts to provide technical assistance to the member countries, was
committed to support Ecuador's Public Sector Management Project, as a fundamental step
toward the development of a modem governmental framework.
99.   During the seven years of the Project, the Bank's performance was commendable.
The recommendations were appropriate and the analytical methods applied to the various
executing agencies were clear and based on the professional experience of its members. At
the beginning, the Bank pointed out the sluggishness in several Project sub-components and
formulated recommendations in specific areas, such as in the Public Debt Analysis anid
Management Program. The Bank also drew attention to the slow progress made by IETEL,
PETROECUADOR and INECEL. Similar comments were made regarding the small
achievements of the other components in the central administration. Later on, Project
implementation was more expeditious and consistent because of Bank supervision missions,
and the national counterparts' response.
100.  Throughout Project implementation, time was the most limiting factor to consolidate
progress of the Project's initiatives and efforts, and caused most worries to the Bank. The
Bank's position is understandable, but more flexibility is necessary. The Bank does not
realize that the outdated state system, as is the case for Ecuador, needs an adequate
framework for its radical modernization or reform. The current Government's main effort is
precisely directed towards that end.
101.  The Bank should also take into account the administrative changes and circumstances
during the duration of the Project. In August 1988, the political climate of the new social-
democratic administration differed from the preceding social-christian regime. This
prompted changes in the way the macroeconomic and fiscal policies and their application
were being addressed. Consequently, in 1989 the Govemment of Ecuador requested a
closing date extension. Subsequent requests resulted in the closing date extension to March
31, 1993, when the Project was finally closed.
102.  Likewise, the Bank should also acknowledge the fact that more dynamism and
diversification were injected into the Project when President Duran-Ballen assumed power in
August 1992 due to a policy of modernization and economic openness. In effect, from that
moment and in only one year, Project's implementation was strengthened and the components
that up to that point had shown little progress, were satisfactorily concluded. These same
components provided support to the new Government initiatives toward economic
liberalization and openness. During this last stage there was a better utilization of the
resources and the objectives proposed by the Project were better fulfilled. Also, the relations
with the Bank were at their best during this time.
103.  Even though the Bank, during the successive supervision missions, stressed and urged
the need for complying with INECEL's component, INECEL's financial and institutional
strengthening and restructuring did not take place. However, the Bank was right to object
the lack of practical objectivity by the national counterpart.



27
104.  The Bank's experience is essential for the adequate use of future public sector loans.
It is interesting to notice that the Bank's internal reorganization in 1986 did not prevent the
normal development of the Project and the decision-making regarding the proposed
development and structural changes in the strategic areas of the Government of Ecuador.
105.  It is necessary and important to emphasize the need for closer monitoring by the Bank
in order to optimize results. The multiple intervention of numerous State agencies should be
closely monitored by the Bank. The Ecuadorian public sector, even though small if
compared with other countries, has very complex problems that require to be tackled in a
different and unique way.
106. The Bank should show more flexibility to political changes, which is a common
reality in the region. The continuous changes of officials at the local level, which cause
delays in implementation, should be understood by the Bank in this context. Clearly,
flexibility should not hamper coherency in the implementation of important goals. To
coordinate and plan a fiscal and macroeconomic strategy is essential for the continuity and
efficiency of public sector projects, independently of future administrations and the various
transition periods.
D.    Project Coordinating Unit
107. Once the Project was approved, the Government, in accordance with the provisions of
Article III, item b, created a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) within MOF, under the
supervision of the Minister of Finance. A Coordinator, designated as the Ministry's
representative to the Bank, was in charge of this office. Lack of political will and
management organization as well as situations beyond the Government's control, induced a
one year and a half delay in Project effectiveness.
108.  The PCU provided technical assistance, procurement management, institutional
development and advisory services to the agencies participating in the Project. The PCU
also identified competent advisors and consulting firms to be contracted by the participating
agencies, as well as specific areas in need of equipment. The Bank's support of the
decisions taken by the PCU was helpful.
109.  The lack of a functioning high-level advisory group, as was envisioned in the
Agreement, had a negative influence. Also, the absence of a permanent Coordinator had
irreversible repercussions; six different project coordinators were appointed over the seven
years of the project. Institutional continuity in Project management would have consolidated
the decision-making and would have facilitated analytical planning, continuity and scope,
especially in those sectors that required immediate institutional development and those that
were of strategic importance to the State.
110.  Moreover, the lack of communication between successive Project coordinators
delayed the Project and interfered with the continuity of the multiple initiatives generated in
the process. The creation of a single office with qualified and permanent staff made up for
these inconveniences and overcome the difficulties encountered during the transition periods.
Because of their continued commitment, Mrs. Amparo Romero de Aguirre and other PCU
staff deserve credit for contributing to the Project's success.



28
E.    Relationship between the Government and the Bank
111.  Throughout the Project's development, the relationship between the Bank and the
Government of Ecuador was considerably open and flexible, particularly with the PCU.
With the exception of some initial problems and small difficulties with some government
agencies, the communication and collaboration between the two parties were fruitful and
served effectively to achieve a successful completion of the Project.
112.  From the beginning, the Bank supported the structural reforms that Ecuador intended
to carry out. In order to promote those changes, the Bank provided its experience through
management and the staff involved in Project supervision. For its part, the Government of
Ecuador, because of its openness, facilitated the fulfillment of the proposed objectives. In
that context and with the collaboration of the PCU, coherent practices and policies for
adequate Project implementation were established in response to the Bank's observations and
requirements as well as to the demands and inconveniences that emerged throughout the
process.
113.  The need for a more specific and timely monitoring of the various Project components
by Bank's staff should be emphasized. The Bank's officers, because of their capacity and
professionalism, performed all their tasks and made an effective Project completion possible.
It would have been convenient, however, to assign, in addition to the task manager and few
other staff, more specialists to supervise and coordinate the various Project components that
included specialized areas very different among them.
114.  Some inconvenience between the Bank and the PCU was due to the administrative
role of the UNDP. In several cases, contracts and procurement authorized by the Project
and cleared by the Bank were not carried out on time because of UNDP delays and
requirements. This caused difficulties in the relationship with the Bank, all the more
considering that the Bank had already given its "non-objection", and hindered Project
implementation within the planned period of time.
115.  In conclusion, the experience has provided concrete lessons to improve the
relationship between the Bank and the Government of Ecuador. In light of these, there is a
desire to strengthen the results already accomplished and, with the Bank's assistance, to
promote mechanisms for further collaboration. This could be evidenced in the new
assistance provided by the Bank in the preparation of the State Modernization Project.
F.    UNDP and OPS Role
116.  The complexity of the Project made the operational handling of certain
implementation stages difficult. The idea of UNDP's participation in the Project was to
obtain the necessary administrative support to manage the funds, as to assure that the
Project's design and negotiations be carried out within reasonable periods of time. However,
in the cases of consultant contracts and acquisition of equipment, the OPS's response to the
Government was slow, causing delays in the installation of equipment, contracts for
consultants, and programs. Moreover, most of the requests made by the PCU were subject
to excessive bureaucratic procedures and unnecessary requirements, even though the terms of
reference and the requests were transparent and already had the Bank's "non-objection."



29
117.  The role of UNDP or of any other administrator must be dully justified and
established in terms of efficiency, speediness, and resource optimization.
G.    Conclusions and Recommendations
118.  A Project of this nature provides many lessons and experiences all of which can not
be evaluated immediately and exhaustively. A reasonable period of time should elapse to
appreciate the scope of the Project's results, its accomplishments and deficiencies.
Nevertheless, it is possible to assess the main results from the Project's implementation and
more immediate application.
119.  The Project provided assistance to carry out an overall diagnostic of the public sector
and its institutions. It also served to strengthen the administrative capacity of the public
institutions that, for a long time, were in need of reform. It encouraged the adoption of
measures to incorporate the financial resources into a planning system in order to undertake
reforms that modify or repeal obsolete legislative provisions and to promote the
modernization of the State system.
120.   Some progress was achieved in several participating institutions. Adequate
administrative and financial frameworks were developed to rationalize resource management.
Most of the beneficiary institutions took the necessary steps to develop work plans consistent
with the Project's guidelines. While much remains to be done in these institutions to meet
present demands, it is expected that this effort will lay the basis for an overall adjustment of
reform policies and public sector redefinition.
121.  The politicization of several governmental groups involved in the Project and the
resistance to modernization delayed Project operation and implementation. It is necessary to
reduce staff turnover at management levels in the participating institutions as to provide a
sound environment and signal commitment to reform.
122.  The continuous change of Coordinators and the lack of a high-level advisory group
resulted in discontinuity in Project's implementation. In a political and administrative
environment as unstable as Ecuador's, unequivocal commitment to structural reform and a
sufficient degree of stability in the policies to be followed are necessary bases for any future
loan. Projects like this one require a solid national counterpart and willingness to assume the
responsibilities associated with their implementation.
123.  The Project Coordinator should have excellent management capacity. It is necessary
to improve the selection, formulation and administrative handling of all the Project
components by developing short-, medium- and long-term plans. Moreover, the Project
Coordinator should prepare timetables that are previously discussed and accepted by both the
Bank and the other institutions involved.
124.  The existence of many participating institutions made joint planning difficult.
Nevertheless, the Project is considered as a positive precedent that served to consolidate and
harmonize efforts of the different institutions by optimizing resources and reducing costs.



30
125.  Loans to the public sector must be devoted to very specific purposes. The presence
of several sub-components in various bureaucratic entities, rather than accelerating or
contributing to changes, usually delay the reform process, and the effectiveness, productivity,
growth and functioning of the public sector. It would probably be more efficient to work
with only one institution, since the level of control over management, administration and
implementation of the proposed objectives would be centralized in a single unit. However,
the importance of an inter-institutional activity properly coordinated and harmonized, that
rationalizes resources and optimizes results, can not be denied.
126. Inter-institutional collaboration among different governmental institutions should be
encouraged. Only a coherent and combined work of the various State institutions will allow
an actual public sector modernization, cost reduction, and sound use of external credit.
127.  With regard to lower-level officials, the initial commitment from the national
counterparts was not sufficient to carry out the proposed objectives, due to an insufficient
level of understanding of the project's nature. It is necessary that, together with the political
will of the authorities to carry out the reforms and the proposed development plans of a
project, there exists adequate dissemination and sufficient knowledge among the subordinate
staff to move forward with the reforms.
128.  To implement future projects, it is necessary to train local human resources and to
enroll highly qualified local staff, so that the costs incurred by the Government are an
investment in local human resources rather than a net addition to the external debt.
129.  At present, there are people in the country who can provide high-level consulting
services. Therefore, their participation should be promoted and their salaries should be
equitable and correspond to their training and experience. As much as possible, due to the
political sensitivity that exists at the local level, the presence of local experts will help. The
national counterpart may be more willing to welcome the changes proposed by these experts.
Of course, the presence of international experts in specific technical areas is fundamental.
130.  The public sector decisions, even though they are primarily focussed on public sector
issues, have an influence on the private sector as well. The present circumstances demand
coherent government programs and adequate participation of the private sector. Above all,
the State should avoid granting privileges to the public institutions. The State's actions
should look after the common well-being of all its components, the private sector included.
131.  A new law that regulates the State's contracting services is maybe necessary to use
effectively Bank loans and assistance. The reforms carried out to date, particularly in the
Law of Public Contracts have been insufficient. If procurement procedures in the public
sector are to be expedited, and transparency guaranteed, such reform is imperative and
demands a coordinated work between the Government of Ecuador and the Bank.
132.  The contract, procurement and disbursement procedures of the UNDP and OPS local
offices have to be flexible in order to become more effective and timely. Moreover, in light
of the recent experience, the authorities in charge should consider project implementation as
a direct responsibility of the borrower. The presence of intermediaries sometimes leads to



31
delays in the procedures and tends to limit the implementation capacity of the executing
agency.
133.  The loan was devoted to restructure public enterprises with self-financing capacity,
such as Petroecuador, INECEL and EMETEL, that usually have a high financial superavit.
In the future, loans should be directed not only at state enterprises; they should be
redistributed inside the State to assist the most needy sectors. Thus, technical assistance
could be extended to other institutions that with fewer financial resources. Private sector
participation could also be encouraged in activities of a social or public nature that are being
promoted by a specific project.
134.  A last comment regards the lack of response from the participating agencies to the
distribution of the Project Review from the Bank's perspective (PCR Parts I and III).
Despite the timeliness of the report's distribution among the various participating agencies,
only two provided comments. This shows the lack of follow up and interest of the executing
agencies vis-a-vis the achievements and actions of the loan, now that it has been
implemented. This is a cause of concern since projects are not seriously examined and
evaluated. This works to the disadvantage of the project and its components, and deprives
other initiatives from valuable lessons and background information. This aspect, common to
many projects in Ecuador, must be seriously analyzed by both the Bank and the Government
of Ecuador.



32
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2516-EC)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Project Timetable
Activity                         Original Loan Dates       Actual
Initiating Activities            October 1984              October 1984
Project Preparation              November 1984             November 1984
Appraisal Mission               January 1985               January 1985
Negotiations                     March 1985                March 21-22, 1985
President's Report                                         March 28, 1985
Board Approval                   April 1985                April 16, 1985
Loan Agreement                                             January 15, 1986
Effectiveness                                              July 30, 1986
Loan Closing                     September 30, 1989        March 31, 1993
Project Completion                                         July 31, 1993



33
Table 2: Loan Disbursements
Bank FY
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  1993
President's
Report Estimate'                          1.80   5.50   7.50   8.00           0        0      0
Actual                                    1.40    1.98   2.36   2.81   3.20   5.00  6.00
Date of Final Disbursement: March 31, 19932
1. The project initially contemplated a loan amount of $8 million. Withdrawal of CONADE reduced the loan to $6.0
million. The change was approved by the Board in December 1985 shortly before the signing of the Loan Agreement in
January 1986.
2. A small amount of the loan (S 1,174.59) was disbursed on May 7, 1993.



34
Table 3A: Project Financing
Category                      Allocation in     Allocation in            Actual
President's Report  Schedule I of the
Loan Agreement
Consultant Services           5,880,000.00'     4,650,000.00'      4,332,978.79
Commission for UNDP/OPS
Administration                                                     229,623.78
Equipment and Supplies         710,000.00        550,000.00         1,244,795.31
Training and Related Expenses  250,000.00        200,000.00          118,720.94
Contingencies and Unallocated    1,160,000.00    600,000.00                  0
Other                                                                 74,504.96
TOTAL                         8,000,000.00      6,000,000.00       6,000,000.00
1. Includes 8 percent estimated UNDP/OPS overhead costs.



35
Table 3B: Project Cost Breakdown by Component
Original       Amended
Project Component                                              Allocation'   Allocation2       Actual
Components under Part A:
Aa : Macroeconomic and Debt Analysis                          600,000.                  1,567,521.11
Aal: Macroeconomic Policy Studies                                       100,000.      255,030.00
Aa2: Information System for Macroeconomic Management                                   74,413.76
Aa3: Studies on Fiscal Reform                                                         307,274.00
Aa4: Public Debt Monitoring System and other'                           96,000.       699,382.45
Aa5: Equipment to Facilitate Foreign Trade and to
Modernize Customs                                                                  72,957.50
Aa6: Studies for the Reform of Commercial Policy                                      158,463.40
Ab: Establishment of a Computerized Financial
Information System within the Ministry of Finance      1,010,000.       1,237,000.  511,452.17
Ac : Development and Implementation of a Program Budgeting
System                                                  680,000.                    159,172.33
Ad: Develop Public Sector Professionals' Skills
in the Areas of Planning, Accounting, and Budgeting     510,000.        200,000.    67,083.55
Ae: Studies to recommend actions needed for
the reduction in budget earmarking                       60,000.         48,000      63,226.00
Part B: Install a computerized system within MOF for monitoring
the execution of the Borrower's Investment Projects     480,000.                             0
Components under Part C:
Ca: Improving the Management Capabilities of PETROECUADOR 1,200,000.        1,500,000. 1,749,437.57
Cb: Strengthen INECEL's Institutional Capabilities
and Rationalize its Structure                          1,000,000.      1,000,000.            0
Cc: EMETEL's Organization and Management                      300,000.        900,000.  1,029,926.00
Cd: Provision of Technical Assistance in Other Public
Enterprises                                             800,000.        100,000.   103,148.60
Part D: Study for the Involvement of the Private Sector
in the Development of the Mining Sector                  60,000.         65,000.    131,063.00
Components under Part E:
Ea: Establishing Systems for Setting Performance Objectives
and Evaluating Performance of Public Enterprises
and Other Decentralized Entities                             0.                      33,000.00
Eb: Improving the Borrower's Procurement Regulations          140,000.                         3,100
Project Coordination                                                0.           90,000.    168,867.16
Unallocated                                                     600,000.        478,500.
Price Contingencies                                             560,000.
Consultancy to the Minister of Finance                                                      134,107.02
Other                                                                                        16,803.56
Administrative Costs                                                             36,000.     32,468.18
Service Commission to UNDP                                                      149,500.   229,623.78
TOTAL                                                          8,000.000.     6,000,000. 6,000,000.00
1. As projected in the President's Report. The project initially contemplated a loan amount of $8 million. Withdrawal of
CONADE reduced the loan to $6.0 million.
2. As reported in Attachment 2 of the December 1986 Supervision Report.
3. This subcomponent was expanded to include activities in the tax administration and the customs administration.



36
Table 4: Status of Loan Covenant
Section        Brief Description of Covenant                                Compliance
3.01a          Carry out the objectives of the Project                      Complied
as set forth in Schedule 2, and provide funds,
facilities, services and other resources.
3.01b          Employ and maintain a full-time coordinator of               Complied
the Project.
3.01c          Provide the Project Coordinator with appropriate             Complied
staff and administrative support.
3.01d          Create an advisory group to assist the Project               Entity was initially
Coordinator in the administration of the Project.            created but never
reconvened thereafter.
3.01e          Enter in a Subsidiary Agreement with each                    Complied
beneficiary entity under Part C of the Project,
to release funds assigned to each in exchange for
their obligation to execute their part of the Project.
3.01f          Not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the                     Complied
Subsidiary Agreements, except as the Bank
agrees otherwise.
3.01g          Submit to the Bank (i) the proposal for the                  Complied
provision of assistance to each beneficiary
entity, and (ii) the terms of reference and
plans for each.
3.02a          Procure goods, works and consultant services                 Complied
as governed in the provisions of Schedule 5.
3.02b          Employ an agent acceptable to the Bank for the               Complied
hiring of consultants.
4.01a          Maintain records and separate accounts to                    Complied
reflect practices of operations, resources,
and expenditures of the Project.
4.01b          Have the Beneficiary Entities' accounts,                     Complied
including the Special Account, audited,
provide the Bank with certified copies of the
audits, with monthly statements of the Special
Account, and other information requested by
the Bank.
4.01c          For all other expenditures, maintain records                 Complied
and accounts, cause the Beneficiary Entities
to retain records and make them available for
examination, and ensure such accounts are
included in the annual audit.



37
Table 5A: Missions
Stage of Project         Fiscal             No. of                           Total
Cycle                    Year               Persons            Days          Days
Preparation              1985               4                  5                20
Appraisal                1985               5                  13               75
Negotiations             1985               3                  2                 6
Supervision              1986               1                  3                 3
Supervision              1987               2                  n.a.           n.a.
Supervision              1988               2                  6                12
Supervision              1988               2                  7                14
Supervision              1989               3                  6                18
Supervision              1990               2                  5                10
Supervision              1990               1                  2                 2
Supervision              1990               2                  5                10
Supervision              1991               4                  5               20
Supervision              1992               1                  4                 4
Supervision/PCR          1993               3                  8                24
PCR Finalization         1993               2                  7                14
TOTAL                                                                          231



38
Table 5B: Staff-week Cost Summary
Fiscal Year        Staff-weeks
1985               20.6
1986                4.1
1987                9.7
1988                8.6
1989               20.7
1990               13.0
1991                9.9
1992               15.6
1993               10.6
TOTAL              112.8



39
Table 6: Related Projects
Project/Loan         Purpose                                   Fiscal Year            Status
No. & Title                                                    of Approval
2672:                To encourage trade, industrial and        1986              Currently in
Industrial           financial policy reforms, promote                             operation
Finance              efficient industrial development
and strengthen regulatory agencies.
2713: Power          Improve structure, management             1986              Currently in
Sector Improvement   and operational efficiency of INECEL.                         operation
2752:                Expand production of exportables          1987              Currently in
Agricultural         and increase farmer's profitability.                          operation
Credit              Improve BNF and PB's efficiency and
participation in agricultural lending.
3052: Tele-          Improve the quality of tele-              1989                Cancelled
communications       communication services; strengthen
management and organization;
Improve procurement practices; and
expand use of private contractors.
3162: Small          Enhance SSEs contribution to industrial   1990              Currently in
Scale                development; facilitate SSE access to                         operation
Enterprise           credit; provide technical and managerial
(SSE)                assistance; and strengthen management skills
in participating financial institutions.
3285:                Increase the fiscal autonomy of           1991              Currently in
Municipal            municipalities; and strengthen their                          operation
Development          capacity to deliver services. Specif-
and Urban           ically, make revenue sharing system
Infrastructure      transparent; reduce discretionary
transfers; help generate current account
surpluses; and increase capacity to plan
and execute projects.
Mining               Attract private investment in mining;     1994             Currently in
Development and      assist the Government in the implement-                       operation
Environmental        ation of the new Mining Law; arrest
Control              environmental degradation from small-scale
mining; treat and prevent occupational
health problems.
P206-OEC: PPF        Implement new budget process in accordance  1993         Approved PPF
Modernization        to the recent Budget Law; develop guide-           Board presentation of
of the State        lines for restructuring of public sector             Technical Assistance
entities; design program for decentralizing              Loan expected
public sector activities; and streamlining                October 1994
public procurement & contracting procedures.



40
Table7: Studies
Study                     Cost                    Relevance/Impact
I Plan de implantacion de un programa        209,230.00   (1-3) Findings of the studies were not
de minimos de bienestar                         (1-3)  implemented due to change in
(Implementation plan for a minimum                     Administration and political focus.
living standards program)                              Program to reconcile the revenue
and expenditure sides of the budget
2 Informe sobre la estructuracion de un                  was also not implemented.
sistema computarizado para                             The material appears not to have
proyecciones de Presupuesto                            been tailored to Ecuador's realities.
(Study on a computerized system of
budget projections)
3 Informe del Proyecto Gestion del
Sector Publico (Study on the Public
Sector Management Project)
4 La politica de estabilizacion                6,009.00   Contract suspended due to MOF's
(Stabilization policy)                                 dissatisfaction with the output.
5 The evolution of economic                   12,130.00   Historical evaluation of macroecon-
indicators in Ecuador and an                           omic policy served as guidance to
evaluation of economic policies                        policy-making.
6 Non-oil tax revenues and tax reform         12,593.00   Recommended measures were
in Ecuador                                             adopted and increased tax revenues
7 Politica Monetaria (Monetary policy)         9,500.00   Review for MOF information.
8 Analisis de la politica tributaria         200,353.00   Background study for the tax reform
(Review of tax policy)                         (8-18)  plan.
9 Politica arancelaria                                   (9,10) Led to the establishment of a new
(Tariff policy)                                        tariff structure, & customs tax regime,
elimination of quantitative restrictions,
10 Reforma arancelaria (Tariff reform)                    & simplification of customs procedures
as imbedded in the new Customs
General Law. Stimulated integration
with the Cartagena's Group.
11 Analisis de la politica fiscal
(Review of fiscal policy)
12 Resultados de politica fiscal en relacion              Measured the impact of adjustment.
a variables y agregados economicos
(Results of fiscal policy relative to
economic variables and indicators)



41
Table7: Studies
Study                        Cost                      Relevance/Impact
13 Impuestos indirectos                                        Served as the basis for MOF's
(Indirect taxation)                                         proposals on specific consumption
and internal transaction taxes
during phase II of the Tax Reform.
14 Impuestos a la propiedad de predios                         Analysis of tax burden, equity and
rusticos                                                    efficiency led to a plan of action
(Tax on non-developed lands)                                for its reform.
15 Reforma tributaria (Tax reform)                              Study led to Decree No. 1732 (1990)
which includes the main recommend-
ations of the study such as compulsory
periodical reporting, and utility
payments by public entities.
16 Racionalizacion del sector publico                          Produced a preliminary analysis
(Public sector rationalization)                             of public entities and proposals
for structural reform.
17 Descentralizacion administrativa                            Studied the importance of decentral-
(Administrative decentralization)                           ization in budget allocation & exec-
ution for economic efficiency.
18 Sistemas de informacion del Tesoro                           Resulted in a proposal to adopt an
(Treasury's information systems)                            integrated information system for
budget,treasury,debt & accounting.
19 La estructura de proteccion de la               14,293.00    Inventory of measures used to
industria manufacturera                                     control imports and promote exports.
(The manufacturing industry                                 Provided basis for export-oriented
protection structure)                                       policy-making.
20 Parecer sobre la conveniencia de la              3,951.00    Recommendations to increase
eventual adhesion de Ecuador al GATT                        international trade and participate
(Opinion on Ecuador's eventual joining                      in the formulation of int'l norms
of GATT)                                                    were not adopted at the time
21 Fortalecimiento a los procesos                   3,803.00    Guided procedural improvements
aduaneros                                                   in Customs
(Strengthening of customs procedures)
22 Apoyo estudio sobre la estructura                1,951.00
de proteccion de la industria manuf.
(Support study to (18))



42
Table7: Studies
Study                      Cost                     Relevance/Impact
23 Informes mensuales para la elabora-           19,528.02    Served as the bases for the
cion de la nueva Ley General de                          formulation of the draft Customs Law
Aduanas                                                  which was subsequently approved.
(Monthly studies in preparation of
the new Customs Law)
24 Partecipaciones fijas                         33,251.00    Study recommended measures to
(Earmarked revenues)                                     decrease earmarking. This resulted
in earmarking falling as a proportion
of the budget from 60 to 40 percent.
25 Finanzas de Gobiernos Locales                 29,975.00    Developed program to improve admin-
(Local governbment finances)                             istrative debt in the Municipalities.
26 Inventario y evaluacion de la planta         100,000.00    The required inventory was
externa de la ciudad de Guayaquil                        produced.
(Inventory and external plant
evaluation of the city of Guayaquil)
27 Evaluacion del programa global de             53,000.00    Analysis of the economic, technical,
preinversion de FIRBA                                    and organization aspects of MICIP's
(Evaluation of FIRBA's pre-                              investment projects to develop the
investment global program)                               fishing sector for its export potential.
28 Diagnostico sobre                             4,594.57    Recommended the streamlining
Ecuatoriana de Aviacion (EA)                             of its organizational structure.
(Diagnosis of EA)
29 Plan estrategico para                         35,662.00    A sound and timely plan was not
Ecuatoriana de Aviacion                         (29,30)   implemented due to political conflicts.
(Strategic plan for EA)
30 Propuesta para un holding de empresas                    Resulted in the establishment of the
publicas (Proposal for a public enter-                   Public Enterprise Directorate in
prise holding entity)                                    MOF.
31 Plan comercial de la empresa EA               6,227.00    No actions were taken.
(Commercial plan for EA)
32 Sugerencias de modificacion de los            3,665.00    No actions were taken.
sistemas de contabilidad de EA
(EA's accounting system measures
of reform)



43
Table7: Studies
Study                     Cost                   Relevance/Impact
33 Draft for the new Mining Law               131,063.00   Resulted in the passing of the now
Mining Law to increase investment in
and efficiency of this sector.
34 Diagnostico y estudio sobre los             3,100.00   Small effort aimed at encouraging
mecanismos y posibles reformas de                     activity on the reform of procurement
los procedimientos de contratacion                    regulation.
(Study on mechanisms and reform of
public contracting procedures)
35 Informatica para aduanas: informes          14,954.16   Coordination effort to improve
mensuales                                             customs efficiency.
(Monthly reports on customs
automatization)
36 Jubilacion Patronal                         2,551.56   Became part of the draft for the
Capital Market Law
37 Sistemas de informacion para MOF            14,252.00   Review of progress made in the
(Information systems for MOF)                         automization of the Ministry.
3s Analisis mensual de la evolucion de        21,525.63   Offered support to policy-making,
los indicadores macroeconomicos                       particularly regarding compliance
(Monthly analisis of the evolution of                 with IMF targets.
macroeconomic indicators)
39 Desarollo del sistema operativo de          9,965.45   As a result of recommendations in the
valuacion aduanera                                    study, equipment was provided to
(Development of the operative system                  facilitate import and export duty
for customs valuation)                                collection and monitoring.
40 Elaboracion de propuestas del               11,515.94   New regulations were approved and
proyecto de reglamento de la nueva                    implemented.
Ley General de Aduanas
(Elaboration of proposed regulation
for the new General Customs Law)
Total                                      968643.33



