**E      C                    CIRCULATING COPY
FLEL        COPUr        o BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1708-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO BURUNDI
FOR THE
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
November 5, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit                    Franc Burundi (FBu)
US$ 1                            FBu 78.35
FBu 100                          US$  1.28
FBu 1 million                    US$ 12,763
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31



D)OcU{lM[:NT OF
t\T7-I J.A\! 1TIOXAi-AL 1 IlEELOP.Ml"li AS.S.oC!A TION\
NO-I FOR PUtBLICl USE
IDA/SecM75-259
FROM:  The Secretary                                   November 10, 1975
BURUNDI: Second Coffee Improvement Project
Corrigendum
The following correctiornshould be made in the penultimate sentence
of paragraph 65 of the President's Report and Recommendation distributed
on November 6, 1975 (IDA/R75-96):
For:  "Farmers in the high potential coffee areas who combine
coffee improvement with the use of selected seed and
fertilizers for maize would increase the net value of
their production by about $32, an increase of about
35 percent of their total average production (about $332)."
Read: "Farmers in the high potential coffee areas, who combine
coffee improvement with the use_of-selected-seedI ana
fertilizers for maize, would increase the net value of
their production by about $35, an increase of about
11 percent of their total average production (about $332)."
The corrections are indicated above by underlining.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President, Operations
Executive Vice President and Vice President, IFC
President's Council
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC



INTERNATIONIAL DErELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Burundi for the ecuivalent of US$5.2 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Coffee Improvement Project. The
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (Kuwait Fund) is expected to pro-
vide parallel financing with a loan of US$1.2 million equivalent for a period
of 25 years at an interest rate of 3 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOnY.
2.        An economic report, entitled "Recent E.conomic Development and
Prospects of Burundi" (504a-BU) dated January 14, 1974, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on January 31, 1974. An economic mission visited
Burundi in April 1975. Its report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Burundi"
will be circulated to the Executive Directors soon. Country data are provided
in Annex 1.
3.        Burundi remains one of the poorest of the least developed countries,
with a per capita income estimated at $94 in 1974. Over the past five years
GDP grew by no more than 2 percent annually in real terms. Out of a popula-
tion of 3.5 million only 115,000 are in wage employment; the remainder depend
mainly on subsistence agriculture. The agriculture labor force is largely
untrained, and the level of enrollment in formal education is one of the
lowest in Africa.
4.        The economy is dominated by the agricultural sector.   Food crops
account for over half of GDPI, and other crops, of which coffee remains by
far the most important, account for a further 10 percent. In 1974 coffee
production reached a record of about 28,000 tons, 35 percent higher than in
the preceding year.  The large harvest combined with a markedly higher pro-
ducer price resulted in a 62 percent increase in farmer incomes derived from
coffee, with consequent multiplier effects felt in both industry and services.
5.        Burundi has become increasingly dependent on coffee for foreign
exchange earnings; its share in total exports rose from 79 percent in 1965
to 84 percent in 1974. Owing to external marketing and transport delays, a
quarter of the 1974 crop was exported only in early 1975. The value of
imports on the other hand rose 36 percent in 1974, and, consequently, foreign
exchange reserves fell sharply. The trend was reversed during the first four
months of 1975 as delayed coffee payments were received, while at the same
time imports fell to a level nearly 40 percent below that pertaining in the



second half of 1974. By March 1975 reserves stood at a level equivalent to
six months of merchandise imports. Rising import prices, combined with
increased internal demand, caused a record 23 percent jump in the cost of
living index for low income urban families during the year ended March 1975.
6.        The level of investment has remained consistently low, averaging
o-ly 8 percent of GDP over tl-Le last five years. Domestic savings have amounted
to only 5 percent of GDP over the same period, approximately equal to net
capital inflows. Close to half of total gross capital formation was financed
by external aid.
7.        Due to high coffee prices, Government revenues in 1974 were 14
percent above the level attained in 1973, while current expenditures grew
at only 9 percent. Thus in 1974 the Government was able to finance a 70
percent increase in its investment budget.
8.        Burundi faces a formidable set of disadvantages, being excessively
dependent on a single export, coffee, for foreign exchange, having long and
inefficient transport links for external trade and possessing a rudimentary
infrastructure and a largely untrained labor force. In the past, civil strife
has disrupted development and diverted resources.    Further, the terms of trade
have deteriorated 40 percent since 1970. There are, however, some encouraging
indications. Internal order has been restored and a new planning organization
created. Improvements are being made in financial administration, and a number
of promising agricultural projects are under preparation. Substantial nickel
deposits have been found and may be brought into production over the next ten
years.
9.        At present the Government lacks a coherent overall development
strategy.  To make the new planning organization more effective, a substantial
strengthening of its staffing is required. A strong planning capability would
enable the Government to take the lead in initiating new projects and in
coordinating external aid within the context of a well-defined development
plan. As a first step in addressing this problem, the Government has trans-
ferred responsibility for national planning to a new "Bureau Technique
d'Etudes" (BTE), under the direction of a Secretary General of Ministerial
rank. The BTE is currently recruiting qualified staff and seeking technical
assistance.
10.       The short term prospects for the economy are not very favorable.
Coffee production in 1975 is expected to be down considerably from the record
level achieved in 1974; however prices have risen sharply due to frost damage
to the Brazilian crop. Wnile the country accumulated foreign exchange reserves
during the past few months, this Lrend has probably already been reversed and
stricter controls on imports may soon be required. In the longer term, if the
Government focuses on develonv.ent and screngthens its administration, it may
achieve slow growth instead of stagnation.   However, if nickel mining proves
feasible, the prospects over the next ten years would be transformed. Although
such a development appears technically possible, the commercial viability of
nickel mining nas yet to be proved.



- 3 -
11.       Disbursements of official development assistance amounted to
$24.8 million in 1974. Belgium contributed about 26 percent, and UN agen-
cies, IDA and the European Development Fund another 42 percent. Technical
assistance accounted for about $12 million, while the aid contribution to
public sector projects reached about $10.8 million in addition to program
aid of some $2.0 million. In the 1970-74 period, total foreign capital
inflows amounted to about $109 million, of which $105 million were in grant
form. On December 31, 1974, Burundits external medium and long-term debt
amounted to about $8.0 million excluding undisbursed amounts. Of this the
Bank and IDA together hold 57 percent. Debt service averaged 2.9 percent
of export earnings during 1972/74, with the Bank Group receiving 41 percent
of service payments. By 1980 the Bank Group will continue to hold a high
proportion of debt and debt service, largely due to the fact that most other
aid is given on grant terms. Notwithstanding the low debt service ratio,
the country is not able to finance any borrowing on commercial terms, as
its absolute capacity to service external debt is limited by the size and
fluctuations (due to dependence on coffee) of its export earnings. External
aid should finance a high proportion of total project costs, including local
expenditure, and should be on grant or near grant terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
12.       In 1957, the Bank lent $4.8 million to the Belgian Trust Territory
of Ruanda-Urundi for the improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the
expansion of the lake port of Bujumbura. The loan, guaranteed by Belgium,
was fully disbursed at independence in 1962 and is being repaid by Burundi
with Belgian assistance. The last payment is due in 1977.
13.       Since independence, four credits have been made to Burundi, total-
ing $8.28 million. In March 1966, the first credit, of $1.1 million, was
made for the rehabilitation and extension of Bujumbura's water supply system.
A second credit of $1.8 million was made in April, 1969 for the improvement
of coffee production by smallholders. A third credit of $380,000 made in
June 1970, helped finance the detailed engineering of the Bujumbura-Nyanza
Lac road and a highway maintenance study. This study led to the fourth
credit, of $5 million, for a highway maintenance project signed in March 1974.
No Bank loans have been made since independence.
14.       The Water Supply Project (Credit 85-BU) was completed in March
1973. While the project did not meet all objectives, Bujumbura was pro-
vided with an ample and safe water supply. Implementation of the Coffee
Improvement Project (Credit 147-BU) was hampered by frequent delays in the
delivery of construction materials, the civil disturbances in 1972 and manage-
ment problems. The first coffee washing station started operating in 1973
and the remaining three only in 1975. The project is now completed. The
closing date has been postponed until December 31, 1975 to allow sufficient
time for preparation and processing of final requests for reimbursement. The



- 4 -
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 467-BU) has commenced satisfactorily.    The
project consultants took up their duties in Burundi in early 1975, orders
have been placed for the maintenance equipment and a survey of training needs
has been completed. Annex I:t contains a summary statement of IDA credits as
of August 30, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       The future lending program will be aimed Drimarily at increasing
agricultural productivity thereby improving the nutrition and living standards
of the impoverished rural population. A project to support development of
the traditional fisheries sec:tor is under preparation and is expected to be
pzesented in the current fiscal year.   We also intend to continue assistance
for expanding and improving the road network, that is a prerequisite for rural
development, and to provide assistance in education. Because Burundi lacks
thqe administrative capacity to plan and carry out development projects, we
intend to make a special effort to assist in improving planning, project pre-
paration and project implementation. In this respect, a special economic
mission visited Burundi in April of this year and identified specific needs
for technical assistance, for which we plan to prepare a technical assistance
project to be presented this fiscal year. Additionally, we shall continue
to include financing for project management and technical expertise in project
lending.
PART III - THE AGRICULTUJRAL SECTOR IN BURUNDI
16.       Burundi is essentially an agricultural economy relying on sub-
sistence farming and one export crop, coffee. Over 90 percent of its people
derive their livelihood directly from traditional agriculture. Per capita
incomes are extremely low as are nutritional levels. In recent years produc-
tion appears to have stagnated; with increasing pressure on land, living
standards have been static or perhaps have decreased as increasing amounts
of marginal land have been put to cultivation.
17.       Agriculture has a potential for improvement.    Due to relatively
fertile land and favorable climate, Burundi can and does produce a wide
variety of agricultural commodities.   Unfortunately, Burundi's isolated
location and related high cost: of transport for imports and exports, lack of
investment and trained manpower, traditional technology, and fragmented land-
holding patterns have thus far prevented the potential from being realized.
To date, little progress has been made in coming to grips with the problems.
18.       Food croos co-Itribute aDout half oL- JO? and occupy 90 percent of
the cultivated land. Coffce iS 3y '  ar L`he tosz important export crop and
accounts for a-ore than oG perce-.- or Burundi's exports.  Production of tea,
-itroduced recently as par: o. t..e policy co diversi y out of coffee, now
accounts for about 2 percenv of exports.   Catzle play an important role in
rural sociezy, but p-roductivity is low.



- 5 -
19.       Three fifths of the land area is used for extensive grazing or
is not suitable for grazing or cultivation. Population pressure on cultivable
land is high; average land holdings are small (less than 1 ha) and fragmented.
A typical family holding measures from 0.75 to 1 hectare, and is usually
composed of many sma'll plots. For example, it is estimated that the typical
family in Ngozi Province cultivates up to 20 different plots of land. The
size of agricultural holdings was traditionally directly related to the number
of people engaged in cultivation. However, increases in population and limits
on land availability have increasingly disrupted this relationship; one of
the effects is that less land is fallowed, leading to soil depletion and
erosion.
20.       On such small plots, farming methods are labor intensive, tools are
rudimentary and no animal power is used. Cropping is intensive; two or three,
and sometimes as many as five different crops are interplanted. For example,
beans are interplanted with cassava to be harvested before the cassava is
high enough to shade out the beans. Other beans are planted to climb the
corn as it matures. The types of crop combinations vary from plot to plot
and depend on the experience of the farmer. It is estimated that only 10 to
15 percent of food crops are grown in pure stands. Generally, in the coffee
areas, a farmer assigns no more than 10 percent of his land to coffee, and
cultivates food crops on the remainder.
21.            The inadequacy of transport facilities is another constraint
to agricultural development. The higher cost of external transport renders
bulky imports, such as fertilizers, very expensive, and limits exports to
those commodities which have high value relative to weight. This constraint
hampers diversification to a considerable extent. Internal transport is
also difficult and costly, which prevents regional specialization according
to comparative advantage.
Coffee
22.       Some 95 percent of Burundi's coffee is of the Arabica variety grown
exclusively by smallholders. The remainder is Robusta produced on a few
estates. The main smallholder coffee growing areas are Ngozi, Gitega, and
Muyinga provinces (see map); Ngozi provides for over one third of total
production. Mainly due to weather, total Burundi coffee production and
exports have fluctuated greatly over the past five years; the 1969 produc-
tion was a low 14,550 tons, whereas a record of about 28,000 tons was produced
in 1974. The Arabica production has increased by some 3 percent annually,
whereas Robusta output has grown a little over 11 percent per year in this
period. The increased Arabica production reflects the slow acreage expansion,
whereas the Robusta increase reflects the rehabilitation and expansion of
commercial estates.
23.       Smallholder Arabica coffee is grown in small stands, on average
about 160 trees per farmer, covering about 0.10 ha, often in several plots.
Although improved in the area of the first project, coffee husbandry is



- 6 -
generally poor. Fertilizer is only applied in the areas of the first coffee
project, but an annual countryr-wide insect control campaign is organized and
financed by the Office des Culitures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU). Yields
are low, in the region of 450--500 grams of parchment coffee per tree or 700-800
kg per ha, compared with 2000--3000 kg per ha on some estates in eastern Africa.
24.       Traditionally, almost all Arabica coffee is processed by the farmers
tnemselves.  Abouz three quarters of the coffee cro-p is still pulped by hand
on tne  a-rms and most of the balance is pulped at some 325 handpulping centers,
consisting of hand-driven disc pulpers and facilities to clean the beans at
ieast partially. The pulping centers were established in the coffee growing
areas prior to independence; they are now maintained by OCIBU, but because
or frequant break-downs, the effectiveness of the centers is low.    In general,
coffee quality suffers from indifscriminate picking, poor processing and drying,
and inadequate storage and hulling.
25.       Producers' prices of oarchment coffee and coffee cherries are set in
advance for the whole season by t1he Government in relation to the expected
world market price, and the Government guarantees the purchase of all coffee
presented for sale. The pricing policy as implemented over recent years has
guaranteed a satisfactory minimum price to the farmer, and yrovided the Govern-
ment with an important source of revenue after contributions to a reserve for
the stabilization of coffee prices. In recent years, the Government has set
the price at about 55 percent of the FOB price Dar-es-Saiaam.    This resulted
in farm gate prices of about FBu 32 per kg. In 1972, the Government in ex-
pectation of high coffee prices raised the price to FBu 45 per kg. This
together with increased production raised farmers' incomes by 62 percent.
However, because the price of Burundi coffee steadily declined during that
year, the Government's proportional share declined substantially.
26.       Internal marketing of semi-washed smallholder parchment coffee
is carried otut by private traders, who are licensed by OCIBU to buy at
specified prices, on certain days. All transactions are in cash; there are
no standard weight controls. Traders receive a fixed commission; they ship
the parchment to Bujumbura for sale to private exporters. The exporters
arrange for hulling, some in their own hulling mills. In addition to prices,
trade and export commissions and hulling margins are fixed annually by the
Government. OCIBU is responsible for the contacts with buyers, preparation
of sa3mples, acceptance of offers and the issue of export permits. Over 60
percenr; of Burundi's semi-washed coffee is sold in the United States; the
Republic of Gerinany is the next rnost important market, and in the last two
years t;,e USSR has bought signif'icant amounrs.  The small quantities of fully
washed coffee produced so far hava beea sold in the European market.
Ari.ult-Mrak Se.vi es
27.       Tha >l- inistry or A'.iculxre and L-vestock is primarily respon-
siDle for the orovi-s-on o0 servicest to the aS-IculLural. sector.  ft operates
th-rough zwo damartzents (A,r-culture and Livestoc,i), and through five para-
statal ageacies.   The paras.a.ais include senarace agencies for the three



export crops (cotfee, cotton and tea), an agricultural research institute,
and agricultural schools. The Ministry employs some 2,350 people, excluding
the staff of the parastatal organizations. The extension staff consists of
about 800 extension workers and the ratio of extension workers to farmers
is around 1:1,000. In 1973 expenditure by the Ministry was about $2 million,
and represented 5 percent and 17 percent shares, respectively, of Government's
current and capital expenditures. However, a number of agricultural services
and projects, financed with foreign assistance, are not included in the
Ministry's budget.
28.       The three parastatals dealing with the export crops, coffee, cotton
and tea, are basically supply and marketing organizations. The coffee orga-
nization, OCIBU, is also executing agency for the First Coffee Improvement
Project, financed by IDA, and will be responsible for the major part of the
proposed project as well. OCIBU is governed by a Board of Directors, chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture, and the day-to-day operations are overseen by
the Director General. OCIBU has its own budget. Its main activities include
maintenance of coffee quality standards; the organization of coffee pest con-
trol campaigns; establishment and maintenance of communal hand pulping centers,
and coffee nurseries; development of new export markets; and advising Govern-
ment on general coffee matters, in particular producer prices. It also manages
a coffee Price Stabilization Fund and a Coffee Promotion Fund.
29.       Agricultural research is carried out by the Institut des Sciences
Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU) which is governed similarly to OCIBU. ISABU
ope.rates four experimental stations and supervises and coordinates several
pilot projects for tea production. Due to lack of staff and equipment
ISABU has so far been unable to assign personnel exclusively to coffee
research.
30.       There are three agricultural schools and training institutes in
Burundi. The Institut Technique Agricole du Burundi (ITAB) at Gitega has
a 4 year course for agronomists. Between 10 and 15 students completed the
course in each of the past three years. The capacity of the school has
recently been expanded and the out-turn is expected to increase gradually
to about 30 from 1978/79 onwards. Another school, the Ecole Professionnelle
Agricole (EPA) at Karuzi trains field assistants (moniteurs); the two-year
course has an average out-turn of 25 students per year. A one-year course
for field assistants is provided at the Rutegama Vocational School; the out-
turn is about 20 per year, and the entire out-turn is employed by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Coffee Improvement
Project - Burundi" No. 708-BU is being circulated separately. A credit and
project summary is provided in Annex III. A map of the project area is
attached as Annex IV.



- 8 -
32.       The project was appraised in October 1974 and reappraised in April
1975. Negotiations for the proposed IDA credit were held in Washington in
September 1975. The Burundi delegation was led by H.E. Pierre Bigoyimpunzi,
the MIinister of Agriculture and Livestock.
Background
33.       A first coffee improvement project was undertaken with IDA assis-
tance in i969. Its components were (i) the execution of an agricultural
extension program directed at the distribution of fertilizer, insecticides,
other agricultural inputs, and extension advice for coffee cultivation,
and (ii) the construction and operation of four coffee washing stations.
Its objectives were to increase the production of coffee of about 44,000
smallholders farmers in a section of Ngozi Province, and to experiment with
the improvement of coffee quality through the construction and operation
of four coffee washing stations. Implementation of the project was however
severely hampered by the civil strife of 1972, difficulties in recruiting
expatriate technicians, and detlays in the delivery of construction materials.
As a result, the closing date of the project had to be postponed from December
31, 1973 to December 31, 1975.
34.       While there are some indications of increased production, the lack
of adequate data collection activities during implementation has caused a
number of questions concerning project results to remain unanswered. While
better mulching, pruning and the use of fertilizers have visibly improved
coffee stands, yields have not been monitored regularly in a reliable manner,
and it is not possible to document the project's impact on production. Because
of delays in the construction of the coffee washing stations, there is not yet
sufficient experience to judge the effectiveness and economic justification
of the processing program.
35.       Despite these shortcomings, it remains obvious that there are
opportunities to increase the productivity of smallholder coffee production
through the distribution of inputs such as fertilizer, insecticides, and
tools, and through the introduction of better methods of cultivation. Like-
wise, as has been demonstrated in neighboring countries, there is an opportunity
to improve the quality of Burundi coffee through improved coffee processing.
Therefore, the Government has requested financing for a second project designed
to increase the production of coffee and also of food crops through the intro-
duction of modern inputs and better cultivation practices, and to further
experiment with coffee processing methods. With regard to the implementation
problem under the first project, we consider that the experience gained from
it by the Government plus the strong technical assistance component included
in this project will result in implementation under the proposed project that
will be considerably improved in comparison with the first project.
36.       Wnereas the emphasis of extension under the first project was
directed to the application of fertilizer, increases in fertilizer prices
have created a situation where fertilizer application offers more limited



- 9
benefits than previously. Under these circumstances the emphasis of the
extension program will be on a total package under which fertilizer will be
recommended under more controlled conditions than previously.
37.       Both the Government and the Association are aware of the dangers of
the economy's heavy dependence on coffee. However, given Burundi's remote
location, and the fact that its smallholders are knowledgeable in coffee culti-
vation techniques as well as dependent on coffee for their cash incomes, there
presently appears to be no alternative to coffee.   Therefore, the Goverrment
has adopted a strategy of increasing productivity per hectare through improved
technology and improving quality through improved processing. This approach
would allow increased production and higher prices without the commitment of
additional land to coffee cultivation. Since Burundi's total coffee produc-
tion is less than one percent of total world production, it is anticipated
that Burundi will have no problems in marketing additional output, and like-
wise would be in a favorable position to receive an increased quota from the
International Coffee Organization if and when a new coffee agreement is
approved.
Project Area
38.       The project area comprises the entire province of Ngozi which is
the center of Burundi's coffee growing region and which currently produces
about 35 percent of the nation's coffee crop. The province is located on a
hilly plateau (1,500 m to 2,000 m) with good soils and climate, but with
variations in rainfall that have a significant impact on crop production.
The province has an estimated population of about 700,000 persons, or 270
per km2. An average family comprises 4.7 persons and the number of families
is estimated at about 150,000. Some 97 percent of these, or 145,000 families
are engaged in agriculture, of which some 110,000 reside in the coffee growing
areas.
39.       A typical family holding measures 0.75 to 1.0 hectare on average,
and is made up of as many as 20 small plots. Land close to the farmer's
residence is permanently cultivated. More distant plots are cultivated for
two or three years and then fallowed, but fallow periods are now being re-
duced as a result of population pressure. There are three growing seasons:
two on the hills during the rainy seasons and one in the marshy valley bottoms
during the main dry season.
40.       Food crops are grown on about 0.75 hectares and the other 0.10
hectares are cultivated with coffee. In addition to coffee, bananas are
also an important source of cash income for the farmers. One third of all
farmers own cattle, which are grazed on communal land unsuited for field
crops; most of the farmers have small livestock such as goats, sheep,
chickens, pigs and rabbits.



Project Description
41.       The basic element of the project will be to provide the approxi-
mately 110,000 smallholder farmers of Ngozi province who cultivate coffee,
with instruction in better cultivation practices and with inputs such as
fertilizers, insecticides, and tools. The program will be a continuation
and exDar.sion of the co-ffee extension work initiated under the first project,
plus the initiation. of exte-asion work directed at food crops.  This component
of the project will be supported by the reorganization and improvement of
the extension services in Ngozi Province.
42.       In addition to the extension program, the project will include:
(1) an experimlented rural development program, (2) the establishment of a
resident project managemer.t teanm supported by short-term consultant services,
(3) a coffee research program, (4) reconstruction and repair of small bridges,
culverts, and water supply sources, and (5) a coffee processing component
which will include the construction of four coffee washing stations. The
expected Kuwait Fund loan would finance items (3) and (4), and the construction
of the four washing stations under item (5), all on a parallel basis.
Detailed Features
i)   Extension Programs
43.       The extension service wil,l provide the following types of inputs
and services:
For coffee production:
(a)  Instruction in husbandry practices such as pruning,
mulching, and stumping:
(b) Distribution of seedlings to replace old and dis-
eased coffee trees and to assist new farmers in
establishing coffee plantings: and
(c) Distribution of :.ertilizer, insecticides, and
simple pruning tools.
For food crop production, in view of the limited local experience,
only an indication descri?tion of the type of activities can be
given. Based on successful experience in neighboring Rwanda,
emphasis will be ;ilaced on -m.aize, beans, sweet potatoes, cassaca,
and soybeans.  Extensi:o; activities concentrate on:
,a)  -s:tC-ct-oa ifl be.ne, cu1r]Lvation and conservation
practices;
(b)  .'_: Jut~o @ o O -,-aple zools, improved seeds, and
er.ii-zers;7 arL !



- 11 -
(c) Distribution of setaria grass for planting against
erosion.
ii)   Development of the Extension Service:
44.       The two extension services now operating in the province, one
embracing coffee and the other cultivation of food crop and animal hus-
bandry, will be consolidated into a single organization. Additional staff
will be recruited, and existing and new staff will be trained.
45.       Vehicles, equipment and necessary housing and storage facilities
will be provided, and other facilities such as seed multiplication farms
and coffee nurseries will be established. The inputs necessary to support
an extension program, i.e, fertilizer, insecticides, tools and other inputs,
will be procured.
iii)   Experimental Rural Development Program
46.       This program will include pilot activities such as demonstration
and extension work for the improvement of livestock such as goats, rabbits,
and poultry; the construction of pilot grain mills powered by perennial
streams; training and distribution of work oxen; and the organization of
cooperatives. These activities are currently being formulated by the Govern-
ment. A condition precedent to disbursement for this component will be
Association approval of an implementation plan for these activities (para-
graph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Credit Agreement).
iv)   Resident Management Team
47.       Burundi staff assigned to the project will be supplemented by a
project manager, two agronomists, a coffee processing officer, a construction
officer and a financial officer, all recruited internationally (Section 3.03(a)
of the draft Credit Agreement). In addition a team of visiting advisors will
be contracted to provide periodic assistance in the preparation of annual
work programs and technical advice for solving project problems (Section 3.02
of the draft Credit Agreement).
v)   Coffee Research
48.       An agronomist and an entomologist (5 man-years each) will assist
Burundi staff in implementing a coffee research program with focus on
insect and disease problems and husbandry techniques applicable to small-
holders, including further trials with chemical fertilizers. Materials,
supplies, scientific equipment, library materials, vehicles and staff
housing would be provided in support of the research effort.



- 12 -
vi)   Bridges, Culverts and Wfater Supplies
49.       Communal labor utilizing equipment and supplies financed under
the project will reconstruct between 300 and 400 small bridges and culverts.
In addition, there will be a Drogram to repair old and construct new con-
crete linings to protect about: 300 natural springs in the project area.
vii)   Pilot Coffee Processing Activities
50.       This component will include: (1) technical assistance for the con-
tinued operation of the four coffee washing stations constructed under the
first project, (2) the construction of four additional coffee washing stations
and (3) the assessment of alternative methods of coffee processing.
Project Execution
51.       The Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU) which
was the executing agency for the First Coffee Improvement Project, will
have overall responsibility for implementing the project, except for the
coffee research component which will be administered by the Institut des
Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU). OCIBU will exercise its respon-
sibility through its Project Department which was established to administer
the First Coffee Improvement Project.
52.       Overall project management will be under the direction of the
expatriate project manager and his Burundi deputy both already in place
under the first project. To assist in developing work programs, evaluating
project activities and develop-ing solutions to the basic problems relevant
to increasing production of cof-fee and food crops, a team of about three
internationally recruited advisors will be established to visit Burundi for
two to three weeks once or twice a year. Additionally, project management
would be provided with a group of enumerators who will carry out sample
surveys and other data collection activities especially on crop yields.
53.       The components of the project will be administered through four
divisions of the Project Department covering agricultural extension ser-
vices, coffee processing, construction and technical services, and admin-
istrative and accounting services. An internationally recruited construction
officer already in place wil'l direct the construction and technical services
divisio- in the construction by force account of the project infrastructure
(e.g., washing stations, housing, warehousing, repair facilities).
54.       The ex--ens-ion services d.vision nas an exnerienced Burundi chief
who directed extension activities nde-; tile first project.   Fe will be
assisted by zwv.o inzer:iazionally r-.cru_ted agrcnoriists, one for coffee and
one for food crops) who wil   assist in the developrn-ent and ;;rainin- of the
extension sta-ff and the directicn of ..,e extension programs.  AL present,
there are 1 agricul-.ra_l o-fcc_r   to dArect the activities of the present



- 13 -
staff of 109 extension workers. Over the course of the project the number
of agricultural officers will be increased to 19 and the number of extension
workers would be increased to 180.
55.       An expatriate coffee processing officer and his Burundi deputy,
both already in place, will be responsible for the operation of the coffee
washing stations and experiments with alternative processing methods.
56.       Two internationally recruited scientists, an agronomist, and an
entomologist will be contracted by ISABU to direct and work with Burundi
staff in carrying out a coffee research program.
57.       Coordination and evaluation of all project activities will be
under the direction of a committee composed of the Minister of Agriculture
and Livestock, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning, the Director
Generals of OCIBU and ISABU, the President of the Central Bank or of their
representatives, the Governor of Ngozi Province, and the Project Manager
(Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates
58.       Total project cost including contingencies is estimated at $7.5
million equivalent net of taxes and duties. The proposed IDA credit of
$5.2 million will finance the foreign exchange cost of $3.2 million and
local costs of $2.0 million, about 69 percent of total project costs. The
Kuwait Fund financing of $1.2 million equivalent will finance the remainder
of the foreign exchange costs, and a portion of local costs which together
equal about 16 percent of total project costs. Kuwait Fund financing is
expected to be for 25 years at 3 percent interest. The Government will
finance the remaining 15 percent of project costs.
Parallel Financing Arrangements
59.       The Kuwait Fund has stated its intention to provide parallel finan-
cing for the project, subject to satisfactory appraisal and negotiations,
which are expected to be completed before the end of the year.    Because 
of this condition, the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement will be
conditioned on the effectiveness of the Kuwait Fund Agreement (Section 6.01
of the draft Credit Agreement). While financing will be on a parallel basis,
we intend to cooperate closely with the Kuwait Fund on project supervision
as we do on other projects. To this end, we intend to exchange a Letter
of Understanding with the Kuwait Fund covering exchange of information,
coordination and consultation. As is customary under parallel financing
arrangements, the draft Credit Agreement provides (Section 5.01 (c) that
suspension, cancellation, termination or acceleration Df taturity of the
Kuwait Fund Loan is an event of suspension of the proposed Credit.
Procurement
60.       Fertilizers and insecticides (US$0.6 million) would be procured
by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Vehicles, farm tools, livestock, and miscellaneous equipment and materials



(US$0.5 million) would be procured locally in accordance with normal Govern-
ment procedures which are satisfactory (Part A.3 of Schedule 3 to the draft
Credit Agreement); essential service and satisfactory competition is avail-
able from local representatives of foreign suppliers. As the construction
of civil works in scattered locations throughout the remote project area is
unlikely to attract foreign bids and local private construction capacity is
very limited, the construction otf staff housing, offLice and stores (US$0.5
million) would be undertaken by force account (Part C of Schedule 3 to the
draft Credit Agreement); building ,materials would be procured locally in
accordance with nornal Goverrnment trocedures.
61.       Retroactive financing in the amount of US$0.5 million is recormmended
to cover project expenditures incurred since January 1, 1975.    This amount is
required to finance costs incurred since the commitment of all proceeds from
the first credit plus certain start-up costs for new activities under the
proposed project which were not eligible for financing under the first credit.
(Paragraph 4(a) of Schedule 1 to the draft Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
62.       Disbursement of funds from the credit account would be on the
following basis with disbursements being rully documented:
(a)  100 percent of cif and 70 percent of local cost of
machinery, equipment, vehicles and farm inputs, including
fertilizer and insecticides;
(b) 70 percent of total cost of civil works for houses,
offices, and stores;
(c) 100 percent of cif and 70 percent of local costs of
construction materials, fixtures and furniture for
civil works;
(d) 100 percent of foreign excihange costs and 70 percent
of total costs OL salaries and wages of staff and
operating costs of units employed or created under
the Project.
63.       In respect of imported goods, no local expenditures except those for
transportation to th,e place oL installation of such goods will be financed
from the proceeds of the proycsed credit (paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the
draft Credit Agreemenz).   Shoud_ cost savings materialize, such savings would
be reallocated amoag thae project ca.z-oponents o-r aczivities.
Sale of 1.erzilizer
64.        he ½overna'            a -  s. u_rue f.cr co.fee both guarzanees a price
to tne :armer a.--      -eL -eve:ue   or tae Goverraent.   Since under this
system,, coL:ee 'S a..  -cuertan;  su-_e o- revenue an. zhe return to the economy



- 15 -
from the use of fertilizer is considerably higher than the return to the
farmers, the Government has followed a policy of subsidizing inputs for
coffee production. Fertilizers, insecticides and seedlings have been dis-
tributed free, and saws and hand tools have been sold at half price. Since
both Government and the farmer share in the returns from the inputs, some
level of subsidy is justified. In 1974, the GoverDnment required farmers
to pay FBu 6/kg of fertilizer, about one half the cost. Government intends
to gradually reduce the subsidy during the course of the project and has
agreed that by December 31, 1979, it will submit detailed proposals for the
implementation of a system for the extension of credit for and the recovery of
input costs upon project completion. (Section 3.05(c) of the draft Credit
Agreement).   Government's intentions in this regard are to (1) set a price
for fertilizer which would provide the farmer with at least a 2:1 benefit
cost ratio for the use of fertilizer on coffee, and (2) continue to provide
seedlings free of cost, and to provide hand tools at half their cost. On
the basis of present price projections, this would result in a subsidy of
about 25 percent of the cost of fertilizer. In the meantime, the Government
has agreed to consult with the Assoc:iation annuially concerning the price to
be charged for fertilizer. The Government has also agreed that by January
1, 1976 it will establish an account in which farmers' repayments for fer-
tilizers and other inputs will be deposited to be used for financing the
procurement and distribution of agricultural inputs in the project area.
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
65.       About 110,000 farmers will be reached by the coffee component of
the project. All will participate in the insect control program, and the
majority will receive extension advice on improved cultivation practices.
Increases in cash income would vary between $3 and $15 depending on the
degree of participation. A much smaller number of farmers are expected to
participate in the food crop program. Improved maize seed would increase
the net value of the production of some 6,000 farmers by about $7, and some
2,000 of these farmers would further increase their incomes by about $20.
Farmers in the high potential coffee areas who combine coffee improvement
with the use of selected seed and fertilizers for maize would increase the
net value of their production by about $3Z, an increase of about 35 percent
of their total average production (about $332). While these benefits are
low in absolute terms, they appear more reasonable in terms of present
average cash income, which is estimated in the neighborhood of $70 equivalent.
66.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 21
percent for the whole project, excluding the research program and technical
advice, with shadow-pricing of foreign exchange at 120 percent. It is esti-
mated at 17 percent without shadow-pricing.
67.       There is some risk that since monetary returns to be gained by
individual farmers are relatively low, they may be slow in accepting innova-
tions to be promoted by the project. This is directly related to another risk -



- 16 -
that coffee prices may be lower than forecast, resulting in a lower rate of
return both to the economy and to the farmer. A reduction of benefits of
20 percent because of lower prices would reduce the rate of return from
21 percent to 11 percent. Given, however, the difficult problems to be
overcome in developing Burundi's agricultural sector and, in particular,
the limited possibilities for increasing productivity, the project should be
implemented despite these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Asso-
ciation, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed Develop-
ment Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Features of the draft Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 46, 47, 57, 59, 60, 61, 63 and 64.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
November 5, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 Peges
OD0N1TR DATA - EURTNI~
AME                                                   POPUILATION                                    MNsiU
ha am                                          --- _I7Tw'lion (mid-1972)                                 Prk2farsbl. lend
sociAL D!DITCATMR
Reeem     C utie
ONP PER CAPITA USA (ATLAS BASIS) A                                    50            70 /a           100 /a         190A~         760 /a
DEhXGRAPHIC                                                                                          5              L52               1
Crude bir-th rate (per thousand)                                    [.6           [2 s.5               &          .5d    23a    1    f
Crude death rate (per thausand)                                     25            20[2                 d         823  ef0 
IWant sortality rate (per thousand live births)                    15C 3              g            12     ~     13[0Z
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                    37 1g          1[lL            39            hi[            70hIt
Oroae reproduction rate /2                                         2.6 /ad       28                              2914t
Population growth rate LJ                        ~~1.6          2.                 .            2213
Popuilation growth rate -                                                                                                             Ira
Age.structur    (Percent)                                           t              5221i
65 and over                                                                    0                0.9
Economic dependency rAl o4                                         1:0 1'         lJ~               .2    ~      1.3           1:
Urban p-opulation as paroent of total                                2       ~     2a      ~        6/k           1. LU-        78a1g
Family plannings No. of acceptors Cumulative (thousd                .            .
No. of ueers (% of married Uowen)...
Total jabor force (thsousanda)                                   1,0      ~    1800                8 230      105031
Percentage employed in agriculture                                90 ~.         8                 87                        ,0
Percentage unemployed                                            ...                             .2.3                          9
INCCO4 DISTRhBUTIONr                                                                                                 6a            1   9!
percent ofntional income received by highest 5%...                                                  27    r      36   a         2   ar
Per cent of national income received by higheat 20%                ....L.                                 r       63  a         1.7mr
Percent of national irncome received by lowest 20%                                                 lo .r 10mr
Percent of national, income received by lowest 40%                 *.           r..Lm
MISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNEERSHI
% ownedbs   op1%o      ow-nrer.                                                   .
% owned by smallest 10% of owners                                   .*
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Popula_tio0n `ver physfician                                    66,OD  /t     47,570 If        85,830 4L-u 17,l10              920 
Population per nurin      person                                   .           6,24.0 /gv       5,810 If-     3,600          2,960  f~
Popla:tion per hospital bad                                        820           790              760 If~     l,01b0           180  r
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements /5                   82t11.       10                98             97           107
Per capita protein supply, total (grass per day)-L                  [.7           61               63            [49            96
Of hich, animal and pulse                                         28 41g        [0.o              916 Lx                      66
Death rate 1-4 years /7                                            4.[2                            ...1.3
EDUJCATION
Adjusted /8 primary school enrollment ratio                         19 ~1g        29                37            31.          61   y
Adjusted 7~ secondary school enrollment ratio                        1             2                 3            11            5
Tears of sTchooling Provided, first and second level                13            1.3              1L            12            12
Vocational enrollment as % of sac, school enrollmsent               35 1gt        21                 3             22
Adult literacy rat   %                                             ..            .. 
HDUSI1R2
Averag     No. of persona per ros (urban)                          ...19,                                         :I 1mae.a
Percsent of oC_pied units without piped water                      ...                              7 
Access to electricity (as % of total population)...                                                 16     ac
Percent of tural populaticn connected to electricity...                                            0.0
CONSUMNPTION
-IGro  rCiersper 1000 Population                                 .               l      21        .2 a         19 /a.ae     507 /a,
Passenger cars per 1000 POP-ultion                                   1              lo              [29                         [42
Electric power consuamptiOn (kwh P.C.)                                .7                   ~         40 .         81           a 36  a-
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                             .....1                                        0.1  a         .      L
Notes, Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                Account of onviro,    ne    wpraua       oywihte, andi
the latest years.   Latest periods refer In pri-nciple to              diatributlom     by age and sax of national populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966..70; the latest Years in, Pxm-           /   Protein standards (requirenonte) for afl eountriaa as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                              ~~~~~liahad by [UDA Eacoomic Research Service provide for a minimum
/I  The Per Capita ONP estimate is at ma.rket prices for                allowanceof6grsofttlpten                  erd,cu20rasf
yearo otter than 1900, Calculated by the ease conversion           animal ansd pulae protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
technique as the 1972 World Blank Atlas.                           proteini.  Theme standards are someewhat lmar than those of 75
12 Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive                grass of total protein and 23 grass of anima protein as an
age.                                                               aLverage for the world, proposed by ?AO in the Third wDrld Food
1g  Pbpulation growth rate, are for the decades ending inSuvy
1960 and 1970.                                                 /7 Scme studies have auggested that crude death rates of childrun
1g, Hatio of population under 15 and 65 andt over to popula-            ages 1 through 4. may be used as a first approximation index of
ticn of ages 15-61 for age dependency ratio and to labor            malnutrition.
force of ages 15-.6[ for econonic dependency ratio.            L8   Pecoantage ensofled of correaponding population of school age
Pi AO reference standards represent physiological re.                 as defined for each country.
quireentst for normal activity and health, taking
/a    1972;   /b  1965;    /c  1970-71;    /d   1973;   Lo   1965..70 eatimmte;   If   1971;   Z&  Esftimate;    /h  1970-75;
1960-72;    a   Commune of Bulunbure      1g  All1 townships and town planning areas and all district centers;
Definition not armilable;     :g 196; .     g   Ratio of population under 15 sand 65 and over to total labor force;       1go  1966;
1967-69; ~g. 1969;       /r  Households;    sg 1968-69;     /t   1961;    /u  Coverage of data unlcoson;     ,   Incluading
assistant nurses;     /.  Including rural hospital end medical centers;       /x  1961s-66;   &L  1968;     sIncluding overage
stude.t_s ;   plFreotcoen onity;     /a   Urban only;    Lac' PCrcent.age of dwel-Ilings;   lad  1957;    /eo   Alt~hotoh a license
s,yst.- is ii;frc     fig-dn  stis-  4  thin esttiated nuThtfer ,C --soelr, in use.
oUruguay han -one asstdis an objectffve country for lu~run,dl becaus.e it is a Smr.1l Country, prinerxily dependent on
agriculture, which Mns e%chieved a rrelative high leved of de.velennnt.
P.3 August 8, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
BURUNDI - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.     -%                                   1970-74         1974
GNP at Market Prices            323.8      100.0                                 --              4.1
Gross Domestic Investment        35.8       11.0                                  2.1           19.8
Gross National Saving            18.3        5.6                                  --
Current Account Balance         -17.5       -5.4                                  --
Exports of Goods, NFS            31.9        9.8                                  1.9           -8.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            51.6       15.9                                 1.6           -1.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197
Value Added                   Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                                                        US $mi.%
Agriculture                     192.2     61.8
Industry                        35.8      11.5
Services                        83.0      26.7
Unallocated                      --        __
Total/Average
311.0                                   UUM                               100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Oeneral Governnent                             Central Government
~           Mln.)   % Of GDP                    ( BuF Bln.)       % of GDP
197 _97                  196-7                  1974       1974        1970-74
Current Receipts                                                                    2.91       11.3          11.5
Current Expenditure                                                                                            _
Current Surplus                                                                       30        1.3 
Capital Expenditures                                                                  .25       1.0            .8
External Assistance (net)                                                            .05        -.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  L            1970        197          1974    Apr.1974    Apr.1975
(Billion BuF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     2.20         2.54         3.03        3.51        2.73        3.34
Bank credit to Public Sector               .86          .82          .94         .96         .94         .98
Bank Credit to Private Sector              .93         1.20        1.45         2.73         .99        1.46
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        11.5         12.2        13.3         13.2          --          --
General Frice Index (1970 - 100)        100.0        107.8       114.3        132.5       123.2       151.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       -.3          7.8         6.0         15.9        12.6        22.6
Bank credit to Public Sector             -9.2         10.0        14.5         2.6         12.6         3.6
Bank credit to Private Sector            54.1          2.5        20.3        88.8         44.8        47.6
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Bank estimates.
not available
not applicable
EACPII-A
Aupust 11. 1975



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
BURUNDI - TRADE PANTS AND CAPTAJ. FTflWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74
1970     1972      1974                                               US$Mln      %
(Millions US $ )
Exports of Goods, NFS         25.9      29.2     31.9               Coffee                            24.14    84.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         27.8      38.2     51.6               Cotton                             1.11     3.8
Resource Gap (deficit = _)       79     -9.0    -19.7               Skins                              1.14     4.0
Tea                                 .54     1.9
Interest Payments (net)       -0.5     -1.7     - 1.6               Minearls                            .40     1.4
Workers' Remittances          -9.2     -10.7    -12.1
Other Factor Payments (net)    --        --     - 0.5
Net Transfers                  12.0     13.2     16.4               All other commodities
Balance on Current Account     0.      -T       -I                       Total                        28.71   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment      --        --       --              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               1.4       0.5      1.5                                                      1US $ M
Amortization                0.4       1.6      0.7
Subtotal                    1.0     -1.1       0.8               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Capital Grants                 6.7       8.8      9.5               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            __        __       __                Total outstanding & Disbursed            8.0
Other items n.e.i              1.2 .     4-5     -1.4                                        I/
Increase in Reserves (+)       6.9       4.0     -8.7             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19A-
International Reserves         15.4     18.8     14.5
(end year)                                          Public Debt. incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed            9
IBRD/IDA LENDING, ( Aug. 31, 1975) (Million US $):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      -           _
Outstanding & Disbursed              1.0         3-5
Throuqh  -   1972              Since March 1973               Undisbursed                          --          4.8
US $ 1.0 =O BuF 87.5           US $ 1.00 = BuF 78.75          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        1.0         8.3
BuF  100  =US $ 1.14           BuF  100  = US $ 1.27
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
EACPII-A
August 11. 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Burundi
(as of August 31, 1975)
Amount
Loan or                                              US$ million
Credit                                          (less cancellations)
Number   Year   Borrower         Purpose       Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
165-BE   1957   Burundi   Port and highway     4.80 /1   -         -
85-BU   1966   Burundi   Water Supply           -     1.07        -
147-BU   1969   Burundi   Coffee Improvement     -     1.80       0.1
S11-BU   1970   Burundi    Road Engineering      -     0.38        -
467-BU   1974   Burundi   Highway Maintenance    -     5.0        4.7
TOTAL: ................... 4.80        8.3        4.8
of which has been repaid
to the Bank and others   4.0
TOTAL now outstanding          .8
Amount sold   ...... 2.9
of which has been
repaid:              2.2     0.7
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /2                   0.1      8.3
TOTAL undisbursed                      4.8        4.8
/1   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium
/2   Prior to exchange adiustments
B. Stateraent of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC investments in Burundi.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 147-BU        Arabica Coffee Improvement Project:   $1.8 million
of April 11, 1969. Closing date postponed from
December 31, 1973 to June 30, 1975 and finally
to December 31, 1975.
The project consisted of the improvement of coffee
production from about 8 million existing coffee
trees owned by smallholders. The project provided
for the construction and operation of four coffee
washing stations, improvement and maintenance of
about 80 manual pulping centers, supply of inputs
including fertilizer and training of extension staff.
Execution of the project was slow due to a number
of circumstances, including the civil strife of 1972,
senior staff shortage and changes in leadership,
limited construction capacity in the country, diffi-
culties in recruiting expatriate technicians, and
delays in delivery of materials and equipment. The
project has been completed.
Credit No. 467-BU         Highway Maintenance Project:  $5.0 million of March
27, 1974. Closing date: December 31, 1978.
The highway maintenance project is the first phase
of a long-term program to establish an efficient
highway maintenance organization. The project con-
sists of the purchase of maintenance equipment,
spare parts, fuel and construction materials, the
construction of a workshop and consultant services
for technical assistance and training, a study on
the development of the road sector and a feasibility
study and detailed engineering of the Ngozi-
Muyinga-Kobero Road (106 km). The project is
co-financed by the UNDP ($1.05 million), Germany
($1.33 million) and Belgium ($400,000). Execution
of the project is generally satisfactory. The con-
sultants responsible for technical assistance
(financed by UNDP) started their work in October
1974. Procurement of equipment is underway to
mechanize maintenance units being established under
the project. The construction of a workshop in
Bujumbura (financed by Germany) is nearing comple-
tion. The road studies for which the Government
is negotiating a contract with consultants are
expected to start before the end of this calendar
year.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BURUNDI - SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Burundi
Beneficiaries:            The Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(OCIBU) and the Institut des Science Agronomique
du Burundi (ISABU) 1/.
Amount:                   US$5.2 million equivalernt
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:
a)   inputs and strengthened extension services to
sustain and extend the improvement of coffee
cultivation, started under the first project;
b)   inputs, field trials and extension advice for
the cultivation of food crops;
c)   a program of experimental activities in rural
development:
d)   construction of four additional coffee washing
stations and technical assistance for the
operation of the four existing stations and for
trials with alternative processing methods;
e)   staff and equipment for an expanded coffee re-
search program;
f)   construction or repair, of potable water sources,
bridges and culverts; and
g)   a resident management team backed up by a small
team of international advisers which would at
reg-ular intervals assist in formulating work
programis and in solving specific project
problems.
I/   ISABU will be the beneficiary of Kuwait Fund Financing for part (e)
oCI the project.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Purpose:                      To increase smallholder production of coffee
and food crops, through distribution of agri-
cultural inputs and instruction in better cul-
tivation techniques, and to improve the quality
of Burundi's coffee through better processing
methods.
Estimated Costs:              Total cost of the project is estimated at US$7.5
million with a foreign exchange component of
about US$4.3 million, or 57 percent. Cost
estimates are exclusive of taxes and duties.
-- US$'000 ------        Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign   Total      %
(i)  Agricultural Services          1,385    1,017   2,402      42
(ii)  Coffee Processing                 99      238     337      71
(iii)  Coffee Research                  126      456     582      78
(iv) Construction, Equipment for
Bridges, lWater Supply          68       97     165      60
(v)  Project Management               371      977   1,348      73
(vi) Technical Advice and
Monitoring                      94       178    272      65
(vii) Administrative and
Technical Services             200      166     366      45
Base Costs                     2,343    3,129   5,472      57
Physical Contingencies           117      156     273      57
Expected Price Increases         771    1,023   1,794      57
Project Cost with
Contingencies                3,231    4,308   7,539      57
Financing Plan:               The financing of the project costs would be
shared in the following amounts and proportions:
US$       % of
(million) Total Cost
IDA Credit            5.2         69
Kuwait Fund Loan      1.2         16
Government Contri-
bution              1.1         15
Total           7.5        100



AININEX III
Page 3
IDA Credit of $5.2 would finance foreign
exchange costs ($3.2 million) and a portion
of local costs, or about 69 percent of total
project costs. All IDA proceeds will be chan-
nelled by Government to OCIBU. Kuwait Fund
financing in the amount of US$1.2 million equiv-
alent would be on a parallel basis for items (ii),
(iii), and (iv) in the above cost table.
Procurement Arrangements:    Fertilizers and insecticides (US$0.6 million)
woulQC be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Vehicles, farm tools and miscellaneous equipment
and m.ateriaLs ($0.5 million) would be procured
locally in accordance with normal Government
procedures which are considered satisfactory;
essential service facilities and satisfactory
competition is available from local representatives
of foreign suppliers. As the construction of civil
works irn scattered locations throughout the remote
project area is unlikely to attract foreign bids
and as local private construction capacity is
very limited, the construction of staff housing,
office and stores ($0.5 million) would be
undertaken by force account; building materials
would be procured locally in accordance with
normal Government procedures.
All other project expenditures would be for
professional services, technical assistance,
staff salaries and project administration.
Consultant Services:         Twenty-four man-years of technical assistance,
to be financed by IDA, will be made available
to the project as follows: Project Manager
(5 man-years), agronomist-coffee (5 man-years),
agronomist-food crops (4 man-years), coffee
processing expert (3 man-years), construction
engineer (2 man-years), and finance officer
(5 m.ian-years).  Additionally, ap2roximateiy
15 -aan-months of cosnsultant services will be
provided on a short--term basis.
Retroactive finaiicing in the amount of US$0.5
m _'. oar is recommecnded to cover the project
; e.C.ses YGO.m jaaua;'. , 1975 until the credit
agreement for zhis project is sigaed.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Disbursements:                                         Cumulative
Fiscal Year    US$ Million   US$ Million
1976            0.4           0.4
1977            1.1           1.5
1978            1.0           2.5
1979            1.0           3.5
1980            1.0           4.5
1981            0.7           5.2
Estimated Rate of Return:     21 percent
Appraisal Report:            No. 908-BU, dated October 30, 1975
Eastern Africa Projects Department
General Agricultural Division
Eastern Africa Region
Estimated Date of
Completion:                June 30, 1980



IBRD 11434
i   30°   BU RU N D I                 . FEBRUARY 1975
Notona RProject Area - NGOZI Province  I SECOND      COFFEE      IMPROVEMENT           PROJECT       /    ToMoonzo
Notionol Roods         -    ISABU Coffee Fertilizer Trials  J                                                            / I
Main Roads                  Limit of High Potential Coffee Area  1~                PROJECT AREA
------- Secondary.Roods    -        --- Existing Project Area (Credit 147-BU) /  N
-  -Rivers                 *    Coffee Washing Stotions     1          .     5     o     5    io   15    20                           H
- - -   Provincial Boundaries      (Built Under Credit 147- BU)                              I     -- -  ---
---     Internationol Boundaries  (A  Provincial Capital                                    KILOAETERS
To TBoi n  (  K. 1ii
* BUBANZA                                                                                     /                 RWANOA~~~~~~~~~BUENA  waol
/enKibogoye                                                                                     U YINGA. \  /
29 31  So Bugsoroe * 3 MURAMVYA     /   ~<i+To G, g              0 1ego    go        Oc=_ iodp               p:'.gi             . S/jIr  is,.
I                                                        Yo G.rego  %.~~~~~Muug



