Report No. 908-BU                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the
Second Coffee Improvement Project
Burundi
October 30, 1975
Eastern Africa Projects Department
General Agriculture Projects Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curreney Unit = Franc Burundi (FBu)
US$1          = FBu 78.35
FBu 100       = US$1.28
FBu 1 million = US$12,763
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kg         = 1,000 gram
=     2.205 lb
1 metrie ton = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 lb
lare          0.01 ha
1 ha           2.1471 acres
1 km         = 0.621 mile
i km2        = 0.386 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ISABU = Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
(Agricultural Research Institute)
ITAB  = Institut Technique Agricole du Burumdi
(Agricultwral Training Institute)
OCIBU =,Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(Agency for Industrial Crops)
Burumdi Government and OCIBU Fiscal Year
January _ ta DecemUe 31



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................-
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................    1
II.   BACKGROUND ...........................................    2
A.   General   .................................           2
B.   The Agricultural Sector .....................    3
C.   The Coffee Industry ..... ......... ............    3
D.   Agricultural Services .....        ..................    6
E.   First Coffee Improvement Project ............         7
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ......................................    8
IV.   THE PROJECT ........     .........................               9
A.   General Description .................                 9
B.   Detailed Features ......      .....................   10
C.   Project Costs         ...............................   15
D.   Financing        ...................................   16
E.   Procurement    ................ .................   17
F.   Disbursement      .........................          18
G.   Accounts and Audits ......       ...................   18
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...... ....................     .   18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARbIERS' BENEFITS
AND EFFECTS ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET ................     ...   20
A.   Yields and Production ........... ............   20
B.   Markets and Prices ............ ..............   21
C.   Farmers' Benefits ............. ..............   22
D.   Effects on Government Budget           .     .       23
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....         ..............   23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....         ............   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. H. van Voorthuizen, R. Le Breton, and G.R. Henderson (IDA) and H.
Vieilhescare (consultant), which visited Burundi in October 1974, and on
the findings of a second mission to Burundi which Mr. van Voorthuizen under-
took in April-May, 1975.



Annexes (Continuation)
10. Farm Budgets
Table 1 - Net Production Values per ha for Coffee in Three Different Areas
Table 2 - Net Production Values per ha for Food Crops
Table 3 - Budgets for 0.85 ha Farms in Three Different Areas without and
with Development of Coffee and Food Crops
11. Team of Advisers
12. Economic Cost - Benefit Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Cost - Benefit Analysis - Rates of Return and
Sensitivity Analysis
Table 2 - Cost-Benefit Analysis - Whole Project
Table 3 - Cost-Benefit Analysis - Agricultural Services Component
Table 4 - Cost-Benefit Analysis - Coffee Processing Component
Table 5 - Incremental Coffee Production
Table 6 - Production of Fully-Washed Coffee
Table 7 - Projected Coffee Values
13.  Project Implementaion Schedule
ORGANIZATION CHART
MAP 1 - Burundi Coffee Growing
MAP 2 - Project Area



ANNEXES
1.   Coffee Growing and Research
2.   Coffee Processing
3.   Coffee Marketing and Prices
Table 1 - Coffee Price Forecasts
Table 2 - Export Values of Burundi and Kenya Coffee
Table 3 - Coffee Exports per Calendar Year
Table 4 - Coffee Price Sliding Scale - Campaign 1974/75
Table 5 - Distribution of Sales Proceeds of Arabica Coffee, 1969-1973
4.   Food Production
5.   Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU)
Table 1 - Stabilization Fund - Comparative Balance Sheet, 1971-1973
Table 2 - Stabilization Fund - Profit and Loss Accounts, 1971-1973
Table 3 - Coffee Promot:ion Fund - Comparative Balance Sheet, 1971-1973
Table 4 - Coffee Promotion Fund - Profit and Loss Accounts, 1971-1973
Table 5 - OCIBU - Summarized Balance Sheet, 1971-1973
Table 6 - OCIBU - Operating Accounts, 1971-1973
Table 7 - Adjustment of' OCIBU's Annual Results
6.   Project Cost Estimates
Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs
Table 2 - Agricultural Services
Table 3 - Coffee Processing
Table 4 - Coffee Research
Table 5 - Construction Equipment, Bridges, Water Supply
Table 6 - Project Management
Table 7 - Technical Advice and Monitoring
Table 8 - Administrative and Technical Services
Appendix - Unit Costs for Coffee Washing Stations
7.   Requirements and Financing of Fertilizers and Other Inputs
Table 1 - Requirements and Financing of Fertilizers
Table 2 - Farmers Payments for Inputs and Balances of OCIBU
Fertilizer Fund
8.   Government Cash Flow
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements






BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Burundi is a poor and very densely populated country and at least
90% of its population of 3.4 million people is dependent on smallholder
agriculture which accounts for about 60% of GDP. Per capita GDP of the
rural population is slightly less than the national average of US$94 mostly
comprising of food production for subsistence. Coffee is the main cash crop
and is grown by about 400,000, or more than half, of all farm families.
Annual exports of green coffee at about 20,000 ton contribute more than
80% to the country's foreign exchange earnings. The Government's agricul-
tural policy emphasizes quantity and quality improvement to existing export
crops, diversification into other export crops, increased food production
to meet nutritional needs and generally the conservation and improvement
of Burundi's agricultural resources through water and soil conservation
programs. A first Coffee Improvement Project, started in 1969 with IDA
support, has assisted about 44,000 coffee growers in the northern province
of Ngozi to increase the production and quality of smallholder coffee.
A Second Coffee Improvement Project, now proposed, would expand the area
of the first project to include all Ngozi's 110,000 coffee growers, who
produce about one third of the country's coffee, and would also provide
improved farm services to the remaining 35,000 farmers of the province who
do not grow coffee. In addition to increasing the volume of coffee produc-
tion, the Project would endeavour to improve the quality of coffee and in-
crease the production of foocd crops.
ii.       This report appraises a Project which would over 5 years provide
strengthened extension servic:es to improve coffee husbandry techniques espe-
cially in the fields of insect control, pruning, mulching and the application
of chemical fertilizers. It would provide technical assistance for the
operation of the four existing coffee washing stations and construct four
additional stations as an extended trial to identify economic methods to
improve the quality of Burundi's coffee. Provision for the multiplication
and distribution of improved seeds and distribution of fertilizers would
increase the production of food crops, especially that of maize. Erosion
control measures, mainly through planting of setaria grass, would be encouraged
by the extension services. A small experimental rural development program
would be included in the Project. The Project would further support the Insti-
tut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU), the agricultural research
institute, for applied coffee research and would also assist in the rehabili-
tation and maintenance of natural drinking water sources and bridges and
culverts in Ngozi province. The resident Project management team would be
backed up by an international advisory team which would visit Burundi at
regular intervals.
iii.      The Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU), which is a
parastatal agency for export crops, would be responsible for the major part of



- ji 
the Project. OCIBU would exercise its responsibility through the Project
Department which was established to implement the first project. ISABU would
be responsible for the coffee research component.
iv.       Total project costs are estimated at about US$7.5 million.  The
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is expected to finance 85Z of the
costs of the construction of thie additional coffee washing stations, and the
coffee research,   ater supply and road components of the Project (US$1.2 mil-
lion).  IDA would fînancé . o:: the total cost of the other components
(US$5.2 million) or all foreign exchange costs (about US$3.2 million) and
about 68% of the local costs of these components. The Government would
finance the balance of the costs, (about US$1.1 million).
v.        Fertilizers and pesticides would be procured by international com-
petitive bidding in accordance %,rith Bank/IDA guidelines. Vehicles, farm
tools and miscellaneous equipmernt and materials would be procured locally in
accordance with normal GovernmerLt procedures which are satisfactory. Due to
the limited building capacity irL the country, the remoteness of the Project
area and the scattered locations of the sites, construction of staff housing,
offices and stores would be undertaken by force account.
vi.       The production of green çcofee is expected to increase by 800 ton at
full development to be reached after 7 years.  The four existing and the foïur
new washing stations would improveIiê quality of a further 800 ton green
coffee.  Maize production would increase by 750 ton oyex,5 years and the pro-
duction of other food crops and that of smalilivestock would also be expected
to increase but cannot be quantiEied. This also applies to the benefits from
the coffee research program and lmproved water supply facilities which would
raise the health standards in the Project area.
vii.      The economic rate of return of the agricultural services component
is 24% and that of the coffee processing component, which is of an experimen-
taL nature, is tentatively estimated at 9%. The economic rate of return for
the whole Project including coffee processing, but excluding coffee research,
experimental rural development ac:tivities and drinking water improvements, is
21%. The major risk facing the IProject is that coffee prices would be lower
than forecast; a 20% reduction of the benefits would reduce the rate of return
to 11%. A typical farmer in the high potential coffee areas cultivating
0.85 ha, combining coffee improvements with the use of selected seed and fertil-
izers for his maize crop, would increase the net value of his production by
about US$35 (FBu 2,750) from US$332 (FBu 26,000) to about US$367 (FBu 28,750).
viii.     The first Coffee Improvement Project is the only Bank Group supported
agricultural project in Burundi. The Project's progress has been unsatisfactory
due to the internal disturbances of 1972, shortages of both expatriate and
national staff and transporc difficulties in neighboring countries resulting
in frequent delays in delivery of essential construction and other materials.
As a result, experience with improved coffee processing techniques has been
-mi..ed since only one out of four coffee washing stations has operated for
cwo full seasons, the others becoining operative only in 1975. Moreover, it is



- iii -
difficult to assess the Project's impact on coffee production since no yield
data have been collected in a systematic manner. The new Project would aim
to overcome these problems through an extension of the coffee processing
trial period, better staff arrangements, and provision for monitoring and
evaluation of the Project's progress.
ix.       Subject to the required assurances, the Project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$5.2 million.






BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Burundi is one of the most densely populated and poorest countries
in the world and most of its population of 3.4 million people depends on
smallholder agriculture. The production of exportable cash crops is vir-
tually limited to Arabica coffee which is grown in small quantities by
about 400,000, or 55% of all farm families. Coffee accounts for more than
80% of the value of all Burundi's exports while other crops, mainly cotton
and tea, contribute less than 10%.  Implementation of the First Five Year
Development Plan (1968-72) was slow and only 40% of the planned targets
had been achieved at the end of the Plan period.  Preparation of a Second
Plan (1973-77) suffered from a lack of coordination and a final version
was only accepted by the Government in March 1975.  Basic economic policies
are not well defined and the only clear statement of objectives has been
drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. These are:
(a) to conserve and improve the conditions for agricul-
tural production through water and soil conserva-
tion programs;
(b) to provide nutritional needs and assure a more bal-
anced diet;
(c) to diversify cash crop production for export and
improve the quality of existing export crops;
(d) to substitute domestic output for food crops that
are presently imported; and
(e) to obtain a balanced regional development through
exploitation of regional potentials.
1.02      A first coffee improvement project supported by an IDA credit of
US$1.8 million (Credit 147-BU) aimed to improve the quantity and quality
of coffee in an area covering about one third of the northern province of
Ngozi.  The Government subsequently requested IDA to finance a Second
Coffee Improvement Project which would cover the entire province. This is
Burundi's best coffee growing area and has a higher population density than
any of the other six provinces. The Project, as proposed by Government,
included further distribution of inputs for coffee growing and strengthening
of extension services, construction and operation of 38 coffee washing stations
in addition to the four established under the first project, expansion of
coffee research facilities, and the development of food production. During
appraisal it was found that tlhe available evidence did not justify a
large scale investment în coffee washing stations and that an extension



- 2 -
of the trial period would be more appropriate. In the course of the first
two years the Project would finance the construction of four additional
washing stations and would alsa provide technical assistance in the field
of coffee processing to determine the performance of the four existing
stations under full production conditions. Because a number of the pro-
posed components will involve a considerable degree of experimentation
the Project would also provide for a team of international experts which
would visit Burundi at regular intervals to advise the Government on the
implementation and evaluation of the Project.
1.03      Performance under the first coffee improvement project, the only
agricultural project with IDA support, has not been satisfactory, mainly
because of staffing and procurement problems which are further discussed
in Chapter II.
1.04      The proposed Project was prepared by Government with the assistance
of the IBRD Regional Mission in Eastern Africa. This report is based on the
findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. H. van Voorthuizen,
R. Le Breton, and G.R. Henderson (IDA) and H. Vieilhescaze (consultant),
which visited Burundi in October 1974, and on the findings of a second
mission which Mr. van Voorthuizen undertook in April-May 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Burundi is a small landlocked country in Eastern Africa some
1400 km from the Indian Ocean, and borders Rwanda to the north, Zaire to
the west,2and Tanzania to the east and the routh. The total area is
24,970 km , which excludes anot`her 2,850 km of part of Lake Tanganyika
within Burundi's territory. 2The population was estimated at 3.4 million
people in 1972 or 136 per km which makes the country one of the most
densely populated in Africa. Despite a natural growth rate of 2.1% it
is unlikely that the actual population has grown any faster than 1%
because of high emigration during the past years. Except for the capital
Bujumbura with a population of about 100,000 inhabitants, and a few admin-
istrative and commercial centers, there are no organized settlements or vil-
lages in the country. The vast majority of the people live on their farms
and smallholder agriculture accDunts for about 60% of GDP. The GDP was
about US$94 per capita in 1974 and that of the rural population slightly
less. Sales of food products are estimated to be less than 10% of produc-
tion and the total value of marketed agricultural production, including
coffee, was probably only US$12-15 per capita.



- 3 -
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.02      Burundi has a range of altitude and rainfall that allows for con-
siderable diversity in crop patterns. Coffee is the dominant cash crop,
accounting for about 7% of GDP. Other cash crops include cotton, tea,
rice, palm oil and sugarcane but the contribution to GDP of all of these
crops combîned is less than 1%. With three-fifths of Burundi's land area
used for extensive grazing or not used at all, being marginal or unsuitable
for settled agriculture, population pressure is very high in the remaining
cultivated areas. As a result average land holdings are small (less than
1 ha) and fragmented and overcropping leads to soil depletion and erosion.
Living standards are stagnant if not actually decreasing and malnutrition is
widespread. With declining soil fertility and crop yields and a diminishing
per capita resource base the outlook for the future is unpromising.
2.03      Of the crops grown in Burundi, food crops contribute about half
of GDP and occupy 90% of the cultivated land. Rising population pressure
necessitates increased food crop production, but poor extension services,
unavailability of improved seeds and fertilizer, lack of credit, high
costs of transport and inadequate marketing facilities, are constraints
on development. Coffee is by far the most important export crop and
accounts for more than 80% of Burundi's exports. The production of cotton,
accounting for 5% of exports, has been declining for some years probably
because of unfavorable pricing policies. Tea, which has been introduced
as part of the coffee diversification policy, accounts for about 2% of
exports. Livestock plays .n important part but productivity is low and
as more pasture land is talcen under cultivation, production will decline
further. There are, however, prospects for the disinfestation of the tse-
tse fly in the Mosso region which would open up an area for more intensive
grazing. Exports of cattle are very low but exports of hides have been
increasing and account for about 4% of exports.
C. The Coffee Industry
Production
2.04      Some 95% of Burundi's coffee is of the Arabica variety with good
liquoring qualities and grown exclusively by smallholders; the remainder
is Robusta produced on a few estates on the Ruzizi plain. The main small-
holder coffee growing areas are Ngozi, Gitega, and Muyinga provinces (map
IBRD No. 3971); Ngozi prov:Ldes over one third of total production. Total



- 4 -
Burundi green coffee 1/ production and exports have fluctuated greatly over
the past five years; the 1969 production was a low 14,550 ton whereas a re-
cord 27,500 ton was produced in 1974. On the basis of 5-year moving averages
the Arabica production has increased by some 3.25% annually, whereas Robusta
output has grown about 11% per year. The increased Arabica production reflects
a steady acreage expansion, while the Robusta increase reflects the rehabili-
tation and expansion of commercial estates.
2.05      Smallholder Arabica coEfee is grown in small stands, on average
about 160 trees per farmer, covering about 0.10 ha, often in several plots.
Although improved in the area of the first project, coffee husbandry is
generally poor, because vital food crop production for subsistence receives
priority over coffee improvement. Fertilizer is only applied in the areas
of the first project but an annual countrywide insect control campaign is
organized and financed by the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(OCIBU). Yields are low, in the region of 450-500 gram of parchment coffee
per tree or 700-800 kg per ha, compared with 2,000-3,000 kg per ha on some
estates in East Africa. Very little applied coffee research has taken place
in Burundi, being mostly limited to fertilizer trials in 1962-66, and more
recently during the first project. Variety trials have been conducted at the
Rubona research station in Rwanda with results applicable to Burundi growing
conditions. Little progress has been made in formulating an agronomic and
entomological research program.
Processing
2.06      Traditionally almost all Arabica coffee is processed by the farmers
themselves. About three quarters of the coffee crop is still pulped by hand
on the farms and the balance is pulped at some 325 hand-pulping centers, con-
sisting of hand-driven disc pulpers and facilities to partially clean the beans,
producing the so-called semi-washed coffee. The pulping centers, established
in the coffee growing areas prior to independence, are now maintained by
OCIBU but frequent break-downs haLve reduced their effectiveness. In general,
coffee quality suffers from indiscriminate picking, poor processing and drying,
and inadequate storage and hulling.
2.07      A first attempt to produce a high quality fully-washed coffee was
made in 1953 when a washing station, equipped with engine-driven pulpers,
washing facilities and oil fired dryers was built at Butegana, near Kayanza,
1/   The following terminology is used in this report:  Cherry, the complete
fruit of the coffee tree, should be picked when it turns red, and nor-
mally contains two beans. These beans are individually covered by
membranes, the silver-skins, and parchment-like shells, all covered by
a mucilaginous substance. Immediately surrounding this is the skin of
the cherry. Skin is removed in the pulping process, and mucilage during
washing and fermentation. Pulped coffee, when dried, is called parchment
coffee. The parchment and silver-skins are removed in hulling factories,
which produce clean or green coffee. All coffee trading is in green
coffee, which is eventually roasted before consumption.



in Ngozi province. The designed capacity was 300 ton of parchment coffee
and because of the distances involved most of the cherries needed to be
transported by road from buying centers to the station. The venture was
not successful; the dryers never performed well and nave long been aban-
doned and cherry transportation turned out to be costly. OCIBU still oper-
ates the station far below its designed capacity but the quality of the
coffee is irregular and ofiten no better than the traditional semi-washed
coffee.
2.08      A second attempt to produce fully-washed coffee was made under the
first project. Four stations with an annual capacity of 125 ton parchment
coffee each, equipped with pre-graders, engine-driven pulpers and facilities
for fermenting, washing, soaking and open air drying have been built, of which
three came into operation only in the 1975 season. Experience obtained so far
is thus very limited and only 40-50 ton were produced by the first station in
each of the 1973 and 1974 seasons. An economic evaluation of the washing
station program originally proposed for this Project, showed an 8% internal
rate of return.  Thus Burundi has yet to establish an economic processing
method to increase the value of coffee exports.
Marketing
2.09      The internal marketing of smallholder parchment coffee is done by
private traders, who are licensed by OCIBU to buy at specified markets, on
certain days. All transactions are in cash but there are no standard weight
controls, and considerable under-weighing is said to exist. The traders
transport the parchment cofEfee to Bujumbura for sale to private exporters,
who arrange for hulling, some in their own mills. After hulling, the green
coffee is bagged and sent ito OCIBU stores where lots are sampled and classified
by grade. OCIBU is responsible for contacts with buyers, preparation of
samples, acceptance of off ers and the issue of export permits. Over 60% of
Burundi's semi-washed coffee is sold in the United States; the Federal
Republic of Germany is the next most important market and in the last two
years the USSR has bought significant amounts. The small quantities of
fully-washed coffee produced so far have been sold in the more quality-con-
scious European market. Growers' prices for parchment coffee, trade and
export commissions, and transport and hulling margins are fixed by the Gov-
ernment Coffee Board each ear before the start of the harvesting season in
relation to the expected world market price.  The farmerst share of gross
earnings from coffee exports varied in most of the past years between 52 and
58% and was an exceptionalLy high 70% in 1969/70 when world market prices were
very low. The cost of processing handling and transport of the coffee to
Dar-es-Salaam was on average about 15% of gross earnings; OCIBU's operational
tax, including provisions for the Stabilization and Promotion Funds, were
about 8% and the balance, about 15-25%, accrued to the Government. The
pricing policy as implemented over recent years, has guaranteed a satisfactory,
stable, price to the farmer, and provided the Government with an important,
although irregular, source of income as it absorbes the wide fluctuations in
export prices.



D. Agricultural Services
2.10      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is primarily responsible
for the provision of services to the agricultural sector. It operates
through 2 departments, Agriculture and Livestock, and through a group of
5 parastatal agencies. The parastatais include separate agencies for the
three export crops: coffee, cotton and tea; an agricultural research insti-
tute and agricultural schools. Total extension staff, all employed by
the Ministry, consists of about 800 workers giving a ratio of one worker
for about 1,000 farmers. The arnual budget of the Ministry is about US$1.5
million or less than 5 percent of the total Goverrnnent budget. A number of
agricultural services and projec:ts are, however, financed with foreign
assistance, not included in the Ministry's budget.
2.11      The three parastatals dealing with coffee, cotton and tea, maintain
their own accounts, but are essentially Government service agents. OCIBU,
the coffee organization, is governed by a Board of Directors, chaired by
the Minister of Agriculture, and the day-to-day operations are overseen
by the Director-General. Its main activities include maintenance of coffee
quality standards, organization of coffee pest control campaigns, maintenance
of communal hand pulping centers, establishment of coffee nurseries, devel-
opment of new export markets, and advising Government on general coffee
matters, in particular producer prices. OCIBU also manages a coffee Price
Stabilization Fund and a Coffee Promotion Fund.
2.12      Additionally OCIBU has been responsible for carrying out the
first coffee improvement project: with headquarters based at Ngozi and using
extension staff which remained fmployed by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Under the project OCIBU's resporLsibilities have been extended to the buy-
ing of coffee cherries from the farmers, the operation and maintenance of
the coffee washing stations and the export of fully washed coffee for its
own account.
2.13      Agricultural research is carried out by the Institut des Sciences
Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU) which is governed similarly to OCIBU. ISABU
operates four experimental stations and supervises and coordinates several
pilot projects for tea production. Due to lack of staff and equipment ISABU
has so far been unable to assigrn personnel exclusively to coffee research.
2.14      There are three agricultural schools and training institutes in
Burundi. The Institut TechniquE Agricole du Burundi (ITAB) at Gitega has
a 4 year course for agronomists. Between 10 and 15 students completed the
course in each of the last 3 years. The capacity of the school has recently
been expanded and the out-turn is expected to increase to about 30 from
1978/79. Another school, the Ec:ole Professionelle Agricole (EPA) at Karuzi,
trains field assistants (moniteurs) and the two year course has an average
out-turn of 25 students every year. A 1-year course for field assistants
is provided at the Rutegama Vocational School; the out-turn is about 20
per year. The entire out-turn is employed by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock.



E. First Coffee Improvement Project
2.15      The first coffee improvement project in Ngozi started in July, 1969,
supported by an IDA credit of US$1.8 million. The project aimed at an in-
crease in the quantity and an improvement of the quality of coffee produced
by about 44,000 farmers by:
(a)  constructing and operating four coffee washing
stations;
(b)  strengthening the extension service through
in-service training of the staff;
(c)  distributing fertilizers and other inputs;
(d)  rehabilitating 80 communal hand pulping
centers; and
(e)  repairing 350 small bridges and culverts on
coffee tracks.
2.16      The project's progress has been unsatisfactory, partly due to its
slow implementation. This has been caused by a number of circumstances,
including the civil strife of 1972, senior staff shortages and changes in
leadership, limited construction capacity in the country, supply delays
and shortages, and lack of coordination both with OCIBU headquarters and
provincial authorities. As a result, the closing date of the project was
postponed in two stages from December 31, 1973 to December 31, 1975.
2.17      At the completion of the project a number of important questions
remain unanswered. Better miulching, clean stumping, pruning and the use
of fertilizers have visibly improved the coffee stands. But it is not
possible to evaluate the project's impact on production, nor to derive an
adequate data base on which to plan follow-up activities since no adequate
arrangements were made to monitor systematically the coffee yields which is
particularly difficult as the harvest is spread over several months and the
yields fluctuate strongly from year to year. This is especially true in
respect of the effects of improved husbandry techniques and fertilizers on
yields, both separately and in combination with each other. The construction
of the first washing station was held up by delays in obtaining materials and
that of the other three stations was delayed pending assessment of the per-
formance of the first. In addition, the first station operated far below its
designed capacity during the past two seasons, as cherry prices were lower
than the relative price for parchment 1/ and farmers preferred to continue
processing the coffee themselves. As a result the washing stations have so
far provided little operational experience. Liquoring tests by brokers in
I/   This has since been corrected for the 1975 season.



-8-
Nairobi, and prices realized for fully-washed coffee produced so far, have
indicated that benefits can be derived from better processing but the quanti-
tites, which have been sold thus far, were too small to give firm evidence
of the amount of premium which may be expected in the future. Finally, the
improvement of hand pulping centers, bridges and culverts has not been
executed due to staff shortages.
2.18      The difficulties of the first project have been taken into account
in the design of the second Project. Construction work would be undertaken
by force account in view of the limited private construction capacity. A new
Project director has been recruaited in 1974 from the IBRD Agriculture Develop-
ment Service (ADS). A coordination committee would be established to improve
communications between the Project and Governmental and provincial authorities
and the services of a team of advisers would be used to help provide answers
to the main questions thrown up by the first project, particularly with re-
spect to coffee processing, coifee husbandry techniques and monitoring of
yields.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The Project area comprises the entire province of Ngozi which is
the center of Burundi's coffee growing region and which produces currently
about 35% of the nation's coffee crop. The provin5e has an estimated
population of about 700,000 persons, or 270 per km . As in other parts
of the country, Ngozi's emigration rate is believed to be high and the
population increase probably does not exceed 1% per year. It is estimated
that the average family comprises 4.7 persons and that there are 150,000
families. Some 97%, or 145,000 families, are engaged in agriculture.
3.02      The Project area is a hilly plateau intersected by marshy valleys
and perennial streams. The altitude of the plateau ranges from 1,500 to
2,000 m with a mountain range in the extreme west of the province running
north/south. Annual rainfall averages 1,200 to 1,500 mm, mainly divided
into a long season (March-May) and a short season (Oct.-Nov.). Annual fluc-
tuations are, however, large and they have a significant effect on crop pro-
duction. Soils are mostly deep and well drained but large tracts on steep
slopes are subject to serious water erosion, aggravated by increased crop
cultivation. A well developed road system provides two all weather gravel
roads across the Project area and in the west the main road Bujumbura-
Kayanza is presently being pavecl. There is a network of secondary roads
and an extensive system of coffee tracks runs roughly along the contours.
The roads are generally satisfactorily maintained with communal labor,
though the maintenance of culverts and bridges is often neglected because
of lack of materials.



-9-
3.03      A typical family holding cultivates 0.75 to 1.0 ha, on average
made up of as many as 20 smanll plots.  Land close to the farmer's house is
permanently cultivated. More distant plots are cultivated for two or three
years and then fallowed but fallow periods are now being reduced as a rhsukt
of population pressure. There are three growing seasons: two on the hills
during the rainy seasons and one in the marshy valley bottoms during the
main dry season. In the past Burundi families grew only food crops for
subsistence but, during the 30 years preceding the country's independence,
coffee was introduced on the majority of the farms. Bananas are also an
important source of cash income for the farmers; in Ngozi sales proceeds
from banana beer are twice as high as those from all other food crops com-
bined. Important food crops include cassava, beans, sweet potatoes, maize
and sorghum; almost all are intercropped. One third of all farmers own
cattle, which are grazed on communal land unsuited for field crops, and
most of the farmers have small livestock such as goats, sheep, chickens,
pigs and rabbits.
3.04      Coffee can be grown in all areas of Ngozi province except for the
western mountain range (Zaire-Nile divide) where the altitudes, exceeding
2,000 m, are too high. Some 110,000 families, or 90% of those living in
the suitable areas, grow colffee, and the total number of trees is estimated
at 17.6 million (11,000 ha) for the whole province. Fertilizer trials con-
ducted in the 1960's as welL as informed local opinion suggest that some
soils, mainly in the eastern and southern parts of the province, are either
of low fertility or not deep enough and that consequently coffee yields are
below average in these areas. Pending completion of a semi-detailed soils
map by ISABU, to be availabLe in 1977, an arbitrary division in "high" and
"low" potential coffee areas has been made for Project purposes. About two
thirds of the coffee is grown in the "high" potential areas and the
balance in the "low" potential areas.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would, over five years, support the development of
smallholder coffee and food crop production in Ngozi province through
distribution of farm inputs and strengthening of extension services. It
would also address a number of fundamental problems concerning the cultivation
and processing of coffee, the expansion of food production, and the organization
of extension services and thu's'''ontribute to the future development of
agricultùral production in ithe country as a whole. Specificially, the Project
would provide for:



- 10 -
(a)  inputs and strengthened extension services to sustain and
extend the improvemerit of coffee cultivation, started under
the first project;
(b) construction of four additional coffee washing stations and
technical assistance for the operation of the four existing
stations and for trials with alternative processing methods;
I (c) staff and equipment for an expanded coffee research program;
(d)  inputs, field trials and extension advice for the cultivation
of food crops;
(e) construction or repair, of potable water sources, bridges
and culverts;
(f) experimental rural de.velopment activities including the
improvement of small livestock, training of draught animals,
the use of water mills and the establishment of farmer
cooperatives; and
(g) a resident management: team of experts backed up by a small
team of international advisers which would at regular in-
tervals assist in formulating work programs and advise on
specific Project problems.
Apart from the coffee research program, which would be implemented by ISABU,
the Project would be carried out by OCIBU. Overall direction of Project
activities would be by a commit:tee of representatives of the Government,
including Project management, and which would be advised by the team of ad-
visers.
B. Detailed Features
Extension Services
4.02      In order to streanlirLe and strengthen extension, the concept of
tw_. different services - one for coffee, established and managed by the first
project, and another for other activities under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture - would. be replaced by a single organization which
would advise on all agricultura.l matters. Coffee extension would be backed
up by the supply of nmdern tools and inputs and would be mainly concentrated
on the areas with a high potential for coffee growing. In the areas with
lower potential, coffee extension work would be less intensive. Food crop
extension advice would be given. to farmers in all areas including the high
altitude western mountain range where no coffee is being grown. Extension
staffing would be as follows:



- 11 -
--------- Proposed Staffing ----------
Existing                   Low Potential
Staffing                   Coffee Areas
Situation  High Potential  and Western       Total
1975    Coffee Areas    Mountain Range  Ngozi
Farm Families                   145,000      85,000             60,000      145,000
- of which growing coffee       110,000      75,000             35,000      110,000
Agricultural Officers                12 /1       13                  6           19
Field Assistants                    109 /1      120                 60          180
Ratio: Farm Families/field
Assistants                     1325/1     700/1              1,000/1       800/1
/1   10 Agricultural officers and 65 field assistants under the first project;
balance under the Min:Lstry of Agriculture.
The agricultural officers would be responsible to the chief extension officer
at Project headquarters.
Distribution of Coffee Inputs and Tools (Annex 1)
4.03      The entomologicaL section of ISABU, to be strengthened under the
research component, in collaboration with the Project's coffee extention sec-
tion, would conduct field itrials with more specific insecticides than DDT,
which is presently used. [t is anticipated that large scale applications
of these insecticides would start as a later stage probably in the third or
the fourth year, and the project would finance the incremental quantities of
these insecticides. Recurrent quantities would, in accordance with present
practice, be financed through OCIBU's operational tax and provided free of
charge to the farmers to assure full coverage of all coffee plantations.
Spraying equipment would also be provided, and organized spraying teams would
systematically treat all coffee trees.
4.04      Under the first project fertilizers have been applied on coffee but
on a much wider basis than originally envîsaged. Available evidence suggests
that fertilizer application on coffee is only justified where coffee is grown
on good soils and where it is properly maintained particularly at the present
high fertilizer prices. Until there is firm evidence of its economic benefits,
the amount of fertilizer alpplication under this Project would be reduced and
restricted to about one-half of the coffee stands in the high potential areas
only. Up to now farmers have contributed very little towards the cost of fer-
tilizer and no revolving fund has been established. The Project would finance



- 12 -
the full cost of fertilizer for the first year and the incremental quantities
thereafter. Government would set. a repayment price for farmers which would
gradually increase but would not exceed a level which deprives them of the
financial incentive to use fertilizers. On present price projections, the
Government subsidy would decline to about 25% of cost by the end of the Pro-
ject. A Government subsidy on fertilizers is justified since the return to
fertilizers for the country as a whole is considerably higher than the return
to the farmers, who receive about. 50-60% of the export value of the coffee.
Repayments by farmers would be made as at present through farmers' groups.
This has been successfully tried out on a limited scale during the 1974 season
and the details may be modified in the light of further experience. The pro-
ceeds of farmers' repayments for fertilizers as for other inputs would be
placed in a revolving fund accourLt to be supplemented by a government subsidy
when necessary. On the basis of current price projections the annual subsidy
would be in the order of about US$50,000 from year 6 onwards. During negotia-
tions an assurance was obtained from the Government that a revolving fund
account would be established by January 31, 1976. In addition the Government
agreed that it would submit proposals to IDA for post-Project arrangements
for the recovery of input costs, including costs of distribution and interest
costs, and the operation of the revolving fund, by December 31, 1979 (See also
Annex 7).
4.05      Simple pruning tools (secateurs and saws) would be made available
at half the cost price. The Project would provide for the replacement of
old and diseased coffee trees with high yielding varieties and also provide
new households with planting material, together estimated at 4% annually
of the existing trees. This is in accordance with Governments' policy and, in
view of the serious population pressure in Ngozi Province, is the maximum level
that can reasonably be sustained without reducing land resources available for
food crop production. An assurance that the planting program would not exceed
the 4% level has been obtained f rom the government during negotiations. In
conformity with present practice the nurseries would be established with com-
munal labor and the Project would. provide for nursery maintenance.
Coffee Processing (Annex 2)
4.06      The Project would provide technical assistance for a three year
period for the operation of the four coffee washing stations built under
the first project. The Project would also support the construction of
four more washing stations during the first two Project years as an extended
trial. The new stations would be simpler than those built previously and at
the end of the trial period more precise information would be available on the
construction costs of the new stations and on the operating results of the
existing four.  The Project would also assess alternative processing methods
and maintain the existing 150 hand-pulpers. OCIBU would formulate proposals
for the future processing of coffee and would discuss these with IDA by Decem-
ber 31, 1977. An assurance to this effect has been obtained during negotia-
tions.



- 13 -
Coffee Research Program (Annex 1)
4.07      The Project would support a strengthened ISABU coffee research
program which would focus on insect and disease problems and on husbandry
techniques applicable to smallholders, including further trials with chemical
fertilizers. The Project would finance salaries and housing and transport
costs of two internationally recruited research officers who would be sup-
ported by Burundi counterpart staff. The Project would also provide for the
necessary scientific equipment for the laboratories now being constructed
with Belgian aid in Bujumbura.
Food Production (Annex 4)
4.08      The Project would support a number of activities aimed at an
increase in the level of food production and soil conservation. In view
of the limited local experience with improved production techniques only
an indicative description of the types of activities can be given; the
program would be reviewed each year in consultation with the international
team of advisers (paragraph 4.13). Following positive experience with multi-
plication and distribution of improved seeds under similar conditions in
neighboring Rwanda, two seed multiplication farms would be established, main-
ly for maize but possibly also for beans, sweet potatoes, cassava, ground-
nuts and soybeans. Following on the encouraging results of the FAO supported
food crop fertilizer trials, fertilizers would be made available, in the
first place for maize, but possibly also for high altitude crops - potatoes
and wheat. The extension services would encourage the establishment of
setaria grass hedges against water erosion, drainage of the marshes and the
use of farm yard manure on the fields. Multiplication fields for setaria
grass would be established by the Project to provide farmers with initial
planting material.
4.09      The terms of sale fEor fertilizers to be applied on food crops
would essentially be the same as for fertilizers for coffee and thus involve
a gradually decreasing subsidy. Limited quantities would be distributed free
of charge for demonstration purposes to farmers who would for the first time
apply fertilizers on their food crops. To discourage domestic consumption of
improved seeds and pending further experience on the costs of production and
distribution of seeds, sales prices would be about 10% higher than prevailing
market levels. As no permanent arrangements have been worked out yet (see
paragraph 4.04) the distribution of fertilizers and other inputs, involving
deferred payments, would initially be restricted to farmers who also grow
coffee - the large majority -- and their contributions towards the costs of
the inputs would be collected after the coffee harvest.
Water Supply
4.10      Between 200 and 300 natural springs have been tapped and protected
with concrete linings betweer 1949 and 1964 but most of these springs are
out of use because of poor maintenance. The Project would rehabilitate these
springs and protect others which so far have not been tapped.



- 14 -
Bridges and Culverts
4.11      There exists a dense network of roads and tracks in the Project area
and no further investments are required to expand the system. Road mainte-
nance is adequately carried out through communal work but some 300-400 bridges
and culverts are poorly maintai:xed.  The Project would provide the necessary
materials for their reconstruction which would be carried out with communal
labor.
Experimental Rural Development Activities
4.12      The Project would assist in improving the production of livestock
mainly by the distribution of irmproved breeding stock of sheep, goats, rabbits
and possibly poultry. Other activities would be: training of cattle for
draught purposes; installation and operation of grain mills using perennial
streams as the source of power; cultivation of vegetables in the marshes;
and establishment of farmers cooperatives. Disbursements for this component
would be conditional on the preparation of detailed proposals, acceptable to
IDA, regarding these activities.
Training
4.13      A priority need in Burundi is for practical on the job training and
motivation of extension staff. Accordingly under the Project the management
would have specific responsibility for training counterparts. In particular
the internationally recruited coffee and food crop officers would train exten-
sion workers through introductory courses for new staff and regular, compre-
hensive, training programs for existing staff. Each year some ten staff
metbers would visit other East African countries which have advanced experience
in coffee. The Project would also acquire and operate a vehicle, with loud-
speaker and projector, to support extension work.
Team of Advisers (Annex 11)
4.14      Agricultural development in Burundi in general and a number of Pro-
ject components in particular - notably coffee processing and cultivation, and
food crop and livestock development - require a large amount of further prac-
tical experimentation and sound detailed planning because previous experience
with these activities is limited. As the main responsibility of the resident
Prc5ect management team members would be to manage the day-to-day affairs of
the Project, which would not allow them to keep regularly in touch with re-
levant developments in other countries, there is a clear need for back-up
expert guidance. The Project would therefore provide for a small, broadly
experienced, internatîonally recruited team of advisers (about three persons)
which would visit Burundi at regular intervals (twice in the first year, once
or twice in the following years) for periods of about 2-3 weeks each. The



- 15 -
team would have general discussions with Government on the possibilities and
priorities for agricultural development, and would help formulate detailed
work programs for the Project, monitor its progress and advise on its problens.
This would include recommen,dations for specific studies by ad-hoc specialists,
when appropriate; a provision for this has been included in the Project. As-
surances were obtained duriing negotiations that the qualifications and expe-
rience of the team members and the terms and conditions of their service would
be acceptable to the Association. They should have a wide experience under
conditions similar to those in Burundi, and should serve for at least
three years to assure continuity of advice. A total of about 15 man-months
of consultants services, covering both the team and ad-hoc specialists, is
provided for under the Project.
Environmental Aspects
4.15      The Project would rehabilitate and protect natural springs to provide
the rural population with safe drinking water. Mulching of coffee trees and
the establishment of setaria grass hedges would reduce the risk of soil ero-
sion. The Project's research component would recommend appropriate coffee
insecticides with the minimlum adverse environmental effects and would also
maintain close contacts with research work, currently carried out in Kenya,
on the water pollution hazard associated with the coffee washing process.
C. Project Costs (Annex 6)
4.16      Total Project cost including contingencies is estimated at FBu 591
million (US$7.5 million) andi the foreign exchange component is estimated at
57%. Detailed cost items are estimated as follows:



- 16 -
--- FBu' 000 -------  ------ US$'000 -----   Foreign
Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total        %
Agricultural Services    108,506   79,664  188,170  1,385   1,017   2,402    42
Coffee Processing           7,760   18,680   26,440       99     238      337    71
Coffee Research             9,915   35,705   45,620    126       456      582    78
Construction, Equipment,
Bridges, Water Supply    5,280    7,620  ---12,900      68      97      165 c2 '60
Project Management         29,050   76,585  105,635    371       977   1,348    73
Technical Advice and
Monitoring                7,403   13,912   21,315       94     178      272 %  65
Administrative and
Technical Services       15,672   13,038   28,710    200       166      366    45
Base Costs                183,586  245,204  428,790  2,343   3,129   5,472    57
Physical Contingencies      9,179   12,260   21,439    117        156     273    57
Price Contingencies        60,452   80,133  140,585    771   1,023   1,794    57
Project Cost with
Contingencies           253,217  337,597  590,814  3,231   4,308   7,539    57
Costs have been estimated at mid 1975 prices and cover capital and incremental
operating costs. To provide a complete Project the costs also include the
non-incremental operating costs of the existing coffee extension staff as
under the Project their effectiveness would be increased and their activities
extended to include food crop extension work as well. A physical contingency
of 5% has been included in the total Project cost. Price contingencies have
been calculated at the following rates: vehicles, equipment and operating
costs 11% in 1975/76, 9% in 1976/77, and 8% in 1977/78 - 1979/80; construction
works 15% in 1975/76, 13% in 1976/77, and 12% in 1977/78 - 1979/80; wages
and salaries 10% throughout the Project period. No taxes or duties are
payable except for the taxes on local salaries which are insignificant.
D. F_nancing
4.17      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:



- 17 -
FBu       US$             % of
(million) (million)       Total Cost
IDA                       408       5.2              69
Kuwait Fund                94        1.2             16
Government                 89        1.1             15
Total                591       7.5            100
The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is expected to finance 85% of
the costs of the construction of the additional coffee washing stations, and
the coffee research and water supply and road construction components of the
Project. IDA would finance 85% of the costs of the other components, or all
foreign exchange costs (US$3.2 million) and about 68% of local costs of the
components concerned. The proposed Kuwait Fund loan would be for 25 years at
3% interest and the proposed IDA credit of US$5.2 million on standard terms to
the government. The Government would make available the proceeds of the IDA
credit and the Kuwait Fund Loan and its own contribution to OCIBU which would
reimburse ISABU for the expenses incurred in carrying out the research compo-
nent of the Project. Because OCIBU and ISABU would act as Government agencies
in carrying out the Project, the allocations would be free of interest and
would cover 100% of all Project expenditures. In view of the anticipated time
lag of about six months between depletion of funds of the first project and
the start of the proposed Project retroactive financing is proposed in an
estimated amount of US$0.5 mil:Lion for expenses incurred after January 1, 1975.
Effectiveness of the Kuwait Funid Loan would be a condition of the effective-
ness of the proposed IDA credit.
E. Procurement
4.18      Fertilizers and pesticides (US$0.6 million) would be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Vehicles, farm tools and miscellaneous equipment and materials (US$0.5 million)
would be procured locally in accordance with normal Government procedures
which are satisfactory; essential service and satisfactory competition is
available from local representatives of foreign suppliers. As the construction
of civil works in scattered locations throughout the remote Project area is
unlikely to attract foreign bids and local private construction capacity is
very limited, the construction of staff housing, offices and stores (US$0.5
million) would be undertaken by force account; building materials would be
procured locally in accordance with normal Government procedures. Assurances
to the above have been obtained during negotiations.



- 18 -
F. Disbursement
4.19      Disbursement of funds from the credit account would be on the fol-
lowing basis:
(a)  100% of cif and 70% of local costs of equipment, vehicles
and farm inputs, including fertilizers and pesticides,
(b)  100% of cif or 70% of local costs of construction materials,
equipment and furniture for houses, office, and stores;
(c)  70% of total cost of civil works for houses, offices,
stores;
(d)  100% of foreign exchange and 70% of local costs of salaries
and wages of staff an,l operating costs of units employed
or created under the Project.
(e)  100% of foreign exchange and 70% of local costs of live-
stock, materials, equ:Lpment and other inputs for the
experimental rural development program.
All Project cost items are detailed in Annex 6. Disbursements would be fully
documented. The estimated schectule of disbursement is at Annex 9. Any funds
remaining in the Credit account at the end of the Project would be reallocated
at the discretion of the Association.
G. Acccunts and Audits
4.20      Accounts, which would reflect the costs of the various Project
components, would be maintained by the Project's administrative and accounting
unit. OCIBU's full accounts, including separate accounts for Project expend-
itures, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Assurances on the above have been obtained during negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization (Annex 5)
5.01      OCIBU would be responsLble for implementing the Project, except for
the research component which wouLd be executed by ISABU. OCIBU would exercise
its responsibility through the Project Department which was established to
implement the first coffee improvement project. The Project manager, would,
as director of the Project Depart:ment, report to the Director-General of OCIBU.



- 19 -
The Project would be administered through four divisions covering respectively,
agricultural services, coffee processing, construction and technical services,
and administrative and accounting services.
5.02      The Government has agreed to establish a committee composed of the
Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning,
the Director-Generals of OCIBU and ISABU, the President of the Central Bank,
the Governor of Ngozi province and the Project manager to coordinate and super-
vise all Project activities. The committee would meet regularly, at least
4 times per year, to discuss detailed work programs and budgets and to review
the Project's progress and problems. The committee would work closely with
the team of advisers which would provide technical guidance for the Project.
The committee would meet the team at the end of each visit to discuss the
team's findings and recommendations.
5.03      During the first year the Project would require seven internationally
recruited senior staff, including two for the coffee research component. Of
these, three are already in place, i.e., the Project manager - recruited from
the IBRD Agriculture Development Service (ADS) -, a coffee processing officer
and a construction officer. A coffee extension officer has been recruited
and will take up his position shortly. The two research officers, and a
financial controller remain to be recruited. The government agreed during
negotiations that the services of a food crop extension officer, presently
employed in Burundi under a bilateral arrangement with the Belgian Government
would be made available for the Project during the first Project year and that
before September 30, 1976 the government will examine with the Association the
steps to be taken to assure the full time presence in the project of a food
crop specialist. In years 2, 3, 4 and 5 the number of internationally re-
cruited staff would be 8, 7, 6, and 6 respectively. During negotiations it
was agreed that appointments to these posts and any subsequent reappointment
would be made in consultation with the Association. Most of the senior
counterpart positions are already filled under the first project and no major
difficulties are expected in finding candidates for the remaining posts.
Management and Senior Staff
5.04      The Project manager would specifically concern himself with the
implementation, coordination and evaluation of all Project activities. He
would prepare working documents to be discussed by the coordinating committee,
and would direct a small group of enumeratots which would collect relevant
data, especially on crop yields. He would be assisted by a Burundi deputy-
manager who is also already in place.



- 20 -
5.05      The agricultural services division has an experienced Burundi
chief appointed under the first project. He would be assisted by the coffee
and food crops specialists, who would be responsible for training of Burundi
extension staff, for the establishment of demonstration plots and for the
organization of the distribution of farm inputs.
5.06      The senior coffee pro-essing officer and his Burundi deputy (also
in place), would be responsible for the operation of the coffee washing
stations and for experiments with alternative processing methods. They
would collect and interpret data on technical and organizational aspects
relevant to the economic assessinent of various alternatives.
5.07      The financial controlLer and his Burundi deputy would be in charge
of the administrative and accounting services. They would give particular
attention to financial evaluation aspects of the Project. The financial
controller would also assist OCtBU headquarters with the organization of
their accounts when appropriate. The construction officer would be in charge
of all Project construction act:Lvities.
Junior Staff
5.08      The number of agricultural officers would be increased from the
present 12 to 19 from year 4 onwards. The posts would be filled with graduates
from ITAB at Gitega. A total oi- 109 agricultural assistants were employed
in Ngozi province in 1975, of whom 41 were graduates of the Karuzi or
Rutegama agricultural schools; an additional 71 extension workers would be
required by year 4 when the extension serives would be at full strength.
The annual out-turn of graduates from the Karuzi and Rutegama schools is
estimated to be sufficient for Burundi's foreseeable agricultural development
needs. The basic agricultural education of all staff would be supplemented
by in-service training under the guidance of the Project's two extension
officers.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND
EFFECTS ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
A. Yields and Production
Coffee (Annex 1)
6.01      Project activities aimed at the improvement of insect controls
pruning and mulching techniques in all coffee growing areas of Ngozi province
and the application of fertilizers in the high potential areas are estimated
to increase the coffee parchment production as follows:



- 21 -
Without Project    With Project
Number   Coffee   Number    Yield   Produc-  Yield  Produc-
of     Area      of        per    tion      per   tion
Coffee            Trees      Tree              Tree
Growers
(ha)   (million)  (gram)   (ton)   (gram) (ton)
/1
Area First Project   52,000    5,200    8.32        515-   4,285    575   4,784
Other High Potential 23,000    2,300    3.68        475     1,748    575   2,116
Areas
Low Potential Areas  35,000    3,500    5.60        425     2,380    450   2,520
Total          110,000   11,000   17.60                8,413           9,420
/1   Without the services provided by the Project (extension services, dis-
tribution of fertilizers) the present average yield of 550 gram per
tree would decline to 515 gram.
At full development (year 7) the incremental production for the whole pro-
vince would be about 1,000 t:on parchment coffee (800 ton green coffee). The
above estimates take into account the experience under the first project
and are lower than previously forecast.
Food Crops (Annex 4)
6.02      An estimated 6,000 farmers would increase their maize production
from 1,100 to 1,300 kg per ha through the use of improved seed and some
2,000 of these farmers wouldl further increase their yields to 2,200 kg
per ha through fertilizer application. The incremental maize production
would amount to 750 ton from year 5. No projections have been made for
crops other than maize since little local experience has so far been
gained with food crop development activities; shifts in emphasis may occur
during Project implementation.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 3)
6.03      Coffee marketing would continue through private traders and
exporters with grading and licensing of all exports carried out by OCIBU,
as at present. The existing arrangement whereby prices of parchment
coffee and of coffee cherrie;s are fixed each year by the Coffee Board in
relation to the expected world market price, would remain unchanged.
Prices for Burundi's semi-washed coffee fob Dar-es-Salaam, were on average
about 55 US cts/lb in 1972/73, increased subsequently to about 70 cts in
early 1974 and dropped thereafter sharply to about 40 cts in late 1974 and
early 1975. A recovery to 50 cts in 1975, followed by increases to 76 cts in
1978 and 78 US cts/lb in 1985 (constant 1975 prices), is expected on the basis



- 22 -
of IBRD's price forecast. 1/ The growers price for parchment coffee was
increased from FBu 34/kg in 1972, to FBu 38/kg in 1973, and to FBu 45/kg in
1974; the farmers share of gross earnings from coffee exports was about 55%
during those yeare (see also para 2.09). Incremental food crop production
would mainly be consumed by farla familles and no special marketing arrange-
ments are envisaged.
C. Farmers' Benefits (Annex 10)
6.04      Improved insect contrDl techniques are expected to reduce pro-
duction losses on all 110,000 coffee farms in Ngozi province. The majority
of the growers would also improve mulching and pruning techniques and about
half of the farmers in the high potential areas would use fertilizers.
Individual yield estimates for ,each of these improvements, or combinations
thereof, cannot be precisely forecast.  However, based on average yield
increases estimated in paragraph 6.01, it is expected that average cash
incomes from coffee would improve as follows:
Without      With          Incremental
Project    Project
(FBu)      (FBu)    FBu    US$   Percentage
Area First Project       3,630       3,930    300    3.80        8
Other High Potential    3,345        3,930    585    7.50       17
Areas
Low Potential Areas      2,990       3,170    180    2.30        6
The expected average incremental cash incomes are relatively modest reflect-
ing the small area of coffee trees owned by the typical Ngozi farmer
(0.1 ha). Variations in incremental cash incomes are however expected to
be substantial, not only for farmers located in the different areas but
also for farmers wîthin a particular area, depending on the extent to which
they adopt the improved techniques. Farmers who effectively combine all
new activities could achieve incremental cash incomes which are double those
indicated above. Faced with little risks, it is thus considered that
sufficient incentives exist for farmers to adopt many of the innovations.
6.05      Improved maize seed would increase the net value of the production
of some 6,000 farmers from about 0.25 ha by about FBu 565 (US$7) and some
2,000 of these farmers would further increase their incomes by FBu 1,550
(US$20) through fertilizer application on their maize. Farmers in the
1J   This forecast was made before the July 1975 sharp increase in prices
following reports of a severe frost in Brazil. The forecast has recently
been updated and the new projections indicate prices which are about 20%
higher in the coming three vears, 10% higher in 1980 and 6% lower in
1985, compared with the premious forecast.



- 23 -
high potential coffee areas who combine coffee improvement with the use
of selected seed and fertilizers for maize would increase the net value
of their total production by about FBu 2,750 (US$35) from FBu 26,000 (US$332)
to about FBu 28,750 (US$367), an increase of about 11%.
D. Effects on Governnent Budget (Annex 8)
6.06      The cumulative Government cash flow arising out of the Project would
be positive from year 4. From that year Government would build up a cumulative
surplus, reaching a peak of FBu 53 million (US$0.7 million) in year 10, and
thereafter gradually declining to FBu 23 million (US$0.3 million) in year 25
with the increase in the IDA Credit debt service. The annual cost of con-
tinued extension and other services to the Project area from year 6 onwards
amounts to FBu 39 million (US$50.5 million) and has been included in the cash
outflow. The annual cash inflow consists of incremental revenue from coffee
in the form of Government and OCIBU taxes on exports. The Government cash
flow shows the aggregate position for both the Government and OCIBU. No
separate cash flow has been calculated for OCIBU since this is regarded as a
Government agency and because its costs will be reimbursed by Government.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION (Annex 12)
7.01      The chief benefits of the Project would be increased production
of coffee and food crops and an improvement in the quality of the coffee
processed in the washing stations. The annual increase in coffee production
brought about by the Project at full development is estimated at 800 ton
green coffee with a gross value of US$1.35 million at constant 1975 IBRD
forecast prices. The incremental value of a further 800 ton of fully-washed
green coffee, representing the production of four existing and four proposed
washing stations, is expected to be,US$135,000 annually at full development
on the basis of a 10% premium for fully-washed over semi-washed coffee.
The increase in food crop production is expected to be about 750 ton of
maize valued at aboutiUS$75,000.  Production of other food crops and of
small livestock is also likelv to increase but these cannot be quantified.
The same applies for the additional benefits to the coffee industry as a
whole to be expected from the expanded research program.  About 110,000
farmers are expected to benefit from the Project.
7.02      The economic rate of return of the whole Project is estimated at
21% with foreign exchange valued at 20% above the official exchange rate,
reflecting more accurately the value of foreîgn exchange to Burundi. Without
shadow pricing of foreign exchange the rate of return would be 17%. The
coffee research program, the experimental rural development activities and
improved water supply facilities were not included in the calculations as



- 24 -
their benefits cannot be estimated. Costs and benefits from the coffee pro-
cessing component have been included in the rate of return calculation of
the whole Project, together with those for the agricultural services component
which comprises both coffee and food crop development.  The rate of return
for the latter component is estirnated at 24% with shadow pricing of foreign
exchange and at 20% without. The rate of return of the coffee processing
component is tentatively estimated at 9%. Although this is low the component
has been included in the Project as an extended trial to test a number of
assumptions which are important l'or future investment decisions. Taking into
account that Ngozi province is overpopulated, that no significant alternative
employment opportunities exist, and that the development activities require
only a small amount of additional work by the farm families, incremental
on-farm labor requirements have not been costed.
7.03      The Project's main risk is that coffee prices would be less than
forecast. A reduction of benefits of 20% because of lower prices or lower
yields would reduce the rate of return to 11%. A further reduction to
7% would occur if costs were also to increase by 10%.
7.04      Since the possibilities to grow other cash crops than coffee are
very limited for the large majority of Burundi's smallholder farmers and
the anticipated incremental production would be too small to effect world
market coffee prices, the introduction of improved cultivation techniques to
increase the productivity of smallholder coffee is justified.
7.C5      In accordance with present practices farmers' share of the gross
earnings from incremental coffee production can be expected to be in the
range of 55-60%. The benefits from incremental food crop production would
entirely accrue to the participating farmers. There are no significant dif-
ferences in income between various segments of the Burundi rural population
and the benefits of the Project would be fairly evenly distributed over all
farm families in Ngozi province. Farmers will also benefit from improvements
to rural water supplies which would have a significant effect on the health
of the local population.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government in
the following principal points:
(a)  the proceeds of farmers' repayments for fertilizers and
other inputs would be placed in a revolving fund account
to be established by Jarnuary 31, 1976, and that Government
would submit detailed proposals to the Association for
permanent arrangements Eor the recovery of input costs
and the operation of the revolving fund by December 31, 1979
(paragraphs 4.04 and 4.09);



- 25 -
(b) replacement of old coffee trees and supplementary plantings
for new households would together not exceed the level of
4% of existing plantations annually (paragraph 4.05);
(c)  Government would formulate proposals for the future processing
of coffee and would discuss these with the Association by
December 31, 1977 (paragraph 4.06);
(d) Government would agree to establish a team of visiting
advisers and to appoint ad-hoc consultants for specific
studies, all of wh,Dse qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of iemployment would be satisfactory to
the Association (paragraph 4.14);
(e) Government would appoint a coordinating committee which
would meet regularLy to discuss working programs, annual
budgets and the Project's progress and problems (paragraph
5.02); and
8.02      A condition of disbursement on account of expenditures for the acti-
vities under the experimental rural development program would be the submission
of detailed proposals, accept:able to the Association, for the activities to be
undertaken in this component (paragraph 4.12).
8.03      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit would be
effectivenes6 of the Kuwait Fund loan (para. 4.17).
8.04      Subject to the above assurances the Project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$5.2 million to the Government of Burundi.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND CCOFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Coffee Growing and Research
A. Achievements of the First Project
1.        The appraisal of the first project assumed that the average yields
of 7 million coffee trees owned by 44,000 farmers in Ngozi province would
increase from an estimated base line level of 425 gram of parchment coffee
per tree to 625 gram, mainly through improved insect control, better pruning
practices and mulching. A further increase to 825 gram parchment per tree
would be achieved on 50% of the trees which would receive urea applications
at a rate of 140 gram per tree per annum.
Husbandry Techniques
2.        Growing practices appear to have improved during the implementation
of the project and there is a visible difference in coffee stands inside and
outside the project area. Insect control measures consist of two applications
of DDT-Malathion against the Antestia bug which can cause considerable losses.
The campaign against this insect is carried out nationwide by OCIBU but the
effectiveness inside the Project area seems to be higher than outside. About
2.5 to 3.5 Antestia per tree were counted in 1972-74 inside the project area
whereas some 6 to 9 Antestia were found in other areas of Ngozi province.
Some 165 to 170 ton of DDT-Malathion were distributed in the project both in
1972 and 1973 which amounts to an average of 20 gram per tree. It is reported,
however, that an unknown, but probably sizeable proportion is used by the
farmers in their homes rather than on their coffee trees. On a national scale
insect damage because of Antestia has been higher in 1972 and 1973 than in
the two previous years. The proportion of healthy beans decreased from about
75% to 55%-60%.
3.        Pruning techniques have improved but are still far from satisfac-
tory. Before the project started 20% of the coffee trees were pruned annually
irrespective of the stand of the trees at that moment. All stems were cut
down at the same time and it took close to two years before the trees started
producing again. Under the project, pruning is done on a more selective base
but still at least two of the three stems are cut down before new shoots are
allowed to develop.
4.        Mulching appears to be the area where the project has been most
successful and this is now done in a satisfactory manner on more than half
of the plantations. Banana, beans and maize residues are customarily used
for mulching purposes and the project has successfully grown and distributed
Trypsacum laxum grass plants to supplement the natural trash.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        Chemical fertilizers have been distributed on a large scale during
the first project as shown in the following table:
Quantity of
Number of Fanners    Number of Trees             Fertilizers
Year    Month       Total    Pro-:or-     Total  Propor-         Total   Per Tree
under     tion        under   tion                   Fertilized
Project   Using       Project Fertil-
Adminis-  Fertil-    Adminis- ized
tration   izers       tration
('000)   (%)           (ton)    (gram)
1969   November      7,000     62         1,300    36              59        126
1970   April        14,000     9(         2,300    68             170        108
November    28,000      82         4,400    73            224         70
1971   April        43,000      76        6,900    69             332        70
November    47,000      7i         7,700    62            336         70
1972   April        50,000     69         8,000    70             368        65
November    51,000      80         8,250    77            439         70
1973   April        51,500      83        8,300    75             428        69
November    52,000      70         8,460    56            317         67
1974   April        52,000     53         8,460    44             386        104
The number of farmers using fertilizers has consistently been higher than
anticipated and the same is true for the number of trees fertilized, except
for the April 1974 season when farmers had to pay for fertilizers for the
first time. The application rate has always been in the region of 65-70 gram
per tree per season (or 135-140 gram per year), except for the first crop year
and the April 1974 season when higher rates were given. Throughout the project
period urea was applied, except in April 1974 when about half of the supply
consisted of compound NPK 20.10.10 fertilizer. According to ISABU, continuous
applications of pure nitrogen fertilizers result in decreasing yields because
of shortages of other nutrients. Therefore a NPK 20.10.10 application was
recommended once every three years. In November 1974 no fertilizers were
distributed; OCIBU had received only one bid and the price of US$445 per ton
urea, fob Kigoma, was considered to be too high.  FAO, however, supplied 500
tons of urea at a subsidized price of US$120 per ton cif Bujumbura in early
1975 and about half of this consignnent was distributed to some 23,000 farmers
in April 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Yields
6.        Unfortunately it is impossible to determine the effect of the first
project in terms of production increases because yields have not been moni-
tored in a systematic manner. The available production statistics for the
country as a whole suggest that the average annual production of parchment
coffee over the last 5 years was in the region of 25,000 ton. It is further
estimated that the total number of coffee trees, including young and unpro-
ductive trees, was about 50 million during the same period but the margin
of error is considerable. The average production per tree in Burundi would
thus be in the region of 500 gram parchment per year. A proper break-down
of yields according to growing areas is not available, but the quantities
of parchment purchased in the coffee buying centers over the years 1969-1972
suggest that the production per tree in the whole of Ngozi province was
about 20 gram above the national average of 500 gram. The yield figures
prepared by project managemenit for the area of the first project are scanty
and conflicting. According to one set of figures based on yield data col-
lected over a 5-year period oin only 12 coffee plantations, good quality
stands with fertilizer appliciations would have yielded about 480 gram per
tree and without fertilizer 370 gram. Poor quality stands, either with or
without fertilizers, produced less than 200 gram per tree. These figures
suggest very low average yields in the project and these cannot be reconciled
with the best estimates of the national coffee production. In a draft paper
on the second Project prepared by project management, the average yield per
tree in the whole province was estimated at 500 gram and the yield in the
area of the first project at 600 gram per tree. These estimates are probably
more accurate.
7.        It is clear that in the absence of reliable yield figures for the
project as a whole, any attempt to disentagle the effects that improved
husbandry practices and the use of fertilizer might have had on the yields
would be subject to a large amount of speculation. It is, however, clear
that the appraisal estimates for the first project--200 gram yield increase
through better husbandry techniques and an additional 200 gram increase per
tree from fertilizer--were too optimistic. Information available to the
appraisal mission for the first project consisted mainly of the results of
fertilizers trials which were conducted by ISABU during 1962-1966. Since
the appraisal of the first project, little additional information has been
gathered. A new series of fertilizer trials has been undertaken in Ngozi
province during the last three years but a full five-year pruning cycle is
required as a minimum to produce meaningful results.
8.        A closer look at the 1962-1966 trials, which were conducted in 6
different locations inside Ngozi Province, leads to the conclusion that
yields vary considerably, whether or not fertilizers are applied. The impor-
tant determining factors appear to be location and type of soil, the standard
of maintenance of the plantations, the stage in the pruning cycle and weather
conditions. The average yield of all control plots (without fertilizers)
over the 5 year period was about 680 gram parchment per tree. But the annual



ANNEX 1
Page 4
averages on the trial with the highest production--just north of Ngozi town--
varied between 429 gram (1965) and 1,670 gram (1964) per tree.  Those on the
trial with the lowest production--in the eastern part of the province--varied
between 79 gram (1963) and 748 gram (1962) per tree.
9.        Different types and quantities of fertilizers applied to the trials
in the 6 different locations over the 1962-66 period resulted in an average
yield increase of 170 gram--from 680 to 850 gram per tree.  But the following
table shows that there are differences between the six trials as far as the
ratios between incremental yields and quantities of N fertilizers are concerned:
Ratio
Average Fertilizer         Parchment Yield per    Incremental
Location /1         per Tree (gram)              Tree (gram)              Yield
N   P2         K    Control      With      Incre-       N
Fertilizer  mental
Kayanza-Kabuya        94       -      108     860         977         117      1.2
North of Ngozi        94    180       108     812       1,079         267      2.8
Buyongwe Valley       47    240       108     852         971         119      2.5
Hill Kilemba          47    240       108     677         849         172      3.6
East of Ngozi         94    240         -     360         519         159      1.7
Muhinga               94    240         -     546         719         173      1.8
/l   The results of the Kayanza-Fabuye trials cover a 3-year period (1962-64)
only; the trial was abandoned in 1965 because farmers allegedly refused
to cooperate. The other trials were conducted during a 5-year period from
1962-1966.
Three trials had ratios of 2,5 to 3.5 gram incremental parchment coffee for
1 gram of N fertilizers and the cther 3 had ratios of less than 2.0. Only a
small effect of potash was observed in the trials and there were no indica-
tions that phosphate applications contributed to the yields. Trials which
were conducted from 1968-1974 under comparable conditions at the Rubona
research station in Rwanda with N fertilizers showed responses of 2.5-3.0
gram of parchment for 1 gram of N fertilizers only.  The appraisal mission of
the first project estimated that 140 gram urea would give an incremental yield
of 200 gram which implies a ratio between incremental yield and N fertilizers
of 3/1. It is difficult to justify such a response in view of the trial
results and a response ratio of 1.5-2.0/1 seems to be a more realistic estimate.
The available information does hcwever make clear that fertilizers should only
be applied in areas where soil ccnditions are favorable and the standard of
husbandry (mulching, pruning, insect control) is good. This, of course,
becomes increasingly necessary w.en the prices of fertilizers rise more than
those of coffee.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
10.       Furthermore, taking into account that large scale fertilization of
roughly one half of the coffee trees in the first project has started around
1971 and that it takes a few years before yields increase significantly, the
following estimates should not be too far off the mark:  before the first
project 475 gram parchment per tree and at the end of the first project 550
gram.
B. Objectives of the Second Project
Project Area
11.       The second Project would cover the entire province of Ngozi, includ-
ing the area of the first project. It is estimated that some 110,000 farmers
in the province grow coffee. On average, each farmer has about 160 trees
and the total number of coffee trees in the province can thus be estimated
at 17.6 million. Both the 1962-66 fertilizer trials and informed local
opinion suggest, however, that a fair proportion of these trees are grown
under marginally suitable conditions. Soils are a major determining factor
in this respect and it is known that some soils are either too poor or not
deep enough to allow for a profitable coffee crop. For planning purposes,
it has been estimated that about 12 million coffee trees are grown in "high
potential" areas and the remaining 5.6 million in "low potential" areas.
The high potential areas include the entire area of the first project, which
has about 8.3 million coffee trees, and areas mainly to the west of the first
project with some 3.7 million coffee trees. The low potential areas are
located mainly in the southern and eastern parts of the province.
12.       It is recognized that the basis for the division of the provinces
in high and low potential areas is rather arbitrary. A semi-detailed soils
map, which will probably be available in 1977, should be helpful in deter-
mining the areas with a good potential for coffee growing. But for the
purpose of this appraisal the division into "high" and "low" potential areas
is the best that can be made at this time. The high potential areas would
receive more attention than the low potential areas. The use of chemical
fertilizers would be restricted to the high potential areas only, but the
standard of insect control would be about the same in both areas.
Coffee Pruning
13.       The current system of pruning in Burundi is a three stem system run
over a 5 year period. In t:he first year of the cycle two of the three old
stems on the tree are cut off and four or five new suckers are allowed to
grow. In the second year, the best three suckers are selected, the other
suckers and the remaining old stem are removed. In the following three years
only new suckers and the lower lateral branches are removed. The chief dis-
advantage of this system is that it lowers production by about 30% in the



ANNEX 1
Page 6
first year and by about 90% in i:he second year. There are also in some areas
of Ngozi province marked biennial bearing patterns which are often associated
with unsuitable pruning systems. A more suitable pruning system, that has
been proven in neighboring couni:ries, is one which allows new suckers to
grow in the 5th year. In the following year, the first year of the cycle,
one of the old stems (or two, ii1 they are both weak and bent over and give
a little promise of a good crop` are removed and the best three suckers are
selected, and all other suckers are removed. Lateral branches on the old
stem are "handled out" or thinned by the removal of their unproductive
tertiaries and twigs to allow more light into the center of the tree, and
the lowest lateral branches are removed to give more space and light to the
suckers. In the second year theb last of the old stems is removed so that
in the following years all the crop will be on the new younger stems; these
are again "handled out" each year and lateral branches raised and thinned.
The overall principle of this system is no more complicated than that al-
ready practised .and there is no good reason why such a system could not be
adopted on the advice of the coffee agronomist to be appointed to the project.
Farmers are already used to the idea of pruning coffee and are issued with
secateurs, the most important tcols, which are at present under-utilized,
so no radically new techniques bave to be learned--although later, as farmers
become more experienced, the system can be further improved to become a little
more sophisticated. The advantage of a system such as this over the exist-
ing one is that yields are kept at a more constant level over the whole
pruning cycle so that the yield pattern does not give the very marked decline
in the second year as is the present pattern in Burundi.
Mulching
14.       The purposes of mulchirig are four-fold:
(a) to add organic matter to the soil;
(b) to reduce soil temperature and to conserve moisture in
the soil during dry weather;
(c) to control weed growth; and
(d)  to control soil erosion.
Mulching has been practiced in coffee in Burundi for several years and was
given considerable emphasis during the first coffee project. As a result,
standards of mulching in the Proiect area are high and are well above the
standards in coffee outside. In the Project area mulching is better in
coffee fields along tracks than in the fields away from tracks.
15.       Because of the pressure on land in Ngozi province, farmers are
not able to find enough natural mulclling material. To alleviate this prob-
lem, the first project distribute.d slips of Tripsacum laxum (Guatemala grass)
from which farmers can grow theitr own future needs. This has been well



ANNEX 1
Page 7
received by the farmers who appreciate the need for it.  It is easy to grow,
yields well, and can be grown in places where food crops cannot be grown.
Even so, the problem of where to plant the mulch has not been entirely
resolved; if it is grown beside the coffee on banks and ridges where other
crops cannot be grown and where it does not have to be carried far it is
likely to compete with the coffee, especially for potassium, leading event-
ually to potassium deficiency in the soil which will reduce coffee yields.
The emphasis on mulching will be maintained in the new Project and farmers
will be encouraged to make the best use they can of available material such
as banana leaves and other crop residues. The Project will continue as
long as it is necessary to make slips available to farmers to grow their
own mulch.  Farmers will be encouraged to use the pulp from hand pulping
centers and washing stations which can be given free and is of benefit in
returning to the soil some of the nutrients taken from it.
Insects
16.       The most serious coffee pest in Burundi is the antestia insect
(Antestia lineaticollis) which damages the beans, causing them to be down-
graded in quality. Antestia is at present controlled by dusting the trees
with a DDT-Malathion mix supplied to the farmers free of charge by OCIBU.
This method does not seem fully effective, however, and the very large number
of insect-damaged beans causes concern. As stated above (para 2), a propor-
tion of the insecticide is used by the farmers in their homes, and the insect
counting system used by the project staff is not particularly effective in
providing a check on whether control measures are working.
17.       Apart from antestia, the coffee is infested with berry borers
which also damage the beans and in fact cause more losses than antestia. It
is unusual for borers of this type, i.e. Stephanoderes spp., to be present
in such large nunbers in coffee grown at this altitude since Stephanoderes
are usually found at lower altitudes. It is possible that the increasing
incidence of berry borers is due to the destruction of their natural predators
by use of DDT-Malathion. Another insect pest common in coffee in Burundi is
the fruit-fly. It is believed that this is a vector for the bacteria prod-
ucing potato-taste and other off-flavors in coffee which cause coffee to be
down-graded for quality and for which Burundi coffees have acquired an un-
desirable reputation.
18.       The Project insect control measures should be reviewed by the
project coffee agronomist in consultation with the research team. In parti-
cular more accurate insect counts should be made. A simple technique is to
spread a sheet round the base of the tree, cover the tree with another sheet
and spray inside the tree with a knockdown insecticide such as pyrethrum.
If regular and frequent counts are made on a proper random sample of trees
a fairly accurate picture of insect populations can be obtained. Considera-
tion should also be given to using a more specific insecticide of which
several types are available commercially. Provision has been made in the
Project for spraying teams equipped with motorized sprayers or dusters (there



ANNEX 1
Page 8
are areas where lack of suitable water supplies make it difficult to use
sprayers) who would visit all farmers in turn. For control of fruit-flies,
specific baits can be used, but more knowledge is needed about the species
of flies present before a successful eradication campaign can be carried
out. This is one of the topics which would be covered by the ISABU coffee
research component of the Project. At the end of the harvesting season all
fruit should be stripped from the tree, regardless of quality, so as to remove
the hosts for pests and disease which could carry on to the next season.
This requires careful explanation by extension workers, if farmers are not
to become confused, as it is exactly contrary to the policy of selective
picking that is encouraged durirLg the harvest season and it will no doubt
take time before it becomes accepted and practised by the farmers.
Diseases
19.       At present there are no serious disease problemns in Ngozi.  Leaf
rust (Hemilea vastatrix) is present but is fairly readily controlled in
neighboring countries. Coffee berry disease (Colletotrichum coffeeanum)
is also present but is not a serious problem at this time.
Fertilizers
20.       Farmers and extension staff alike considered the distribution of
fertilizers as one of the major purposes of the first project which is
reflected in its local title "Project d'Application d'Engrais." A careful
approach towards the use of fertilizers is, however, appropriate and the
relationships between coffee prices--both farm gate and export--and fertil-
izer prices should be closely waLtched. These relationships have deteriorated
over the last few years. Besides, the response to fertilizers is unlikely
to be as high as anticipated when the first project commenced. Assuming
that,
(a) two years of straight N applications would be followed by
a one year's application of compound NPK, 20.10.10;
(b) the ratio between incremental quantity of parchment coffee
and quantity of N fertilizers would be 2:1 if fertilizers
are applied to coffee plantations which are well maintained
as far as pruning, mulching, and insect control is concerned;
'c)  the 1974 farm gate price of FBu 44 (US$0.56) per kg parchment
coffee would remain unchanged; and
(d)  using the IBRD/IDA price projections in constant 1975 terms
for both fertilizers and coffee as a base and assuming that the
farmer would have to pay the full costs of the fertilizers;



ANNEX 1
Page 9
the following benefit-cost ratios for fertilizer can be expected:
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1985/86
to the farmer      1.0       l.1      1.2       1.4      1.5       1.5      1.4
to the country    1.4       1J.9      2.5       3.0      3.3       3.3      3.2
If the farmer were to be charged the full price, fertilizers would not be
an attractive proposition. During the first year he would barely break even
and by 1980 the benefit-cost ratio would still only be 1.5/1. For the coun-
try as a whole the benefit-cost ratio would be better since the benefits also
include income for the treasury, traders and exporters margins, etc. The
ratio between the value of the coffee, ex-Bujumbura, and the cost of fertil-
izers would gradually improve to about 3.3/1 in 1980.
21.       In order to keep the momentum of the project going, pending further
results of the fertilizer trials, and also taking into account that the price
relationship between coffee and fertilizers should improve in the near future,
the following course of action seems proper:
(a) 50% of the trees iri the high potential areas would receive
fertilizers. This is the same proportion as ancitipated at
the appraisal of the first project but less than was actually
done during most of the years; and
(b) during the first three years two annual applications of 50
grams urea per tree would be followed by one application of
100 grams NPK 20.10.10. These rates would be equivalent
to about 35 kg pure N per ha per year which compares with
about 100 kg N per ha during the first project. From year 4
onwards the application rates would be doubled. Ammonium
sulphate, 21%, giveis slightly higher responses than urea
but the relatively higher transport costs of this low
content fertilizer are however likely to be prohibitive.
22.       On the basis of the IBRD/IDA projections for fertilizers in constant
1975 dollars and assuming an average transport cost of US$125 per ton, a
package, containing 50% urea and 50% NPK 20.10.10 would gradually decrease in
price from FBu 30.5 per kg in 1975 to FBu 20 per kg in 1980. Assuming
further that a minimum benefit/cost ratio of 2/1 would be required to make
the use of fertilizers attractive to the farmer the maximum price to be paid
by him would be FBu 15 per kg (if the parchment price of FBu 44 per kg remains
unchanged). The farmers' price for fertilizer would be increased gradually
from FBu 6 per kg in 1974 to FBu 15 per kg in 1977 and the difference between
the cost price and the sales price would be financed through a new Fertilizer
Fund to be managed by OCIBU (see Annex 7 for further details).



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Yields
23.       The following coffee parchment yields have been used in this report:
Gram per Tree             Kg per Ha
Without    With        Without    With
Project   Project      Project   Project
Area First Project                      515        575          825        920
Other High Potential Areas              475        575          760       920
Low Potential Areas                     425       450           680       720
Actual yields in the area of the first project are estimated at 550 gram per
tree (825 kg per ha).  All costs of the extension staff for the area of the
first project are covered by the second Project in order to further improve
the standards of coffee husbandry and to increase the productivity of food
crops. The "Without Project" case would therefore be characterized by the
absence of any staff and a discontinuation of fertilizer supplies. This would
result in a yield reduction estimated at about 35 gram per tree (55 kg per
ha) compared with actual yields. Full development yields in the area of the
first project would be reached in year 5, in the other high potential areas
in year 7 and in the low potential areas in year 6. Annual production esti-
mates are given in Annex 12, Table 5.
C. Coffee Research Program
24.       The national agricultural research institute, ISABU, was established
after independence and it inherited four small experimental stations created
in Burundi by the INEAC 1/ which was responsible for agricultural research ln
the former Belgian Congo and Ruanda-Urundi. The main station serving Ruanda-
Urundi and parts of Congo's Kivu province was located at Rubona, Rwanda, and
this well equipped and staffed station is now the center of Rwanda's national
research institute, ISAR. ISABU is, however, understaffed in most technical
and scientific departments and so far it lacks adequate facilities. Prior
to the appraisal of this Project, Belgium has made a commitment to finance
the construction of central laboratories and administrative facilities in
Bujumbura.
24.       In spite of the overwhelming importance of coffee production for
the country's economy, ISABU has s0 far not been able to assign a particular
team for concentrated research onl this single crop. This situation is
Il   Institut National pour I'Etude Economique au Congo.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
responsible for the almost total lack of accurate information on the basic
factors affecting yields and quality of the coffee production. The Project
would therefore assist ISABIU in launching an adequate coffee research program
and finance a 2-man expatriiate research team, the construction of staff houses
and the purchase of equipment required for ISABU's new central laboratores
in Bujumbura.
26.       The coffee research program would cover the following subjects:
(a) Agronomy
- Mulching: sources and qualities of various mulching materials
available in the coffee growing areas; introduction of new
materials.
- Pruning: experiments with different types and cycles of
pruning.
- Varieties: comparative trials with existing and new varieties.
- Fertilizer: evaluation of existing trial results and further
field trials in conjunction with soil and foliar analysis,
including a breakdown in the quality aspects of yields (number
of berries. density and size distribution of green beans,
foliar density, leaf size distribution, internodal growth, etc.).
(b) Entomology
- Identification and distribution of all insect pests within
the Project area, covering crops which are grown in close
association with coffee.
- Means of controlling major insect pests.
(c) Phytopathology
- Identification and distribution of potentially harmful
fungus diseases.
- Means of controlling fungus diseases.
(d) Pedology
- Correlations between soil types and yields in coffee
plantations.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
(e) Microbiology
- Investigations of the causative formation and cure of
"potato taste" and other off-flavors.
July 8, 1975
I



A@NEX 2
Page i
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Coffee Processing
The Traditional Process
1.        Climatic conditions in Burundi during the coffee harvest season,
April to July, do not permit coffee to be dried after picking without sepa-
ration of the cherry from the bean as, in absence of warm dry weather, the
fruit would rot on the bean and spoil it. Traditionally therefore Burundi
coffee has been processed by methods that produce a semi-washed coffee.
After it is picked, the cherry is pulped to remove the outer skin and part
of the flesh of the fruit. This is either done by hand (squeezing) or by
trampling on the fruit to remove the bean, or in one of the 325 hand-powered
mechanical pulpers which were built prior to Burundi's independence. The
beans are 'then washed to remove adhering bits of skin and mucilage, and
dried in the sun; the resulting dried beans are known as parchment coffee
and are sold in this form to local traders.
2.        The quality of coffee produced by the traditional process is poor.
The pulping process is incomplete even in the hand pulpers as all cherries,
regardless of size, pass through the same pulper.  The smaller unripe beans
are not pulped at all and the larger ones may be damaged by the pulper.
There is no sorting of cherries before pulping so poor and better quality
cherries are pulped together. A certain amount of mucilage sticks to the
beans even after washing and ferments on the beans. The parchment coffee is
insufficiently dried and has to be further dried before hulling. Coffee
with a high moisture content favors the spread of micro-organisms that
produce off-flavors.
The Fully-washed Process
3.        Coffee washing stations of the type built under the first project
aim to improve the quality of the parchment by closer quality control and
more thorough washing and drying. Before cherries are pulped, they are
graded into two qualities and are pulped separately. They pass through
the pulper and are then sorted again by a mechanical grader into those which
float and those which sink (the better quality). Any cherries which pass
through the first pulper without being pulped go through another small pulper.
The pulp is carried off and deposited, and the beans are carried into con-
crete tanks where they are allbowed to ferment. This breaks down the remain-
ing mucilage and after fermentation the coffee is washed carefully until it
is clean and free of all mucilage, then it is soaked under water for at
least 12 hours. This kills off any insect larvae that could be beneath the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
parchment and could carry infections from micro-organisms.  The beans are
then dried. Drying is a critical operation as either under-drying or over-
heating the beans will cause them to be down-graded for quality. For semi-
washed coffee, drying is traditionally carried out in a haphazard way by
spreading the beans in the sun, but for higher value fully-washed coffee
greater care has to be taken, to ensure that the beans are not overheated
in the sun and are protected f rom rain. The dried parchment coffee is then
dispatched from the washing station to be hulled, when the parchment and
silverskin is removed mechanically, leaving "green" coffee, the final export-
able product.
4.        The results obtained so far with the fully-washed process are
limited and inconclusive.  Out of the four stations, which were constructed,
only one has operated for two full seasons and the other three came into
operation in 1975 only.  The stations were designed to produce about 125
ton of parchment coffee per season but the first station produced only 47
ton in 1973 and 41 ton in 1974.  It is now recognized that the price paid
to the farmers for their coffee cherries at the washing station was less
than the official price for parchment coffee. The pricing policy was changed
in 1975 and a special effort was made by the authorities to encourage deli-
veries at the stations. The 1973 and 1974 production of fully-washed coffee
was sold at disappointing low prices, probably because of the small quantities
involved and certainly because little attempts had been made to explore
alternative marketing arrangements. It also turned out that the cost of
construction of the stations was much higher than originally anticipated.
5.        In the course of the appraisal of this Project an economic evalua-
tion was made of 20 coffee washing stations which, it was proposed, would be
built over 5 years.  The number of 20 was considered to be the maximum
possible in view of the Project's construction and management capacities
although the Government had recquested the construction of 38 stations. The
economic evaluation had, to soine extent, to be based on assumptions which
were unproven because of the lack of experience under the first project.
The calculation showed a marginal internal rate of return of 8% and, more
important, demonstrated that the outcome was highly sensitive to a few
critical assumptions. The first concerns the export premium for fully-
washed coffee in relation to tne price paid for semi-washed coffee. In this
respect Kenya's experience has shown that a premium of about 8 US cts/lb is
the maximum that can be expected (see Annex 3, Table 2) and a premium of 15%
was used in the economic calculations.  On the basis of the IBRD commodity
price forecasts, dated November 6, 1974, the 15% premium is equivalent to
about 10 US cts/lb in constant 1975 prices.  So far, Burundi has however sold
its fully-washed coffee at a premium of about 5 US cts/lb only and the sensi-
tivity analysis revealed that the economic rate of return for the washing
operation would drop by about 6, percentage points if the price premium were
10% rather than 15%. A second critical assumption concerns the annual produc-
tion of the stations and it wa-c found that the rate of return would be reduced
by about 4 percentage points if each station were to produce 100 ton parchment
coffee per year instead of 125 ton. On the basis of these findings it was



ANNEX 2
Page 3
concluded that a large scale investment program in washing stations could
not be justified at the present time and that a further trial period would
be appropriate.
6.        The Project would provide further technical assistance for the
operation of the 4 existing stations for a period of 3 years. This time
period would be long enough to bring all 4 stations on stream and to estab-
lish adequate cherry buying, station operation and marketing procedures.
A further trial period would also be appropriate to establish to what extent
and at what cost the capacity of the stations can be expanded. There are
indications that sufficient coffee is being grown in the vicinity of the
stations to allow for a production of 150-175 ton parchment coffee per season
and that relatively little additional investment, mainly in drying areas,
would be required to increase the capacity of the stations to that level.
Since most of the operating costs of the stations are fixed this would
improve their rate of return.
7.        The Project would a]Lso support the construction of 4 new stations
as an extended trial. The new stations would be of a simpler and less ex-
pensive design than those buiLt previously. Savings should also be possible
through the construction of the new stations by force account, rather than by
a contractor, since the lack of competition in the remote Project area tends
to increase construction costs.
8.        The fully-washed coffee to be produced during the trial period
should be consistently of a good quality to allow Burundi to establish a
favorable market reputation. A price premium of the order of about 10 US
cts/lb fob Dar-es-Salaam, combined with a production of about 150 ton parch-
ment coffee per station would probably be the minimum required to justify
future investments in washing stations. Since it is uncertain that these
objectives will be reached during the extended trial period the Project
would also investigate alternative methods to increase the quality and
hence the export value of cofEee. These alternatives could include improved
hand pulpers, possibly combined with centralized drying facilities. The
main objective for the trial period would thus be to gain experience with
various alternatives which could provide a sound basis for future investment
decisions on coffee processing facilities.
July 1  1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BURtJNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Coffee Marketing and Prices
The World Market
1.        The latest IBRD review of world coffee market prospects (April 1975),
which pre-dates the severe frost damage to Brazil's 1975 coffee crop, con-
cludes that coffee prices will recover from the low levels of 1974/75 and
that heavy surpluses with resultant low prices are not anticipated during
the 1980's. Although the growth of world demand is expected to slow to 1.5
percent per annum in 1972-80 and 2.4% per annum from 1980-85, compared with
2.8% per annum in the 1960s, production in Brazil, which is by far the most
important factor influencing world prices, is not likely to be able to main-
tain its share of the export market because of increasing domestic demand.
2.        Production policy was controlled by the International Coffee
Agreement (ICO) until the agreement expired in September 1973. Negotiations
for a new agreement have not yet been concluded.  So far there is no evidence
that expiry of the agreement has led to large scale plantings similar to
those implemented in the 1950's and 1960's which produced surpluses and
caused wide price fluctuations. In 1974, however, coffee prices dropped
sharply and remained depressed in the first half of 1975, because of excellent
crops in the main producing countries combined with a slow demand which is
thought to be related to the stagnation in the growth of real incomes in the
'United States and Western Europe. The IBRD commodity forecast of 27th May,
1975 for Guatemala prime washed coffee, spot New York, shows that prices in
1973 constant dollar terms will return by 1978 to approximately the 1973
level (63 US cts/lb) and increase slightly thereafter (Table 1).
Burundi Coffees
3.        Prices for Burundi's se:ni-washed arabica coffees have closely
followed the trends for other cofEees of comparable standard in the world
market and since Burundi is a small scale producer with no power to influence
market trends there is no reason to suppose that this relationship will change.
.En other words, forecasts for world market prices can be taken as forecasts
for Burundi prices, too.  In the :?ast, Burundi has not produced fully-washed
coffees except in very small quantities; it has not therefore been possible
to determine a historical pattern of price trends for Burundi fully-washed
coffee. The evidence so far produced, comparing Burundi fully-washed coffee
with Kenya coffee, shows that it would be reasonable to expect Burundi fully-
washed to sell at a premium of about 8 US cts/lb over semi-washed coffee



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(Table 2). A few more years experience is, however, essential and it is
hoped that sales of fully-washed coffee from the existing project washing
stations will provide some more certain answers.
Coffee Exports in Burundi
4.        As local consumption of coffee in Burundi is negligible almost all
coffee produced in the country is exported. Export statistics are confused
by significant quantities illegally entering and leaving the country through
neighboring countries but the moving average export over five years up to 1973
has been about 20,000 ton a year of which all except for some 1,500 ton of
Robusta, is Arabica (see Table 3).  Exports have been rising at about 3.75%
per annum but Burundi's share of the world market is still less than 0.8%.
Exports of semi-washed coffee are arranged by private exporters 1/.  Export
sales are made on the basis of international bidding, organized and evaluated
by OCIBU.  Established buyers of Burundi coffee are notified by telex, indi-
cating quantity and quality, of a forthcoming sale and are invited to make
bids. Prices are compared with current international quotations and, if judged
acceptable, OCIBU approves the sale, usually giving the contract to the
highest bidder. Foreign bids often indicate the preferred exporter; in
cases where no particular lexporter is specified, OCIBU makes the export
allocation itself. Quality standards are those established since before
independence by the Office des Cafes Indigenes du Ruanda-Urundi (OCIRU) and
are the internationally recognized standards on the basis of which export
sales are inade. Fully-washed coffee produced in the new washing stations
and by the Butegana cooperative is exported by OCIBU itself.
Price Structure
5.        Before the beginning of each coffee season, the Coffee Board estab-
lishes the various margins to be paid from the proceeds of coffee sales to
the producers, the exporters and OCIBU. Government is heavily dependent on
coffee exports for its revenues and the residual balance, after payments have
been made to other parties, goes to the Government. The amounts of deductions
are calculated for each price level on a sliding scale; that for the 1974/75
season is shown in Table 4. The price paid to producers is fixed for the
whole season and does not vary according to final export prices. Likewise
fixed deductions are made for trader's commission, costs of transport,
hulling, bagging, etc., and to cover OCIBUT's normal operating overheads.
Deductions are also made for a coffee promotion tax, a diversification tax
(formerly paid to ICO but now paid to a Government fund for agricultural
1/   Changes in the current system are expected following the establishment
of a new export compamy, the Burundi Coffee Company, in April 1975. The
majority of the shares (55%) of the Company are owned by the Burundi
Government, the Central BAnk and OCIBU, and the balance (45%) by the
former private exporters.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
development), a selection tax to pay for improved coffee planting materials,
and a tax to cover Government's contribution to the cost of the ongoing first
coffee improvement project. In addition to these fixed amounts, deductions
are made for the exporter's margin and insurance and bank charges as a per-
centage of the fob price. The balance goes to Government, to be allocated
between the Treasury and the Coffee Stabilization Fund. Table 5 shows the
past distribution of sales proceeds and it may be expected that future dis-
tribution of gross earnings wilL follow similar patterns.
July 1, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Coffee Price Forecasts
Pr<'visions des Prix de Café
Guatemala 1/                                 Burundi 2/
Prime Washed                                 Semi-Washed
Première qualité                                Semi-lavé
US cts/lb              US cts/lb             US cts/lb            FBu/kg
cts EU/livre           cts EU/livre          cts EU/livre
(1973)               (1973) 3/             (1975) 4/            (1975) 5/
1975                 44                   37                    50                   86
1976                 53                   46                    62                  107
1977                 60                   53                    71                  123
1978                 63                   56                    76                  130
1979                 63                   56                    76                  130
1980                 63                   56                    76                  130
1985                 65                   58                    78                  135
1/ IBRD projections in 1973 constant prices,spot New York.   1/ IBRD prévisions à prix constants de 1973,spot N.Y.,
2/  fob   Dar-es-Salaam; deductions of 5.5 US cts/lb for        2/  fob  Dar-es-Salaam; réductions de 5.5 cts
transport costs Dar-es-Salaam - New York and 1.5 US            EU/livre coût de  transport Dar-es-Salaam-N.Y.
cts/lb for quality differential.                               et 1.5 cts EU/livre pour différence de qualite'.
3/ 1973 constant prices.                                        3/ A prix constants de 1973.
4/ 1973 prices multiplied by inflation factor 1.349             4/ Prix de 1973 multipliés par facteur d'inflation
to arrive at 1975 constant prices.                              de 1.349 enfin  d'arriver à prix constants de 1975.
5/ 1975 constant prices.                                        5/ A prix constants de 1975.
t- 
Jy  X
July 1, 1975                                                                                                         -- e
tum



ANN EX/ANNEXE 3
BURUNDI                           Table/Tableau 2
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJET
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Export Values of Burundi and Kenya Coffee
Valeurs à l'Exportation de Café du Burundi et du Kenya
(US cts/lb)
(cents EU/livre)
Burundi        Kenya
Year           (fob           (fot            Difference
Année      Dar-es-Salam)   Mombasa)           Difference
1964            408.3         45.54               5.51      13.76
1965           33.38          46.98              13.60      40.74
1966           35,42          44.(3               8.61      24.31
1967            33-69         39.L7               5.48      16.27
1968            32.88         42.'79              9.91      30.14
1969            29.26         41..34             12.08      4L.29
1970            46.69         52*65               5.96      12.88
1971            35-13         4h.420              9.07      25.82
1972           41.31          50.29               8.98      21.74
1973           51.63          60.-33              9.20      17.82
Source: ICO Paper EB 1303/74 (E), 14 August 1974
Source: Document DIC EB 1303/74 (E), 14 aoCt 1974
July 1, 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 3
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMEL:EORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Coffee Exports per Calendar Year
Exportations de Café par Armée Civile
(ton green coffee)
(tonaes de café vert)
Year                                                   5 Year Moving Average
Année          Arabica        Kobusta         Total     Moyenne mobile sur
cinq ans
1960           9,991           278          10,269
1961          13,077           283          13,360
1962          13,001           185         13,186
1963           5,777           205           5,.82
1964          17,737           534          18J271           12,214
1965          12,831           766         13,597            12,879
1966          14,071           693          14,764           13,160
1967          17,900           938          18,838           14,290
1968          15,929         1,078          16,607           16,415
1969          13,370         1,272          14,642           15,690
1970          19,141           843          19,984           16,967
1971          18,302           805          19,107           17.8ae
1972          22,224         1,956          24,180           18,904
1973          21,278         1,383          22,661           20,115
Source: Bank of the Republic of Burundi, annual reports.
Source: Rapports annuels de la Banque de la République du Burundi
July 1. 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Coffee Price Sliding, Scale - Camapaign ti/t/
(Decision OCIBU'e Board Meeting April 8 and 24, 1974)
Fixed Components                                                               FBu                  OCIBU Taxes3                                FBu
per ton                                                          per ton          B/F  69,989
Produlcers                               FBu 45/12. x 1,000 x         i.3333/   59,999              Remuneratory Tax                         4,100
Traders comimission                      FBu  2/kG x 1,000 x 1,3333          2,667                  Promotion Tax                               307
Financing charges                                                            1,271                  Project 147-BU Tax                          450
Sundry:                                                                                             Diversification Tax                         750
Transport Hulling Factory to                                                                      Selection Tax                                40                  5,647
OCI3U warehouse                                                            100
Tratnsport OCIBU to Dar-Es-Sala:.                                          3,000                                          Total Fixed Components             FBa 75,636
Processing:
Dryirng                                                FBu   400                                                                                    4/
Processinà6 adi Waging                   2/            FBu 1,600         2,000                Provision collected for Stabilization Fund Tax:-                                Fbu  2,900/r.on
Bags                        FBu 57 x 16.7-                                   952                Provision collected for Custom Duties                                            FBu 23,075/ton
Provision collected by Central Bank to adjust Custom duties,
69,989                  Stabilization Fund Tax and Exporters dues when the exact
*mn-Ont offorreign cu-rrc0/ciec invotvcd i  repàtrieted                        -- --------on
Price FOB - Dar-Es-Salam  US cts/lb                   63            63.5          64            64.5         65            65.5          66            66.5          67            67.5  - - - -         75
Combined price ( x 0.97980)- US gys/lb                61.73         62 22         62.71         63.20        63.69         64.18         64.67         65.16         65.65         66.14                 73.49
Value of 1 metric ton ( x 1.7273- )              106,626       107,473      108,319       109,165       110,012       110,858      111,704       112,551       113,397       114,244  - - - - - 126,939
Exporters Reemuneration (4%)7/                     4,2h5         4,299        4,333         4,367         4,400         4,434         4,468        4,502         4,536         4,570  - - - - -   5,078
Insurance (0.001683 of metric ton value)             179           181           182           184          185           187           188           189           191           192  - - - - -        214
Bank collection charges                              570           575           580           584          589           593           598           602           607           611  - - - - -        679
(0.0535 of metric ton value)                       570          575           580           584           589           593          598           602           607           611  - - - - -        679
Fixed components8/                                75,636        75,636       75,636        75,636        75,636        75,636        75,636       75,636        75,636        75,636  - - - - -  75,636
Balance te be distributed to Goverasent
Treastury and Stabilization Funds9_i            25,976       26,782        27,588        28,394        29,202        30,008       30,814        31,622        32,427        33,235  - - - - -  45,332
1/  The processing operation renuires an average of 1.3333 kg of parchment coffee to obtain 1 kg of green coffee.  The processing yield ratio averages 75%.
2/  One coffee bag weighs 60 Kg.  The bagging of one ton of coffee renuires 16.7 bags.
3/ OCIBU Taxes are based on the number of tons exported and not on the,export price fob D.E.S. (D.E.S. = Dar-Es-Salam).
4/ Provisions for Custom duties and Stabilization Fund Tax are based on the net actual foreign currencies enuivalent to the fob D.E.S. export price.
5/  0.97980 = weighted average of tons exported by ouality during the last three years. Ex: 0.97980 x US cts 63 = US cts 61.73
6/  One metric ton = 22,046 pounds; 1 US $ = FBu 78.35.  22,046 x 78.35= 1.7273.  Ex: US ets 61.73 x 1.7272 = 106,626
7/  4% of fob D.E,S. export price per ton.
8/  Based on factors independent from the fob D.E.S. export price.  This amount remains unvariable all over the campaign whatever the fob price fluctuations.
9/  If the total actual custom duties and Stabilization Fund Tax exceeds this balance, Central Bank completes the amount renuired by using the adjustment
provision of FBu 11,000/ton initially collected from exporters, and gives back the remainder to exporters.  In theopposite case Central Bank refunds the difference te
exporters together with the adjustment provision.
January 23, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Cales Rroceeds of Arabie Coffee
CROP YEAR                 C' :P YEAP-                 CROP YFAR                  CROP YEAR                  CROP YEAR
1969/7C                   1970/71                     1971/72                    1972/73                    1973/74
estimates
PPODIJCTIOII - ARABICA   (ME-RIC TONS)                             13,300                    21,184                      23,365                     17,960                     19,660
2/          
A-ERAGE PRICE FOB - DAR ES SALAM (FEu/kg)                           59.24                     88.72                       71.50                       86.75                     92.97
Million     3             Million       J             Million      3/            Million      J             Million      3
FBu      C                FBu          _              FEu      _                 FBu      _                 FBu       C
PLANTEPZ' p9p.Aî                                               548.4    69.6              982.9      52.3             973.9    58.3              803.5    52.2              983.2    52.4
(corresponding to FEu/kg of Darchment)                         (32.5)                     (36)                        (35)                       (34)                       (38)
PROCESSIN'Q AND TRANSPORT COST FOB D.E.S.                       78.0      9.9             154.1       8.2             147.0      8.8             129.1      8 4             141.4      7.6
TRADERS' C0'ISCION                                               34.7     4.4              62.0       3.3              60.1      3.6              28.4      1.9              31.0      1.7
EXPORTERS' RE'lNERATIOl                                         28.4      3.6              56.4       3.0              50.1      3.0              43.0      2.8              62.0      3.3
4/
OCIBU                                                           53.6      6.8             229.3      12.2             163.7      9.8             135.1      8.8             199.4    1o.6
GOVEP.NEmnT (C'STO'.! EXPOBT DaTlES)                            44.9      5.7             394.7      21.0             275.6    16.5              399.1    25.9              458.1    24.4
5/~~~~~~~~~~~~2
788.0  1iD               1,879.4    100             1,670.4   100               1,538.2   100             1,875.1   100
Note
The four last crops are above average compared to the last ten years.  Planters share in their crop proceeds remained relatively steady with about 52%, while the
share of the public sector (Sovernment and OCIB7') ranged from 33.2` to 35%. However, during the years marked by a poor crop combined with low export prices (1969), or by
lower export prices (1971). the planters share rose to 69d (1969) or 581, (1971), while public sector shares were only 12.5% and 26.3< respectively.
The parchment price being fixed by the Governiment at harvest time, i.e., before the marketing season, any rise in export prices occurring that year over the basic
price fob - D.E.S., which was used for establishing the price sliding scale do not reflect on planters income but benefits   the Government Treasury, the Stabilization
Fund, andthe exporters whose profit is a percentage of export prices. To the contrary, any shortage resulting from the decline of export prices below the basic fob - D.E.S.
price is born by the Stab4P ization Fund, the Goveronent Treasury, and by exporters.
Considering the high export prices of crop year 1973-74, Government has increased by 18! (from FBu 38 to FBu, 45/kg) the coffee parchment price to be paid to the
?lanters for the crop year 1974-75. Since then, export prices have markedly gone down.
1/ From May 1 to April 30.
2 From Central Bank annual report, 1973, and quarterly reports, June 1972, and Miarch 1971.
2/ Percent from Table XI of Annex, Burundi Agricultural Sector Review Report, January 1974.
4/ Including Stabilization Fund and Promotion Fund Taxes.
5/ Obtained by applying the average coffee export price fob - D.E.S. to the crop year produc.on.
January 23, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Food Production -
Introduction
1.        Because of its high population density Burundi is obliged to
preserve and improve its land resources and to develop food production
capacity through intensification of cultivation techniques in order to
meet the growing requirements for food stuffs.  This is particularly true
for Ngozi province, which has a higher population density (270 per km2)
than any of the other 6 provinces. Efforts to increase coffee production
should therefore be accompanied by attempts to raise the productivity of
food crops. Fairly detailed information is available on the crops which
are grown in Ngozi and on the level of nutrition of the population. There
are many sound ideas as to how food production can be improved and soil
conservation practised. But thus far experience in these fields is very
limited and agricultural extension work for all practical purposes is
restricted to coffee growing only.
Food Crops
2.        A typical Ngozi farm family cultivates no less than 20 to 25
different pieces of land measuring on average less than 400 m2 and which
total about 85 ares (0.85 ha) c,f cultivated land per family. Some 80 ares
are usually located on ths hills which can be cultivated all year round, the
remaining 5 ares being in the valley bottom marshes which are cultivated in
the main dry season only. Since the 1966 revolution nearly all farmers have
customary land ownership rights.
3.        Food crops are grown on about 75 ares and the other 10 ares
are cultivated with coffee. BaLnana and cassava are the two important
annual food crops and beans, sweet potatoes and maize are the main sea-
sonal crops. Only about 10% - 15% of the food crops is cultivated in
pure stands and the remainder is intercropped with one or more other
crops. This is traditionally clone as a hedge against crop failure.
More than 250 different crop mixtures, sometimes involving up to 5
1/   This Annex draws heavily on two excellent studies made by SEDES of
Paris, France:
-    Enquete Statistique Agricole 1967 dans la Region de Ngozi et
Gitega, 1969;
-    Enquete Statistique Alimentaire et Budgetaire 1970-1971 dans la
Region Ngozi et Muyinga, 1973.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
different crops, have been counted in Ngozi province. Important mixtures
on the hills during the long rain season (February/March - June) are beans
and banana, beans and a rootcrop (sweet potatoes or cassava), bananas and
a rootcrop; and beans, banana and a rootcrop. Beans and maize are very
commonly intercropped during the long rain season (October-December) on the
hills and the dry season (August - November) in the marshes.
4.        Mhen counted separately, the ares of different crops add up to
about three times the size of the plots. A typical cropping pattern on an
average 85 ares farm is as follows:
Location             Period                     Crop            Area (ares)
Hills            Annual                     Coffee             10
Banana            36
Cassava           30      76
Hills            Long Rain Season           Sweet Potato      44
Beans             31
Sorghum            9
Others             9      93
Hills            Short Rain Season          Beans             29
Maize             30      59
Marshes          Dry Season                 Beans               6
Maize              6
Sweet Potato       1      13
241
5.        Bananas are grown on1 almost one half of Ngozi's food crop land
which is a higher proportion than anywhere else in Burundi. Most of the
bananas are used for the production of local beer and only a small propor-
tion is consumed as a fruit. An unknown but sizeable proportion of banana
beer is sold either inside or outside the province and it is generally
believed that the development of coffee as a cash crop has raised the
demand for banana beer and, hence, has stimulated the expansion of the
area under bananas. The production of beer from bananas is wasteful
nutritionally since about 50% of the calories of the banana fruits are
lost during processing. The same applies for sorghum which is also mainly
used for the production of beer. The Ministry of Agriculture is aware of
this and would like to reduce the number of banana trees in favor of other
foodcrops. It is not clear, however, how such a policy could be implemented
since this would run counter to firmly established traditions and habits.
With an increasing population and land becoming scarcer, the point could
however be reached that the farmers simply cannot any longer afford to grow
bananas to the present extent.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        Only 10% - 12% of all bananas are cultivated in pure stands at
a density of about 6,500 plants per ha giving a production of about 7 to 8
ton per ha. In mixed stands the density is on average 3,500 plants and
the production about 4 ton per ha.
7.        Cassava is grown on a'bout 40% of the food crop area.  The crop,
introduced during the Belgian trusteeship, does very well on the hills.
Pure stands account for 10% - 12% of the total cassava area and produce
about 6 ton of fresh tubers per year per ha or 12 ton after a full growing
period of 2 years. The density of cassava grown in mixed stands is much lower
and its yield is in the region of 2 ton per ha per production cycle of
2 years. There is scope for yield increases through the introduction of
better varieties; research work has been done on the Amani station in
Uganda to develop mosaic free varieties.
8.        Sweet Potatoes have baen an established crop for many generations,
grown mainly on the hills but sinall areas can also be found in the marshes.
The crop is grown on 60% of the food crop area.  In the marshes most of the
sweet potatoes are grown in pure stands yielding about 8 to 9 ton fresh
tubers per ha. On the hills more than 90% is grown in mixed stands pro-
ducing on average 2 ton per ha. Both the yields and the palatability of
sweet potatoes could be improved with better varieties.
9.        Beans are the most important food crop in the region as in the
whole of Burundi. The combined area during the different seasons on both
the hills and in the marshes is equal to about 90% of the physical food
crop areas. The areas under beans on the hills are about the same in
both seasons. Mixed stands account for more than 95% of the total area
under beans but the planting density in mixed stands is only 15% less than
in pure stands during the long rain season. During the short rain season,
when beans are intercropped with maize, the planting density is 35% less
than in pure stands. Because of these differences in planting densities
yields on the hills are somewhat higher in June - about 700 kg per ha -
than in January - 600 kg per ha. Pure stands on the hills yield on
average about 900 kg per ha and the production in the marshes, mixed
with maize, is about 750 kg.
10.       A large number of bean varieties are grown in Burundi, but all
are semi-dwarfs with short growing periods. Although standards of cultiva-
tion are good it should be possible to increase the yield through the use
of improved varieties and possibly a limited application of phosphate fer-
tilizers. Field trials conducted in the 1972/73 season by a FAO expert
have demonstrated that yields can be increased from 690 to 970 kg per ha
(41%) through the application of 45 kg P205*
11.       Maize is almost entirely grown in mixtures with beans during the
short rain season on the hills and during the dry season in the marshes.
Maize is usually sown during tillage and beans about 2 to 3 weeks later
when the maize seeds have germinated. Beans are harvested about 3 months



ANiNEX 4
Page 4
after sowing and maize 4 to 6 weeks thereafter. The yields ot maize in
mixed stands with beans is much lower on the hills - about 425 kg per ha -
than in the marshes where the production is reportedly averaging 1,275 kg
of grain per ha. Late sowing of maize on the hills is cited as a major
reason for low yields but sometimes farmers have little choice when, for
instance, the rains fail to arrive on time.
12.       There is certainly scope for production increases through the
introduction of higher yielding synthetic varieties and through the applica-
tion of fertilizers. Pure stands of bamboo synthetic maize without fer-
tilizers have produced between 2,000 and 3,000 kg per ha during the last
5 years on the ISABU research station at Murongwe, close to the Project
area. And FAO fertilizer trials on pure stands of maize showed a yield
increase of 45% from 2,000 to, 2,900 kg grain per ha with P fertilizers
(60 kg P205) and of 70% to 3,400 kg with N and P fertilizers (40 kg N and
60 kg P20 5)
Livestock
13.       Cattle.  Ownership of cattle was a measure of social status in
traditional Burundi society and to a certain extent this is still the
case. Cattle are not kept primarily for the production of milk, maeat
and manure - although an estiLmated 200 liters of milk per cow are ex-
tracted annually for the chi]Ldren and some manure is used on crop fields -
but as an investment of savings in order to be able to meet large expenses
when required. In 1972 the B3urundi herd was estimated at about 750,000
head. Some 100,000 head were owned by about 25% of the farmers of Ngozi
Province who had on average :3 head of cattle each. Owners with more than
10 head of cattle are very rare.
14.       Productivity of cattle is very low because of the absence of any
selection, poor health conditions and lack of fodder during parts of the
year. Mortality is high, especially amongst calves of which 35% die under
the age of one year because of East Coast fever or parasites. The calving
rate is a low 50% and the annual offtake is estimated to be less than 10%.
Securing sufficient animal feed poses a continuous and increasing problem
especially during the dry season. Natural grazing grounds become scarcer
because of increasing cultivation and overgrazing is a serious problem.
It is estimated that less than 1.5 ha of natural pastures are now available
per head of cattle. No fodder crops are cultivated and because of the mixed
cropping system cattle can be allowed in the harvested field for only a few
short periods per year. As a result there is only a very small proportion
of young males in the herd because the owners are forced to sell prematurely
before they reach maturity.
15.       Small Livestock.  In 1972 there were some 900,000 sheep and goats
in Burundi. One third of the farmers of Ngozi province owned about 175,000
animals. Feeding the goats and sheep is a lesser problem than that of cattle
but goats can cause considerable damage if not properly controlled. The
annual offtake is estimated at 35% for goats and 25% for sheep.  Goats are



ANNEX 4
Page 5
consumed locally and young males are frequently slaughtered at young age.
Sheep, which are traditionally viewed as a symbol of God, are not consumed
by the local population but solcl to Bujumbura or the plain bordering Lake
Tanganyika where part of the population is Moslem. Young males are sold
at the age of two years. Other small livestock in Ngozi include chickens,
pigs and rabbits. Little atten1:ion has so far been paid by the Livestock
Department to the development o:: small livestock but it should be possible
to improve the productivity through breeding and health measures.
Level of Nutrition
16.       The nutrition survey conducted in 1970/71 by the Societe d'Etudes
pour le Developpement Economique et Social (SEDES) in Ngozi province revealed
an average daily intake of 1,891 calories, about 88% of the estimated re-
quirement of 2,144 calories per person. Besides this apparent overall
shortfall in consumption there were diet imbalances. The share of beans
and peas in the daily menu was 347 calories or 45% of total intake and
that of cassava, sweet potatoes and other root crops was 641 calories or
34% of total. Banana and sorghum beer accounted for 128 calories or 7%
of daily intake. On the other hand the amount of calories supplied in the
form of cereals, animal products, oil crops and fruits was far too low.
Maize, wheat and sorghum accounted for only 50 calories or 2.5% of daily
intake and meat, fish and milk for 7 calories or less than 0.5%. Ground-
nuts and oil contributed 10 calories per day and the consumption of fruits
was negligible.
17.       In weight and value terms there are striking differences in the
proportions of food intake, compared with consumption expressed in caloric
terms. Beans, peas and rootcrops, which contributed nearly 80% of the
calories, represented less than 60% of both total weight and total value
of the daily menu. But banana and sorghum beer, which contributed 7% of
the calories, accounted for 17% of the weight intake (245 grams per person
per day) and no less than 25% of the value of the daily menu.
Cash Income from Agriculture
18.       SEDES found in 1970-71 that an average Ngozi farm family received
about FBu 6,125 (US$78) from the sale of agricultural products. The break
down of this figure was as follows:
FBu
Coffee                                         2,225
Banana and other beers                         1,760
Food crops                                       870
Livestock products and fish                    1,270
6,125



zû'TX 4
Page 6
This confirms the importance of bananas in the cropping pattern. Sales of
banana beer were double those of all other food crops combined.
Objectives of the Second Project
19.       The results of the nutrition survey underline the necessity of an
increase in the level of food production ifn general. As far as feasible,
special attention should be given to cereals, oîl crops, fruit and animal
production. It should be recognized however that so far little experience
with these activities has been gained. The Project would therefore concen-
trate on further exploration of promising courses of action through large
scale experiments at farm levrels. The projections are necessarily of an
indicative nature and detailed annual programs for food crop and livestock
development activities would be prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture in
consultation with the proposed team of advisers.
Foodcrops
20.        Seed Multiplication. Recent experience in Burundi with the multi-
plication and distribution oi- selected food crop seeds is very limited.
Experience elsewhere, especially in neighboring Rwanda, under comparable
conditions indicate that the prospects for yield increases through the pro-
duction and distribution of Lmproved seed varieties are good and therefore
two seed multiplication farms would be established - one near Ngozi and the
other probably near Kayanza. As in Rwanda, the main effort would be concen-
trated on maize because this crop offers the largest scope for improvement
both in production terms and from the point of view of arriving at a more
balanced diet. Other crops with possibilities for yield increases through
better seed varieties include beans, sweet potatoes, cassava and probably
groundnuts and soybeans which as yet are grown by only a small number of
farmers. An initial stock oiE synthetic or composite maize seeds would be
procured from abroad, possibly from Rwanda, and improved seeds would be sold
to the farmers at prices slightly above (about 10%) going market prices for the
crop produce concerned to prevent domestic consumption.
21.       The two farms woul<l be developed along the following lines:
1975/76    1976/77      1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
(1)         (2)         (3)         (4)          (5)
Farm 1, ha               5           10          15          15          15
Farm 2, ha               -            5          10          15          15
Total, ha              5          15           25          30          30
On the assumption that one half of the area of the two farms were to be
planted with maize and assuming that:
(a)  seed production would be 2,000 kg per ha;
(b)  farmers would receive seed for 0.25 ha; and



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(c)  the yield would increase from 1,100 to 1,300 kg
per ha through improved seeds;
the impact of the program on the production of maize would be as follows:
1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
(1)        (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)
Distribution of
Seeds, ton            -             5          15          25          30
Areas of Improved
Maize, ha             -           250         750       1,250       1,750
Number of Farmers
Served                -         1,000       3,000       5,000       6,000
Incremental Produc-
tion, ton             -            50         150         250         300
22.       Fertilizer.  Fertilizer trials conducted by a FAO expert on
farmers' fields have shown positive responses. The following table sum-
marizes the benefit-cost ratios that may be expected for maize and beans
assuming that:
(a)  incremental yields would be about 30% lower
than obtained during the FAO conducted field
trials;
(b)  prices for maize and beans are 12 and 15 FBu
per kg throughout the Project period;
(c) in accordance with IBRD price projections, the
price of DAP phosphate fertilizer in constant
1975 terms would decrease from FBu 36 per kg in
1975 to FBu 26 in 1979 and the price of urea
would decrease from FBu 33 in 1975 to FBu 20
per kg in 1979; and
(d) fertilization of maize would be combined with the
use of improved seed varieties.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Benefit - Cost Ratios
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
(1)      (2)       (3)      (4)       (5)
Maize
Increment 600 kg/ha
with P205 /1                    1.3      1.5       1.6       1.7      1.8
Increment 900 kg/ha
with P205 + N /2                1.3      1.5       1.6       1.8      1.9
Beans
Increment 225 kg/ha
with P205 /3                    0.8      0.9       1.0       1.1      1.1
/1   150 kg DAP per ha.
/2   150 kg DAP + 80 kg urea per ha.
/3   115 kg DAP per ha.
Fertilization of beans is, onL this basis, not attractive but maize offers
better prospects when fertilizer prices decline. This would certainly be
the case if in the future the prices of food products increase in Burundi.
23.       The Project should investigate what the response to fertilizer
on mixed stands of beans and maize would be since this is the most common
crop association on the Ngozi farms. In view of the FAO trial results it
can be expected that a basic application of phosphate followed by a top
dressing of nitrogen at a later stage would result in sizeable yield
increases. For the purpose of this appraisal only projections for fer-
tilizer use on pure stands of maize have been made but it should be kept
in mind that during implementation of the Project fertilization of mixed
stands of both maize and beanLs may turn out to be more advantageous. The
Project should also follow up on the FAO fertilizer trials in the high
altitude crops: potatoes, peas and wheat, which showed good results
(especially potatoes) in the western part of the province.
24.       Assuming that farmers would fertilize on average 0.25 ha of
their maize and that the yields would increase from 1,300 to 2,200 kg per
ha, the incremental production would develop as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 9
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
_(1)      (2)       (3)       (4)      (5
Number of Farmers
using Fertilizers                -       300       700      1,200    2,000
Maize Area, ha                     -         75      175        300      500
Incremental Production, ton        -        67.5    157.5       270      450
25.       Burundi has no experience yet with a credit system for the recov-
ery of the costs of inputs for food crops. The FAO expert, who is in charge
of the fertilizer trials, has sold small quantities against cash payments
during the 1973/74 season to farmers in an area where the trials had been
successful in the previous year. Experience elsewhere shows, however, that
either credit arrangements or subsidies are necessary to encourage large
scale application of fertilizers. It is evident that the terms of sale
for fertilizers for both coffee and food crops should not differ. It is
therefore necessary initially to restrict fertilizer distribution for food
crops to the farmers who also grow coffee (the large majority) to allow for
the recovery of the cost, together with the cost of fertilizer for coffee,
after the coffee harvest.
26.       Soil Productivity.  Cut of every 4 plots no less than 3 are located
on hill slopes which are often very steep. The need to protect soils under
these conditions against the devastating effects of run-off water has long
been recognized. On a large number of hills, ditches and terraces were
laid out and setaria grass was planted in the 15 years preceding inde-
pendence in order to control erosion. After independence these works were
largely neglected by the farmers but recently the Ministry of Agriculture
through its extension service has embarked upon a campaign to restore and
expand the conservation works. Since clearly the long run productivity of
the soil is at stake soil conservation should rank very high amongst the
priorities for the extension staff of the second Project. An assessment
would have to be made on the requirements for setaria plant material, and
multiplication and distribution thereof would be included in the Project's
activities.
27.       The Project would also encourage proper drainage of the marshes.
Ir. many instances drainage is poor and the productivity of the marshes
could be improved where adequate drainage ditches were laid out.
28.       Poor organic condition of the soil is a frequent reason for low
productivity. In a number of the FAO conducted fertilizer trials the
response to fertilizer was practically nil since the soils did not con-
tain a minimum of organic matter. The farmers should be encouraged in
every conceivable way to conserve the manure produced by their animals
in order to enable them to improve upon the productivity of their soils.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Livestock
29.       The Project would also give attention to the development of small
livestock, e.g., sheep, goats, rabbits and possibly poultry - probably
through the establishment of two modest breeding farms which would raise
and issue improved breeding stock to interested farmers.  Details would be
worked out during the first Project year.
July 1, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(OCIBU)
Background
1.        OCIBU is a financially autonomous parastatal institution estab-
lished in 1964 following the liquidation of OCIRU (Office des Cafes Indigenes
du Ruanda - Urundi). The former OCIRU operated in Ruanda - Urundi, formerly
under Belgian trusteeship, until Rwanda and Burundi were created as indepen-
dent nations.
Objectives
2.        OCIBU's objectives are to promote and develop domestic and external
outlets for those agricultural products which are subject to quality and
packing standards. To this end OCIBU is authorized to:
(a) produce, transport, process and pack agricultural
products;
(b) establish and enforce quality and packing standards
for marketable agricuiltural products;
(c)  finance crops particularly when cooperative societies
are involved; and
(d)  market crops whenever this may be required by the
Government.
OCIBU is also authorized to negotiate international agreements related to
the production and sale of agricultural products and to administer funds
and grants specifically intende!d for the promotion and sale of agricul-
tural products.
Activities
3.        Despite its broad mandate, OCIBU deals in practice only with
coffee. For other industrial crops such as tea and cotton, separate
parastatal agencies have been established. In the coffee sector, OCIBU's
main activity is to ensure the quality of Burundi coffee exports in accord-
ance with internationally recognized grades. Other activities include:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(a)  the establishment and maintenance of coffee
nurseries for replanting with high yielding
varieties in collaboration with the Ministry
of Agriculture;
(b) development of new export markets for coffee,
and campaigns for increased domestic coffee
consumption;
(c) representation of Burundi at the International
Coffee Organization (ICO);
(d) establishment and supervision of communal hand-
pulping centers for coffee; and
(e) importation, distribution and instruction in the
use of pesticides, fertilizers and other agricul-
tural inputs.
OCIBU also administers a Coffee Price Stabilization Fund and a Coffee Promo-
tion Fund which were built up) prior to independence. Finally, OCIBU is also
responsible for the implementation of the on-going first coffee itprovement
project.
Organization and Management
4.        OCIBU has its head office in Bujumbura and is empowered to open
branches in Burundi and abroad as required by its objectives. The organi-
zation i8 administered by a Board of Directors consisting of three ex-
officio members:  the Minister of Agriculture (Chairman), the Minister of
Economic Affairs, and the Director-General of ISABU, and two farmer repre-
sentatives and two representatives of the commercial sector nominated by
the Minister of Agriculture. Implementation of the Board's decisions is
supervised by a Management Committee of five members consisting of the
Minister of Agriculture (Chairman), the Director-General of ISABU, the
Director of OCIBU, one representative of the commercial sector and one
farmer representative. The Director of OCIBU, nominated by the Minister
of Agriculture, is in charge of the day-to-day affaira. Re attends the
Board meetings but has no voting rights.
5.        OCIBU is managed tlhrough six departments; their main responsibili-
ties are:
(a) Administration and Accounts. Deals with personnel
matters, secretariat, accounts and finance.
(b) Coffee Licensing and Grading. Responsible for
liquoring and classifying of coffee, issueing export
licenses, and collection of taxes.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(c)  Warehouses.  Responsible for storage and-movement
of coffee.
(d) Marketing. Acts as intermediary in the sale of
coffee to overseas buyers. It handles all export
and import administration including documentary
credits in cooperation with the Central Bank.
In addition, it promotes Burundi coffee abroad
and distributes coffee samples. The marketing
procedure is described in Annex 3.
(e) Coffee Handpulper Services. In charge of construc-
tion of new handpulping centers and maintenance of
the existing 450 handpulpers which are spread over
all coffee growing areas. It operates also the
Butegana coffee washing station, formerly a coopera-
tive society, which ceased to function as such after
its operating losses exceeded its subscribed and
paid-up capital.' e 
(f)  Projects.  This Department is responsible for the
implementation of the first coffee improvement
project.
Price Stabilization and Promotion Funds
6. -      OCIBU àdministers,the Coffee Price Stabilization Fund and the
Coffee Promotion Fund through separate accounts. The Coffee Stabilization
Fund aims at regulating the farmers' price of parchment coffee and to
secure thé highest teturn possible to the coffee growers. The Fund receives
the income from a-special tax levied on each ton of exported greep coffee
according to the following procedure: at the time of coffee shipping the
exporter pays to the customs department a provisional stabilization tax
(FBu 2,900/ton for 1974/75) and a provisional custom« eduty (FBu 23,075/ton
for 1974/75) together with-an adjustment provision (FBu 11,000/ton for
1974/75) to the Central Bank. 'Stabilization tax and customs duty are
finally adjusted by the Central Bank, using the adjustment provision, as
soon as the local bank involved in the exporter's operation declares the
artual net foreign currencies received. The Coffee Promotion Fund finances
the campaign for the promotion of coffee consumption inside and outside the
country. A promotion tax levied on exported coffee and earnings from com-
mercial operations connected to promotional actions developed in Burundi
and in Belgium are paid into the Fund.
7.        The balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of both Funds
(Tables 1 to 4) give evidence of their importance but the statutory pro-
visions governing the Funds (Royal decree establishing OCIBU, dated June 18,
1964, art. 24 to 27) are not specific enough to support an efficient control
system of their activities. It would be preferable for clear regulations
to be drawn up to define the activities of the Funds and, particularly, to



el 'NZ _5
Page 4
stipulate terms and conditions for drawing from these Funds and the sectors
eligible for investment or financial assistance.
Staffing
8.        OCIBU is adequately staffed:  the administrative and technical
officers have experience and are qualified for their jobs. The accountant
is qualified for accounting routine, but lacks sufficient experience in the
modern accounting techniques required by complex organizations such as
OCIBU. A qualified chief accountant should be recruited without delay.
Resources
9.        After the liquidation of the former OCIRU all tangible assets
and inventories remaining within Burundi boundaries, and a share of OCIRU's
liquid assets, were taken ovier by OCIBU. This initial equity has been in-
creased by annual appropriation of profits to reserves. As of December 31,
1973 capital and reserves amounted to FBu 44.5 million (US$567,000) and pro-
visions for assets depreciation to FBu 28.7 million (US$366,000). Other
resources are derived from taxes levied on fob value of exported products
(mainly coffee) controlled by OCIBU, from rents and interest and from loans
and grants from Government or other sources, authorized by the Ministry of
Finance. Tax rates and the way they are levied are determined by the Board
every year. Among these taxes one covers OCIBU's overall operating expendi-
tures including those of the Coffee Board (remunerative tax). Others are
repayable by OCIBU: the promotion tax is paid into the Coffee Promotion
Fund administered by OCIBU; the Coffee Project tax raises the funds for
Governnent's contribution in the financing of the ongoing first coffee
improvement project; and the diversification tax covers Burundi's contri-
bution to the Diversification Fund that was administered by ICO.
Accounts
10.       OCIBU's machine-typed accounts are well-kept but the bookkeeping
system is apparently outdated and does not facilitate the analysis of
OCIBU's growing complex operations. The revision of the old chart of
accounts, using a more rational and systematic classification and subdivi-
sion of accounts together wiLth the strict application of standard account-
ing practices, would help overcome the difficulties. Entries are simul-
taneously posted on the account ledger and on the concerned relevant
journal (cash, bank, purchases, sales, etc.) but not consolidated on a
general journal which, to facilitate control, should be opened. Delays
in posting entries are too :Long: three months at the time of the visit
of the appraisal mission. Accounts should be permanently kept up to date
and a trial balance should be established at least every month instead of
every quarter.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Auditing
11.       OCIBU's accounts incLuding those of the Stabilization Fund, the
Promotion Fund, and the Butegana Cooperative Society, are audited by the
General Audit Department of the `MInistry of Finance. The accounts of the
first Coffee Improvement Project are audited by technical assistance assigned
to the Central Bank.  By statute  .article 23 of the Royal Decree of June 13,
1964), OCIBU has statutory authorization to assign the task of auditing all
accounts to an independent firni of auditors of international standards.
Financial Situation
12.       As shown in the balance sheet (Table 5) OCIBU has a fairly satis-
factory financial situation. The equity largely exceeds the fixed assets
book value. The ratio decreased from 2.6:1 in 1971 to 1.15:1 in 1973 due to
the expansion of OCIBU's warehouse-laboratory complex in the harbour area.
Currently, OCIBU has no liquidity problems. In 1971 and 1972 current assets
covered almost three times current liabilities and in 1973 the ratio was still
1.1 to 1.  In the future OCIBU would continue to cover its operating costs by
means of the remunerative tax.
OCIBU and the Second Project
13.       Project Management Unit.  Poor administration at the Bujumbura
head office where accounts of the first project were not adequately kept,
combined with inadequate coordination between the Ngozi project office
and the head office and excessive delays in posting entries in Bujumbura,
has caused difficulties. In view of this experience, the Project office
in Ngozi would be established as a self contained administration and
accounting unit which would be strengthened by appointing a qualified
financial controller and capable clerical staff. Project accounts would
henceforth be fully kept in the Project office and accounting liaison
between OCIBU headquarters and the Project office would be assured through
a reciprocal account opened in each other books. Physical transfer of
funds would continue to be made through the branch of the Banque de Credit
du Burundi (BCB) in Ngozi and the Banque de la Republique du Burundi
(BRBu, the Central Bank), in Bujumbura.  Apart from designing and imple-
menting an appropriate accounting system for the Project, the financial
controller would also assist OCIBU in rationalizing its accounting organi-
zation and procedure.
April 15, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STABILIZATION FUND
Comparative Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1971, 1972, 1973
(FBu rillion)
1971                1972                 1973                                                  1971                 1972                 1973
ASSETS                                                                                         LIABILITIES
Fixed Assets                                                                                  Accumulated Fund
Land                                  1.8                  1.8                 0.4            Fund brought forward                 125.4                 76.0                 83.4
Buildings                  5.1                  5.1                 2.6                        Surplus or (s'hortage)               (49.4)                 7.4                60.0
Less depreciation        2.0                 1.3                  0.8                          for the year                       76.0                 83.4                143.4
3.1                 3.8                  1.8
4.9                 5.6                  2.2          Provision for Bad Debts
Zaire investment                      13.6                 13.6                 13.6
Current Assets,                             2/
Cash at BRBu-1                      119.7                 60.5                 26.6
Investments:
Treasury Bills                     16.0                  8.0                23.0
135.7                68.5                 49.6
Shares in BND/                      5.0                  5.0                 5.0
Shares in EPB-                      0.2                  0.2                 0.2          Creditors
Loan from FED                        74.7-/                  -                    -
5.2                 5.2                  5.2            Accrued expenses                       1.4                  0.1                  0.1
Debtors:
Re-t receivable (accr,ed)           0.8                  1.1                  1.0
BRBu (adjustment Coffee Taxes)   -                        -                 54.4
OCIBU (Coffee Taxes)                2.9                  0.5                 0.3
Loan to Ministry of                                                          2.3
Agriculture 1970                  2.6-                 2.6-                2.3
Advance to Butegana Coop.            -                    -                   7.0
Advance to OCIBU                     _                    _                 21.5
6.3                 4.2                 86.5
Fictitious Assets                           6/                   6/
Interest on investment in Zaire   13.6                    1366
165.7                97.1                157.1                                                 165.7                 97.1                157.1
1/  Banque de la Republique du Burundi (Central Bank)
2/  Of which FBu 71.7 million in a blocked account for reiabursement of European Development Fund (FED) advance.
3/  National Economic Development Bank
4/  Bujumbura Port Authority
5/  Includes interest due and  neu  overdue installment.  The loan of FBu 2.5 million was made in 1970 for
purchasing vehieles for the Government extension staff - 5 year repayment - 57. interest p.a.
6/  Disputed claim regarding interest due on Burundi participation  ta Ruzizi Da. and Hydro-Electric Plant built in
Zaire.
7/  Ineludes inter-st due 1972 and two overdue installments of FBu 500,000 each.
8/ Loan agree.ent 1969 bolt-en OCIBU as Fund Ad.ini9trater -nd F E D - b.an te ho repaid April lst, 1972 -
interest 37. p.a.  This loan was used for a) reimbursing BRBu rebate on Coffee Taxes te coffee exporters 1969
(FBu 37.3 million) b) reiobursing the Government its advance to Diversification Fund I.C.O0 for lst and 2nd
nuarter 1969 (FBu 3.7 million) c) loau te Ministry of Agriculture for vehicles purchase (FBu 2.5 sillion)
d) reimbursing the Government its participation  to IDA Project 147-BU in 1969/70 (FBu 7 million)  e) Government
Extraordinary Budget (FBu 24.2 million).
an:uary 21, 1977,



BURUNDI
SECoND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SrABILIUTYIt FUND
Profit and Loss Accounts as at December 31, 1971. 1972. 1973
(FBu '000)
1971     1972      1973                                                                                   1971    1972        1973
EXPENDITURES                                                                              INCOME
General Administration
Bank charges                                         2        2         2             Taxes levied for FED loan repayment                                 38,897  12,955         -
Tnterest on FED loan                                 9        -         -
Share of OCIBU's overheads                        250       250       250             Taxes levied for Stabilization Fund                                 20,114  61,312    18,876
Insurance - Taxes - Depreciation                  572       326       211
2/
833      578       463             Recovery of export taxes 1970/71                                       -        -        1,214-
BRBu adjust.nent on taxes 1973/74                                     -        -       S4.4163/
I,,eLveiliion "Prices Support':
Payments to Exporters via BRBu                 74,830,/ 62,053         -              Rents                                                                1,207   1,022         506
Payments to Government                         31,153-       -         -              Other income                                                           883   1,111         269
Payments to OCIBU for expenses                     -         -         -
1593 62,053-
Other Expenses
Bad debts written off                           3,712        -      1,940
Loss on US $ devaluation                           -      6,400   12,873
Surplus of Income                                     -     7,369   60,025              Shortage of Income                                                  49,427       -
110,528   76,400   75.301                                                                                 110,528  76,400    75.30
1/ To cover Government participation in IDA Project 147-BU for 1969/70 (FBu 7 million) and to feed its
Investment Budget (FBu 24.1 million)
2/  As settlement of dispute with BRBu about INDURUNDI export tax 1970/71.                                                                                                                .D
3/ Represents adjustments as of 12/31/73 of Stabilization Fund Taxes corresponding to 10,875 tons af
1973 coffee crop exported.
Jsnuary 21, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
COFFEE PROM"TION FUND
Comparative Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1971. 1972, 1973
(FBu million)
1971               1972               1973                                              1971               1972                1973
ASSETS                                                                                  LIABILITIES
Current Assets                           j/                                             Coffee Promotion Fund                16.5                13.2               17.4
Cash and Banks                      8.8                7.5                4.3
Stock green coffee: Bujumbura       1.4                5.6                3.3
Stock green coffee: Anvers          1.6                3.2                2.9
Goods en route                       -                  -                 3.1
Receivable accounts                                                                   Payable accounts
Debtors                           0.7                0.5                6.0           Creditors                           1.9                0.3                 0.1
Advances to Project 147-BU         -                 0.5
Transicory account                  2.6                0.4                0.4
2/
Shortage of income                  3.3                 -                  -         Excess of income                        -                 4.2                 2.5
18.4               17.7               20.0                                              18.4               17.7                20.0
I/ Of which FBu 8.7 million at Central Bank and the balance FBu 0.1 million in cash and at Banaue Lambert-Bruxelles.
2/  This loss results from a wrong accounting procedure.  The Management Committee deciding in March 1972 to transfer
the profit 1970 (FBu 4.5 million) to OCIBU, as a subsidy for the purchase of small saws distributed free to planters,                                                  K:
this amount was debited to the Profit and Loss a/c 1971 instead of debiting Reserves to which the profit 1970 had                                                        v
already been added.  Subsequently the Profit and Loss a/c 1971 should have shown a profit of FBu 1.2 million instead                                                   e >;
of a loss of FBu 3.3 million, and Reserves vould have been FBu 12 million on the balance sheet 12/31/71 instead of                                                     c- r
FBu 16.5 million.
January 21, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
COFFEE PROMOTION FUND
Profit and Loss Accounts as at December 31, 1971, 1972. 1973
(FBu '000)
1971     1972      1973                                                                                  1971      1972      1973
EXPENDITURES                                                                              INCOME
General Administration                                                                    Taxes levied on coffee exported                                   5,866    7,117    6,956
Bank charges                                        16       34       104
Share in OCIBtl overheads                       1,046    1,046    1,046
Subsidies to OCIBU:
To purchase small tools free to planters   2,597           -      2,001
Profit 1970 transferred to OCIBU as                l/
subsidy                                     4,457-       -         -
Cost of a new roaster                             586        -         -
8,702    1,080    3,151
2/
P.C.B.C.   Service Bujumbura                                                            Sales "P,C.B.C" Bujumbura                                         2,422    2,519    3,255
Coffee for roasting                           2,110    2,200    2,391                 Sales "Contact" - Brussels & Antwerp                              2,786    3,625    4,877
All other direct expenses                       407       818       863               Sales exported coffee parcels                                        -         -        126
2,517    3.018    3,254
Contact _Service - Antwerp
Coffee for roasting                           1,839    2,378    4,064
All other direct expenses                     1,387    1,782    2,083
3,226    4,160    6,147
Expenses of Exhibitions
International                                   528       817       945               Sundry Profits                                                      724        -     2,054
Domestic                                        103        30        78
631      847    1,023
_ndry Losses                                        -        10    1,152
Surplus of Income                                  -      4,146    2,541                Shortage of Income                                                3,278
15,076   13.261   17,268                                                                                 15,076   13,261   17,268
1/  Should not have been charged to Profit and Loss a/c 1971 but transferred to OCIBU by debiting
Promotion Fund Reserves to which Profits 1970 had already been added.  So 1971 would have been
closed with a profit of FBu 1,178,755 (FBu 4,457,488 - FEu 3,278,733). See remark 2/ table 4.
2/  Propagande pour la Consomsation du Bon Cafe. (Promotion of good coffee consumption).
3/  Contact is an organization whose objective is to promote consumption of Burundi Arabica Coffee
abroad and particularly to Europa.  Parcels of 2 kg  of coffee are sent abroad on behalf of                                                                                          ( 
Burundi residents (FBu 300 per parcel in 1973) or purchased in Brussels through Bannue Lambert -                                                          
BAI or in Antwerp.
Janiuary 21, 1975



BIRUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
OCIBU
Summarized Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1971, 1972, 1973
(FBu million)
1971                1972                 1973                                                   1971                 1972                 1973
ASSETS                                                                                          LlABILITIES
Fixed Assets                                                                                   Capital                                  17.3                 17.3                  17.3
Land                                   0.5                  0.4                 0.4          Reserves                                 18.2                 18.2                 27.2
Buildings                  24.2                 27.6                 47.4-
Equipment - Furniture    12.0                   15.5                 16.7
Vehicles                     2.0                 2.6                  2.7
38.2                45.7                 66.8
Less Depreciation        25.0                 26.2                 28.7
Net Book Value                     13.2                 19.5                 38.1
13.7                19.9                 38.5                                                   35.5                 35.5                 44.5
Current Assets                                                                                 Current Liabilities                                                                     6/
Cash and Banks                        25.4                 24.6                45.22!           Sundry Creditors                       6.1                  3.8                  37.6-
Merchandise Stock and en Route    1.2                       0.6                12.93/           Accrued Expenses                      10.9                 11.8                   7.1
Advances to Butegana Coop.             6.0                  7.0                   - 3           Deposits Received                      0.1                  0.1                   0.171
Advance to Coffee Project Ngozi    -                        3.0                  3.0            Advances From Stabilization Fund   -                          -                 21.5-
Advances to Staff                      C.8                  0.5                  1.74/          Ministry of Finance:                                                                 8/
Sundry Debtors                        11.1                  7.6                34.1-              Surplus Diversification Tax           -                    -17.1-
Surplus Project 147-BU Tax            -                    -409/
44.5                 43.3                 96.9                                                  17.1                 15.7                 87.4
Transitory Accounts                       1.3                   -                   0.1          Transitory Accounts                       0.4                  0.5                  1.0
Fiscal Year Profit                      6_5                   11_5                 2,6
Total Assets                            59.5                 63.2                135.5          Total Liabilities                        59.5                 63.2                135.5
l/  Compared to 1972 the increase comes from cost of a second warehouse and a new laboratory built
in OCIBU complex at Bujumbura Harbour.
2/  Represents mainly  the purchase cost of empty jute bags, hand pulping materials and empty poly-
ethylene bags for insectici'e spraying.
3/  Advances reimbursed through an advance from Stabilization Fund.
4/  Of which FBu 28 million represents export taxes due by coffee exporters.
5/ Unadjusted
6/  Of which FBu 34 million represents coffee export taxes due for November and December 1973 to
Central Bank
7/ Of which FBu 20 million for purchase of jute bags and FBu 1.5 million for staff housing loans,
8/  To show the excess of Diversification Tax over actual payment "ade to ICO   London as a liability
to the Ministry of Finance and not as a profit to OCIB11 as previously recorded in OCIBU's books.
9/  To show the excess of Project 147-BU tax over the tax utilization as a tiability  to the Ministry of Finance
and not as previously recorded in OCIBU's books.
,arIîsar-, 52, 197,2



bURUiNDI
iECOND COFFEE IMPROVEIIENT PROJECT
OCIBU
I - Operati,g Account As at Denember 31, 1971,1972,1973
WFBl tillas>
1971      1972      19'3                                                                                      1971      1972      1973
E1PEND7ITIRES                                                                                INCOME
Gene:ral Adrciistr-cson                               30.5      33.7       41.1           Re.uneratory Tas (Covers OCIBU's expenses)                                 57.6      74.0      74.8
Pulp:ig Cencers                                        6.5       6.4        1.6           Diversification Tam (Covers contribution te ICO Fsnd)                      13.4      15.9        -
Su-dr-y ICO Related Exposnes                           2.3        3.1       2.2           Pro/rot 147-BU 'DX (Covers Govern.ent share in Pro/jet)                     8.4       9.6        -  _
Contribltion to ]CO Diversification                                            1/
Fond                                                 9.2      13.7         -                                                                                       79.4      99.5      74.8
C.overnnmecr Contribution ru Project                                           1/
147-BU                                               6.9       9.9         -             Overhesads Shard by Stabilieatios PFnd, Promotion Fund
Ferci.lizer Mission Copeoses                           2.4        1.2       0.4              h Outegans Coup                                                          1.4       1.4       1.4
intrusion & Promotion Snr-ices                         0.9        0.3       0.3            storage & Packing Fers                                                     0.1        -         -
Frne  I-lsn'ticides tr  Plasetrs                      20.1      25.7       25.9            Rent                                                                       0.1       0.7       0.9
Worelivuse ixpenses                                    2 2        3.0       2.5
81.0      97.0      74.0
Credit Onlsece                                           -       4.6        3.1
81.0    101.6       77.1                                                                                      81.0    101.6        77.1
II - Profit And Loss Accrunt As at Decreber 31, 1971,1972,1973
(FBl Million)
Puyncnt ,n Anonnt cf P-rvious YUr: Rebate tE                                               Operattig Account Credit Balance                                            -        4.6       3.1
E.F-rt-rs 1970/71 Un Acountrs uf PFor Crop:                                             EIneptional Income: Subsidy Fron Promotion Fond For PFrrhastig
Fron Rcesnorratory Tan 1970/71                     8.8                                   Seaul Farcis0 Tnuîn DistrRibutd Frac tso Plactera                       7.1         -         -
F-on Pruject Tsn 1970/71                           1.9                                 Unuord Frovision Tskec Beck                                                -          -        6.2
Solndrr Accounots writt-: oIff                          -          -        0.1            Sundry Profits                               2/                            1.0       0.5       7.6
Emcus Tases TrDsferred  tu Creditor a/n to                                                 Unappropciatnd Profit From Peios   er                                      9.0       6.4       2.6
Conplu with lnscrnction cf Minister of
Finance:  toEn. s Tac 1969 and 1970                                      2-.
n      ' 1971                                                5.7
n    1972                                               1.1)
Net Profit Be/fen Aduntonent                           6.4      11.5        2 ti
17.1      11.5      12.1                                                                                      17.1      11.5       12.9
III - Adjustrd Results
(FBl Million>
Enresu uf Tan Transfrred to C:cditor Acounts-/                                             Ueadj/stcd Net Profit                                                      6.4      11.5         2.6
-      -irrsific-tion Toc                              4.2       2.2         -             Shortage of Pro/cnt 147-BV Tux Tra.sfee-cd fron
- Pro j-c  147-RU Tus                                  1.5         -         -               Croditur's Accnnnt -                                  3/                  -        0.3
Pre_ions Yrar Unappropriactr  Frofi Trans-                                                 Cumslaced Encras of Tomes 1969 tE  1972 Takcr  Bacr k                                          10.o
fer:red to  Profit Carried Fpr-rrd sfc               9.0       6.4       2.1
Adi-,ocd N9t Profit                                     -         3.2      10.C            Adj/sted Nlt i.ons                                                         8 3
14.7      11.8      12.6                                                                                      14.7      11.8        12.6
Note:  OCIBJ profit oud  -sn  a/c has bren re- trranond Eu co-ply  ith ubosual ntadard acionnting procedure.
Adjnsted res-ils show chat  .o.ld have becs th.  -rccal ononal resuts  i/ 1, _ )./, 1:77, ir OC/'Si' hro,
romplicd evcry  -cri cith  -eenr.rs l.sc  2/
l  lp ro an-d inclusive 1972 the divcrsiuicatîsc ard projnct 147-BU t..es and their use us rontribution
tc 1.C.0. diveesifistifon fund  -nd as Uovei,cent share iu pro/jrt 147-BU  ere sbowc os in-cme and expenes-
r-sper-tiv-ly ir iCIBIU "Profit & Loon" o/c.   Taxe  collection and psyoero tnereoE hcing mode os annou at of
the Covrenr-ent, any encens or shortage of taxes over paynents should tot hbac  interfered with OCIBU  own
rcslnt.  OCIBU's proced-e nhich han been criticized by Governnen E aditers ani successive Bank supervision
missions IaS bren disrcrtinned  w.e.f.1973.  The net cn -olsrnd excsss nf traes over paymcntn froc 1969 ts 1972
han bren allocaced  in 1973 Eu two rediteor aceo Cnns," "TC0  ivenoifiucilon FPnd" a/r and "ENgoi Prosjot 147-BI" r/r.
2/  T7he svstmati  ose of preciovs y-er '.nappropriatcd profir os addition]a incom  ir  th. "Profit aod Loss" a/r of
-ear nlder reci-e nitors thse -nt::l renullt.  The part cf thr previn-s year p,,fit ont transferred  tn rencenes
sbo-ld bl -reditid to on s            Pc-uft "Freit Carrird For.ard" cntil tht! Board de-ides ahbut ite final appropria-
3/    du. .d...sme         .. assooes thot the.ecess of tanes bus bren rhbrged e-cb yeor, froc i969 to 1972, tr  th. corresponding
Prfit ard Loss s/r.  Therefore the cunulated amoun. t (FB  10 nilli'n) OCIBU haa charged tc  Profit .nd Lons a/r 1973
has te be tsken b_ck.
Jsvrsnrva S, ID7'



Adjiutm,ieil, of CC'IPîJ's Annual Rezults
Profit Previous Years
To Deduct for Adjustment         Adjusted Results       Carried Forward a/c          Reserves
Net Excess
Profit Carried  of Diver-                                     To     To                To      To
FY Results  Forward as per  sification   Total  Profit Loss  Cumul.   Add  Deduct  Cumul.           Add  Deduct Cumul.
From OCTBU     OCIBU'S       and Pro,ject
Books/        Books-'         Taxes
Inherited
From OCIRU                                                                                                                       2.0
1964        0.7             -              -           -      0.7     -     0.7      -       -      -        0.7    -         2.7
1965       12.6                    -                    -    12.6     -    13.3    11.6    -       11.6       1.0    -        3.7
1966       13.8           11.6             _         11.6    2.2      -    15.5      -     0.1    11.5        2.? (
0.1             6.o
1967       13.9           ll.5             -         11.5    2.4      -    17.9      -     0.1    11.4        2 4
0.1 (           '.5
1968        8.1           1.-1.4                               -     3.3   14.6      -      3.3     8.1        -
3.1     5.0       3.1    _      11.6
1969        0.1            5.0            0.7         5.7      -     5.6    9.0      0.6    -       5.6        -    D.6      11.0
5.6     0
1970       15.7            0.1            1.7         1.8   13.9      -    22.9      7.?    -       7.2      6.7(
0.6     6.6       0.6<   -       18.3
1971        6.4            9.0            5.7        14.7      -     8.3   14.6      1.7            8.3        -    1.7     16.6
8.3     0
1972       11.5            6.4            1.9         8.3    3.2      -    17.8      2.6    -       2.6      0.6    -       17.2
1973       12 .6-          2.6             -          2.6   10.0      -    27.8       -      -      2.6     10       -       27.9
1/  Although profit appropriation to reserves is usually decided by the Board in the course of the followicng year it is
shown here same year at closing of account for easier reading.
2/ From OCIBU'S annex to balance sheeb 1973 (accounting comments).
3/  OCIBU has charged its profit and loss account 1973 with the total net excess of taxes (FB_ 10 n-lllion) whieh here aboe
have been deducted before 1973.  Subsequently the Fa, 10I million have to be taken back and the FBa 2.6 million profit
showr. in OCIBU'S books for 1973 become FB,2 12.6 million.  The FDS 10 million profit goes entirely to reserves.
Tancary 21, 1D7t



Bt'RU'NDI
050bND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAPE
Summary of Project Cost
Sommaire des CoSits du Projet
(FBu  000)
Annual Cost
Year/Année      Year/Ann4e       Year/Année      Year/Année       Year/Année                       Foreig, Exchange   vear 6 Onwards
'able         l               2                3                4                           Total Cost           Devises            Coût Annuel
___  Tableax  (1975/76)     (1976/77)        (1977/78)       (1978/79)        (1979/80)      Coût Total       5      FBu'OOO      A Partir Année 6
Agricultural Services                           2         27,592          32,904           44,340          50,359           32,975         188,170       42      79,664            21,400        Services Agricoles
Coffee Processing                               3         11,750          13,410              980              150             150          26,440        71      18,680               150      Traitesent du Café
Coffee Research                                 4         14,770           9,210            6,960           7,720            6,960          45,620       78      35,705             7,215        Recherche Café
Construction Equipment,Bridges,Water appSy    5            6,300           2,900            2,900              400             400           12,900       60       7,620               450      Mat. de Constr. ,Pots, Approv. d'eau
Project Management                              6         37,165          19,940           16,940          17,280           14,310         105,635       73      76,585             7,300        Di-ection du Projet
Technical Advise asd Evaluatio.,                7          5,327           4,047            3,847           4,247            3,847          21,315        65      13,912              -          Conseils Techniques et Evaluutioo
Administrative an.  Techuical Services          8          9,382           4,522            4,042           6,722            4,042          28,710        45      13,038            4,942        Services Administratifs et Techniques
Base Cests                                       112,286,         86,933           80,009          86,878           62,684        4'2o,7y)        57    245,204            4-,4P,7       CoAts de Base
countingencie  - Phy,sical_                                5,6i4           4,347            4,0 6           4,344            3,034          2 ,439       57      12,26                           Ts,prév   - Dpasserent des hantitPsi/
-Prsyicl27l2,969                                        2o,082           28,563          4o,138           38,833          140,585       57      80,133                                   -HauSse des Prix
Total Projeet Cost/with Contingencies                    130,869         111,362          112,572         131,30 o04,651                   590,8I4        57    33,(Y7                           CoOts Totaux du Projet avec Imprévus
Estimated at 54 of base costs.                                                                                i/  Evalués 'a 5% du coût de base.
É/  Annual price contingencies have been computed as follows: Year l: 117; l                                          Provisions annuelles pour hausse des prix été calculéss coume suite:
Year 2: 22d;  Year 3: 34é;  Year 4: 44%;  and Tear 5: 594.                                                        Année 1: 11%;  Année 2:22%    Année 3:343;  Année 4: 444;  et Année 5: 593.
October 6, "975
Bts



T.hle,Teblce,, 2
1003372E PROJET 0'OAMILI0RATION DE LA PRODOCTI0N DE CAPE
(Pu000)
UeREe                                 Ce4a             c   e A                               Tetel Cees    Porel gs Esch.sge        bar 6 Oo,-eds
Cet De ti-.s    Yes.se           eodeé           ooAvé           eeAsé          erAseée        Colt Tetal          Devi.es               Coda Av...e
i              2               34                              S                            7   mO  'DES        A P.otir Assée  6
il.tl't .1 1.ff- A-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ogcccaéh-hat pcts>ticl
Aceiuit ft o'vr15E  (lE)  4,500   (12)  1,800   (13)  1,930    (13)  1,950   (13)  1,950                                            9,050           -          -1,050   Ageca-l
A.Sor>oc ituaSslstcct                     60  (80)  4,8000  (19E)  6,09E   (l2O)  7,20E   (120)  7,200  (120)  7,200               32,400           -          -7,200   DoaStecu
Wcr4 J6u       va                         40  (25)  i,DOO    (35)  1,400   (40)  1, 60    (40)  1,600   (AD)  1,600                 7,200           -          -              ehO    Equplov  (5 Ac_a,e
0O6ev AroAt-evg
Aerîas_tcre  0ffca-                       030,  (2)    300    (3)    450    (5)    750    (S)    000    (4)    900                  3,300           -                           900  At,   duv
Agtcitura_I As_istec                       60  (20)  1,200   (35)  2,1I0    (30)  3,000    (60)  3,600    (60)  3,600              l3,100           -          -3,600   Arcc
Oc-A 7-g'~Ica                             4D   (5)    20 M     (10)    400   (135    (600)  (20)    600   (20)    800               2,60                       -                000  M.          Se
Toeicfog A6r-d                             75   0)70 (10)    7           300(10)    7    90 (10)    750   (10)    7      30         37050.0                                     -       ~        Dî~CIO
Sab-tsta1                      9,730          12,900          05,000          06,000         16,800         72,100            4       3,000           16 o050       tcteo
B. CAPOTI                                                                                                                                                                                   CAPITAL
Oocte... i   Sahîclo                     1,000   (0)  1,000               -              -       (1)  0,000              -           2,000           60       0,600              335  cesoae  aîarseto
bouc  Socre                   ~~~~           ~ ~~~~~400  -  (4)  0,000        400                    -                    0,000          40          000              -    Mcocc d..     ca.g
Nass    agi             fftra   001c      300            -       (A)  2,000             30                        00                     0           0       1,00               -        éceoogcoc
}>r>rrcvcls 0cr agrvcsotsrolOffice   40(OS     '00      ()    8               1'40     (10)    400    (3)        2
ivyci Ssore                   ~~~~           ~ ~~~~~400  - (33  1.200   (23   600)           400                          2,400          40          960                   M.Ngasin do  oekg
caus-,c  A--cau  cee  Officer             300           -        (33  3,300   (23   1,000               500             -3,000                      40       1,'00o                   Lsgses-    gcva
Oaec0rMootas-                            (0    ,        (5                               (13     30              -           3-0             40       leOO                     L.&eeo  acatcccs
Sa6-tct.1                      3,460           8,170           4,570           2,920             200        19,340           47       9,112             5735    cs-ce
C  007'7900  ATlfrOAI95POCCINCMD
Dcctevaiss Vohiclo                         335           335             335             335             395             335         1,675           80       1,540             335   VéhîsOsuuîorleac
Hlu,11 P se-tts  Cottes croc                         ,EOoOv  cf  hhutilvt
Inpcr tooro                     1~~~~~~~~~~6 1S 28    >03    128  (12>       192   1133    700   >133    700               064           40         346              vo    aosvd  cchg
20 (3~ 160    (03     160  (023       240   (03>    260   (133        260         0,000           40         437              760toev
Mctcvevclo  0crAgecccl curaiOfOs--rS7.12  (10)    120   (123    144  (133       156   (133    036   (133    056                232          60          50               3   Mot- cet
Ettîco tcpcvces                ~~~~~~~~12   (8  96 (101       120  (023      144   (133    036   (033    136                672          40          269              156  Orsi, dc b-ro-
,caî2-   r                                 16           --                     (3)       AS    (3)       80    (6)       96            224          40         '90               96  Hag-iv do  ccka
Icl-                                       23           -                -      33       62    33>      100    (63      120            200          40          107      -      120  ialesoc
mct -rac   ie  a  Aoclto    Off--3r3Jll    (23            24   (33        36   (5)       60    >43       72    (43      732            264          60          70                32iaeyvoc
0001cr Erc>s-s-                            17   (2>      24   (3>       3_6   (5         40      6>      22    (6        72            264          40         100                2Pos  sbra
tub- oscel               6~~      ~     ~~~87  959     0,2035          0,430          1,475          6,055           30       3,492           1,475 Scc-sa
D. INP00P0I-0TS1
ler>llc'si                 -            ~~~~~            ~~~~            ~~~~~,O,)  ùJ  t>7  c50~        8003       1,h4oo           90      13,54o
--                                --             5           c.',,.          il. ta -~~~~U                  O'0,sJ          90      14,354,               /   uot1v
Tc-ls fcr Prvlo   sOEO>                 '>       7'  1, 40)     y>,  1,4oo      7>1  î,4x      *'1,3            o'~ 1,4037         7,000           90       6,3223,03
sp-ayicg t5lpcot.                                       00             700           O                   )            ,5f           1O              O       49op                                          I, 00
500  Pccs-rtst- r 
Seolcc(ic>300                            0.3 (700)  0,730    (700) 0,750  (700)  1,730  (700)  1,750  (700)  1,750                 8,750           20       1,750     (700) 1,730  Jsacs  plouc, ('077>
Pet -oa    odo.  tccît. ota.      -           0,370           ~,530           7,570           3,300          4,000         13,520           kiT     1100                 - Occls    soc,.  .cll
Ssed Pava                                                                                                                                                                           PFr-oa-asc-
- shodo                   -           ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~            ~~1,000  1,00  -  -              -           2,000           70       0,400              --Sta es-
- 1,6cr                   -             03~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  400          400             600             600         D,350            -         -                600    -iaa>  d' -cu-
- Z stfrtls,tsl,aa                    -75                            225             3735           450             450          0,325           60       1,260              430-5       esa,  vce  ,uEleoC
~~c-u.~~rscr ''   -   -            0,007          JL~~~~~         ésQu            2.000         14,000           37      O.c00               -    'Oc>volvppva.oct rural.wo  0  4,,0
Suh-soset          13, t          ~~~~~~~         ~~108775  0,7    4,3            o,0o            7,7            71      44,00o6ocoace
00T2 A                                               7,500          rpSo            44,740         50.ats          32,975        106.170           40      79,664          01,400   TOTAL
0/  Caatrucecl dclv>,brutp-e3-at                                                           i/  C-vsc-lr-  e' caa-  d. preler pr-jeal.
Il  Oaleaocvc  or  131 at -e1ce                                                               2/  Prasiaiu race rooPloce-oc  à 1>3 do le valsa  d'ache..
-toacort>coa  esîr; for do,talv  s   as..s 7, table 1.S./  Deas-es  ce.s tedditi ....ls; voir dételle on Aese   7, -abl... 1.
T.eb apeidf-r  Sa  rauttaat>esacbee.IA p.y- dole   etP uelttuseeaéqls  sesbrc
- '   rîicuC-  r-iaiv  -ad iaecce a? taprasd b-sdic  otc,tcou   C2    evsv  pos  1.c r-p-d-totc  eh dietributiccd,esèe   ndlro ddrvs fj c:ilrccd
-a.,   usi,ater pa--sJills, sOct    viil, tu Se varoi rat                                tecita, acclas s oc,  tEc.> dételle A ,stte au poInt aucus  o                    ère ec de  l Orc.(u.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Coffee Processing
Traitemoent du Café
(<F8u ' 000>
A nnuaI CDSt
C oût   A n n ue I                                                                         Annual Cost
Unit Cost                                                                                          Total Cost  Foreign Exchange       Year 6 Onwards
Cout Initaire     Near/AnnAi       -ear/Année      Ynar/Année       Y.ar!née         iear/énnée      CGL ToLo1        Deviox6            Coûlt
_ _______________                                               2               3                4               5 _                                FBu'OOO    A Partir Année 6
WASEINU STATIONS -                                                                                                                                                                                 STATIONS DE LAVAGE -
Capitl.                                                                                                                                                                                           Capital
Co,,.troction and Equipment          5.800           (2)  11.600      (2)  11.600              -                -               -         23,200      75      17,400                  -          Construction et Equipement
Operation anl Maintenance 2/                                                                                                                                                                    Fonctionnemeent -/
Fixed processing costs               200                    -       (4)     800              -                -               -            800      75         600                  -         Coût fixe
Variable processing costs                                   -               240              210              -               -            450       -         -                              CoûIt variable
Maintenance                          310                    -               620              620              -               -          1,240      55         680                 --          Entretien
Sub-total                               11,604           13,260             830              -                -        25,690              18,680                  -          Sous-total
HAND PULPERS                                                                                                                                                                                      DEPULPEUSES A MAIN
Maintenance                              I          (150)     150   (150)     150   (150)      150   (150)      150   (150)     150          750      25         190         (150)   150         Entretien
T O T A L                                                    11.7            13.410              980              150             150       26I440      71      18.680                 150        TOTAL
l/or details see Appendix at the end ol this Anr,ex.                                                                      1/ Pour détails voir Appendix i la fin de cette Annexe.
Sj Total csts in the first yeer of operatlon and ineremental costs in the second year,
uainly to cover expeniitures related to possible teething problem  anAd staff training                                       la l-xièae année,s pincipale.mrent pon r compenser pour dnpenses relatées auxe  d
req,irements.                                                                                                                problèmes éventuelles de désarrage et la nécessité de former le personnel.                  t
*''ly 5, 19 5



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DE[XIE1'E PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Coffee Research
Recherche du Cafe
(FBu '000)
A n n u a 1   C  o s t                                                                           ual Cost
Unit Cost                             C o û t   A n n u e 1                                  Total Cost       Foreign Exchange  Year 6 Onwards
Cout Unitaire   Year/Annee    Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année              Coùt Total            Devises         Coût Annuel
1              2              3              4               5                              N  FBu '000       A Partir Annee 6
A. STAFF                                                                                                                                                                                   PEESONNUL
Agronomist,expatriate                  2,750         2, 750         2,750           2,750          2,750          2,750           13,750            90    12,375          2,750        Agronome, expatrié
Entomologist, expetriate               2,750         2,750          2,750           2,750          2,750          2,750           13,750           90    12,375           2,750        Entomologiste,expatrié
Agrono,risfe, BiDr,m,i                   150   ,-      300   (2)      300      2)    300   '2)       300   '9)      300            1,50             -       _               300       Agronome, lueur. i
Br.b-total                    5,u00          5,oO           y,,0            ,8oe           "80            29,075                                               Sous-total
B. CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                 CAPTTAT,
Houses                                 2,500   (2)  5,000             -               _              _                     (2)     5,000           50      2,500            -         Logements
Scientific Equiprnent                    -           2,000          2,000             -              -              -              4,000          100      4,000            -          Equipement scientifiqte
Library and Miscellaneous                -             250             250            -              -               -               500            80       400            -          Bibliothèque et divers
Vehicles                                 380   (2)    760             -               -       (2)    760            -              1,520           80      1,215           255         Vehicules
Sub-total                     8,010          2,250             -              760            -             11,020           74      8,115            255        Sous-total
C. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                               FONCTIONNEMENT
Materials,inputs and daily labor          -            700            700             700            700            700            3,500           45      1,405            700        Mâtateriaux,pro9'liorn,tra,rl
Houses, 47.                              100           -       (2)    200    (2)    200    (2)    200    (2)    200                  800           50        400   (2)    200          Logements, 4%          le-es
Vehicles                                 130   (2)    260    (2)    260    (2)    260    (2)    260    (2)    260                  1,300            80     1,040   (2)    260          Véhicules
Sub-total                       960          î,î6o           l,l6o          1,J60          1,160            5,6oo           51      2,840         1160         Sous-total               >
T 0 T A L                                             i4,770          9,210           6, 960         7,720          6,960           45,6?2            78    35,705          7,215        TOTAL                    
October 6, 1971
aet



BURUNDI
SECOND COPFEE IMPROVESIENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET DWA.fIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAPE
Construction EquipTaent, Bridges, Nater Supply
Equipement de Construction, Pontj, Approv  ionoemee  d'Eau
(FBu` 000)
An nua  1 CoL st-nnua 1Cos t
Unit Cost                           C o u t   A n n u e 1                               Total Cost        Forci?n Exchange  Year 6 Onwards
Cout unitaire  Yeat/Annee    YearlAnnee    Year/Annee    Year/Année    Year/Année           Coit Total            Devises         COT,t Annuel
1              7              1              4           _   i                                 FR"  000    A P.rtir A-nr 6             __       _
CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                CAPITAL
Tipping Truck                            1,5OO          1,500            -              -              -              -             1,500           80       1,200                     c Camion benne
Tractor                                   1,00         1,000                    -              -                      -             1,000           80         800          _          Tracteur
Watter Tanker                               200          2D0             -             -                                              200           80         160          -          Citerne
Trailer                                     200          200            -              -               -              -               200           80         160                     Remorquc
Concrete Mixer                              100          100                                                                          100           80          80         B_étonière
Pick-up                                    400           400            -              -              -              .               400            80         320          -         Camionette
Sub-total                      3,400            -              -              -              -             3,400           80       2,720          -          Sous-total
BRID87,5 AND CULVERIS                                                                                                                                                                   PONT .Ed8IXELU
Repaie and Maintenance                     400           400            400            400            400             400           2,000           20         400          200        Réparâtion et entretien
WATER SOURCES                                                                                                                                                                           SOURCES D'EAU
Rehabilitetion and Maintenance (5%)          50   (50) 2,500    (50) 2,500    (50) 2,500               -              -             7,500           60      4,500           250        Remise en êtat et
entretien
T O T A L                                               6,300          2,900          2,900             400           400          12,900            60      7,620           450        TOTAL
July 1, 1975



SECOIND COFFEE IMPRO'rNENC PPOJECT
DEUXIEhE PROJET D'A»ELIOPATIOIZ DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Project Management
Direction du projet
(PPu '000!
An n u a    C o s t                                                                Annuel  os
'r.it Cost                        C o 1i t   A n n u e I                         Total Cont    Poreigi, Exctange   Year r 'nwards
Coit ITnitaire  Year/Année   Year/Année   Year/Anné:e   Year/Anr,-'e  Year/Année   Cout Total           Devises            Coût AnnueL
1____ _____ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ___ _   _  2  3  4                           F %.  P1u  O0   A   Partir   Anro e   6
A. STAFF                                                                                                                                                                           PER212 2LL
triates                                                                                                                                                                       E
Pro/est Manager                           2,750          2,750        2,750         2,750         2,750        2,750           13,750     90      12,375             -       Dire-teur du Projet
Agrmoomist-Coffee                         2,500          2,500        2,500         2.500         2,500         2,500          12,500      90     11,250          2,500      Agroieoue-Caf,'
Agronomitt-Food Crops                     2,500            -          2,500         2,500         2,500        2,500           10,000      yO      9,000             -       Agroucca-C'lo,res Otorlér-e
Process'ng Officer                        2,500          2,500        2,500         2,500           -             -             7,500      90      6,750              -       lechrologue
Construction Offiter                      2,500          2,500        2,500           _             _             -            5,000       9o      4,500             _       Condlucteur des Travaux
Fioancial Of'ficer                        2,500          2.500        2,500         2,500         2,500         2,500          12,500     90      11,250             -       Comptable
Burundi                                                                                                                                                                        Burundi
Leputy Prolcet Manager                      400            4oc          4oo           40o           40o           400           2,000      -         -               409     Directeuo Adjoint
Senior Aereuuu*isl                           330           380          380           380           380           380           1,900      -         -               380     Agron,me
Processing Officer                          360            360          36C           360           360           360           1,Soo      -         -               3609    TcYno1Doîe
Financial officer                           3(0            360          360           360           360           360           1,800      -         -               360     Comptable
Sub-total                               14,250       16,750        14,250        11,750        11,750         68,750      80      5,125           4,000      Soua-total
B. CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                          CAPI LAI
Housing-Senior Staff'                     2,100  (4)    8,400           -             -             -             -             8,400      50      4,2oC              -      T0ogeenleràs ,calreo siop4rteLre
Guestbo,se                                3,000          3,000                 -                    -             -             3,000     50       1,500              -       rite
Project Office                            3,00o          3,000          -                           -             -             3,090      50      1,530              -       rnau Projet
flectriciy7  Water, Celepl,ne            2,500          2,500          -             -             -             -             2,500      50      1,050              -      Electricitr, Eau, Télêplu,re
vemhices?: 4-wheel drive                    650  (1)       650          -             -    (1)      650           -             1,300      80      1,040   (1>      220      Vé11ic1es27  tout-terrain
Pick-up                         400  (3)    1,200          -             -    (2)      800           -             2,000      So       1,60C   (2)      260                    camionette
Sedan                          380  (4)    1,520           -             -    (4)   1,520            -             3,040      80      12,3     (3)     390 '4oiture
Sub-tota1                               20,270                                    2,970                        23,240     58      13,520            870       Sous-total
C,  OPERATION AID MATNITEANCE
Rent for House                               500           500          500           -             -                           1,000      -          -               -       Location d'une maison
Office Operation                            300            300          300           300           300           300           1,500      50         750            300      Gention du bureau
Office Maintenance                 4%       120            -            120           120           120           120             43o      50         240            120      Entretien du burea,
House Maintenance                  4,         85  (4>      340  (9)    765  (9)       765  (9)      765  (9)      765           3,400      50      1,700             765      Entretien des loge.roctL
Water, Electricity, Telephone   151         375             375         375           375           375           375           1,875      50         940            375      Eau, r iectricite, téléphone
Vehitlee: 4-wheel drive           33%       220  (1)       220  (1)    220  (1)       220  (11      220   1)      220           1,100      80        880   (i)      220       VéhicLes- tout-terrain
Pick-up                33%        130  (3)       390  (3)    390  (3)       390  (2)     260  (2)      260           1,690      80       1,350    2)      260                  cami;nette
Sedan                  33%        130  (4)       520  (4)    520  (4)      520  (4)      520  (4)      520           2,600      80       2,08    (3)      390                  voitures
Sub-total                                2,645        3,190         2,690         2,560        2,560           13,645     58       7,940          2,430       So1os-total
T O T A L                                               37,165       19,940        16,940        17,280        14,310         105,635      73      76,58,5         7,300      TOTAL
In addition to existing 4 houses                                           j  Outre 4 maisons existantes                                                                                                    "-'
j   At 1/3 of replaceenot cost te-on year C onwadrs.                            j  A 1,3 des irais de remplacemrent    partir de l'année 6.
october 6, 3975



BrUnNDI
SEC0Wn COFFEE DTMROVEMTNT PROJEC0
DEIJIEME PROJET D'»OELIORATION DE LA FRODUCTIOh DE CAPE
Tecbnical Advice and !ionitorin'
Conseils Techniqlues et 5onidage
('.u ' 000 )
-A      n n u a l   C o s t                                                            Annual Cost
tnit Cost                             C o u t   A n n u e I                           Total Cost    Foreign Exchange        Year ( Dnwards
Coût Trnitaire    Year/Année   Year/Année   Year/Anm,e   Year/Arnée   Year/Année   Coft Total               Devises               Co&t Annuel
1            2              3             4             5                         %     FBu'000        A Partir Asnm,e 6
A.  STRPS                                                                                                                                                                            PIlCOONtI.
Tenu of Advisers                                                                -Eq,ipe de  Conseiller-
penn (dayel                            24       (50)   1,200   (50)  1,200  (50)  1,200  (50)  1,200  (50)  1,200             6,000    100         6,000               _       Uc,roroPro, ______
Sprbsistee Conte                       4       ,(n)      200   (50)200(50)    2GG  (35)    ZO                                 tWO        - U0-                                 Indem:tés (,ioar
Ai  Fares                             160       (5)      800    (5)    800   (5)    800   (5)    80tl  (5)    800             4,000    100         4,000                       F Frais de Voyage
Supplementary Consbuls               1,000               1,000          1,000         1,000         1,0<-          1,000        5,000      50       2,500                _    ?unnui1n Skppîiooertaîren
Arceiteet (months)                     200         (3)     600            200            -             -             -            800                  -                 -    ArchiteCte (mois!
Data Collecting Tew,                                                                                                                                                           Eqluipe de Sondage
Agricultural Ecolomit180                                 18°            10             1C            TH(8C                      g o      -           -                 _       Econormiste Agricole
oE rcunrs                          60        (4i      240    (4)    240   (4)    240   (4)    240   (4)    240             1,200      -           -                 -      Fruoesateurn
Driver                                 (2                 72             72             72            72            72          363      -           -                 _       chauffelor
S2,b-kotab                                    4,292          3,892         3,692          3,692         3,692       19,200      65       12,500               _    Sous-total
B.  CAPI TA L                                                                                                                                                                        CAPITAL
Data Collecting Team                                                                                                                                                             Equipe  de Sorldage
House 1/                              500                500                                                                    500      14          200               -    Logeaent I/
Vehicle                              400                 40û            -              -             400           -            800      80          640               -    Véhicule
SBh-totel                                       900             _             _             400           -          1,300      65          840               -    SDus-total
C.  IPEJ?ATI h_AI_D MAIN.Là                                                                                                                                                          FLOECTIOxNwEfSlï
Housc                                  20                -               20             20            20            20            80     40            30              -    Logement
'Tehlcke                             135                 135            135            135           135           135          675      80          1                 -    Véhicnle
Sub-total                                       135             155           155           155           155           755     76          572                     So- ou-total
TOTAL,                                                     5.327          4,047          3,847         4             3i  3287    2 I         65       13,912               _    10121
I/ port agriculturel econaniat                                                                             1f Pour 8tcrsiste agricole. t
July 1, 1975Po



Bi.-
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Adainistrative and Technical Services
Services Administratives et Techniques
(PEBu '000)
An n u a 1   C o s t                                                                          Annual Cost
Unit Cost                             C o a t   A n n u e 1                                  Total Cost    Foreign Exchange    Year 6 Onvards
Coût Unitaire  Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Annee    Year/Annee               Coùt Total           Devises             Coût Annuel
1              2               3               4               5                             %  F Bu'000         A Partir Année 6
A. STAFF                                                                                                                                                                                   PERSONNEL
Administrative                                                                                                                                                                         Administratif
Cashier                                   150           150             150             150             150             150            750                    -                  150 Caissier
Personnel Officer                         150           150             150             150             150             150            750                    -                  150 Chef Service Personnel
Clerks                                     60   (2)    120    (2)    120         (2)    120      (2)    120    (2)    120              780                    -                   120 Cosmis
Secretary                                 150           150             150             150             150             150            750                    -                  150 Secrétaire
Typist                                     60   (2)    120    (2)    120         (2)    120      (2)    120    (2)    120              780                    -                   120 Dactylo
Messenger                                  24   (2)       48    (2)      48      (2)     48    (2)       48    (2)       48            240                    -                    48 Planton
Guard                                      22  (20)    440   (20)    440    (20)    440   (20)    440    (20)    440                 2,750                    -                   440 Sentinelle
Technical                                                                                                                                                                              Technique
Storekeeper                               60             60              60              60              60              60            300                    -                    60 Magasinier
,aief Mechanic                            200           200             200             200             200             200          1,000                    -                   200 Chef Mécanicien
Mechanic                                   72    (1)      72   (1)        72   (1)        72    (1)       72    (1)       72         1,080                    -                    72 Mécanicien
Drivers                                    72   (7)    504   (7)         504   (7)      504      (7)    504      (7)    504          3,456                    _                   504 Chs8uffeurs
Skilled laborers                           48   (4)    192   (4)         192   (4)      192    (4)    192    (4)    192              2,400                    -                   192Main d'oeuvre qualifiée
Unskilled laborers                         24   (4)       96   (4)        96   (4)        96    (4)       96   (10)       96         1,200                    -                    96 Main d'oeuvre non qualifiée
Sub-total                       2,302          2.302           2 302           2,302           2,302         11,510                                      2,302 Sous-total
B. CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                  CAPITAL
Huase -                                    500            -       (1)    500              -              -                -              500          50      250                     - Logement-/
Workshop/store                           1,500          1,500             -               -               -               _           1,500           50      750                     - Atelier /Magasin
Fuel Pumps                                 250            250             -              -               -                -              250          80       200                    - Pompes d'essence
Workshop Equipment                       1,000          1,000             -               -               -               -           1,000           80       800                    - Outillage atelier
Vehicles:  Pick-up                         400   (2)    800               -               -       (2)    800              -           1,600           80   1,260                   270 Véhicules: camionette
Sedan                         380    (1)    380              -               -       (1)    380              -              760           80      608                  130              voiture
Lorry                       1,500    (1)  1.500              -               -        (1)  1,500             -            3.000           80   2,400                   500              camion
Sub-total                      5,430              500            -             2,680              -           8,610           73   6,268                   900 Sous-total
C. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                                PONCIONNEMENT
house  4b                                   20            -               -       (1)      20    (1)       20    (1)       20             60          50         30                  20 Logement 4%
Maintenance of Buildings &
Psump Station 47                           70            -                70              70              70              70           280           50        140                 70 Entretien  -bâtiments 4 poste
d'essence 4%
Workshop Operationus                       500            500             500             500             500             500         2,500           80      2,000                 500 Fonctionnement atelier
Electricity and Water                      250            250             250             250             250             250          1,250           80    1,000                  250 Eau, électricité
Vehicles: Pick-up 33%                      135   (2)    270    (2)    270    (2)    270    (2)    270             (2)    270           1,350          80    1,080                  270 Vehicûies: camionette
Cars  33%                       130    (1)    130    (1)    130        (1)    130      (1)    130    (1)    130              650           80       520                 130              voiture
Lorries 33%                     500    (1)    500      (1)    500      (1)    500      (1)    500      (1)    500          2,500           80     25000 500                              camions
Sub-total                       1,650          1,720           1,740           1,740           1,740          8,590            79    6,770               1,740 Sous-total
T O T A L                                                 9,382          4,522           4,042            6,722          4,042         28,710            45   13,038               4,942 TC0AL
1/  For chief mechanic.                                                                                            pour chef mécanicien.
> ,1
July 1, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                            c



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Unit Costs for Coffee Washing Stations
Couts Unitaires des Stations de Lavage
1. CAPITAL                                                              FBu          1. INVESTISSEMENT
Construction (Office, factory building, tanks,etc)                2,200,000         Construction (Bureau, magasin, usines, réservoirs,etc)
Equipment (Machinery, piping, installation,etc)                   1,900,000         Equipement (Machines, tuyaux, installation,etc)
Drying Areas (Terracing, dryiug tables and trays)                 1,000,000         Sections de sechage (Terrasses, tables,claies,etc)
Miscellaneous equipment (Scales, office equipment,etc)              200,000         Equipement divers (Balances, mobilier du bureau,etc)
Managers house                                                      400,000         Maison pour responsable
Access Road                                                         100,000         Piste d'acces
Total                                                             5,800,000         Total
2. OFERATING COSTS                                                                    2. FRAIS DE FONCTIONNEMENT
a) Fixed Costs                                                                      a) Couts fixes
Staff and Permanent Labour                                      vQQjOO.OOe
Maintenance: Construction 5%                                    140,000             Entretien: construction 57%
Equipment 5%                                      110,000                         équipement 5%
Drying Areas 5%                                    50,000                         sections de séchage 5%
Access road 10%                                    10,000                         pistes d'acces 10%
Sub-total                  510,000         Sous-total
b) Variable Costs                                                                    b) Coûts Variables
- for 50 tons parchment coffee:                                                      - pour 50 tonnes de cl é  nrcna
Alum, 40 k& @ FBu 25 /Kg                                           1,000             Alun, 40 kg @ FBu 25 /Kg
Bags, 1 per 60 kg every 5 years, @ FBu 90                         15,000              Sacs, 1 par 60 kg chaque 5 années, @ FBu 90
Fuel, 400 litres, @ FBu 22                                          8,800             Carburant, 400 litres, @ FBu 22
Oil, 27.5 litres, @ FBu 80                                          2,200             Huile, 27.5 litres, @ FBu 80
Seasonal labor, 600 man days @ FBu 30                              18,000             M.O. journalière, 600 jours @ FBu 30
Sub-total                   45>000             Sous-total
- for 100 ton  parchment                                          90,000             - pour 100 tonnes de parche
- for 125 ton  parchment                                         112,500             - pour 125 tonnes de parche
c) Total Operating Cost                                                              c) - Total frais de fonctionnement
- for 50 ton  parchment                                          520,000             - pour 50 tonnes de parche
- for 100 ton  parchment                                         565,000             - pour 100 tonnes de parche
- for 125 ton  parchment                                         587,500             - pour 125 tonnes de parche                              > k
M,
July 1, 1975
(D'>



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Requirements and Financing of Fertilizers and Other Inputs
1.        During the first project all fertilizers were paid by project
funds and farmers received the fertilizers free of any charge until the
end of 1973. In 1974 the farmers were required to pay for the first time;
the price was determined at FBu 6 per kg urea, which covered about half of
the purchase cost. The new Project would finance the purchase of total
fertilizer requirements, both for coffee and food crops, during the first
Project year and the incremental quantities in the following years. The
cost of recurrent requirements would be financed by OCIBU which would
administer a special revolving f'ertilizer fund for that purpose.
2.        Because of the currently high fertilizer costs and the resulting
marginal benefit-cost ratio of fertilizers applied to coffee, it would be
counter-productive to charge the farmers with the full cost. A benefit-
cost ratio of at least 2/1 would need to be assured to make the use of
fertilizers attractive (see also Annex 1). For a package, comprising
equal quantities of urea and NPK 20.10.10 the maximum price to be paid
by the farmer would be about FBu 15 per kg.  The farmers'  price would
be increased gradually from FBu 6 per kg in 1974 to FBu 15 in 1977. In
the last Project year this price would still remain about FBu 5 (or 25%)
below the projected real cost of the fertilizer. It would be justified
to finance the difference through a Government subsidy since the return
from fertilizers to the country as a whole is considerably higher than
the return to the farmer (Annex 1, paragraph 20).
3.        Farmer's prices for fertilizers to be applied to food crops would
be comparable with those for coffee and thus involve a subsidy element. The
price of a fertilizer package for maize, comprising DAP and urea in the weight
ratio 150:80, would be gradualLy increased and reach FBu 20 per kg in 1978
(about FBu 4 per kg below the expected cost price). Details on fertilizer
requirements for both coffee alnd food crops, as well as the costs involved,
are given in Table 1.
4.        All farmers' repayments for fertilizers, for improved seed and
for coffee pruning tools would be deposited in a special fertilizer fund
to be administered by OCIBU. Estimates of the annual amounts to be paid
out of the fund for the purchase of recurrent quantities of fertilizers
and of farmers' payments into the fund are given in Table 2.  The balance
of the fund would be positive in years 1 and 4 and slightly negative in
years 2, 3 and 5. From year 6 onwards an annual Governmnent subsidy of
about FBu 4 million (US$50,000) would be required to balance expenditures
and receipts of the fund, mainly because the farmers would not pay the
full fertilizer cost for coffee.  In addition short term financing would



ANNEX 7
Page 2
be required to finance fertilizer purchases until the farmers' payments
are received. The annual amotnt involved would be about FBu 6.5 million
(US$25,000) in Project years 2, 3 and 4, FBu 13 million (US$65,000) in
year 5 and FBu 15 million (USS190,000) from year 6 onwards.
July 1, 1975



SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEN1 ,WROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIOBATION DE L7 PFOLJCTIOLW BR CA'F'
Requirements and Financing of Fertilizers
Engrais: Besoin et Financement
Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année
i             2              3             4             5
r h kEE                                                                                                                      I.  CAFE
-`ertilizer requiremnents                                                                                                          Besoins d' engrais
r-,portion of trees with fertilizer, percent                                                                                       Proportion des arbres avec engrais, pourcentage
- Area first project, 8.32 million trees                50            50             50             50            50               - Région premier projet, 8.32 million arbres
-- ther high potential coffee areas,                    10            20             30             40            50               - Autres régions à haut potentiel, 3 68 million
3.68 million trees                                                                                                                  arbres
ertilizer application per tree  gram                    50             50            50            100            100             Dose engrais par arbre, granmne
'otal fertilizer required, ton i                        226           245            263            563           600              Besoins totaux engrais, tonne  /
'iriancing of fertilizer purchases, '000 FBu                                                                                       Financement des achats        is  '000 FBu
Prchase price per ton '5- 30.5                                        27.5           25.0          21.5           20.0             - Prix d'achat par tonne-  /
:inancing of purchases                                                                                                              Financement des achats
- Project/IDA, incremental quantities                6,893            523           450          6,450            740               - Projet/IDA, accroissemiient des quantités
yrJnIBTp, recurrent quatvtites                       -           6,215          6,125          5,655        11,260               - OCIBU, quantités  périodiques
Payments by farmers, '000 PBu                                                                                                      Paiements par paysans,  '000 FBu
Price per ton                                            9             12            15             15             15              Prix par tonne
l'otal  31                                           1,831          2,646         3,550          7,710          8,100              Total i
FOOD CPOPS                                                                                                                    II.  CULTURES VIVRIERES
Fertilizer requirements                                                                                                            Besoins  d'engrais
Maise                                                                                                                              Mais
- Area, ha                                             -              75           175            300            500               - Superficie-  ha
- Fertilizer application, kg per ha                    -             230           ?30            230            230               - Engrais, kg per ha
- Total fertilizer required, ton 3/                    -              17            40             69            115               - Total engrais, tonne 3
Financing of fertilizer purchases, '000 FBu                                                                                        Financement des achats d'engrais,  '000 FBu
Purchase price per ton  /                               -              32.0          29.0           26.0           24.0            Prix d'achat rar tonne 2
Financing of purchases                                                                                                             Financement des achats
- Project IDA, incremental quantities                   -             544           667            754          1,104              - Projet/IDA accroissement des quantités
- OCIBU0 , recurrent quantities                         -              -            493          1,040          1,656              - OCIBB, quantités périodiques
Payment by farmers,  '000 FBu                                                                                                      Paiements par paysans, '000 FBu
Price per ton                                           -              12             16            20             20              Prix par tonne
Tota]                                                   -             184           576          1,242          2,300              Total
3  Consisting of 50  urea and 50e NPK 20.10.10                                            / 501 urée et 50# NPK 20.10.10.                       
2/ Based on IBRD forecasts in 1975 costant prices.                                        3  Sur base de prévisions de la IBRD, prix constants de 1975.
3/ Total quantity x price, minus deduction of 10e for bad debts.                          3/ Quantité totale x prix, moins d_duction de 101 pour créances douteuses.                    (D
Consisting of DAP and urea in ratio 150:80.                                               Proportfon entre DAP et urée - 150:80.
Tuly 1, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION D',: CAFE
Farmers'Payments for Inputs and Balances of OCIBU Fertilizer Fund
Paiements par les Paysans pour Facteurs de Production, et Soldes du Fonds Engrais OCIBU
(PFBuÀ 000 )
Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année    Year/Année
1             2              3                             5
Financing of purchases by OCIRU                                                                                          Financement des achats par Fonds
_e__i_l__e Fu1l-                                                                                                         Engrais OCIBU
Recurrent fertilizer for coffee J                 -           6,?15          6,125           5,655         11,260        Engrais périodiqi,es pour caf- 1/
Rec,urrent fertilizer for food crops J                          -              493           1,040          1,656        Engrais périodiques pour culture- vivrirres J
Total                                                         6,215          6,618           6,95          1-2,916       Total
Fanners'r ents                                                                                                           Paiements parpayEar.s
P'ertilizer for coffee J                       1,831          2,646          3,550           j ,710         8,100        Engrais pour café 1
Tools for coffee 2]                              630            630            630             630            630        Outils pour café 2
Fertilizer for food cr ps J                      -              184            576           1,242         2,300         Engrais pou-r cultures vivrières -
Improved maize seeds 2                           -               59            176             293            351        Semences de mais sélectionn-es 3/
Total                                          2,461          3,519          4,932           9,875        11,381         Total
Balance OCIBU PFertilizer Fund                                                                                           Solde Fonds Engrais OCIBU
(ciiul-T-                                     2,461          ( 235)        (1,921)         1,259          (276)    ( cumuleé
Annex 7, Table 1.                                                                                   Annexe 7, Tableau 1.
J At 501 of cost (Annex 6, Table 2) minus deduction of 1l0  for bad debts.                           J A raison de 50O' du coût d'achat (Annexe 6, Tableau 2):
déduction de 10% pour créances douteuses.
J  For quantities see Annex 4; price F`Bu 13 per kg; 10  deduction for                              3/ Pour quantités voir Annexe 4; prix FBu 13 par kg;
bad detts                                                                                            déduction de 10M  pour créances douteusés.
July 1, 1975



BURUNDI
SECORD COFFRE flPROVDEMUf PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'»IELTORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAPE
Gover.mont Cash Flox
Cash FlI  de l'Etat
(PEu million)
Yeau/Année  Voue/Année  Yeaor/Arne  Year(Ansée  Year/Axeide  Year/tnore Yannéee  Yeat/Année  Year/Ansée  Year/Année  YeAr/Anoée  Vaa/drtAée
2            3            4            5           6            7             8            9           1O           11-20       21-25
CASH IN111                                                                                                                                                                                               REVENTU MONETAIRE
Gl9iTr9lnd  Loae                            20          17            6             3            3           -            -             -            _           -            -            _           'Ycisse-rlts du  -ret Fends de touait 1/
TDA Fends 2/                                71          53            58            67          46           -            -             -            -           -             _            -          Désoioeemnets du Crédit IDA "J  
Tnnreosrntaî revenue fram  caffia  3/         4          13           26            35          41           45           49            49           51          51            51           51         Arnroeeet de revenu-es prve- nant du café 3]
Total Intlo                        95          83           90           105          90           45           49            49           51          51            51           51          Revenu total
CASH OUTFLT w                                                                                                                                                                                             DEPENSES 5tONETAIFFiS
Project Costo .4/                           1<08         83           75            82          57           39           39            39           39           39           39           39          Coût du Projet S/
F-rtili-er S.b5idy 5/                                    -     -                    -                         4            4             4             4           4            4            4          Subhentiun peur lu regrets ,-     /
MA tCrFdit Loerire 6'                        -                         1             1           2            2            2             2            2           2             5           il          Service de la dett  redit ILA J
K-nit F-ed L.- Servi un/ ]                                1            i             i           i1                        3             3            3            3            33                     Assrttns~euet du fret Fundu du tuen.t 7/
Total Otfla 1s9 t5                                           77            84          60           48           48            48            48          48           51           57          Dépenses . ettlce
Net Caoh Infloi  (Outflov)                     (14)        (2)          13            21          30           (3)           1              1            3           3           -            (6)         Revenu (dépen.ea) net(trn)
Csuutive CaosTuh Iflai  (Outflov)              (14)       (i6)          (3)           18          48           45           46            47           50           53           53           23          Revenu (dépenses) net(tsè cu-ulos.
J 85  etf Project caste ie 1975 terse e o affee proce-sing, construction                                   J 85  du coût duo coposanto de traitenent de café, matérielo de uonstruction et 1/3 du à
equip.ent sud 1/3 ef researeh cs& sneanta, including physical cotingeneies (p%),                         progrumme du recherche, et prix aonstent de 1975, y cempris imprévue physiques (5%)
uSmcludOug price -otingencies.                                                                           nais  sans imprévuo de prix.
J   857 of Praject costs it  1975 terus of ail other corponents except expnritentai                       _t 85% du cout du tous autres eaipasetu  sauf les eauis do dévlelppement rural, en
rural develepoent, dnculding phynical costingencîes (5%), excluding prine                                prix constatt de 1975, y nompris impr4vus physiqune (5%) rais sans inprdvuu de
cortin5encis.                                                                                            prix.
GI davernment and OI 5J taxes on experts and proviaion for Stabili-ation Fusd                              3/ Tanes sur tua  expnrtations par le Gouvernement et l'OCIBU ut pruviso  peur le
asouming thet the official coffe pareh.ennt voud remie umnchanged; in fact                               Fondo dlEgliatitn, en ouppoanst que le prix officiel pour te eafé parche ne
this priae sill proehbly bu adjeoted te reflect nhonges in export prices                                 changera pas; en vérité ce prix sera probablment medifié en feectian des
eehen they occur (nec alun Annexes  3 osd 5).                                                            fluctustioss  dans les prix à l'exprtation.
Q I.iliading 1/3 ef eegoiag  no-t of crefee renearh coempanent frai year 6.                               QIY iemprin 1/3 du enflt pregrane recherche café à partir de l'année  6.
2   Sue Arnx 7.                                                                                            5/ Voir Annexe 7.
6]  Repayunt e=t  principal and 3/49 cormitment charge -n standard IDA teuam.                              g Aa.ertiaaenent et cmission de service du 3/4% aux conditions noris  s
25 yeara at 3%, with 5 Yers grace pario,d                                                                des credita de 1'IDA.
/  S-s 25 ana t 3%, avec amortistomeet différe pendant 5 ams.
Oct. 21, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET r'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Plan Estimatif des Décaissements
(us$ooo )
IDA Fiscal Year                  Disbursement/Décaissement                    Exercise IDA
Quarter               Quarter/Trimestre      Cumulative/Cumulé              Trimestre
]975/76                                                                       1975/76
S'eptember                                                                    Septembre
I)ecember                                                                     Décembre
Mlarch                         -                         -                    Mars
.June                         400                       400                   Juin
1-976/77                                                                      1976/77
S'eptember                    300                      700                    Septembre
I)ecember                     300                    1,000                    Décembre
March                         250                    1,250                    Mars
June                          250                    1,500                    Juin
1977/78                                                                       1977/78
September                     250                    1,750                    Septembre
December                      250                    2,000                    Décembre
March                         250                    2,250                    Mars
June                          250                    2,500                    Juin
-L978/79                                                                      1978/79
',eptember                                           2,750                    Septembre
December                      250                    3,000                    Décembre
March                         250                    3,250                    Mars
June                          250                    3,500                    Juin
.1979/80                                                                      1979/80
September                     250                    3,750                    Septembre
December                      250                    4,000                    Décembre
M.arch                        250                    4$1250                   Mars
June                          250                    4,500                    Juin
1980/81                                                                      1980/81
September                     250                    4,750                    Septembre
December                      250                    5,000                    Décembre
Marc~~~~~~~ ~200                              5,200                   Mars



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
General
1.        Farm sizes do not vary widely in Burundi and generally there
exists a close relationship between the size of the family and the area
of the holding. In Ngozi province, the average farm size is about 0.85 ha.
Some 25% of the farms are smaller than 0.5 ha and 10% larger than 1.5 ha;
all other farms measure between 0.5 and 1.5 ha.
2.        Out of an estimategd total of 145,000 farms in the province, some
20,000 farms are located on the Zaire-Nile watershed which is unsuitable
for coffee cultivation. About 110,000 of the remaining 125,000 farmers
grow coffee. Coffee occupies about 10% of cultivated land for most farms.
Exceptions are the small farmns under 0.25 ha which have on average only
2.5% of the land under coffee. The larger farms over 1.50 ha grow coffee
on about 7% of their land which is also slightly less than the average for
the middle size farma.  For the great majority of the holdings the propor-
tions of the various food crops in the cropping pattern do not vary with
the size nor with the location of the farms, except for the farms located
on the Zaire-Nile watershed. With an altitude of more than 2,000 meters
these farms grow potatoes, w'heat and peas, instead of cassava, sweet
potatoes, and bananas.
3.        The fertility of t'he land varies widely, even within farms.  The
supply of organic manure is an important factor and generally land close to
the farmer's residence is more fertile and better taken care of than more
distant plots. But, as described in Annex 1, coffee does less well in the
eastern and southern parts of the province than in the other areas, and
hence a distinction between "high" and "low" potential coffee growing
areas has been made. Because of a lack of reliable data no attempt has
been made during appraisal to relate food crop yields to soil differences
in the various regions of the province.
Values of Crop Production
4.        Estimates have been made on yields, seed and fertilizer costs
and the gross and net values of production for coffee and the main food
crops both with and without the proposed improvements. Average prices
paid in the local markets in Ngozi during 1974 have been used for the
calculation of the values of crops produced. These prices are subject
to wide fluctuation, but in general they were considerably higher in
1974 than in previous years.  High altitude crops like wheat, potatoes



ANiNEX 10
Page 2
and peas have been excluded from this calculation since insufficient
information is available on these crops. This, however, does not implv
that these crops should be excluded from the list of possible development
actions. As stated earlier (Annex 4), the outlined food crop development
program is tentative and changes in the course of the Project's implementa-
tion are likely.
5.        Tables 1 and 2 show 1-hat, at 1974 price levels, coffee grown in
the high potential coffee areas gives a better return than any other crop.
Amongst the food crops, bananas rank first and in the low potential coffee
areas returns from pure stand bananas are about as high as from coffee.
Improvement of coffee growing conditions in the high potential coffee
areas would result in an increase of the net value of production from its
pre-development level of about FBu 33,500 (US$430) to FBu 38,000 - 40,000
(US$485-510) per ha in year 7 clepending on whether or not fertilizers are
used. Improved maize seed would increase the net production value by
about FBu 2,400 (US$30) from about FBu 12,950 (US$165) to about FBu 15,350
(US$195) per ha. With both improved seeds and fertilizers, the net value
of maize production would rise to about FBu 21,550 (US$276), an increase
of FBu 8,600 (US$110). The combined income from 1 ha of improved maize
with fertilizer, grown in the first season and another food crop, for
instance beans, in the second season, would be about FBu 32,000 (US$405).
This is about the same as the per ha income from pure stand bananas but
still lower than the income from coffee grown under improved conditions
in the high coffee potential areas.
Farm Budgets
6.        The per ha estimates have subsequently been used to compute
budgets for a typical farm measuring 0.85 ha at different stages of
coffee and food crop development (Table 3). The assumed cropping pat-
tern reflects the provincial average and is valid for nearly all farm
sizes, except for the very small which have less coffee. There is no
reason to believe that the standards of crop husbandry and the readîness
to adopt modern inputs vary witn the size of the farms and therefore a
linear relationship between farn size and farm income may be assumed.
7.        With the Project, cash income from coffee in the area of the
first project would be FBu 3,931) (US$50) for a typical farm measuring
0.85 la.  Tlis is FBu 300 (US$3.80) higner tian obtained without the
Projeet and FBu 125 (US$1 .60) more than the farmer receives at present
(see also Annex t).  This increase is modest because of the small size
of thie coffee plantations and because farmers would pay 150% more for
fertilizer as they did in 1974.
8.        In the other high porential coffee areas cash receipts from
.^offee would by year 7 reach the saine level as in the area of the first
project, which means an increase of Phu 585 (US$7.50) over the actual
income of FBu 3,345 (US$42.50) for a Tarm with 0.10 ha of coffee. In
th1e low porenltial coffee areas, incomes from coffee would L;crease by
*Bu 175 (US$2.25) fromi FBu 2,990 (US$>3.25) tG FEu 3,165 (IJS$40.50).



ANWEX i 0
Page 3
Variations in incremental cash incomes from coffee are however expected
to be substantial, not only for farmers located in the different areas
but also for farmers within a particular area, depending upon the extent
they adopt the improved techniques. Farmers who would combine all Project
activities could easily achieve incremental cash incomes which are double
of those indicated above.
9.        An estimated 6,000 farmers would increase the net value of their
production by about FBu 565 (US$7.25) through the cultivation of 0.25 ha
maize with improved seeds instead of the usual mixture of maize and beans
grown from local seeds. Some 2,000 of these farmers would also use fer-
tilizer on their maize which could result in a further increase of about
FBu 1,550 (US$19.75).
10.       The net value of alL crops grown on a typical farm of 0.85 ha
was in 1974 about FBu 26,000 (US$332). As a result of the Project activ-
ities aiming at the improvement of coffee growing techniques the net value
of the production would rise by amounts varying between FBu 175 in the
areas with a low potential for coffee growing and FBu 650 - and possibly
more - in the high potential areas where the new techniques, including
fertilization, would be adopted by about half of the farmers.  In the
latter areas the net value of total crop production would rise to about
FBu 28,750 (US$367) when farmers combine coffee improvement with the use
of selected seeds and fertilizers for maize.
July 1, 1975



BUTUNODI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Net production values per ha for coffee in three different areas ±/
Valeur nette de la production par ha pour café dans trois régions différentes 1/
Production                Fertilizer                     Net value   -
Production                  Engrais                      of production
Quantity    Gross4       Quantity    Unit           Cost
parchment   value-J                   price2                 Valeur nette
Quantité    Valeur       Quantite    Prix           Coût     de la produc-
parche      bruS 4/                   unitaire2/             tion
(kg)      (F bu)         (kg)         (F Bu)      (F Bu)      (1` Bu)
Area first project,1974/75
- with fertilizer               930        4o,g2o         224           C         1,344       3Q,576       Région 'remier Drojet, t974/75
- without fertilizer            830        36,520           -            -          -         36,520          - avec engrais
- average                       880        38,720          112          6           672       38,o48          - sans engrais
- moyenne
WITHOIT PROJECT                                                                                               SANS PROJET
Area first project                825        36,300           -            -           -        36,300         Région premier pro,et
Other high potential areas        760        33,44o                                             33,44o        Autres régions a  haut potentiel
Low potential areas               680        29,920           -            -           -        29,920        Reegions à  bas potentiel
WITH PROJECT                                                                                                   AVEC PROJE1'
Areas first project                                                                                            Région premier proHi,et
--with fertilizer2/             970        42,680          160           15       2,400      40,280            - avec engrais
without fertilizer            870        38,280           -             -          -       38,280            - sans engrais
- average                       920        40,480           80           15       1,200      39,280            - moyenne
Other high potential qreas.1                                                                                   Autres régionsà  hfut potentiel L/
- with fertilizer 3]            930        40,920          160           15       2,400      38,520            - avec engrais -3
- without fertilizer            830        36,520                         -          -       36,520            - sans engrais
- average                       880        38,720           80           15       1,200      37,520            - moyenne
Low potential areas               720        31,680           -             -          -       31,680          Regions de bas potentiel
L/ Based on 1,600 trees Der ha                                      1/ Si base de 1,600 arbres par ha
2/ 'Urea, 461Y N                                                    2 rée, 46e N.
1/ i2 urea and 1/2 N.P.K., 20.10.10                                     1/2 urée et 12 N.P.K., 20.10.10 
/Based on a  archment orice of 44 i      Bu per kg.                     Sur base du prix de 44 F Bu par kg  cate-parche.
5/ Prices oaid by farmers                                        5/ Prix payés par les paysans.
Year 5 figures; in year 7 production would be same as             6/ Ch.iffres pour l'annee 5; l'année 7, la production attendrait
in area of first project.                                         - le meme niveau que dans la région du premier projet.
July 1, 1975                                                                                                                                       O



BURUNDI1
SECOND COFFEE IMPNOVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAPE
Nlet Production Values per ha for Food Crops
eleur Nette de la  roduction par.a pour des Culture Vivrières
Production                             Seeds                          Fertilizer               Total      Net value of
Production                           Semences                          Engrais                 costs       production
Quantity      Unit     Gross      Quantity      Unlt       Cost      Quantity      Unit       Cost
Price     value                   Price                              Price                            Valeur nette
Quantité      Prix    'laleur    Quantité       Prix       Coût      Quantité      Prix       Coût       Coût         de la
unitaire   brute                  unitaire                           unitaire               total       production
(kg)       (F Bu)    (F Bu)       (kg)       (F Bu)    (F Bu)        (kg)       (F Bu)    (F Bu)    (F Bu)         (F Bu)
WIBHOIJT PROJECF                                                                                                                                                                SANS PROJET
Pure Stands                                                                                                                                                                     Cultures pures
- Banana, tills                       7,500            4      30,000          -          -          -           -           -          -          -         30,000              - Banane, colline
- Cassava, hills                      6,ooo            4      24,oOo         -           -          -           -           -          -          -         24,0Oo              - Manioc,  colline
- Sweet potato, tille                 6,ooo            4      24,ooo         -           -          -           -           -          -          -         u4 000                Patate douce, colline
- Sweet potato, marshes               8,000            4      32,000          -          -          -           -           -          -          -         32,00I              - patate douce, marais
- Beans, hills                           800          15      12,000        80          15        1,200         -           -          -        1,200       10,800              - Haricot, colline
- Mai-e, hills                         1,100          12      13,200        20          12          240         -           -          -          240       12,960              - Mais , colline
Mixed Stands                                                                                                                                                                    Cultures associées
- Bana-, hills                        4,ooo            4      16,000           -                                                                  -         16,0oo              - Banane, colline
_ Cassava, hills                      1,000            4       4,ooo         -                                                                    -          4,0co              - Manioc, colline
_ Sweet potato, hills                 2,000            4       8,0o0          -           -          -           -           -         -          -          8,000              - Patate douce, colline
_ Beans, hills, long rain season         700          15      10,500        70          15        1,050         -           -          -        1,050        9,450              - Haricot, colline, longue sais0e pluie
_ Beans, hills, short rain season        600          15       9,000         60         15          900         -           -          -          900        8,100              - Haricot, colline, courte saison pluie
- Beans, marshes                         750          15       11,250       70          15        1,050         -           -          -        1,050       10,200              - Haricot, marais
- Maize, hills                           425          12       5,100         10         12           120         -           -         -          120        4,980              - Mais,  colline
- Maize, marshes                      1,275           12      15,300         15         12          180         -           -          -          180       15,120              - Mass,  marais
- Sorghum, hllts                         400          12       4,800         10         12          120          -           -         -          120        4,680              - Sorgho, colline
- Other crops                            _             -      15,000          -           -          -           -          -           -         -         15,000              - Autres cultures
WITH PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                    AVEC PROJET
Pure Stands, hills                                                                                                                                                               Cultures pures, collines
Maize, improved seed, na fertilizer   1,300             12       15,600        20          13 ./       260         -           -                     260       15,340              - Maize, seememces selectionnées,pas d'engreis
Maize, improved seed, fertilizer         2,200          12       26,400        20.         13 j        260        230          20      4,600      4,860       21,540               - Maize.  semences selectionnées, engrais
j  Market price for malze plils 1 F Bu per kg.                                                                j  Prix du marché pour mais  plus 1 F Bu par kg.
É/ 150 kg DAP,phosphate 40%, and 80 kg ures, 46% N;                                                           2/ 150 kg DAP,phosphate 40%, et 80 kg urée, 46% N;
price FBu 20 per 1e.                                                                                         prix FBu  20 per kg. kg,
Juiy 1, 1975



BURUNDI
SECO.LCrE  IIIC,ï'--FE.rC
DEIJXIEME PROJET D'AMElIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFF
Biudgets for 0.85 ha farms in three different areas without and with development of coffee and food crops
Budgets pour fermnes de 0.85 ha dans trois régions différentes sans et avec développement du café et des cultures vivrières
(1)                       (2)                    '3)                         (4)
Without proiect          Improved coffee         (3 and improved          3; and fertilizer
mize seeds                  on maize
Sans pro'et            Safd amelierS          (2) et semences          (3) et engrais sur
_pouaméliorés pour sais          mais
Crop     NvP 1/          Crop      NVP S/         Crop      SNv  il         Crop       SVP 1/
area                    area                      area                      area
Superficie               Superficie               Superficie                Superficie
cultures                 culltures                cuItur es                 cultures
(ares)    (F Bu)         (ares)    (F Bu)         (ares)      (F Bu)        (ares)      (F Bu)
Coffee                                                                                                                                                  Café
I  Area of first project                          10        3,630          10        3,928          10         3,998          10         3,928          I. Région du premier projet
II. Ottler high potential coffee areas             10        3,344          10        3,752          10         3,752          10         3,752         II. Autres régions café h  haut  potentiel
IIT  Iow potential coffee areas                     10        2,992          10        3,168          10         3,168          10         3,168        III. Régions café  a bas potentiel
Foodcrops, w_thout changes g!                                                                                                                           Cultures vivrières, sans chmngementre/
Banana, pure stand                                   4        1,200           4        1,200           4         1,200           4         1,200        Banane, culture pure
Banana, mixed stand                                 32        5,120          32        5,120          32         5,120          32         5,120        Banane, culture associée
Cassava, pure stand                                  4          960           4          960           4            960          4            960       Manioc, culture pure
Cassava, mixed stand                                26        1,040          26        1,040          96                        26         1, 04)0      Mlanric, culture asicls
bweet potato, pure st, hills                         4          960           4          96o           4           960           4            960       Patate douce, culture pure, colline
Sweet potato, pure st, marshes                       1          320           1          320           1           320           1            320       Patate douce, culture pure, marais
Sweet potato, mixed st, hills                       40        3,200          40        3,200          40         3,200          4o         3,200        Patate douce, culture associée
Beans, mixed stands,                                                                                                                                    Haricot  culture associee
- hills, long rain season                         31        2,930          31        2,930          31          2930          31         2,930          - colliine, longue saison pluie
- bills, short rain season                         4          324           4          324           4            324          4            324         - colline, courte saison pluie
- marshes                                          6          612           6          6i2           6           612           6            6l2         - marais
Maize                                                                                                                                                   Mais
- mixed stand, hills                               5          249           5          249           5           249           9            249         - culture associîe, colline
- mixed stand, marshes                             6          907           6          907           6           907           6            907         - culture associ-e, marais
Sorghum, mixed stand                                 9          421           9          421           9            421          9            421       Sorgho,  culture  associée
Other crops                                          9        1,350           9        1,350           9         1,350           9          1,350       Autres cult,,res
Sub-total                                    181        19,593        181        19,593        181         19,593        ii         19,593        Sous-total
Foodcrops, with changes 2/                                                                                                                              Cultures vivrières, avec changements
Beans, mixed stand, hills                           25        2,025          25        2,025           -            -            -            -         Haricots, culture associée, colline
Maize                                                                                                                                                   Mais
- mixed stand, hills                              25        1,245          25        1,245                        -            -            -            - culture associée, colline
- pure stand, tills                                -          -             -         _             25         3,835          25         5,385           - culture pure, colline
Sut-total                                     50         3.270          50        3,270         25          3,835          25        5,385         Sous-total
Grand Total                                                                                                                                             Total général
1. Area of first project                        241        06,493         241       26,791         2IC        27,356         216        98,906           I. Région du premier projet
Il. Other high potential coffee areas _           241       26,207         241       26,615         216        27,18o         216        28,730         II. Autres régions café  R haut potentiel 3/
III. Low potential coffee areas                    241       25,855         241       26,031         216         26,596        216        27,891        III. Régions café à  bas  potentiel
Incremental farm incoae                                                                                                                                  Accroissement du revenu  agricole
*. Area of the first project                                  -                        296                       863                     2,413          I. Région du premier projet
II. Othler high potential coffee areas                         -                        408                        973                    2,523         II. Autres régions a haut potentiel
III. tom potential coffec arems                                  -                        175                       741                    2,036         III. Régions café  à bas potentiel
/ Net val`e of production.                                                                         l/ Valeur nette de la production.
2/ No differences between the three areas.                                                          2/ Pas de diffe'rences entre  les trois réegioes.
Y2 Year 5 figures; in yesr 7 production wko,ld be same                                              3I Chiffres poser l'annee 5; l'année 7, la production
as in area ef fir-t project.                                                                        attendrait le mens niveau que dans la région Su precier projet,
1y 1, 1975



MNNEX 1,
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Advisory Team of International Experts
1.        With a high rural population density and limited scope for the
expansion of its cultivated areas, Burundi needs to give high priority to
the increase of its on-farm production. Because of population pressures,
farm sizes have become smaller, soil fertility has been reduced through
the lack of sound husbandry, and as a result crop yields have in many
instances declined. Crop diseases and pests, particularly in coffee,
have increased and have also contributed to reduced yields. To help
maintain farm cash incomes and foreign exchange earnings, more areas
have been planted under export crops reducing the area available for
food crops. If recent trends continue, Burundi would be faced with a
serious situation in which it may be difficult to sustain export earnings
and with increasing dependence on imported food.
2.        Although the broad directional needs can be clearly defined, the
means of meeting them are far from certain and present many technological,
organizational and economic as well as social problems. Little research
work has been carried out and little attention has been given to the devel-
opment of integrated farm systems, applicable to a large number of amall
farmas which would also improve and sustain soil conservation and fertility.
Moreover, the last two years the rapid increase in fertilizer and pesticide
prices has made necessary a reappraisal of their economic application. At
the farm level extension services are weak and poorly managed and input,
credit and marketing services inadequately provided.
3.        This overall situation is by no means unique to Burundi.  Its
origins, however, significantLy reflect the country's poverty and the
limited budgetary support which it can allocate for agriculture. This
Ïn turn necessitates the urgent development of the most effective and
economic technical and delivery systens for the fundamentally difficult
task of on-farm improvement and for which Burundi has few alternatives.
In this endeavor Burundi can afford to make even fewer mistakes than other
developing countries and it should therefore seek to draw as much as possi-
ble on the experience of other countries.
4.        To meet production needs, the proposed Project would assist a
number of on-farm development opportunities even though some components
at present lack sufficient technical knowledge to prescribe precise
programs. To implement the Plroject effectively it will therefore be
necessary to provide a high level of technical support. This would require
emphasis on applied research and would also involve extension, supporting



N LNE-X i1
Page 2
farm services and economic analysis of alternative systems.  Because of
the diversity of needs this recquirement could not be provided through
Project management nor would it: be possible to secure a permanent team
of experts at the level required to reside in the country. To the con-
trary, there would be a distinct advantage in having a team of experts
who would visit the country periodically but regularly, who could provide
wide international experience and redirect the focus of existing services
(rather than an accelerated expansion of those services without appro-
priate direction).
5.        It is envisaged that the team would comprise three experts who
collectively would provide technical guidance in the following subjects:
(a) coffee cultivation with particular regard to
planting varieties, cultivation practices,
including fertilizer application, and pest
and disease control;
(b) coffee processing with particular regard
to product improvement by alternative
methods;
(c)  food crop development: with emphasis on
varietal improvements, cultivation prac-
tices and fertilizer application;
(d) on-farm livestock possibilities in the con-
text of developing irLtegrated farm systems;
(e) soil conservation ancL improvement; and
(f)  extension and farm support services.
6.        The team would visit Burundi twice in the first year, and once o-
twice per year in the following years, for periods of 2-3 weeks each, if
possible in conjunction with Batnk supervision missions. The Project Manager
would be responsible for conduc:ting the team's visits and for providing it
with progress and technical reports and work programs. These would be
systematically reviewed by the team with Government counterpart staff under
the chairmanship of a senior official during visits and recommendations made
as appropriate. In addition, the team would make recommendations for ad-hoc
consultations on specific problems, when appropriate. It is anticipated that
the team would have general discussions with the Government on Burundi's
possibilities and priorities fc,r agricultural development, and further direct
its attention at the technical problems associated with the Project though
this would not preclude a review of other related developments outside the
Project area. Its work would also be expected to provide Government with a
stronger technicai base on which to prepare further projects. It is possible
that the team would have the scme composition as that being proposed to
provide advice for a similar project in neighboring Rwanda.



.Ali`.EX t 1
Page 3
7.        The selection of the team members would be made by Government in
consultation with the Association. It would be particularly important that
the team members would agree to serve for at least three years and the selec-
tion of the team leader would be crucial in view of the coordinating role
which he would be expected to play.
July 25, 1975



L"'NEX 1 2
Page t
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE LEPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic ,'ost-Beiefit Analysis
1.        The economic costs and benefits have been analyzed for the Project's
agricultural services and coffee processing components and for the whole
Project. Coffee research, experimental rural development activities drink
water development and evaluation have been omitted from the analysis since it
is not possible to quantify the benefits of these activities. IBRD price
projections for coffee have been used in the analysis and all costs and
benefits have been expressed iII 1975 constant prices. The calculations were
made with foreign exchange valued at 20% above the official exchange rate
reflecting more accurately the value of foreign exchange to Burundi. A
number of sensitivity calculations were made to demonstrate the effect of
changes in the cost and benefit: streams. The results are summarized in
Table 1 and the costs and benef'its for the whole Project are shown in Table 2.
Agricultural Services
2.        The main thrust of the Project is directed at an increase of the
productivity of both coffee and food crops and agricultural services is
therefore the largest component of the Project. Project overhead costs for
management and general services have been allocated proportionately in the
ratio 75:25 between agricultural services and coffee processing. Benefits
were taken as the incremental yields for coffee, including the maintenance
of the yield increase already achieved under the existing project but which
would be partially lost if extension services are not maintained (Table 5;
see also Annex 1, paragraph 23). The incremental maize production has also
been included in the benefits (Annex 4, paragraphs 21 and 24). All costs
and benefits are detailed in Table 3.
3.        Based on the May 1975 IBRD price forecasts for Guatemala prime
washed coffee, spot New York, t`ne 1975 constant price for Burundils semi-washed
coffee fob Dar-es-Salaam is estimated to increase from 50 US cts/lb in 1975 to
76 US cts/lb in 1980 and 78 US cts/lb in 1985. The actual price was about
40 US cts/lb in April 1975 and lower price levels then predicted should be
considered as the main risk facing the Project. If the benefits were to be
reduced by 20% the internal economic rate of return would decrease from 24%
to 13% and if the lower coffee price level would be accompanied by a cost
increase of 10% the rate of return would drop further to 9%.
Coffee Processing
4.        As explained in Annex 2 the Project's activities in the area of
coffee processing should be viewed as an extended trial and the results



ASSNEX 12
Page 2
thereof would provide the basis for future investment decisions. In order
to give a further illustration of the critical importance of items such as
the price premium for fully washed coffee and the annual production of the
stations a detailed economic analysis has been made of the coffee processing
component. It should be understood, however, that the main purpose of the
trial period would be to test the assumptions.
5.        The construction costs for the 4 new stations with the operating
costs for the 4 new as well as tne 4 existing stations have been included in
the cost stream of the processing component. The investment cost of the 4
existing stations has been treat:ed as sunk costs since the stations vould not
function properly without the rmangement assistance provided for under the
Project. Project overhead costs have been allocated proportionally as indicated
in paragraph 2. The incremental value of the fully washed coffee produced by
the 8 stations has been included in the benefits (Tables 6 and 7). The annual
costs and benefits are shown in Table 3.
6.        If the investment cost for che 4 existing stations were not to be
treated as sunk cost but added to the cost stream in year 1 the internal rate
of return would decrease from 9% to 47%.  In another test the cost of an
expatriate processing officer was added to the cost stream from year 4 on-
wards as it is as yet uncertain if the 8 stations can be properly managed
without his assistance after the completion of the 3 year trial period.
This would reduce the internal rate of return from 9% to 2%. It would, how-
ever, probably be feasible to provide part-time expatriate management assis-
tance during the processing season in which case the reduction in the rate
of return would be less.
7.        The IBRD coffee price projections were changed after the economic
evaluation of the earlier anticipated construction program for 20 washing
stations was made (see Annex 2). Compared with the previous forecast the
change amounts to an increase of the price level of about 20% from 1977/78
onwards. Taking also into account that Burundi sold a small consignment of
fully-washed coffee, produced in 1974, at a price which exceeded that for
semi-washed coffee by about 5 US cts/lb, fob Dar-es-Salaam, only, a 15% price
premium for fully-washed coffee no longer appears justified. Hence, a 10%
premium has been assumed, amounting to a premium of 6 US cts/lb in 1975,
7 cts in 1976 and 8 cts from 1977 onwards. If the premium were to be 12.5%
instead of 10%, the internal rate of return would rise from 9 to 16%. This
underlines the critical importance of adequate marketing arrangements for
the Project's fully-washed coffee.
8.        In a final test it has been assumed that the annual production of
the stations would be 150 ton of parcl-ment coffee instead of 125 ton.  This
would increase the rate of return from 9 to 15% and again proves how impor-
tant it would be to try to raise the throughput of the stations during the
3 year trial period.
July 8, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'IAMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Economic Cost - Benefit Analysis - Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Analyse Economique des Coûts et des Avantages - Taux de Rentabilité et Etude de Sensibilité
Internal Rate of Return
1. Whole Prolect -                                            Taux de Rentabilité        1. ProJet Entier l/
Foreign exchange shadow priced at 120%                             21%                   Devises calculés au taux d'échange virtuel de 120%
No shadow pricing of foreigu exchange                              17%                   Devises calculés au taux d'échange officiel
All costs increased by 10%                                         16%                   Tous les coûts augmentés par 10%
Benefits reduced by 20%                                            11%                  Tous les avantages réduits par 20%
Costs increased by 10% and benefits reduced by 20%                  7%                   Tous les coûits augmentés par 10% et tous les avantages réduits par 20%
2. Agricultural Services 2/                                                              2. Services Agricoles Seulement 2/
Foreign exchange shadow priced at 120%                             24h                   Devises calculés au taux d'échange virtuel de 120%
No shadow pricing of foreign exchange                              20%                   Devises calculés au taux d'échange officiel
Costs increased by 10%                                             19%                   Tous les coûts augmentés par 10%
Benefits reduced by 20%                                            13%                   Tous les avantages réduits par 20%
Costa increased by 10% and benefits reduced by 20%                  9%                   Tous les couts augmentés par 10% et tous les avantages réduits par 20%
3. Coffee Processing Only 3/                                                             3. Traitement de Café Seulement 3/
Foreign exchange shadow priced at 120%;                                                  Devises calculés au taux d'échange virtuel de 120%;
10% premium for fully-washed coffee                               9%                     prime de 10% pour le café fully-washed
No shadow pricing of foreign exchange                               6%                   Devises calculés au taux d'échange officiel
All costs increased by 10%                                          5%                   Tous les coûts augmentés par 10%
Investment cost of 4 existing stations included in                                       Coûts d'inves ,ssement des 4 stations existantes compris dans
year 14/                                                          4%                     l'année 1
Costs of expatriate processing officer included from                                     Y compris coit d'un technologue-expatrié à partir de
year 4 onwards 5/                                                 2%                     l'année 4  1
Premium for fully-washed coffee 12.5%                              16%                   Prime pour le café fully-washed 12.5%
Production 150 ton  parchment per station per year                                       Production 150 tonnes café parche par station per année
instead of 125 ton                                               15%                     au lieu de 125 tonnes
1/ Except coffee research, experimental rural development activities               1/ Sauf recherche du café, programme pilot de développement rural et
and evaluation;  see Table 2.                                                      évaluation; voir tableau 2.
2/ Table 3.                                                                        2/ Tableau 3.                                                                           S"
3/ Table 4.                                                                        3/ Tableau 4.
4/ Treated as sunk cost in the other calculations.                                 4/ Pas compris dans les autres calculs car ces coûts étaient déja encourues.   fD
5/ Project provides for expatriate processing officer for first 3                  5/ Projet envisage technologue expatrié pour premières 3 années seulement.              a
years only.
October 6, 1975



SECOND COFPEE IMPEOVEHMET PROJECT
DEJXTEIrC PFE'FT  D'AUIIIPATIN DL LA   'DJ25 -  LE: CApE
Cost-Denefit Analysis - 1,lhole Projent
Analyse de. Codts et Avantagea - frjtec Entier
(FBn  000)
Vear/Annde   Yesrt4nnee   Vaar6nn~ef  VeerrAnné-e   Y frtlneée   Year6Anne-e   YerzAne6 -y.ear0Annde   YearJAnnee   Sea. 10 Onv-rds
l           2             3            4            5            6            7             S5           9        rEsl'Anée IO
i. FOREIGN EXCBAUCE AT OFFICIAL FATE                                                                                                                                                       1. DEVISES  AMX TAUX D'ECHANGE OFFICTEL
Agricultural Servicea                            69,275       60,600        6),315       75,'133      64,762       47.504       47,504        47,504       47,504          47,504           Services Agricbles
1o,iee  rocsins                                  55,566       25            11s4 S    II,697  312      9,129   8     5      ,180 6         8    ,18t   d    ,1P2           -lB Trs      iterent d_  café
TOTAL                                             99,843       85,555       72,008        81,045       73,B91       s5,f.84      55,684        55,684       55,684          5s,684          TOTAL
BNE FrTS                                                                                                                                                                                    AVANTAGES
SeO-2'asSeé Coffee                                7,119        52,006       42,700       61.311       73.509       61.962        35,172       87,560       a7,560          59,152           Café Seri-lavé
Fully-wrshe0d cr4e-                               4,b36        8,50       11,664        12,960       12,960       12,960       12,960        12,960       12,960          12,960           laCé 5Faly-oasne
Food Crops                                                       94          2,460        4.160       j-            6,f9 0               6          o       0.0 661)                        P )  Fr,duits vivieres
TOTAL                                             5,655        t',4c5       56,621        78,4Bl       Qss,6g      100,922      10,132       106,520      i o,520        î16,1l2           TOTAL
NET BENEFITS (COST9) 086,0 6)                                 )1,i412      5),i84)       (2,6i4)      18,578       45,238       48,449        bO,836       Sc,136          b2,428          AliEArEES (17035) R325
Internml Rate of Return/Taux de Rentabi1it, lnterne: 17%
2. FOREIGN R0CEANE SE-AKW-PRICED AT 1201                                                                                                                                                   2. PElISES  AUX TAUX D'E5  5GE VITRTEI,
COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                        CCOT5
AgricnltuaI Services                            77 118       67,000        61,7 78      77,788       75,285        52,017       52,017       52,017        52,017         52,017           Services Aîrieo1es
Coffee Prorce.sirn                                             28.-272      1      Z     11,          10,043         8,933        833 8,93  8         8       ,993 8 9       , 938           Traif.eOnt de Salé
TOTAL                                            115,090       95,272       80,777        89,494       82,328       60,955        60,955       60,955       60,955          60,955           TOTAL1
BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                                                    ASVANTAGES
Serni-vasheA Coffee I                             8,542       26.40Q        51,240       73,573       88,210        98,354      102,206      105,072          ,072        .56,9e2           Crfé Semj-ls-é
FolIy-wssh,d Coffee                               5,443        10,206       15,966       15,552       15,552        15,552       15,552       15,552        15,552         15,552            Café Fély-saA5s6
Fosoi Crops                                         -             940        2,460        4,160        6.000         6,000        6,000 4.000                 6,000 4  ~    GOFroditstVieres
TOTAL                                             12.965       37,555       67,666        93,285      1O9,762      119,906       123,758      126,624      î26,624   .   128,53h             TOTAL
NE  BENEifIT5 (COSTS)                           (95,105)      (57, 717)    (13,111)       3,791       27,434        58,951       62,805       65,669        65,669         67,579            AvANTAÇ;ys (comTS) l1riEF
tIntrnaL Rate of Re dsrc/Taux de Rentabiit,é Interne: 2176
October 6, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sl



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Cost-Benefit Analysis - Agricultural Services Component:/
Analyse des Coûts et des Avantages - Partie Services Agicolesi/
(FBu '000)
Year/Ann      e    ne   Year/Annee   Year/Année   Year/Annee                     Year/Année   Year/Année   Year/Année   Year l0 Onwards
l            2             3            4             5            6             7             8            9         Des l'Année lO
COSTS                                                                                                                                                                COUTS
Project Management/        33,858       18,828        17,390       19,840        17,353         6.814      6j8i14         ,qi          g 2,8l4                       D.ctiui-, du Projetq
Agricul turai Services3/   29,581       40,920        43,492        43,382       47,821        38,479     38,479         38,479       38,479           58,479         Services Agricoles37
General ServicesE/          7,827        3,85s4        3,461        5,654         3,461         4,039      4,039          4,039        4,039            4,039        Services GénéralesE!
Construction Unit2/         2,180          208           208           208          208           208        208            208          20`              209        Service de Construction5/
Contingencies, 5%           3,672        3,190         3,227        3,704         3,442         2,477      2,477          2,477        2,477           2,477         Imprévus, 5%
TOTAL                      77,118       67,ooo        67,778       77,788        72,285        52,017     52,017         52,017       52.C17           b2,017       TOTAL
BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                             AVANUAGES
Coffee                      8,542       26,409        51,240       73,573        88,210        98,354    102,206        105,072      105,072         106,982         Café
Food Crops§/                  -            94û         2,460        4,160         6,o           6o          ,ooo          6,ooo        6,o              6            Produits vivieresS/
TOTAL                       8,542      97,349        53,700       77,733        94,210       1014,354    l08,2O6       111,072      111,072          112,982       TOTAI
NET BNFITS (COSTS)         (68,576)     (39,651)      (14,078)          (55)      21,925        52,337     56,189         59,055       59,055           60,965       AVANTAGES (COUTS) NETTES
Internal Rate of Peturn/Taux de Rentabilité Interne: 24%
1/ Foreign exchange element shadow-priced at 120M.                                1/ Devises calculés au taux virtuel de 1205X.
2/ All items except those related to coffee processing, and                       2/ Tous les  élements ne touchant pas au traitement de café et y compris le
ineluding the costs of the team of advisers.                                      coû1t de l'équipe de conseillers.
3/ All items.                                                                     3/ Tous les élements.
. 75% of total.                                                                   7/75% du coûlt total.
5/ 50X of total.                                                                     50d du co6t total.
Incremental production of maize at FBu 8 per kg.                                  Accroisement de la production de maize à FBu 8 par kg.
October 6, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Cost-Benefit Analysis - Coffee Processing Component /
Analyse des Coûts et des Avantages - Partie Traitement de Cafe'1j
(FBu '000)
Year/Année Year/Aimée Year/Année Year/Année Year/Année Year 6 Onvards
1            2             3             4             5        Des l'Année 6
COSTS                                                                                                                                         COUTS
Project ManagementS/        12,610         7,802         5,790         3,731        2,878         1,580                                       Direction du ProjetAJ/
Processing3/    4/          15,960        17,685         5,281        5,378         5,378         5,378                                       Traitement du Cafél
General Services-51          2,557         1,232         1,101         1,832        1,101         1,347                                       Services G        2néralesV
Construction Unit-           2,180           208           208           208           208           208                                      Service de Constrletion /
Contingencies, 5%            1,665         1,345           619           557           478          425                                       Imprévus, 5%
TOTAL                        54,972        28,272        12,999        11,706        io,043        8,938
BENEFITS             6                                                                                                                        AVANTAGES
Fully-washed Coffee-         5,443        10,206        13,966        15,552        15,552        15,552                                       Café fully--Eished
NET BENEFIT (COSTS)         (29,529)      (18,066)          967         3,846         5,509          6,614                                    AVANTAGES (COUTS) NETTES
Internal Rate of Return/Taux de Rentabilité: 9%
1/ Foreign exchange element shadow priced at 1207.                                                1/ Devises talcule's au taux virtuel de 120%.
2/ Items relating to coffee processing only.                                                      2/ Elements relatives au traitement du cafe'seulement.
3/ All items.                                                                                     SI Tous les élements.
4/ 25% Of total                                                                                   4/ 25% du coût total
5/ 50% of total                                                                                   5/ 50% du coût total                                                                 n.
Incremental value of fully-washed coffee assumîng 10% price                                       Accroisement du valeur du café fuly-~washed supposant une prime de 10%
-differential over semi-washed coffee.                                                             par rapport au café semi-washed.
j  ,e
July ll, 1975-.M



BURUNDI
SECOND COPPEE IMPEOVEMIENT PROJECT
DEIIXIEI7 PROJET D'A7 ELIORATION DE LA PR7DCTItON DE CAG
Anorolsammant de la froduction é004 'porche,
-      mefan/Aon      Yean/AocWo      Yesr/AoOém      Voar/Anots      Ommr/Asodo      YTsr/Anode      Year/Annee      tsar 7 and Osmards
o                1               2               3               i4                              6           Anne    7 etSutt
7  INCReMENTAL FRODUCTION                            ~~~~~~(1974/75)  (1073/767       (1976/77)       ('977/78)       (1978/79        (1979/fo)       (1980/81)         (1981/821            IACOSeETD   APOUTO
-  .INCRE8IENTAL PRODUCTIONAC8ISEEN   E  ÀPRDCTO
a      Ares fi-t projoot; 8.32 million trocs; 5,200 ho                                                                                                                                                        a Region premier pro-to; 832 million - rhrtc;S,700 la
Yield pot troe, gros                                                 550             555             560             SGS             57C             57 5                             375                    Refcolte par arbr, gr9-soos
Produotion, ton                                                   4,576           4,618           4,659           4,701           4,742            4,784           4,784            4,784                    Productio, tonnes
ncrettontol production, non                                          -                42              83             125             166             208             208              208                    Artroîssroont do la praditon,  oonno
b. Other high pootntiil  3rsos; 3.68 tillion  oto; 2,300 ho                                    r-C                                                  ;              " ,                      i                 b. Antr-e regios do haut pot-ntlt1;3.68  uill  antres;
Yield p-r t-re, grem                                                 475             480             490             505             525             545             565              575                    Rédolte par  rtro, gre=suo                    2,300 ha
Produntion, ton                                                    1,748           1,766           1,803           1,858           1,952           2,006           2,079            2,116                    Production, tonnes
Incrotontel productiou, ton                                          -                18              55             110             184             258             331              368                    A--roiasse..t de la production., tonse
n  Loto potontiu1 eros; 5.60 million tr.sa; 3,500 ha                   -f' (f C                                                                                         1                                        Regio.s de b-c ptonteil;5.60 aill.  hbres;3,500 ha
Yield pot troc, grom                                                 425             425             430             435             440             445             450              450                    Récolte par -rbr-, goasaen
Produotion  toc                                                    2,380           2,380           2,408           2,436           2,464           2,492           2,520            2,520                    Production, tonnes
Increeenttl prodontion, 0on                                          -               -                28              56              84             112             140              140                    Aoorotscomonî do la produnolon; tosoos
e-r All s-oo; 17.60 nillion treea; 11,000 ha                                                                                                                                                                   T-c Toctsrs'gioos.  17.60 eillion arbres; 11,000 ha
Yroduction, toV                                                   8,704           8,764           8,870           8,895           9,138           9,282           9,383            9,420                    Po-odtsntim, tmuets
Incretet  prudontion, ton                                           -                60             166             291             434             578             679              716                    Aoorniaasmsot de la prootion, tanne,
Il. MAINIENANGE OF PRODUCTION-1                                                                                                                                                                             1I1 MAINTIEN DE LA PRODUCTIONI/
Arsa first project; 8,32 million trocs  5,200 ha                                                                                                                                                                 Région premier projet; 8.32 mIllion arhrse;5,208 h.
Per troc,s  grvoo                                                                        83             1610  20         30             295              315              35              91                     Patel,   gest
Totl to258 6670                                                                                                                         771             297             791               '91                    Total, bne
1. INCRE14ENTAL PRODUCTION 6 MAINTNANCE                                                                                                                                                                     III. ACCROISSEMENT PLUS EMAINTIEN DE LA
OF  PRODUCTION, ton    b                                                                                3ECt  33?       541             725             869             970             1,007              PRODUCTION, tonnes
s ean. En green nasffe, tc                                                               113             262             427             573             687             766               >96              ieto, en tafe msrohsnd, toonot
S/ 8e dotoo  S, paragrapo 27.                                                                                                                    Voir A.nene  1, Pprsornp    7 23.
July 11, 1975



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Production of Fully-Washed Coffee
Production de Café Fully-Washed
(ton ,tonnes)
Year/Année             Year/Année          Year/Année          Year 4 Onwards
1                      2                   3                Des l'Année 4
(1975-76)              (1976-77)           (1977-78)             (1978-79)
Parchment coffeei/                                                                                                       Café parche 2:t
4 existing stations                     4ho                    500                 500                     500           4 stations existantes
4 new stations                                                 200                 400                     500           4 stations nouvelles
TOTAL                                    4oo                   700                 90°                   1,000         TOTAL
Green coffee?/                             324                   567                 729                     810         Café marchand 2
2] At full production 125 ton  per station per year.                                      1/  Pleine production 125 tonnes par station par année.
2]  Extraction rate 81%.                                                                  2]  Rendement 81%.
July 11, 1975
H



BURUNDI
SECOiiD CûFFEE IMPROVEMhNT PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA PRODUCTION DE CAFE
Projected Coffee Values
Valeurs Projetés de Café
(FBu per kg in constant 1975 prices)
(FBu par kg en prix constant de 1975)
Semi-Washed Coffee                    Fully-Washed Coffee               Incremental Value
Café Semi-Lavé                        Café Fully-Washed                 Fully-Washed Coffee
fob          Costs to       Local      fob        Costs to  Ex-Washing  Ex-Washing Station
Dar-es         fob2j        Market     Dar-es       fob '     Station    Valeur Additionelle
Sa1aesr        Coût         Marché     SalaamS/   Coût         Départ    Café Fully-Washed
Jusque fob     Local               Jusque fob  Station de  départ Station de Lavage
La M'
(1)        (2)          (3)        (4+)        (5)         vase      (7) = (6) - (3)_ _                              = _
1975          86              23         63          95          20          75               12
1976         107              23         84         118          20          90               14
1977         123              23        100         135          20         115               15
1978         130              23        107         143          20         12S               16
1979         130              23        107         î43          20         123               16
1980         130              23        107         143          20         123               16
1981         130              23        107         1)t3         20         123               16
1982         133              23        110         146          20         125               16
1983         133              23        110         146          20         125               16
1984 and onwards    135              23         112        148           20        128               16
j  Based on IBRD projections; See Annex 2, Table 1                                     /  Basé sur prévisions de IBRD; Voir Annexe 2, Tableau 1.
]   Estimated as follows:                                                              /  Estimé comme suit:
Semi-Washed Coffee               Fui1y-Washed Coffee
Café Semi-Lavé                   Café Fully-Washed
Traders commission                                 2.6                                               Commission des Commeryants
Transport Ngozi-Bujumbura                          2.0                               1.85            Transport Ngozi-Bujumbura
Drying                                             0.4                                 -             Séchage
Hulling                                            1.6                                1.6            Déparchage
Bagging                                            1.0                                1.2            Ensachage
Financing crop purchase                            1.4                               i.4             Financement achat café
Transport mill-OCIBU                               0.1                              01              Transport usine-OCIBU
Bank charges                                       0.7                               0.7             Frais bancaires
Exporters margin                                   5.0                                5.0            Marge exportateurs
Insurance                                          0.2                               0.25            Assurance
Freight to Dar-es-Salaam                           4.0                                4.0            Transport vers Dar-es-Salaam
OCIBU remuneration tax                             4.1                               4.1             Taxe de remunération OCIBU
23.1                              20.2
/ 10% price premium over semi-washed coffee.                                         3/ Bonification de 10% par rapport aux prix  J @
pour café semi-lavé.
July 11, 1975
CDs



BUEUSPNI
SECOND COFFEE S! eROfflECET FROJECT
DEIIXIEME PROJET DIAOMELIOBATION DE LA PP$DUCTIOr rLE CASE
projeet Imple,mentation Schedule
Schéme dEmecution du Projet
Tsar:             1975                      17                          1977                      1970
Yeart e          1O1          2 3  4  1    2 3                 I     2      3     4      1      £3           I
-I  f    I            l      I     I            ,      |  I                I     I      I
Coffee HarJesting and Processing Season                                                              .                        ,      R                                               Saison r'co1te et traitener-t tsf'
Activities                                                                                                                                                                           Activités
1. Recruitce.n  of StaffIl                                                                  -    _ecrutaemnt cadre 1/
a. Expatriates                                                                                                                                                                        a. Expatrie
Construction Officer                                               l                                                                                                                 Conducteur des travaux
Agronomit  - Coffee                                                         1                                                                                                        Agronome-café
Agronomlsi  - Fooderop.                                                         '                                                                                                    Agronome_cultures vivrtires
Financia1 Officer                                                                  1                                                                                                  Comptable
Researci Offirers                                                                                                                                                                     Cadre programme recherche
b. Burund                                                                                                                                                                             b  Burundi
Agricultural Officers                                                                                                                                                                 Agronomes
-trasferred from Ministry                                                                                                                                                           - mutés du ministeru
- mes                                                                                               , _                                                                                 nouveaux
Agricultural Assistants                                                                   _     _         _   _         _                                                             Mbsoniteurs
- transferred fros Ministry                                                                          11- mudts du miîistire
-news                                                                                                                           18                        10                          -nouveaux
2. Constructions                                                                                                                                                                      2. Constructions
House for Senior Staff  !                                                                                                                                                             Maisons pour cadre superieur V
Central Office and Workshop Canplec                                           _         _    _   _ _                                                                 -                Bureau central et atelier
- Design and IDA Approval                                                                                                                                                             - plan et accord IDA
- Construction                                                                                                                                                                        _ construction
Wasitng Stations                                                                                                                                                                      Stations de lavage
- Design Civil Works, Tender Documents                                                                                                                                                - plan travaux civiles, documents adjudication
for Equipment. IDA Approval                                                                                                                                                           équipement, accord IDA
- Request Bids for Equiprent, evaluation cf Bide                              ---       _        _       _      _   _                                                                   appel d'offres équipement, évaluation des offres,
IDA Approval and Order Equipment                                                            -                                                                                         accord IDA, comr ande
- Construction Civil Works                                                                                                                                                            - construction travaux civiles
- Installation equipsent                                                                                                                                                              - installation equipement
I On addition to staff already in place under first project.                                                                 Ma plus Co cadre d4ja r-cruti par pr-i-or pr-jet.
g! Construction started in March 1975.                                                                                        Début travaux macs 1975.
JuIy S2, 1975






BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Coorcdînating Çm teeMin,stry of Agriculture                                                   SB
and Livestock
OC 13
| Projects Department     l
Office Project             Agricultural               tee Process'tn          Construction and             Administration
Director         l         Servtces                       .                   Technical Services          and Accounts
Worid Bank-15042






_~~~.    (.         N-<r>Ie
o            N        z                         w 
f >-  ¢
c:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z z     <j*  
oe                                      .       W            .4  E
-                                               Lt .Q   \v    
[ o «   W  - 0          `    E 0 0 S i~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ol 
T -  §tD   ,.XX    ,,    0"              .    d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" 
<0
LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
~Z 5.z    .U ",,       . `,9/......
cN             381V za,  Oltl'glft d          H
L \ s>Sso all«W7lt / * ° 38EYZ dO Dlll`S8nd38 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 11434
FEBRUARY 1975
il                       BURUNDI
Prajt Area NGOZi Province i   SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Nationil Roads      -                ISABU Coffee Fertilizer TrialsT Mos
Main Roads                           Limit of High Potentiol Coffee Area           N                          PROJECT  AREA                                          \            )
--  Secondary Roads                      Exissing Proiect Area (Credit 147-BU)   /                                                                                                   ,
Rivers              Q        )       Coffee Woshing Stations                                       5      o       5       Q      15     20
- -  -   Provincial Boundories                 {Built Under Credit 147- BU)       ,KLOMETEt5                                                    -|
InterncationoIl Bouindaries   ®      Provincial Capital '
Birambi                                                                      /
<\   LleneO S           `QM*higo             JbMushonge--X ge                                                                  MUYIoAo
-\NGOZI~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0
* BUBNZ             ;       ')         Mona J)                                                        'N          Bugers X z,
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ahk
F   "   4 < t~~~~~~~AY                                                     `    X  --, ,V\, 
M uy o  \u                             s e n   gr                                               o   O ,t
3              :t    â  X                             Jdava _    kS                           /  PRugazi    ,g                             /,                        0    306 ii,
Bcidanga                                                                                                   N      ' ½A
T o X           \\   t>~~~~~~Bonga  M;Nuningo                               f                   \"                                               Mwkr                BUR   ND
B  BU R U N D 
Mutumboa r-
2 3 1  Togoye                                                                                                                                                   i _/
Gatondep',''                                          
9  O3 ol BoURAMoVYA                                                To0GegT  Grieo \                              l"'fI__                                      



