[ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4576
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 593-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
June 23, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit Franc Burundais (FBu)
Appraisal Year Average:        US$1.00=FBu 78.35
Intervening Years Average:   US$1.00 =  FBu 90.00
Completion Year Average:       US$1.00 = FBu 90.00
Weights and Measures
Decimal Metric                   =         US/British
1 kilogram (kg)                  =         2.205 pounds (lb)
100 kilograms (kgs)              =         1 quintal (qt)
I metric ton (mt)                =         2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                   =         2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)                           0 0.62 miles (m)
Abbreviations
BCC                   =         Burundi Coffee Company
CAMOFI                =         Caisse de Mobilisation Financiere
ISABU                 =         Institute des Sciences Agronomiques
du Burundi
MINAGRIC              _         Ministry of Agriculture
OCIBU                 =         Office des Cultures industrielles
du Burundi
SOMEBU                _         Societe Mixte d'Etudes du Burundi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 593-BU)
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
Preface ...., ......................     , I*
Basic Data Sheet.                   . .          ........   *........  ii
Highlights   ....... ... ........... .....                              iv
I  BACKGROUND....                                                                  1
II        IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL           .      .             3
A.  Identification and Preparation.                                      3
B. Appraisal.                                                            4
C.   Project Objectives and Description.                                 6
III  IMPLEMENTATION.                                                               7
A. Start-up of the Project.                                              7
B.   Coffee Production Activities and Achievements.                      8
C.   Research                                                           16
D. Coffee Processing .18
E.   Foodcrop Production Activities and Achievements .22
F. Other Project Activities .30
G. Financial Aspects .32
IV   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .35
A. Organizational Aspect .35
B. Project Management .36
V   PROJECT IMPACT    ..39
A. Coffee Production and Yields .39
B. Production and FWA Coffee .42
C. Coffee Prices .44
D. Farmers' Income .45
VI  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                         ....46
VII  IDA PERFORMANCE                        ....49
VIII  CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK                      ....50
Annex No.       TABLES
I               Burundi Coffee Exports by Quantity and Quality
II              Burundi Coffee Exports:  Totals
III             Burundi Coffee Exports - Five-Year Moving Average
IV              Pyrethrum Test - No. of Insects Per Tree
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V             Inventory of Buildings Constructed
During Second Phase
VI             Financial Analysis - Project Investments
VII            Financial Analysis - Project Results
VIII          Increase in Project Cost
Ix            Schedule of Disbursements
X              Expatriate Staffing Schedule
Xr            Production of Arabica Coffee in the Ngozi
Province
XII            Coffee Tree Population in Ngozi Province with
Projected Annual Yields
XIII           Production of Arabica Coffee in Ngozi Province
xiv           Production of Arabica Coffee in Ngozi Province - Five Year
Moving Average
XV            Coffee Price Differentials
XVI            Economic Rate of Return Calculations
XVII          Economic Rate of Return Calculations



- i -
Project Completion Report
BURUNDI SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Preface
The project under review was a second phase in the Government of
Burundi's program for improving the quantity and quality of national coffee
production. Coffee exports are Burundi's largest single earner of foreign
exchange. The Credit for the Second Coffee Improvement Project (Cr. 593-BU
for US$5.2 million) was signed in December 1975 and closed fully disbursed in
April 1982. It had been preceded by a first phase project (Cr. 147-BU for
US$1.8 million) and was followed by the signing of a Credit for a third, (Cr.
1192-BU for US$16 million) in March 1982.
This Project Completion Report (PCR) deals with the second phase of
the coffee improvement program but reference is made to aspects of the other
phases of the program since it is not meaningful to tret the separate phases
as totally discrete operations. Indeed, the findings of the Project
Performance Audit Report and the Impact Evaluation Report for the Ngozi
project (phase one of the program) contributed significantly to the analysis
of the findings in this present report.
This PCR was prepared by staff of the Bank's Regional Mission in East
Africa. No separate audit was carried out for the Project by OED staff. It
is based on field visits to the Project area (Ngozi), on extensive discussion
with staff of the Project, OCIBU, and of the Ministry of Agriculture and on
review of the Project files, including the preparation, appraisal, supervision
and annual reports.






- ii-
BU'RUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 593-BU)
PROJECT COMlPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or         Actual as .
Estimate      Estimated Actual   of ApDraisal Estimates
Project Costs (US$million)                         7.5            10.9 a/              145S
Project Amount (US$uillion)                       '5.2             5.2                 1007.
Date Board Approval                                             11-18-75
Date Effectiveness                             03-03-76        10-07-76
Date Physical Components Completed             06-30-80         07-30-80
Proportion then Completed                           86*            1OOS
Closing Date                                   03-31-81        04-30-82
Economic Rate of Return                             217             b/
Institutional Performance                       Good               Fair
*Agronomic Performance                           Good              Fair
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (year...)   Estimated 90-100,000 cumulative in 1982
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS              FY76      FY77      FY78       FY79      FY80      FY81      FY82
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)        0.4      1.5       2.5        3.5       4.5        5.2
Actual (US$ million)                                       1.7        2.7       4.2        5.1      5.2
Actual as Percent of Estimate                              68*        77S       93*        987     1007.
Date of Final Disbursement         June 25 1982
MISSION DATA
No. of   Mandays  Speacializations  Performance               Types of
Mission       Date    Persons  in Field  Represented 3/        Ratin& 4/  Trend 5/  Problems 6/
(mo./Yr.)
Identification    08-73
Preparation          -74       2         N.A.
Appraisal          10/74       4         64         2 a, b
Subtotal
Supervision 1       4/76       1          5
Supervision 2      12/76       1          8
Supervision 3       7/77       2         24
Supervision 4       4/78       2         24         2 b, c               2           2       X,F,O
Supervision 5      10/78       1          2         1 b                  2           1       T,O
Supervision 6       3/79       1          6         1 b                  2           2       F,T,O
Supervision 7      11/79       1          8         1 b                  2           2       M,F,O
Supervision 8       7/80       1          6         1 b                  2           2       M,0
Supervision 9       3/81       1          6         1 b                  2           3       X
Supervision 10
Supervision 11
(COMP)            5/81       2        24
Supervision 12
Supervision 13
Supervision 14
Supervision 15
Subtotal                                 177
Total                                    177






- jiii -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                Government of Burundi
Executing Agency        OCIBU
Fiscal Year             Jan 1 - Dec. 31
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)         (FBu)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average                           USS 1.00 = FBU 78.35
Intervening Years Average                       US$ 1.00 = FBU 90.00
Completion Year Average                         US$ 1.00 = FBU 90.00
Follow-on Project:
Name                                Integrated Rural Development/NGOZI III
Loan/Credit Number                  1142-BU
Loan/Credit Amount (US million)   16.0
Date Board Approval                 12-08-81
1/  Summarize reasons for deviations in footnotes
2/ Percentage to third column to be calculated from Board approval date.
3/  a = agriculturist; b = agricultural economist; c = financial activist, etc.
4/  1 = problem-free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; and 3 = major problems.
5/  1 = improving; 2 = stationary; ancl 3 = deteriorative.
6/  F = financial; N = managerial; J = technical; P = political; and 0 = other.
a/  The increase reflects an overdue income of 157 of the BUF in May 1976.
b/  Coffee growing:      247
11   processing:  227.






- iv -
Project Completion Report
BURUNDI SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Highlights
This report reviews progress under the Second Coffee Improvement
Project, Cr. 593-BU for US$5.2 million. The Project was a second phase of the
Government of Burundi's continuing program to improve coffee production, the
nation's largest single earner of foreign exchange. The Project's components
were aimed at bringing about increases in coffee and foodcrop production and
comprised agricultural services elements, an experimental rural development
program, a program of management capacity building, coffee research and coffee
processing activities, and rural infrastructure rehabilitation works.
Overall, the Project was a qualified success. Start-up was delayed
by frequent changes in management and implementation and was adversely
affected by management difficulties throughout. Project achievements for
foodcrop and livestock development fell well below targets set at the time of
appraisal; in retrospect, these appear to have been too optimistic. The
experimental rural development and economic and social infrastructure
components were not implemented. In contrast, the results of the coffee
development components were good and exceeded appraisal estimates both as to
quantity and quality of incremental production. It can be stated with
confidence that the coffee-washing stations constructed under the Ngozi II
Project are economically viable. This has been the principal achievement of
the Project.  The following points are also of interest:
-    the realistic approach to the use of fertilizer and to financing
(para. 7.01);
-    an over optimistic assessment of the Borrower's and the Project
management's implementation capacities (para. 7.01);
-    the beneficial aspects of staff continuity in Bank supervision
combined with appraisal of planned follow-up activities (para.
7.03);
-    the dramatic effects of high inflation on civil works costs
(para. 3.68) and on the projected income gains for Project
beneficiaries (para. 8.08); and
-    the need for a more reliable system of surveying and reporting
coffee plantation and production (para. 5.08).






BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01     Coffee is the principal export crop and source of income in Burundi.
In fact, Arabica coffee is grown by about half of the estimated 900,000 farm
families in the country, generating between 40 to 607. of their cash income.
Moreover, coffee has been of primary importance for the development of the
modern sector in Burundi, as coffee exports are the principal earner of
foreign exchange (80-907) as well as the main source of tax and other
Government income. The main smallhclder coffee growing areas are Ngozi,
Gitega and Muyinga Provinces; Ngozi provides over one-third of total
production. Coffee is grown in small stands, on average about 160 trees per
farmer, covering about 0.10 ha, often on several plots. Coffee yields vary
from one region to another (200-450 grams/tree) with Ngozi having the highest
yields because of its better soils, climate and as a result of the two Coffee
Improvement Projects. In fact, it is generally recognized that because of
poor husbandry methods, lack of modern inputs and mulching material,
inefficient extension services and increasing competition from foodcrops,
yields in most coffee growing areas in Burundi have tended to decline during
past years.
1.02     Total green coffee production and exports have fluctuated greatly
during the 1970s.  On the basis of five-year averages, production of Arabica
coffee increased by some 3.257 annually until the early seventies, but since
1973/74 has remained in the region of about 20,000 tons a year (Annexes I
through III). While the increased Arabica production until 1973/74 was mainly
the result of a steady area expansion, the subsequent stagnation of coffee
production reflects two divergent trends in Burundi's coffee economy. In
fact, available statistical information indicates that while coffee production
in most coffee growing areas in the country declined, this was offset by the
increase of coffee production achieved in the Ngozi Province. This is also
true for the declining trend of Burundi's coffee quality (Annex I) which to
some extent has been reversed by the successful introduction of coffee washing
stations in the Ngozi Project area. In fact, Burundi's fully wet processed
coffee is now fetching a 157 premium over its traditional semi-washed coffees
in world markets. Thus, seen in the overall coffee economy of Burundi, the
main positive effect of the Ngozi Coffee Improvement Projects has been to
arrest a declining trend in Burundi's coffee sector during past years.
1.03     The two Ngozi Coffee Improvement Projects have been Government's main
vehicle to improve the quantity and quality of Burundi coffee. The first
project (Credit 147-Bu) covering about one-half of the Ngozi Province was
signed in April 1969 and closed, fully disbursed, in June 1976. Progress
achieved under the first Ngozi Coffee Project has been limited, due to the
internal disturbances of 1972, shortages of both expatriate and national staff
and transport difficulties in neighbouring countries resulting in frequent
delays in delivery of essential construction and other materials. As a
result, experience with improved coffee processing techniques had been limited



- 2 -
when the Project was completed in 1976.  However, a satisfactory start was
made in improving husbandry methods and the use of modern inputs, although
their impact in coffee production could not be assessed since no yield data
had been systematically collected. Experience under the first Ngozi Project
was essential in drawing up the Second Coffee Improvement Project, which was
signed in December 1975. The second Ngozi Coffee Project will substantially
be completed by mid-1981 and is expected 1:o be fully disbursed by April 1982.
While the progress achieved under the second phase will be discussed in detail
in the following chapters of the PCR, it should already be mentioned at this
stage that similar to the PCR of the first: Ngozi Coffee Project, no conclusive
statements about the Project's impact can be made because of a lack of
reliable quantitative information. In fact, the Second Ngozi Coffee Project
did not succeed in setting up a data collection system as systematic surveys
of coffee plantations and production started in 1977 came to a halt because of
lack of fuel and vehicles at the beginning of 1979. The mission, nonetheless,
has tried to assess from all available sources, the impact of the Ngozi II
Project on coffee production and quality.
1.04     Government continues to foster coffee development through the third
phase of the Ngozi Project as well as other rural development projects in
other coffee growing areas (i.e. Kirimiro and Puyinga) which are expected to
be financed with World Bank assistance. Whether these efforts will enable
Government to accelerate coffee production and improve coffee quality in the
future has still to be seen. In fact, because of farmers rapidly declining
terms of trade, growing population pressure, increasing scarcity of arable
land, etc., it is foreseeable that future coffee imtprovement programs will
have to be carried out in a considerably more difficult environment than
during past years. Burundi's coffee development prospects will be discussed
further in the concluding paragraphs of the PCR.
1.05     To date, Bank Group involvement in the financing of the agricultural
sector has been limited (US$ 17.3 million). In fact, although IDA financed a
fisheries project (Cr. 629-BU) in 1976 and a forestry project (Cr. 918-BU) in
1979, the two Ngozi Coffee Improvement Projects have been so far the Bank
Group's main contribution to the financing of agricultural development in
Burundi. However, with the recently negotiated Ngozi III and Kirimiro
integrated rural development schemes, Bank lending to Burundi agriculture is
expected to increase in the near future.
1.06     This PCR was prepared by RMEA Bank staff.  It is based upon field
visits to the Ngozi Project area, extensive discussions with OCIBU/Project and
Minagric staff, and upon review of Project files and the preparation,
appraisal, supervision and annual progress reports. The PCR and the Impact
Evaluation Report of the first Ngozi Coffee Project were also consulted. In
fact, since a complete distinction of the two Ngozi Coffee Improvement
Projects is difficult to make, the findings of the PCR for the Ngozi I Coffee
Project were often used to complete the analysis of the PCR for its second
phase.



-3-
11. ID XIFICATIOI, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Identification and Preparation
2.01     The desirability of continuing the activities of the First Igozi
Coffee Improvement Project arose during discussions between RMA supervision
missions and OCIBU as well as Goverment staff. The first steps to prepare a
second phase of the Project were taken during an RNEA mission to Burundi in
August 1973.  A Governmont preparation team was set up, including the Manager
of the on-going project, and a preparation report was completed with the Bank
in mid-1974. Govereant's project proposal was in line with its development
objectives which emphasized the continued Improvement of coffee production in
the country. Thus, the Project principally- aimed at increasing the quantity
and improving the quality of coffee produced by about 110,000 smallholders
living in the Igozi Province. It specifically included: (a) further
distribution of inputs for coffee growing and strengthening of extension
services in all coffee growing districts in the Igozi Province; (b)
construction of 38 eoffee washing stations in addition to the four established
under the first project 1/ to fully wet process all coffee produced in the
area covered by Credit 147-BU; (c) expansion of coffee research facilities to
assist Project Management in solving any agricultural and technical problems
arising in the Project area; (d) the development of fooderops as a necessary
prerequisite for further coffee development; (e) feeder road maintenance and
rural water supplies; as wall as (f) an Evaluation and Monitoring Unit to
systematically assess the progress of the Project and to prepare a long-term
national Coffee Development Program. Total Project cost, over a five-year
project Implementation period, was estimated at US$ 13.3 million, to be
financed by IDA (857) and Government (157).  The Project was expected to be
tarried out by the Project Department established within OCIBU which had
already been responsible for the 1mplem6ntation of the firet Project.  Key
management positions were initially to be filled by expatriates, until
sufficient Burundiens had been trained to take over Project management.
2.02      Except for the importance of the coffee processing component, there
was consensus between the Government and the Bank preparation teams concerning
the objectives, scope and content of the second phase Qf the Ngozi Coffee
Project. Initially Government had proposed to construct 56 coffee washing
stations during the second phase of the Project.  However, the Bank
preparation team convinced Goverment that the construction of so many washing
stations would be far beyond OCIBU/Project's Implementation capacity.
Moreover, the construction of hulling facilities in Ngozi as well as the
improvement of water supply for Ngozi town were considered as possible Project
components. These, however, were not included in the final preparation report
as the remaining programs for the second phase Project were already regarded
as rather ambitious, in particular in the light of the experience during the
first phase of the Project. The Government also agreed to review cherry
pricing policy for coffee cherries delivered to washing stations, in order to
provide incentives to farmers.  In fact, the poor performance of washing
stations under the first Ngozi Project was considered to be due to the fact
that cherry prices were lower than the equivalent in parchment coffee.  Hence,
I/ The Butegene washing station was built prior to the start of the first
Nlgozi Project, so that five washing stations were in operation by the end
of the first phase in 1975.



-4-
farmers preferred to sell their coffee in private markets rather than deliver
their cherries to washing stations.
2.03     Overall, the feasibility report for the Second Egozi Coffee
Improvement Project was well prepared, except for its fooderop development
component, t"hich was rather sketchy and vague, probably reflecting the lack of
any experience in fooderop development in Burundi at that time. However, it
was fully recognized that, in order to increase the interest of farmers in
future coffee development, considerable efforts had to be made to develop
their subsistence crops at the same time.
B. Appraisal
2.04     During the appraisal mission, in October 1974, the mission made only
a few changes in Government's initial project proposals. The mission
recomended reductions in fertilizer application and price subsidies, further
preparation of rural development and non-coffee agricultural activities and,
more significant, a review of coffee cherry pricing policy and the
construction of fewer coffee washing stations then the 28 under
consideration. The reasons were as follows:
a.   Fertilizers:  Since no clear results had emerged from ISABU's
trials with which to reliably forecast yield response to fertilizers, the
mission proposed that fertilizer applications be limited to a maintenance
dose, only to replace nitrogen removed in thLe crop and to maintain farmer
interest in fertilizer applications. Only farmers showing improved standards
of coffee husbandry would be eligible to receive fertilizers. Moreover, the
mission did not agree with the Government's proposal to continue the free
distribution of fertilizers and, therefore, recommended that in the future
farmers should pay a reasonable price for fertilizers, although Government
would temporarily subsidize fertilizers and other input costs;
b.   Rural Development, food-crops and Livestock:  In view of the
inadequate preparation of Government proposals for a number of experimental
rural development activities (a small livestock component, training of cattle
for draught purposes, installation of grain mills, cultivation of vegetables
in the marshes and establishment of farmers cooperatives) the mission
recomwended that IDA disbursements be subject to detailed proposals,
acceptable to IDA;
c.   Coffee Washing Stations:  The mission first reduced the number
of coffee washing stations from 38 to 20 anti, upon closer examination,
expressed doubt as to their economic and financial viability. The reasons for
the appraisal mission's reluctance were complex but plausible. One reason was
that since only four washing stations had been built - not without great
difficulty - during the first phase of the Project, the mission felt that the
construction and handling of 38 washing stations over a five-year period would
have been unrealistically ambitious. Concerning the economic viability of
washing stations, the mission emphasized to Government that detailed economic
analysis had to be done in Washington before it could conclusively support the
Government's proposal for additional washing stations.
d.   Economic Viability of Washing Stations.  Data with which to
evaluate the merit of washing stations was very limited and, moreover, their



- 5-.
economic viability has been a central issue from the beginning of the First
ngozi Project until no-*. The Bank agreed to finance the construction of four
washing stations under the first Project, it was hoped that upon project
completion sufficient data would be available to assess their profitability.
However, when the Second. Ngozi Coffee Project was prepared and appraised, only
one washing station had been operational for two seasons. The results of
these two seasons (1973 and 1974) were rather disappointing since not more
than 40-45 tons of parchment coffee (35% of the designed capacity) were
produced during each season. The main reasons were a lack of cooperation from
local administrators, and unattractive coffee cherry prices (para. 2.02) as
well as the inexperience of Project staff in managing washing stations.
Moreover, the construction costs of the stations turned out to be much higher
than estimated at appraisal.  Finally, the export premium obtained for fully
washed coffee turned out to be lower than projected during appraisal; only 757S
of the total fully washed coffee was classified as FWA, and the balance was
classified as either OCIBU 3A or OCIBU 3B.
2.05     Doubts about the washing stations were confirmed when, during the
detailed preparation of the appraisal report, the mission concluded that a 67
estimated economic rate of return of washing stations was too low to justify
the large investments proposed. The mission's negative conclusion then became
subject of debate among Bank staff about the methodology of evaluating costs
and benefits of washing stations. Although the Bank preparation team was
aware of the uncertainties concerning the justification of washing stations,
it had taken a more optimistic view of their prospects, in particular after a
number of tests had proven the favorable liquoring quality of fully-washed
Burudian coffee. The Bank preparation team also emphasized the importance of
the washing stations as future centers for extension and other rural
activities, as well as the extreme poverty of the country which considerably
limits its development possibilities. Eventually the appraisal mission's view
prevailed and the Burundi Government was informed that, with great regret, the
Bank was unable to finance the processing component of the Second Ngozi Coffee
Project.
2.06          A post-appraisal mission was sent to Burundi in May 1975 to
explain the Bank's reluctance to finance washing stations. After protracted
discussions, the Bank proposed providing for the construction of four
additional stations to allow Government to continue the on-going coffee
processing scheme in the Ngozi Province. This compromise was reluctantly
accepted by the Government. In fact, Government had attached great importance
to a continuation of the washing station program as it felt that it was in
Burundi's long term interest to invest in quality improvement schemes. It
also argued that the impact of coffee washing stations is greater than can be
expressed in strict economic or financial term, since they were expected to
serve as focal points for a large number of rural development activities, such
a demonstration of better growing piractices for both coffee and foodcrops as
well as sales of farm inputs and cconsumer goods. Government's disappointment
at the Bank's conclusion probably explains why six months later it requested
the Kuwait Bank to finance 10 washing stations instead of the four proposed by
the Bank and formally agreed upon during negotiations.



6 -
2.07     Project negotiations were held in Washington in October 1975, during
which no further major changes were made to the Project. During the Annual
Meeting in September 1975, the Kuwait Fund enquired about the possibility of
co-financing a Bank project in Burundi. The Bank proposed to the Kuwait Fund
that it participate in the Ngozi II Coffee Project and it was then agreed that
it would finance the construction of the four additional coffee washing
stations, the coffee research component, water supply and road construction.
Total Project costs including contingencies, were estimated at US$ 7.5
million, compared to US$ 13.2 million in the original Government proposal,
mainly reflecting the considerable reduction in the number of washing
stations. The Project, which would be financed by Government (US$ 1.1
million), Kuwait Fund (US$ 1.2 million) and IDA (US$ 5.2 million), was
approved by the Board in November 1975 and signed one month later in December
1975. While the Second Ngozi Coffee Project thus seemed to be ready for a
normal start in early 1976, a major hitch occurred, when in January 1976 the
Kuwait Fund and the Burundl Government agreed to change the cofinancing
program without prior consultation with IDA. In fact, during discussions with
a Kuwait Fund delegation in Bujumbura, the Burundi Government decided to seek
financing for the Project's research component from the Belgian Government and
to request the Kuwait Fund to use the available savings for the financing of
six washing stations in addition to the four agreed upon earlier, to which the
delegation agreed. These changes differed substantially from prior agreements
reached between the Burundi Government, the Kuwait Fund and IDA. Although the
Bank requested clarification from the Burundi Government it did not apparently
follow up on its request and tacitly accepted the agreement reached.
Discussions, however, were held with the Belgian Government in Brussels to
assure adequate financing and staffing for the Project's coffee research
component. As the Credit Agreement had already been signed, neither the
Credit Agreement (Cr. 593-BU) nor the appraisal report were amended to reflect
these modifications to the Project.
C. Project Objectives and Description
2.10     As described in the Appraisal Report, the Project objectives were to
support the development of smallholder coffee and foodcrop production in Ngozi
Province. It would also address a number of fundamental problems concerning
the cultivation and processing of coffee, the expansion of food producticn,
and the organization of extension services, and thus contribute to the future
development of agricultural production in the country as a whole.
Specifically, the Project would provide for:
(a)  inputs and strengthened extension services to sustain and extend
the improvement of coffee cultivation started under the first
Project;
(b)  construction of four additional coffee washing stations and
technical assistance for the operation of the four existing
stations;
(c)  staff and equipment for an expanded coffee research program;
(d)  inputs, field trials and extension advice for the cultivation of
foodcrops;



-7-
(e)  construction of repair of potable water sources, bridges and
culverts;
(f) experimental rural development activities, including the
improvement of small livestock, training of draught animals, and
the establishment of farmer cooperatives; and
(g) a resident managemenit team backed up by a small team of
internationally recruited advisors, which would at regular
intervals assist in formulating work programs and advise on
specific Project problems.
Apart from the coffee research program, which would be implemented by ISABU,
the Project would be carried out by OCIBU.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Start-Up of the Project
3.01     The second phase of the Nlgozi Coffee Improvement Project was
originally expected to become effective in March 1976. However, due to delays
in the finalization of the Kuwait Fund co-financing agreement, it did not
become effective until October 1976. Project financing was arranged by the
Government, not without some difficulty, to bridge the transitional period
before the actual start of the second phase of the Project. Project start-up
was adversely affected by frequent: changes in management, caused initially by
the death of the Project Manager and the promotion of his local successor to
Vice Minister of Agriculture during a change in Government in November 1976.
After consultation with IDA, a newly recruited expatriate economist was
appointed Project Manager and the former local Chief Extension Officer as
Deputy Project Manager. The team of expatriate project officers were all in
post by the effective commencement of the Project with the exception of the
Financial Controller, who was recruited in February 1977. At start-up the
Project absorbed all of the provincial technical extension staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture, including former extension staff for the national
anti-erosion control and reafforestation programs.
3.02     Coffee extension work started without major difficulties, although
the performance of some of the Minagric extension staff absorbed by the
Project appeared to be unsatisfactory (para 4.04). By the end of 1976, there
were also indications that the new Government wanted to stop all fertilizer
imports (para 3.14). Both the performance of extension staff and the use of
fertilizers remained problems throughout the Project implementation period.
The fooderop development program also made an encouraging start. Two seed
multiplication stations and 180 demonstration plots were set up in the
region. Small quantities of fertilizer were sold to selected farmers, but
soon it was found that follow-up extension services were lacking.
3.03     All five coffee washing stations established in the first phase
worked at full capacity during 1976 and produced 640 tons of parchment coffee
(about 8.37 of the total parchment coffee produced in the Project area).
Unfortunately, in the middle of 1976, it became apparent that the three most



-8-
recently built washing stations were in need of major repairs, if not total
reconstruction. This situation was reviewed by an IDA mission in light of the
prepared construction program. It concluded that effective repairs could be
carried out in time for the 1977 session and that the difficulty should not
affect the construction of new washing stations. However, a critical shortage
of cement from late 1976 stopped all construction activities in the Project
for three months, a problem which continued to cause delays in Project
implementation.
B. Coffee Production Activities and Achievements
Introduction
3.04     As set out at appraisal, the major coffee production objectives of
the second Ngozi Project were to be achieved inter alia by improving farmers'
husbandry methods and input use as follows:
(a) better pest control through the use of newer insecticides and
improved methods of application;
(b)  introduction of mulching to-improve the coffee soils and control
erosion;
(c) 'systematic pruning of mature coffee trees through use of
appropriate pruning saws and shears according to recommendations
by the Project extension service;
(d) infilling and replacement of very old or dead coffee trees using
seedlings provided by the Projects coffee nurseries; and
(e) improving yields of coffee by the application of fertilizers,
mainly in the high potential areas of the Project.
An estimated 110,000 farmers were expected to benefit from the coffee
development program at full development (Year 7) when incremental production
would be about 1,000 tons of parchment coffee.
Pest Control
3.05     The most serious coffee prest in Burundi at the start-up of the
second phase of the Coffee Improvement Project was the antestia beetle, which
had defied all attempts at control measures during the first phase of the
Project. Antestia feeds preferentially on the large, green, expanding stage
of coffee berry when the contents of the berry are still soft. The damage
therefore caused to the coffee berry results in crop loss and is due to either
"premature berry drop" (with a heavy infestation of antestia, this loss can be
as high as 307. of the potential total crop); or, if the coffee tree retains
the damaged berry until normal harvesting, it produces very low quality coffee
beans (can be as high as 107 of the harvested crop). These combined crop
losses can occur with population levels of antestia as low as eight to ten per
tree and crop losses of up to 107 can occur with populations as low as three
antestia per tree.



-9-
3.06     Attempts to control the antestia population during the first phase of
the Project by dusting with DDT/Hlalathion were partially successful in that
the antestia populations within the Project area were reduced below those
outside the Project area. However, the residual level of antestia in the
Project area remained above that required for effective control, is normally
less than one beetle per tree.
No. of Antesti.a per Tree - Pyrethrum Test
Jan    Sept      Jan     Har      Sept      Mar
'72     '72      '73     '74       '74      '75
Project Area                    3.5     2.5       3.1      3.5     1.5       2.7
Outside Project                 7.5     9.6       7.1      6.2     4.1       6.1
Source: OCIBU/ISABU. See Annex Iv.
3.07     The deficiencies of these early campaigns were thought to be due in
part to the creation of a DDT-resistant antestia population, and in part to
the very inefficient method farmers used for application, viz. shaking a
dusting bag. Entomological studies conducted by ISABU to find more effective
insecticides conclusively revealed that the antestia beetle had not developed
any marked resistance to DDT, and that the principal deficiency lay with the
method of application, or an inferred absence of any insecticide application.
These same studies also clearly showed that the organo-phosphorus insecticides
Fenitrothion and Fenthion and the synthetic Pyrethrins offered a more
efficient control system without the long term persistence problems associated
with DDT. In 1978 field tests were carried out by ISABU, using Fenitrothion,
and conclusively verified the earlier laboratory trials. A technical
recommendation that these new insecticide formulations should be employed was
prepared for Project management in 1978.
3.08     Initial full-scale anti-pest campaigns in 1978/79 and 1979/80 were
not particularly encouraging, primarily because they were badly managed and
beset by technical problems caused by the newly introduced 3,000
hand-sprayers. Unlike the previiously used dusting bags these devices suffered
from mechanical problems and also required a complete re-orientation of the
extension services program for implementing the insecticidal dust
applications. Pyrethrum knock-down tests for 1978 and 1979 reflect these
problems by showing that the campaigns had little impact upon the antestia
beetle population. In contrast, the anti-pest control measures in 1980 were
carried out by Project management in an orderly and timely fashion. The
deficient "Tropic" hand sprayers were either replaced or repaired and the more
efficient insecticide Fenthion was used in all districts of the Project.
Pyrethrum tests carried out in November 1980 indicate that the antestia beetle
has almost disappeared from the Project area. Any relaxation of the anti-pest
control in the future, however, would result in a resurgence of the antestia
beetle population and subsequent crop losses.



- 10 -
Pvrethrum tests for 1978, 1979 and 1980
Number of Antestia per tree
Agronomic                October             November          November
Sector                     1978                1979               1980
Ngozi                       2                  3.1                 0.2
Ruhororo                    -                  -                   0.1
Mwumba                      1.7                1.2                 0.07
Gashikanwa                  1.4                1.1                0.0
Tangara                     1.8                7.6                 0.6
Kiremba                     2.0                1.3                0.03
Marangara                   1.7                1.5                 0.0
Kayanza                     1.3                1.4                0.0
Jene                        0.8                2.0                 0.1
Matongo                     4.2                4.4                 0.04
Gatara                      1.9                3.1                0.01
Gahombo                     1.8                1.3                0.3
Banga                       -                  -                  0.3
Busiga                      2.1                1.3                0.1
Rango                       _                                     0.04
Project Average                1.9                2.4                 0.1
Mulching
3.09     Mulching of coffee is important for improving the texture and humus
content of the soil, providing small amounts of balanced nutrients, to control
both weed growth and soil erosion and to conserve moisture in the soil during
dry weather. The first phase of the Project was clearly successful in
encouraging better mulching standards and, during the early stages of the
second phase of the Project, improvement in mulching standards continued.
Banana leaves, maize and bean stover provide the major supply of mulch, but in
many areas of the Project the supply of sufficient mulching material has
become a serious problem. It is estimated that approximately 70. of the
coffee plantations are now satisfactorily mulched compared to 40. before the
second phase of the Project started. With growing population pressure and
deforestation, crop residues are increasingly being used as a source of fuel
and this has resulted in a growing shortage of organic material available for
mulching and compost. Although project management continues to distribute
trysacum and slips, farmers appear to be reluctant to use these as mulching
material and further efforts will have to be made by extension staff to stress
the importance of proper mulching to farmers. The Project's research unit
continues to actively research for alternatives either for direct mulching
material or for cover crops which do not compete with the nutritional and
water requirements of the coffee.
Pruning
3.10     In the first phase of the Project, approximately 807 of the
pre-Project estimated tree population of seven million trees were brought into
an average five-year pruning cycle during the last four years of the Project.
A similar approach to pruning can be inferred to have occurred during the
second phase (see Annex XII). Distribution of pruning saws and shears would



- 11 -
appear to have been much more limited than in the first phase since, in
1979/80, only 10,000 pruning saws and 5,000 shears out of a total of 30,000
shears purchased by the Project were sold to the 150,000 farm families living
in the Project area. The farmers reluctance to purchase these tools would
appear to be related to the current Project sale price of FBu 200 compared to
the heavily subsidized first phase price of FBu 50 per pair as well as their
preference for using a conventional saw rather than shears.
Use of Fertilizers
3.11     Coffee Fertilizer Trials.  Based on fertilizer trials in farmers'
fields in Ngozi Province, conducted under ISABU supervision from 1962-66, the
1968 appraisal mission for the first Project had concluded the importance of
good husbandry practices and of the application of nitrogenous fertilizers for
increasing yields of parchment coffee. Only a small effect of potash was
observed in the 1962-66 trials and there were no indications that phosphate
applications contributed to the yields. The 1974 appraisal mission for the
second Project was less convinced by the results of the trials conducted in
the 1960s and observed, after re-examining the data, that yields varied
considerably both from year to year and in different locations, in respect of
fertilizer application. Extraneous factors (location, altitude, type of
soils, the standard of maintenance of the plantation, the stage in the pruning
cycle and weather conditions) made it impossible to attach statistical
significance to the trial results. This was confirmed by a second series of
trials, conducted under the first phase of the Project from 1970-75, which
revealed much larger and unexplained differences between the yields of
individual plots which received the same treatment.
3.12     The Ngozi II appraisal mission concluded that the poor and uncertain
results of fertilizer trials were due to: (a) faulty experimental design,
i.e. the absence of control plots and application of fertilizer formulations;
and (b) the implementation of the trials. The wide dispersal of the trial
plots made it necessary to delegate! the supervision of fertilizer applications
to inexperienced extension staff and there was no way of verifying that the
prescribed types and doses of fertilizer were always applied at the right time
to the appropriate trees in the prescribed manner. This system almost
certainly jeopardized the systematic collection of the harvested coffee crop
from the trial plots. Moreover, farmers' tendency to change other agronomic
variables within their coffee plots probably influenced the yield levels more
than the simple fertilizer variable. Because there were good reasons to doubt
whether farm level trials, even when properly designed and consistently
supervised, would produce definite answers as long as there was no guarantee
that- the level of maintenance (mulching, pruning, insect control, etc.)
remained consistent throughout the trial period, the appraisal mission
suggested an ISABU research program geared specifically towards solving these
problems.
Distribution of Fertilizers
3.13     In spite of the lack of definite proof as to the contribution of
fertilizers to coffee yields, Project staff - in accordance with ISABU
recommendations - provided for the use of some fertilizers in order to
compensate for the nitrogen deficiency in the Ngozi soils. However,
fertilizer applications were to be restricted to about one half of the coffee
stands in the high potential areas and distribution was limited to only



- 12 -
farmers with properly maintained coffee plantations. Farmers and Government
were expected to finance the recurrent fertiLizer cost, whereby Government's
subsidy would gradually decline to 257 at the end of the Project period.
Farmers' contributions and Governrent's subsidy would be placed in a revolving
fund account to be managed by OCIBU.
3.14     At the beginning of 1977 the Project: received 500 tons of urea, part
of which was used in the new Project areas anid distributed to farmers free of
charge contrary to IDA recoimendations. Project management argued that during
the first Project, fertilizer was distributed free of charge to farmers for
the first three years as the fertilizer effects on coffee trees would only be
apparent after a three year period. However, discussion on this issue was not
pursued since, in February 1977, the Government stopped all fertilizer imports
on the grounds that the use of chemical fert:ilizers was both uneconomical and
ineffective. Government further argued that extension services in all
agricultural projects should focus on improving husbandry methods and the
production of compest, before using any chemical fertilizers. OCIBU, strongly
supported by ISABU and Bank staff, requested Government to make an exception
to the fertilizer ban for the Ngozi region, as husbandry methods had
signficantly been improved since the beginning of the first Ngozi Coffee
Project and that fertilizer experiments in the Project area would provide
valuable information for coffee and foodcrops in other parts of the country.
The debate ended only when, in 1979, an IFCC (Institut Francais du Cafe et du
Cacao) mission to Burundi strongly recommended the use of urea on coffee
plantations as a means of stopping rapid soiLd deterioration and, in
particular, depletion of key nutrients, which had become evident.
3.15     After almost three years of uncertainty and hesitation, Government
reversed its position and in mid-1979 officially authorized OCIBU/the Project
to import 900 tons of urea. The first distribution of fertilizers took place
in November 1980 for the beginning of the 1980/81 coffee season, during which
84 tons of urea were sold to about 12,000 farmers, representing an average of
7 kg per farmer or less than half the normal requirements for an average
plantation of 173 trees. l/ Compared to initial expectations and projections,
farmers' response to the fertilizer distribution program was d,isappointing.
In fact, only about 8. of all farmers in the Project area purchased
fertilizers in November 1980. This was all the more astonishing as
fertilizers had been distributed - although with interruptions - in Ngozi
Province since the beginning of the Project In 1969, and farmers were thus
presumed to know the positive effects of fertilizer applications on their
coffee plantations.
3.16     The apparent lack of interest by fairmers in applying fertilizers was
explained as follows. First, according to Project management, the limited
sale of fertilizers was partly due to the lack of motiviation of the Project's
extension supervisors who were responsible for promoting and distributing
fertilizers in their respective districts. More than half of the 84 tons
distributed was sold in three districts where extension services were run by
the more dynamic Project extension supervisors. Second, since fertilizer
applications were recommended in November and March, Project management
attributed the low fertilizer sales in November 1980 to lack of cash by
farmers.  Since this was three months after the end of the coffee harvest
season, the farmers' cash situation was expected to be worse ln March 1981,
when the second application was scheduled.
1/ An application of 100 g/tree was recommsended twice a year.



- 13 -
3.17      Project rmtanagement's explanation for the farmers' difficulty in
paying cash for fertilizers was puzzling since, when the distribution and
financing of inputs was discussed between IDA and OCIBU/Project Management,
the latter had decided that all inputs wouid be distributed only for advance
cash payment. This was in viewv of difficulties with credit sales of
fertilizer during the first Project and the lack of Project staff and
administrative facilities to handle credit recovery efficiently, since Burundi
has no agricultural credit institution and no financial intermediaries such s
cooperatives capable of handling input credit operations. Project management
had, therefore, nroposed that farmers be given the opportunity to pay in
advance for fertilizers at the end of the coffee season (July/August), for
delivery the following November and March. Project management also decided to
increase the use of washing statiorLs as centers for the sale and distribution
of inputs.  This seemed to be a reesonable decision, as farmer records are
well kept at these stations.
3.18      So far only one year's experience has been gained from the new
fertilizer distribution and financing system.  At appraisal, it had been
estimated that 600 tons of fertilizer would be used during the last year of
the Project.  IL 1980/81 only about 200 tons were actually distributed to
farmers, but in 1981/82, volume sold under the system of advance payment for
deliverv in November 1981 and Harch 1982 rose to 620 tons.
3.19     The apparent reluctance of farmers to purchase clearly subsidized
fertilizers in the past is not necessarily indicative of their propensity to
do so in the future if coffee yielct increases can be clearly demonstrated.
With Government subsidies, farmers are presently paying only 50' of fertilizer
costs and, with assured deliv;ery such as in 1981, they are indeed willing to
pay the extra cost (FBu 850 per farmer on the average) to generate an
additional FBu 3,000 - 5,0OO in gross income. 1/ If the fertilizer subsidies
are phased out (gradually) as plannied, farmers will eventually have to bear
their full cost, i.e. an average of FBu 1,900 each at present very high
fertilizer prices (urea costs the equivalent of US$ 500/ton). Without
subsidy, the lower increment in gross revenue (FBu 1,100) makes it relatively
unattractive for farmers to risk using fertilizer, unless yield increases of
250 grams of parchment coffee per tree can be achieved. If this can be
achieved farmers can then pay the full price of fertilizers, based on the
conventional assumption that farmers will apply inputs in Burundi if the
benefits are at least twice the costs of the imports.
1/  Without Government's subsidy the average farmer's contribution would
amount to about FBu 1,900 (200g/tree x 173 trees - 34.6 kg x FBu 55/kg -
FBu 1903). According to fertilizer trials; in Ngozi and other coffee
growing regions (e.g. Kenya), the incremental yields from fertilizer use
are expected to vary from 150 to 250 of parchment coffee per tree. In
monetary terms this would mean that farmers will have to spend about FBu
1,900 to earn an additional income of between FBu 2,984 and FBu 4,973 (173
trees x 150 g/tree = 2,595 kg x 115 FBu = FBu 2,984, and 173 trees x 250
g/tree = 43.25 kg x 115 FBu/kg = FBu 4,973 respectively.



- 14 -
3.20      It must be concluded that the efficient use and distribution of
fertilizers for coffee production have by no means been achieved by the end of
the Igozi II Project.  While ISABU's ongoing research seeks a technically and
economically feasible fertilizer formula for increasing coffee yields -
preferably a balanced compound fertilizer - technical experlts agree that a
minisis amount of nitrogen must be applied to coffee in areas -uch as Ngozi.
Economically, however, the case for applying urea at the equivalent price of
US$500/ton is not yet convincing, unlecs average yields of parchment coffee on
farmers' plots can be increased by at least 66bkg/ha (at present coffee and
fertilizer prices). This would represent an approximate break-even point in
terms of foreign exchange at prevent coffee and fertilizer prices. Taking
into account Government subsidies of fertilizer costs (about US$100/ha) the
tax revenue needed to at least offset the subsidy cost would require yield
increases of roughly 130 kg/ha (at the 1980-81 rates of export taxes and
duties indicated in the Ngozi III Appraisal Reporit). 1/
3.21     The economic implications of fertilizer use ar>e sulbsidies will
continue to be central issues in the success of coffee and foodcrop
improvement scheses in Burundi, as they affect to farmers incentives and real
income, Government revenues, and foreign exchange costs and benefits.  With
the deterioration in the price relationship between coffee and fertilizer
since the appraisal of the Project on the one hand, and the overall effects of
inflation on farmers' real income on the other, some justification exists to
maintain a level of fertilizer subsidies in order to at leaat keep coffee
yields from falling. The dilemma, however, is that the Government may not be
able to continue its present subsidy of fertilizer -- estimated at the
equivalent of US$150,000 for Ngozi II alone in 1981/82 -- and other imports
for coffee products as coffee prices decline in real terms. The Government's
share of total coffee export earnings has considerably declined in recent
years and may decline further in future years as world markit prices are
expected to continue to fall, and the Burundi Coffee Stabilization fund had no
more funds in 1981 to support the coffee price under the sliding scale pricing
mechanism (para. 5.14).
New Coffee Plantings
3.22      In 1981, it is estimated that the number of coffee trees has reached
28.7 million, or an increase of about 5.5 million trees since 1976. At full
development from 1983 onward, there would be 29.6 million trees (Annex III).
Both the total and the increase in the numwber of trees are significantly
greater than the appraisal estimates because:
(a) the coffee tree population, 17.6 million trees in the Project
area in 1976 given in the appraisal report, was re-estimated to
have been 22.2 million trees through an auditead tree count done
by Project Management in 1978/79; and
(b) plantings of seedlings needed to replace low-yielding varieties,
or as infilling for old and diseased trees, and for new coffee
plot extensions, exceeded the rate of 700,000 seedlings per year
estimated in the appraisal report as shown below.
I/ Because of the uncertain lag between the applLcation of fertilizers and
the achievement of yield increases, financial and economic income streams
should be discounted, thereby further increasing the minimum desired yield
increase above these levels.



- 15 -
Seedlings Planted for Extension and ReDlacement
Year
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981
Purpose
-'000 seedlings -
Extension                      872      706       889       871      833       833
Infill and
Replacement                    705      871       216        65       65        65
Total                        1.577    1.577    1.105        936      898       898
3.23     The initial difference of 5.7 million trees between the appraisal
estimates (17.6 million) and the 1978/79 tree count (23.2 million) is
explained by the unreliable data base avilable to the'appraisal mission.
According to 1978 OCIBU estimates, it was estimated by the appraisal mission
that Ngozi Province had about 35S of Burundi's 50 million coffee trees. The
only fairly reliable figure available to the mission in 1975, however, was 8.3
million trees in the area of the first project, which was thought to represent
roughly one half of the coffee trees in Ngozi Province. No other data were
available for tree planting for replacement and expansion in the Province as a
whole. The revised figure of 23.2 million trees for 1976 was obtained, as
whown in Annex XII, by matching the tree audit data shown below, with working
data on transplanted seedlings during 1976/78.
Category                                 Number of Trees V/
1978/79
Trees
1 year old                              196,760
2 year old                              791,939
3 year old                            1,639,785
Nature                               18,666,605
Pruned 1978                           2,599,979
Pruned 1979                           3,172.147
Sub-total (1)                        27,067,215
Seedlings
Extension                               870,990
Infills, Replacement                     64,910
Sub-total (2)                           935,900
TOTAL (1 - 2)                              28,033,115
1/ The difference in the total number of trees between the tree audit data
and the 1979 Annex XII data is insignificant for reasons given in Annex
XII. The differences pertain to the age distribution of trees. Although
it was an important milestone in the Project, the tree audit was static
count requiring over 12 months to complete, which did not take into
account the transplanting of seedlings and the aging of trees in each
category by one year during the audit period. The reconciliation is
explained in detail in Annex XII.



- 16
3.24     As a result of the increased rate of planting and seedling production
since 1976 (4% annually vs 2% during Phase I), and extrapolation of the
1978/79 tree audit by age and trees pruned in 1978 and 1979, it is estimated
that the final coffee tree population at full developing beginning in 1983
would be about 29.6 million trees.  This would be a net increase of 6.4
million treeo as a result of the second phase of this Project, with
concommitant increases in coffee production (para. 5.04).
C. Research
3.25     At appraisal it was agreed that the project would support a
strengthened ISABU coffee research program which would focus on insect and
disease problems and on husbandry techniques applicable to smallholder
farmers, including further trials with chemical fertilizers. Unfortunately,
the start of the research component was delayed until the latter part of 1978,
by protracted negotiations between the Burundi and Belgian Governments
concerning the funding of the various components of the research program.  As
previously mentioned (para. 2.07) the Kuwait Fund was initially expected to
finance the Project's research program.  However, the Burundi Government then
decided to seek financing from the Belgian Government and use the Kuwait Fund
resources to finance the additional washing stationss.
3.26     Implementation finally started when it was agreed that the Belgian
Government would finance the costs of two expatriate research experts -- one
agronomist and one entomologist/phytopathologist -- while other investment
costs as well as operating costs, including the salaries for local staff,
would be funded from the OCIBU budget.  The financial involvement of OCIBU
enabled it to participate with ISABU in formulating a detailed five-year
coffee research program which would be reviewed on an annual basis. Thus,
OCIBU retained some control over coffee research activities within the Project
area. This control was important, since ISABU management would have preferred
this program to have a more national scope whereas OCIBU insisted on
concentrating research efforts on specific problems in the Project area.  Most
Project research work is presently carried out at Kayanza, where a coffee
research sub-station operates within the agronomic zone of the Project.
Experts believe that whatever research results will be obtained in the Project
area will, to a large extent, also be applicable to other coffee growing areas
in Burundi.
3.27     The late start-up of the coffee research component of the Project
meant that, within the time remaining for completion of the second phase,
priority was assigned to research on urgent problems requiring immediate
attention. Three of these were: (a) the on-going entomological problem of
antestia control; (b) the agronomic problems of fertilizer response trials;
and (c) the availability of sufficient quantities of suitable mulching
materials.



- 17 -
3.28     As set out at appraisal the entomological trials involved pyrethrum
knockdown tests on plots throughout. Ngozi province to ascertain the identity
and population incidence of insects found in the immediate vicinity of the
Project. It was confirmed that antestia was the major insect pest and that
other coffee pests were present in only insignificant proportions. Control
tests, using caged trees, and a range of potential insecticides clearly
demonstrated that the antestia beetle had not developed any marked resistance
to DDT, but the organo phosphorus insecticides Fenitrothion and Fenthion and a
range of synthetic pyrethroids gave a more rapid initial kill potential and a
longer effective control than the previously applied DDT/Malathion dusting
material. Field trials fully vindicated the optimism shown in the laboratory
tests and full scale trials using E'enitrothion were initiated in 1978/79. The
initial tests were disappointing, mainly due to bad management and wrong
timing, but full scale field trials in 1980 with Fenthion appear to have
solved some of the problems of formtulation of the insecticide dust and the
method of application. Antestia appears to have been virtually eliminated
from the Project zone (para 3.06 - 3.08).
3.29     The late acquisition of the Kanyanza sub-station land (1979) meant
that the planting of the fertilizer trial plots was delayed until 1979/80 and
results from these carefully designed trial plots are not expected to give any
definitive answers until the latter half of the 1983. The ISABU coffee
research plots at Kayanza, Gisha and Mwumba included replicates of variety
trials (approximately 23 different arabica hybrids) provided by Rwanda,
Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania and a number of trials on potential mulching
materials and cover crops.  Optimum planting density trials are being carried
out at the larger land area provided by the Kanyanza research station, where
tree densities from 1,000 to 5,000 trees/ha are being studied under
standardized conditions of fertilizer application, mulching, pruning and
insect control. Results may be expected from these density trials during the
latter part of 1983.
3.30     In conclusion, even though the results so far obtained from the
Project's coffee research program are less than expected at appraisal, they
are very promising in view of the short duration period of full-scale
implementation. It is hoped that the progress will continue now that ISABU
has access to its own coffee research plots and that neither farmers nor the
extension staff of the Project can be blamed for subsequent research
management deficiencies. Many of the outstanding research components
identified at appraisal can now be studied, not least of which is the long
overdue pedological survey of the Project area. However, one major cautionary
note should be sounded, namely the question of the dwarf arabica varieties
being tested at the ISABU research plots - Caturra and Catuai. While these
dwarf varieties give a potentially very high density of planting (5,000 to
10,000 per hectare), and hence a potential high yield of crop per hectare,
they have poor quality characteristics and are unlikely to be suitable for the
Project's fully wet processing program. The Project's coffee research program
should place equal emphasis on both quality and quantity in all of its
fertilizer, variety and planting density trials.



- 1 8 -
D. Coffee Processing
3.31     After a shaky start under Ngozi 1 and additional management
difficulties -during the first three years oef Ngozi II, the w-rshing stations
have finally fulfilled their promise of efficiently producing nigh quality
fully weashed coffee.  The targets forecast at appraisal have Seen achieved;
throughput and yields of the fifteen workin,g stations reachnd optimum
production efficiency in 1981.
3.32     The four coffee washing stations built under the Ngozi I project and
the four new ones agreed during Ngozi TI appraisal and negot:iations, were
specifically intended to increase Burundi's coffee export earnings based
mainly on the quality old premium, price paid for fully-washed arabica coffee
without necessarily increasing volume.  The premium price ad&antages of fully
washed (FWA) over traditionally processed semi-washed c.- fee in world markets
had been proven elsewhere (e.g. Kenya) but, for lack of experience in Burundi,
only four stations were included as a trial in Ngozi I. Failure to fully
attain the benefits during Ngozi I was also the reason for the Bank's initial
reluctance to finance a major expansion of the washing station in Ngozi II.
Consequently, it was proposed by the Bank that, under Ngozi II, additional
technical asslstance would be provided for the operation of the four original
washing stations and would support only the construction of four more stations
as an extended trial, in order to obtain more reliable lnformation on the
construction and operating costs of washing stations, as well as the price
differential to be obtained for FWA coffee in world markets,
3.33     Since the Kuwait Fund agreed to finance the construction of ten new
washing stations instead of the four proposed by the Bank, it effectively
terminated the experimental nature of the processing component proposed by the
Bank. Subsequent results showed that this decision to terminnate the
experimental nature of the Project's processing component was sound.
3.34     Construction of the first washing station (Mushonge' started in
December 1971 (two years after the start of the Project) but, because of late
arrival of equipment, the station did not 'become fully operational until the
1973 season, and had disappointing results during the 1973 and 1974 seasons
when only 40-45 tons of parchment coffee were processed, An evaluation of
Mushonge was done in 1973.  This delayed construction of the remaining three
washing stations until October 1973, but they were finally fully operational
for the 1975 season, a full six years after the commencement of the Project's
first phase. By the end of the 1976 processing season it was apparent that
three out of the four new washing stations suffered from faulty design and
construction.  While a major portion of the defects were attributed to the
local contractor who built the washing stations, a share of the blame was
placed on the Project's processing engineer who had not adequately supervised
construction. Major repairs and even reconstruction were proposed for these
three washing stations but, so far, these have functioned throughout the
second phase of the Project. by simply making minor repairs before each
processing season.



- 19 -
3.35     The problems encountered by relying on a local contractor to build
under Ngozi I were avoided in Ngozi II by utilizing the Project's own
construction group to build the ten new washing stations under force account.
This arrangement has so far proved to be very satisfactory and, despite the
recurrent shortages of cement and other essential building materials, the ten
washing stations were to be fully operational at the end of the 1981 season.
3.36     A major problem arose for the management of the washing stations with
the departure of the expatriate processing engineer in mid-1977. it appeared
at a time as if the whole of the washing station component of the Project
would come to a half. However, with the arrival of a new expatriate
processing engineer at the end of 1L978, and with the assistance of Project
management, the trend was decisively reversed. The washing stations are now
well managed and a systematic training program for washing stations personnel
has been established. After a week of formal training at Project headquarters
on all aspects of running washing stations, candidates are appointed on a
probationary basis as deputy washing station managers for one coffee season to
assess their capabilities. This system of on-the-job training has proved
satisfactory and regular supervision by the processing engineer and his deputy
has ensured that technical and organizational management of washing stations
is sound, and that fraud is curbed.
Farmers' Use of Washing Stations
3.37     A crucial factor in the successful operation of the washing stations
has been the farmers' willingness to deliver sufficient volume of coffee
cherries to the washing stations to enable them to work at an economically
justifiable throughput capacity. During the early stages of the first phase
of the Project, farmers were not motivated to supply sufficient amounts of
coffee because of the low prices paid for the cherry and the delay in
payments, while the local traders -- despite weight cheatlng -- paid farmers a
slightly higher pro-rata rate for home processed semi-washed parchment coffee
and, moreover, paid immediately. OCIBU's pricing policy was rectified, during
the latter half of Ngozi I and payments to farmers were made more quickly by
the washing stations to limit the appeal of sales to local traders.
3.38     Farmers now have two major incentives to provide coffee cherry to the
washing station. First, they have a financial incentive because the price
paid for coffee cherries based upon the technical coefficient of conversion to
parchment coffee obtained by the washing station during the previous
harvesting season. In 1979/80, the technical coefficient for washing stations
was 4.9 kgs cherry per lkg of coffee parchment. Since it is estimated that
about 5.5 to 6 kgs of coffee cherries are required to produce 1 kg of
parchment coffee by the traditional semi-washed process, farmers have an
approximately 171 higher financial incentive to provide cherry to the washing
stations, despite the much stricter control on acceptability of cherry
quality. 1/ Secondly, farmers are eager to sell their coffee cherry to the
washing stations, despite the strict grading, as this enables them to save
time and labor on coffee pulping and drying during the main harvesting season,
and to utilize this time on production and harvesting of food crops. No
pricing system has yet been evolved to give the farmer the added price bonus
1/  Only one standard of cherry quality has been accepted since the 1979
season; all lower qualities are rejected.



- 20 -
obtained for the fully washed coffees over the semi-washed. If this were
possible, the farmer would have a third incentive for providing cherry to the
washing stations and, moreover, would have an even greater incentive to
concentrate on quality aspects of production which play no part in the
traditional marketing system for the semi-washed coffees.
Washing Station Production
3.39     The low annual production of parchment coffee noted for the Ngozi I
washing stations was not, as assumed at appraisal. Of Ngozi II, due to a low
design capacity but caused simply by a lack of initial cherry inputs. The
standard design of washing stations constructed in Ngozi I and II is capable
of an indefinite throughput of 20,000 kg of coffee cherry per day. At a
conversion coefficient of 4.9 kg of cherry to 1 kg of parchment coffee, the
design capazity of these washing stations is for 4.0 tons of parchment coffee
per day with eight hours being allowed for pulping. With good management, the
design capacity allows for approximately a 50% increase in daily cherry intake
(12 hours pulping) and hence a maximum daily production of 6.0 tons of
parchment coffee. With arabica coffees, it is normally assumed that 90. of
the total crop will be harvested within a 50 day period in the area
surrounding a single washing station. Hence, with virtually no strain on
management, the washing stations should each be able to process an average 200
tons parchment coffee per annum (50 days x 4.0 tons - 200 tons parchment
coffee), while absolute maximum production, given good drying conditions
throughout the harvesting seasons, will be between 250 to 300 tons of
parchment coffee.
3.40     The validity of these assumptions is demonstrated by the parchment
production figures for all fiftenn l/ of the washing stations within the
Project area; the supposed design capacity of 125 tons parchment coffee
calculated at appraisal has been exceeded many times, especially in 1981 when
the overall average exceeded 200 tons.
3.41     With the exception of the pre-project washing station of Butegana
(constructed around 1952), all of the Phase two washing stations have
increased their throughput production to within 80% of the optimum 200 tons
parchment coffee capacity within three years of commissioning. Fluctuations
from year to year are an indication of climatically induced cherry Input
fluctuation to the washing stations and are a reflection of variations in the
total coffee produced in Ngozi Province, not of deviations in the standard of
washing station management.
1/ Including Butegana.



-21-
Parchmnt Coffee Production Statistics:  1973 - 1981 (tons)
Washinag Stations   1973    1974    1975    1976        1977    1978    1979    1980         1981
1.  Butegana        212.0   170.5   118.1    62.5         3.6      8.9    70.6    72.6        73.2
2.  Wushonge         46.8    40.7   141.4    177.4   136.4   160.2   178.1   102.8    257.0
3.  Burenza             -      0.5   110.3    147.7   151.9   136.0   169.8   113.9    213.5
4.  Kagoma              -       -      88.4    120.3   144.0   133.6   174.2   119.2    247.7
S.  tuba&&             -        -      75.4    102.3    89.8    99.4   214.2   154.0    266.2
6. Rugonera            -        -        -         -     73.4   113.0   258.0    98.3    332.5
. Rukurazo            -        -        -         -      4.0   117.2   232.6   127.8    279.0
8.  Murabi              -- -                       -     45.3    38.1   85.9        91.6    341.6
9. Rugori               -       -        -         -        -       -    153.8   165.5    401.4
L0  :kA                -        -        -         -        -       -      82.4   107.2    270.2
' 1. iilram            -        -        -         -       -        -      15.6    61.6    182.1
.12 . 2ubuga           -        -        -         -        -       -        -    128.1    266.4
13. Kibuye                      -        -                                                   123.6
14.  lirango            -       -        -         -        -       -        -        -     232.8
15. Karinzi            -        -        -         -        -       -        -        -     101.5
TOTAL           258.8   211.7   533.6    610.5   653.4   806.4 1,635.2 1,339.8  3,588.8
Perf'ormance Indicators
1973    1974    1975    1976        1977    1978    1979    1980        1981
Total production
(tons parchment)      259      212      534     610       653      806   19635   1,339    3,589
Yields (cherry/
parchment in Kg)      5.08    5.88    5.16    5.32         5.18    5.18  4.89    4.86       4.56
Yields (cherry/
green coffee in
Kg)                   7.38    6.61    7.56    6.76        6.52    6.51  6.05    6.16        5.7
Percentage A3
parchment 1/          NA       NA       NA       NA.      18.8    19.0  10.8    4.6         4.7
Percentage mill-,
ing losses            21.16   21.52   32.55   21.41    20.61   20.63 19.25   21.11    19.3
Percentage AA/A
Total       FW.A      86.50   93.08   73.60   56.29    78.44   73.00 94.10   90.90    85.0
1/ Floating coffee beans.



- 22 -
3.42     The Table indicates that average yields of 1 kg of parchment began to
improve during the second phase of the Project. A similar improvement is
noted in the yields of green coffee from a given weight of cherry, with a
gradual decrease in the percentage of milling losses when converting parchment
to clean coffee. Both of these indicators reflect not only the increasing
efficiency of washing station management but also the increasing quality of
cherry being provided as inputs to the washing station. Further indicators of
yield and quality improvements in the fully-washed coffee produced by the
Project can be seen from the rising trend in the percentage of higher quality
coffee (AA and A) of the total fully-washed produced, and in the decrease in
the percentage of "floaters" (A.3) present in the parchment coffee. The
latter indicator (A.3) reflects control of cherry quality accepted by the
washing stations and improvements in the control of insect pests which are
normally responsible for creating floaters..
E. Foodcrop and Livestock Production Activities and Achievements
Foodcrop Production
3.43     The Ngozi II Appraisal Report strongly emphasized the importance of
foodcrop development, as follows: "Because of its high population density,
Burundi is obliged to preserve and improve its land resources and to develop
food production capacity through intensification of cultivation techniques in
order to meet the growing requirements for food. This is particularly true
for Ngozi Province, which has a higher population density (270 per km2) than
any of the other six provinces. Efforts to increase coffee production should
therefore be accompanied by attempts to raise the productivity of foodcrops.
Fairly detailed information is available on the crops which are grown in Ngozi
and on the level of nutrition of the population. There are many sound ideas
as to how production can be improved and soil conservation practiced. But
thus far, experience in these fields is very limited and agricultural
extension work, for all practical purposes, is restricted to coffee growing
only."
3.44     On the basis of studies carried out by the French consulting firm
SEDES in 1967 and 1973, out of 0.85 ha of :Land cultivated on average per
family, food crops - mainly intercropped - were grown on about 0.75 ha and
coffee on the other 0.10 ha. The same surveys indicate that food crops not
only provided virtually the totality household diet but that they also
contributed substantially to farmers' cash income, some 43% of the total, of
which, however, about two-thirds is for banana and other beers. While the
share of coffee in cash revenues has no doubt increased during the Project
period, due to a substantial rise of producer prices since the coffee boom,
there is little doubt that the production of sufficient food to satisfy
subsistency needs remains largely the farmers' primary concern, and this will
be even more true in the future (para. 3.61).
3.45     Based on these considerations, one of the Project's objectives was to
increase the level of food production in general, with special emphasis on
cereals, oilseeds and fruit production. Since little prior experience with
these activities was available, the Project would however concentrate on
further exploration of promising courses of action through large scale
experiments at the farm level. Therefore, projections were necessarily of an



- 23 -
indicative nature and detailed annual programs would have been prepared.
Nevertheless, the following targets had been set tentatively at appraisal:
(a) Establishment of two seed multiplication farms, covering 30 ha,
at full development, and producing annually 30 tons of selected
maize seed, plus improved seed and planting material of a number
of other crops such as, inter alia, beans, sweet potatoes,
cassava, groundnuts and soybeans;
(b)  Distribution of the selected seed thereby produced to a number
of farmers, increasing gradually over the years, with 6,000
farmers cultivating 1,500 ha of improved maize in the last year
of the Project. 1/
(c) Distribution of fertilizer to a gradually increasing number of
selected maize growers; in the last Project year, 2,000 farmers
would be using 75 toins of DAP and 40 tons of urea to fertilize
500 ha of maize; and
(d)  Study of the response to fertilizer of mixed stands of beans and
maize, the most common crop association in the Region, and
follow-up on fertilizer trials in high altitude crops (potatoes,
peas and wheat) which had been established by FAO and showed
promising results.
3.46     Selected seed would have been sold at 10' above the ongoing market
price for the crop produce, to prevent domestic consumption, while terms of
sale for fertilizers to be used on food crops would be the same as for coffee
and, to allow recovery of the cost initially, only coffee growers would
participate in the program. Improved seeds and fertilizer were expected to
increase maize yields from 1,100 to 1,300 kg/ha and from 1,300 to 2,200 kg/ha
respectively. On the basis of these figures, production of maize would have
increased by 750 tons in the fifth year of the Project, with 300 tons coming
from use of selected seed and 450 tons from the effects of fertilizer.
3.47     Other components of the projected food crop development program
consisted of (a) rehabilitating and, if needed, expanding through
multiplication, distribution and planting of Setaria grass, terraces which
were developed prior to independence to protect soils on steep slopes from
water run-off; (b) encouraging farmers to conserve animal manure to improve
soil productivity to compensate for the low organic content of soils, and (c)
encouraging proper drainage of the marshy bottom lands, some of which are
cultivated in the dry season with, however, low productivity due to
unsatisfactory control of the water.
3.48     Erosion control and the use of compost or manure were part of the
technical package which extension services have tried to persuade farmers to
adopt, at least towards the end of the Project. Unfortunately, although no
figures are available, it appears likely that little has been achieved.
Farmers in particular showed little interest in erosion control works and,
furthermore, Project management largely ignored this important aspect of
extension activities.
1/ The appraisal report mentions 1,750 ha but this is clearly in error.



- 24 -
3.49     Drainage of marshes in the Nyamuvaga valley, which has reportedly
good production potential, started on a limited scale in 1976, with the
objective of making 50 ha of land available for cultivation. In the first
quarter of 1978, Project management reported that indeed 230 ha had been
drained, of which about 60 ha had been made available for cultivation by
neighbouring farmers. However, a field investigation by a Bank irrigation
specialist indicated that the wording "drain" was totally inappropriate. The
230 ha were located in the middle of a 8,000 ha of marsh surrounded by a large
(about 70,000 ha) catchment area. The main and secondary canals which had
been excavated provided no control of the river, nor of the water flowing down
the catchment basin, and the water level continued to fluctuate with the water
table. It seemed evident that drainage of the marshes would have to be
considered in a context for the development of the valley and, therefore,
would require detailed technical studies 1/ and subsequently the construction
of dams and the design of a well laid-out drainage network. Project
management was not equipped, nor were funds available from the Credit, for
such a sophisticated program. Upon the recommendation of the Bank irrigation
specialist, drainage works were stopped immediately and were not resumed until
the end of the Project, with the understanding that further developments might
possibly be considered under a third phase project.
3.50     According to data provided by Project management, the two main
components of the foodcrop development program - the distribution of selected
seed and fertilizer - would appear to have fluctuated over the years.
Information supplied by the Project and complemented by estimates of the area
cultivated with fertilizer and improved seed is summarized below up to 1980:
1/ A study on Drainage of the Nyamuyaga Valley had been prepared in 1960 by
the consulting firm SOCINCO but would have needed review and updating.



- 25 -
1976           1977           1978            1977           1980
Appr. Actual   Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual  Appr. Actual
Ent.            Eat.           Eat.            Est.           Est.
Seed multiplication
farms                        1      1       2      2         2       3      2    1          2      1
Selected maize seed
production (tons)            5      n/a    15    n/a        25     n/a    30    n/a        30     n/a
Distribution of:
- selected maize
seed (tons)                    -       -       5    1.2       15    4.45 2/ 25    2.2        30    0.S
- fertilizer                     -    1.8       17    4         40    0.7      69   10.2 2/ 115    3.5 3/
Cultivated with
selected atize
seed (ha)                    -      -     250   60 1/ &  750  355 1/ & 1250 110 1/ & 1500   23 1/
4/             44              4/               4/
Area fertilizer                  1    7 l/    75   17 l/    175    3 1/    300  44 1/    500   1S 1/
2/
Farmers receiving
selected seed (no).          -   336      300   736        700    1U4   1200  221 2/   2000   579
Incroeental maize
production (tons)            -   n/a       50   n/a        150    n/a    250  n/a          300   n/a
1/  Estimates based on volume of selected seed and fertilizer reportedly distributed.
2/  Figure probably inconsistent (para. 3.51).
3/  Estimate, based on volume distributed in first planting season.
4/  Maize and other crops, in particular beans and soybeans.



- 26 -
3.51     Although there is a degree of uncertainty in the above figures (para.
3.52) and virtually no data are available for 1981, it is clear that project
achievements have been far below appraisal targets, except possibly during the
first Project year. Initial Bank supervision missions reported good progress
with both the fertilizer distribution and the seed multiplication program. An
expatriate agronomist joined the Project in the second half of 1976 and, in
addition, a technical advisor from the Rwandese research institute (ISAR)
visited the Project in June 1976 and again in the last quarter of 1977 to help
management prepare the fooderop development program. A first seed
multiplication center established on a former colonial farm became operational
in the first Project year. A second and a third center were opened in 1977
and in 1978 respectively, thus exceeding the appraisal objective which called
for two centers. Farmers appeared to show genuine interest in using
fertilizers on their subsistence crops. Indeed, a program of fertilizer trial
plots both on hills and bottom land was set up with the assistance of FAO
specialists and many more farmers than anticipated volunteered to participate,
even though fertilizers were sold for cash. 1/ Preliminary results of the
demonstration tests indicated a clearly positive effect of fertilizer on
hillsides 2/; the effects of fertilizer on bottom land with unknown and varied
soils was inconclusive. The initial favorable reaction of the farmers led
management to believe that a considerable expansion of the foodcrop
development program would take place rapidly and that more than 3,000 farmers
would be likely to participate as early as 1977, i.e. a year earlier than
assumed at appraisal.
3.52     The expectations, however, were much too optimistic, even though
project records indicate a substantial increase in 1977 in the number of
farmers applying fertilizers, from 336 to 736, while improved seed was
distributed to 143 farmers. 3/ In view of inconsistencies in data provided by
project management, however, the reliability of the foregoing data is very
doubtful. 4/
1/  At FBu 100 kg NPK, at the beginning of the planting season for which
farmers reportedly paid in cash in a period when they are allegedly short
of money.
2/  Particularly on beans, the main staple crop.
3/  It is not known if the 143 farmers are in addition to, or part of, the 736
using fertilizers.
4/  According to the table in para. 3.49, in 1979 some 50 kg of fertilizer
were distributed to participating farmers, which would be about ten times
the average volume per farmer in any other given year. There is also
considerable unexplained fluctuation in the reported distribution of
selected seeds per participating farmer, from 1 kg in 1980 to more than 30
kg in 1978, enough to cultivate close to one hectare (the average area of
foodcrops per holding is only about 0.75 ha).



- 27 -
3.53     An in-depth supervision carried out in April 1978 confirmed the
positive effect of fertilizer on yields in demonstration plots, but reported
poor management of the three seed multiplication farms. Neither the layout
nor the administration of the stations were following any comprehensive
production plan and coordination between the three centers was extremely
poor. The Bank urged Project management to take a number of measures in order
to remedy the situation, which would have consisted of:
(a) drawing a map/plan for each center, indicating the various
plots, the location cf buildings and existing control works;
(b) limiting seed multiplication to major foodcrops grown in the
area, in view of the limited capacity of both extension services
and farmers to adapt to new crops and varieties;
(c) establishing close coordination between the three centers;
(d)  preparing a three-year program in close cooperation with
extension officers and farmers, taking into consideration the
farmers' needs and the potential number of participants;
(e) illustrating the pro(luction program by simple drawings; and
(f)  systematically recording all yields and production.
In addition, the supervision mission requested Project management to prepare
for mid-78 a detailed report on the foodcrop development program, providing
detailed information on technical results obtained since the start of the
Project and on costs involved, to show whether all elements were available to
prepare a more comprehensive scheme within the Project, how extension services
would transmit new technology to farmers and how implementation of the program
would be maintained.
3.54     Not only was the report requested in early 1978 never delivered, but
an early 1979 supervision mission found that recommendations for improving
seed multiplication centers' operations had been totally ignored and that the
whole foodcrop development program was collapsing. Only one of the three seed
farms was still in operation, without any work program. In spite of a labor
force largely in excess of normal requirements, production of the farm
appeared to be well below potential. Moreover, there were rumors that part of
the crop was being diverted for the benefit of the staff in charge of the
farm, which would explain why no production data were being kept. Still more
disturbing, it appeared that, because not enough selected seed was available
from research, or because it had not been ordered, Project management was
simply using unselected material for demonstration plots which, in a number of
cases, yielded less than the seeds used by the farmers on the rest of their
holdings. Even fertilizer trials showed disappointing results, presumably
because inexperienced and/or unmotivated extension staff failed to prop9erly
monitor fertilizer application on the demonstration plots which, moreover,
were often located far from any road and out of sight of other farmers, thus
considerably limiting their educating role (if they had been successful).



- 28 -
3.55     The Bank reported to Government its concern with the poor performance
of Project management and cautioned that it would be difficult to include a
large foodcrop component in a third Ngozi Project if no convincing results
were achieved. Corrective measures were taken by a new expatriate technician
who replaced the former, unreliable adviser in December 1978. In agreement
with the BanK, the foodcrop component was redefined -- startling virtually anew
-- and substantially scaled down in order to ensure better control. Seed
multiplication was limited to only one center, in view of the shortage of
qualified staff. For the first time, a well-prepared production plan was
established for the seed multiplication farm, based on an appropriate
rotation, with a work program over four years. Operating costs and yields of
major crops were to be systematically recorded to analyse the cost of seed
production and yield potentials. In the first systematic attempt to
distribute improved maize seed and fertilizer, a total of 221 farmers were
selected in three separate areas, to participate in the Sept:ember 1979 crop
season. Out of the 221 farmers, 75 were to be closely supervised and assisted
by qualified extension agents who would also systematically assess the results
and productivity of resources used (i.e. husbandry, fertilizer application and
plant protection, etc.)
3.56     The test demonstrated that, with selected seed, adequate fertilizing
and proper husbandry, maize yields could be substantially increased,
reportedly from about 900 kg to more than 2,000 kg/ha. The test also showed
that the "Bambou" maize variety was well adapted to the region and that its
taste was well accepted by the population. In view of the encouraging results
from a systematically conducted test and distribution of selected seed (maize
and beans) it was expanded to 332 farmers in June 1980, when marshy bottoms
are being planted. However, this time no data could be collected because
farmers apparently prematurely harvested their maize to avoid theft and bean
production suffered from sustained insect damage. This seems to have
discouraged farmers from taking part in the September 1980 program, as only
247 participated, hardly more than in the September 1979.
3.57     After the sudden departure of the expatriate agronomist in November
1980, the whole program deteriorated once more. A May 1981 supervision
mission noted that the work plan which had been prepared one year earlier for
the seed farm was not being followed, and that no costs and production records
were being kept. Growth on large patches of land was poor for reasons which
could have been easily detected and corrected in time. The labor force was
even larger than in early 1979 and was mainly employed on 8 pineappled field,
not doubt of more interest to management than to farmers. Demonstration plots
at far level had also deteriorated as well. Fertilizer and selected seed had
been distributed, but no records were available and, in the absence of
adequate supervision by senior staff, monitoring of the trials was clearly
unsatisfactory.
3.58     The food crop development component was not a total failure.
Indeed, it appears that whenever farmers felt that trials would be adequately
monitored they responded reasonably well, demonstrating that under favorable
circumstances they would be receptive to improved husbandry and to new
varieties. The project has also tested a number of crops and at least found
some varieties of maize and beans to be suitable to the region, in particular



- 29 -
the "Bambou" maize. 1/ Finally, it was shown as anticipated, that crop yields
can be substantially increased with appropriate doses of fertilizers, although
the tests should be confirmed in a statistically reliable way, with more trial
plots and over a longer period of time, in order to be convincing.
3.59     Physical achievements in foodcrop development have, nevertheless,
been much less than the targets set at appraisal. Incremental maize
production has been negligible at best and overall, little has been
contributed to saving farmers' income from foodcrops. The objectives set out
at appraisal were obviously over optimistic in expecting farmers to adapt to
both new varieties and new techniques in a short (i.e. five year) period of
time, particularly under difficult conditions with respect to expert advisers,
extension, and availability of imports. The lack of prior foodcrops research
on which to base field trials, demonstrations and seed distribution also
inhibited progress, as well as the lack of permanent cooperation between
research and extension during execution of this component. In Burundi,
foodcrop development has traditionally been subordinated to export crops with
the result that Project management naturally -- perhaps instinctively --
concentrated mainly on the coffee objectives of the Project. The foregoing
did not contribute to the motivation and dedication of the staff, except
during the short period (1979-80) when a second technical adviser was in
charge of foodcrops.
3.60     Notwithstanding the over-optimistic nature of the goals at appraisal,
the Project could and should have achieved substantially more in foodcrop
development. Bank supervision missions repeatedly pointed out to Government
and to Project management that the situation was deteriorating and recommended
corrective measures. This resulted in the encouraging, though belated,
improvements of 1979-80 which, unfortunately, were not sustained. A 1978 Bank
supervision mission noted that, due to demographic pressures in various parts
of the Province, coffee plantations were being reduced to make room for
subsistence crops, while new selected coffee trees were being planted in
marginal soils, as no new fertile land remained available. These alarming
signs indicated that considerable efforts were needed to increase foodcrop
production, as a prerequisite of future coffee development. The opportunity
offered by the Project to start a balanced development of both coffee and
foodcrops has, unfortunately, been largely missed.
3.61     As a consequence, since foodcrop development is expected to be the
keystone of the Ngozi III Project, this component will begin with little basic
information with which to get a quick start. The third Ngozi Project will be
confronted with the important issue! of defining an appropriate policy
regarding the application and pricing of fertilizers. Tests conducted in
1979/80 would indicate that selected seed, combined with adequate husbandy and
fertilization could increase maize yields from 900 kg/ha to an estimated 2,000
kg/ha (para. 3.56). With a largely expanded program, the increase in yields
would probably be lower, of course. Nevertheless, with the present cost of
fertilizer at about FBu 55/kg and the recommended application for optimal
yield increase of 150 kg/ha of DAP and 80 kg/ha urea, additional production
1/ In neighbouring Rwanda, "Bambou" maize is also performing well but the
taste is disliked and farmers show no interest in developing it for human
consumption.



- 30 -
would amount to about FBu 12,600/ha. Even with an increase if 1,100 kg/ha in
maize yields, the incremental revenue from maize would be about FBu 13,000/ha
at present prices of FBu 12/kg. If farmers were to bear the full cost of
fertilizer, the market price of maize would have to go up to FBu 23-35 kg in
order to provide incentives to use fertilizer, based on a ratio of two to
three times the costs of the input. In addition, part of the incremental
maize production would probably be used for subsistence, therefore generating
no cash income. Consequently, since there is no alternative to the
application of fertilizer, decisions on the relation between fertilizer
subsidies and maize prices need to be made soon and frequently reassed to meet
both economic and financial necessities.
Livestock Production
3.62     It has been assumed at appraisal that the Project would assist in
improving the production of livestock, mainly by distributing improved
breeding stock of sheep, goats, rabbits and possibly poultry, and would also
provide for training of draft animals. The establishment of two modest
breeding farms was being considered, which would raise and issue improved
stock to interested farmers. These were only ideas, however, and
disbursements for this component were conditional on the preparation by
Project management of detailed proposals acceptable to the Bank.
3.63     Because Government has not been able to define a national livestock
development policy, and within that framework a comprehensive livestock scheme
for the Ngozi Province, no pilot livestock program was ever prepared by
Project management. In 1980, this component was abandoned altogether and
available funds in the Credit were reallocated to other categories. It now
appears that given the high population pressure and relative scarcity of land,
there is little potential for cattle development in Ngozi Province. Only the
development of small stock appears to be justified, with a view in particular
of improving the diet of the rural population.
F. Other Project Activities
Civil Works
3.64     After the high construction costs experienced during Ngozi I, mainly
because of the remoteness of the Project area and limited competition among
private contractors, it was decided for Ngozi II that all construction under
the Project would be carried out by force account. A Project construction
unit was established for this purpose and was hired to direct it. Throughout
the entire Project implementation period (1976-1981), construction activities
were seriously affected by sporadic shortages of cement and other construction
materials due largely to circumstances beyond the control of the Project
1/ While farmers initially were reported to have fertilizer for foodcrops
against cash, subsequent fertilizer was free of charge, as well as
selected seed; this is contrary to assumptions made at appraisal.



- 31 -
management. 1/ Hence, on several occasions, construction works had to be
interrupted for several months. The ensuring delays in the building program
also added to building costs which more than doubled. As a result, since the
start of the Project in 1976, funds originally earmarked for the construction
program were not sufficient to cover actual expenditures, which have been a
major factor in the overall cost overrun of the Project.
3.65     Considering the difficulties which the construction unit had to face
since the beginning of the Project, it has accomplished a most satisfactory
job. It has built ten washing stations, an office complex with a central
warehouse, district input stores as well as houses for senior and medium level
Project staff (Annex V). Most of the original construction program of the
Ngozi II project was completed only about a year behind schedule. These
achievements highlight the efficiency of the Project construction unit and
confirm that its approach was the most effective way of carrying out the
Project's building program.
Water Supply, Bridges and Culverts
3.66     The Project provided for the construction and/or rehabilitation of
about 300 potable water resources as well as 300 bridges and culverts. This
component was part of the Kuwait Fund co-financing program and was expected to
be carried with the help of communal labor. None of these works were done, as
all funds earmarked for this purpose were used to cover cost-overrun of the
ten washing stations. However, it must be stressed that even without any
financial constraints, Project management would have had great difficulties in
reconstructing or rehabilitating 300 wells as well as a similar number of
bridges and culverts, not to mention the problem of mobilizing communal labor
for these works. A rural water development program, as part of a national
water development scheme, is presently being implemented by UNICEF in the
Ngozi Province. Concerning the reconstruction of bridges and culverts in the
Project was less pressing than initially assumed by the appraisal mission.
The Project has not been handicapped by any major transport problems, due to
poor roads within the Project area. Anyhow, the implementation of this
component would have considerably overtaxed the capacity of the Project's
construction unit. Under the Ngozi III project, funds will nevertheless be
included for rural economic and social infrastructure facilities needed in
Ngozi Province.
1/ The main bottlenecks in the supply of building materials were the
recurrent congestion at the port of Dar-es-Salaam, the break down of the
Zairian cement factory, the handling of all cement imports by Government,
and political events such as the Uganda civil war.



- 32 -
G. Financial Aspects
Project Costs
3.67     Final Project costs are estimated at FBu 983 million, or US$ 10.9
million, as against an appraisal estimate of FBu 675 million 1/, or US$ 7.5
million. This implies a cost overrun of FBu 308 million or 45.61. Total
project costs have been calculated on the basis of financial statements for
1976-1980 and estimates of investment and operating costs for January-June
1981, when the Ngozi II Coffee Project is expected to be completed. Total
costs exclude outlays for coffee research, (FBu 71.5 million) financed by the
Burundi and Belgian Governments. It is not possible to fully reconcile the
appraisal estimates with actual Project costs 2/, as Project cost accounting
and its breakdown of actual expenditures does not correspond to the categories
used in the appraisal report. Moreover, a meaningful comparison is further
complicated by the late start of some programs, the deletion of components
(e.g. livestock) and reduction in others (i.e. fooderops), thereby somewhat
reducing Project scope while total costs nevertheless exceeded appraisal
estimates.
3.68     The effect of inflation is best illustrated by the soaring costs for
washing stations, which increased from the appraisal estimte of FBu 5.6
million to an average amount of FBu 11.5 million for each of the ten washing
stations.  The cost of the last washing station, completed in early 1981, was
estimated at FBu 17 million, or three times higher than the original cost
estimate (Annex VITi).  While inflation in Burundi was mainly externally
induced, it must also be noted that salaries for national staff and laborers
were regularly adjusted to inflation and thus also contributed to spiraling
Project costs. In fact, salaries of most employees and skilled laborers more
than doubled during the Project implementation period. In calculating the
project's price contingencies, the appraisaL report, assumed declining
inflation rates from about 137  in 1975/76 to about 107  in 1979/80.  In actual
fact, inflation rates during the Project implementation period went up to
about 271. in 1979/80. Hence, price contingencies were inadequate,
particularly in view of the sharp rise in inflation at the end of the Project
development period and the one-year slippage in completing t:he Project.
Project Financing
3.69     A comparison of appraisal and actual financing is shown below.  The
Table indicates that actual percentage of IDA and Kuwait Fund financing was
substantially reduced compared to original appraisal estimates, whereas
Government had to finance a considerably larger share of the Project's cost
than initially envisaged.
1/ The original appraisal estimate of total Project costs was FBu 591
million.  The increase reflects the devaluation of 15% of the FBu in May
1976. Thus the cost over-run would be higher than in Fi3u terms, if the
original FBu cost figure had been taken, in consideration.
2/ Actual Project costs, as reflected in Project official accounts for the
years 1976-1980 are given in Annexes VI and VIII.



- 33 -
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
FBu million      US$        FBu million       US$
IDA                               468          69            468           47.6
Kuwait Fund                       108          16            108           11.0
Government                         99          15            407           41.4
TOTATL                            675         100            983           100
The fourfold increase in Government's contribution reflects the fact that it
had to bear the burden of financing all over-runs of the Project. Research,
whose total cost at completion of the Project is estimated at FBu 71.5 million
was financed by the Belgian Government (FBu 40 million) and by Government (FBu
31.5 million) through the OCIBU budget.
3.70     Government financed its share of Project costs entirely through a
special tax on all coffee exports. This particular project financing system
-- whereby counterpart funds were generated by a tax on coffee exports and not
by regular budgetary contributions through a Project account -- caused cash
problems for Project management, in particular during the first half of each
year. In fact, annual Government contributions were set by OCIBU/Project
management at the beginning of each year when an estimate of next season's
coffee exports was made. The tax rate was then calculated to match Project
financial requirements. However, as exports are difficult to project at the
beginning of the year, the Project had sometimes more funds available than
required to finance Government's contribution and less at other times, when
export projections did not materialize. Moreover, export tax receipts were
received two or three months following the coffee season and not regularly
over the whole year. The uncertainty and irregularity of the financing system
was a source of constant financial problems for Project management, which
could have been solved by setting up an adequate pre-financing system for all
Project expenditures. However, no provision had been made. Appraisal Report
did not for a pre-financing mechanism and during Project implementation
Government failed to remedy this constraint in any permanent or efficient
manner. Hence, Project expenditures were sometimes pre-financed by OCIBU
funds and the Coffee Stabilization Fund, sometimes by CAMOFI or Bank credit.
3.71     Overall, Project implementation has not been severely handicapped by
a lack of funds. However, a less cumbersome and uncertain financing mechanism
would have left Project management with more time to concentrate on technical
matters, instead of spending scarce management time on how to pre-finance
Project expenditures at the beginning of each year. Government contributions
for all future Bank-financed rural development schemes will be financed
through Government's investment budlget and pre-financing will be arranged
through CAMOFT.
Disbursements
3.72     Because of the delays in Plroject implementation, disbursements were
slower than anticipated at appraisal. By the original closing date, 867 of
the Credit has been disbursed. The closing date was postponed until April 30,
1982, when it is certain that all remaining IDA funds will have been
disbursed. In mid-1979 it became evident that because of continued shortages
of fuel and cement in the country, the Project could not be completed by
mid-1980 as originally envisaged. It was also evident that the Ngozi III



- 34 -
Project was unlikely to start before the original closing date because of
delays in Project preparation. Thus in order to ensure continuity in Project
management before the start of Ngozi III it was decided that all remaining IDA
funds would be used for the financing of priority investments, in particular
technical assistance, whereas Government would cover all cperating costs from
1980 onward. The allocation of IDA Credit wras accordingly altersd and the
Credit Agreoent amnded ao that unallocated funds were shitted to technical
assistance (Category 6) and construction (CaLtegories 3 and 4). Category 4 for
livestock was deleted (Annex IX).
Accounts and Audits
3.73     Since the beginning of 1976, administration and accounts have been
handled in Ngozi and financial information processed according to the
procedures of the "OCAN" accounting system. -The previous accounting system
had been very unsatisfactory and a thorough review of it at the beginning of
1977, when a Belgian expert accountant was recruited, revealed serious
shortcomings and irregularities. Since then, Project's accounting department,
bookkeeping procedures, particularly for Project's stores and inventories have
bee reorganized and strengthened. In fact, a number of well-qualified
Burundian accountants were hired, modern accounting equipment purchased and
responsibilities for administration and accounting staff redefined and
strictly separated to ensure efficient financial control and management. The
accounts of washing stations have been kept separte as their more comercially
oriented activities are quite different from the other development and
extension activities of the Project. A first balance sheet wlas prepared in
mid-1977, covering the period from 1969 up to December 1976: since then,
Project's financial statements have been issued at the beginning of each year
and all accounts have been up-to-date and of a high standard. Strict and
frequent controls of Project's accounts and financial management were carried
out by the expatriate financial controller. However, Project. accounts were
not audited externally, but regular IDA dupervision missions were impressed by
the high professional standard of accounting and efficient internal control,
and did not press for an external audit.  Howev-r, this position was changed
when, during 1980, it became certain that a new Government entity would become
responsible for the implementation of the third phase of the Ngozi Project.
All Project accounts covering the period 1976-1980 were audited in May 1981
and the auditor's report was submitted. The auditors declined to certify the
1980 accounts for reasons which have since been clarified and/or corrected.
Althoigh the reasons for withdrawing the certification of accounts were
justifiable, discussions with Project management before issuing the audit
report would have clarified most substantive points and prompted corrective
actions, which were taken, on methodological issues (valuation of assets,
payment for land, accountability for work in progress and past/due
receivables, etc.). The accounts for Ngozi II will be closed as of December
31, 1981 and new accounts will be opened for Ngozi III effecltive January 1,
1982.
Reporting
3.74     In general, OCIBU/Project reportinig was satisfactory and in
accordance with Bank requirements. However, the quality of progress reports
varied and reflected the frequent changes in Project management. The quality
of reporting improved somewhat when a new F'roject Director was appointed in
mid-1980. However, further improvements will be required to make progress
reports a more meaningful and management-oriented instrument.



- 35 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Project Organization
4.01     The second Ngozi Coffee Iimprovement Project was implemented by OCIBU,
a financially autonomous parastatal institution, which had already executed
the first Project through a project department whose head reported to the
OCIBU General Director. During the second Project more independence was
progressively given to Project management in Ngozi, in particular with regard
to administrative and accounting matters. However, decisions concerning the
recruitment and firing of personnel, international procurement and
relationship with Government and external financing remained with the OCIBU
General Director. During the early years of Project implementation, working
relations were strained between the OCIBU General Director and Project
management. Communications were poor and considerable delays occurred when
OCIBU assistance was required to recruit personnel and to provide iniputs,
equipment and materials. However, with the appointment of a new OCIBU General
Director, in early 1978, working atmosphere and coimmunications between the
Project and OCIBU markedly improved and, with some exceptions, remained
satisfactory until the end of the Project. When the management situation
worsened in 1978/79, the new OCIBU General Director decided to entrust the
management of coffee factories to a three member management committee (OCIBU
General Director, Project Director and the newly recruited expatriate
processing officer). This arrangement proved very satisfactory, as it
entrusted the de facto management of coffee factories to the expatriate
processing officer.
4.02     When the Ngozi Coffee Improvement Projects were conceived, it was
certainly reasonable to have placed the management of the Ngozi Coffee
Improvement Projects under OCIBU, whose experience and professional competence
were recognized. However, with hindsight one must recognize that the
effective split in responsibility for Project management was often a source of
tensions which tended to aggravate the difficult internal management situation
of the Project in Ngozi. This situation has now been alleviated with the
creation of an autonomous Regional Development Authority (Societe Regionale de
Development) which will be responsible for implementing the third Ngozi
Project.
4.03     The appraisal report provided for the establishment of a committee
composed of the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Finance, the Minister
of Planning, the Director General of OCIBU and ISABU, the President of the
Central Bank, the Governor of the Ngozi Province, and the Project manager to
coordinate and supervise all Project activities.  This committee was never
established, as it was felt that the OCIBU Board, on which most of the above
ministries and institutions were represented, would in practice perform the
same functions as the proposed Coimmittee. Central Government control of the
Project was rather limited and carried out mainly through the annual
OCIBU/Project budget discussions. Project implementation was often
handicapped by slow public budgetary procedures and obligation to plan and
adjust Project expenditures to strict budgetary allocations. In fact, while
OCIBU/Project budgets were prepared on time (October year year) for Board
discussion and Government approval (Ministry of Agriculture), final approval
was often delayed until March-April of the following year.  These delays were



- 36 -
frustrating for efficient Project implementation, since forward planning,
ordering of inputs, equipment, etc., had to be done early in the year, usually
with uncertainty as to budgetary authorizations. Moreover, frequent severe
cuts were made in proposed Project expenditures, not because of any shortage
of Government funds, but because of a lack of understanding of the nature of
development expenditures compared to those incurred by Government
administrative departments.
B. Project Hanagement
4.04     Helped by a bountiful coffee crop and completion of most project
works, Project management began to function smoothly and efficiently in 1981,
with the assistance of only four expatriate. This was achieved only after
Project management had been frequently disrupted by one crisis or another
almost every year since the Project began. These crises were due to frequent
turnover of both managers and field staff for a variety of reasons:
incompetence, negligence, poor work discipline and low motivation and, on
occasions, outright fraud. The results were frequently low morale of field
staff and, occasionally, tension between expatriates and Burundians, and
ultimately the failure to make the Project independent of expatriate
technicians and managers. For example, by mid-1980, nearly all national staff
that had been trained during both Ngozi I and II had either been dismissed or
transferred to other Government posts. As a resutt, an almost completely new
team had to be recruited, except for the four expatriates (coffee processing
officer, construction manager, financial controller and coffee extension
officer) who had been with the Project only since 1978.
4.05     The Project's first manager, a Burundian who had been deputy Project
manager during Ngozi I, served less than one year in that capacity, as he was
appointed to a higher post in November 1976 (para 3.01). He was replaced by
an expatriate early in 1977 who, although technically competent, was young and
inexperienced in the management of rural development schemes. He was not well
in touch with the field work of the Project and found it increasingly
difficult to get along well with the General Director of OCIBU. He left the
Project in 1978 and was replaced by a Burundian who, since 1969, had been
associated with both the Ngozi I and Ngozi II projects as Director of
Extension Services. He was dismissed in 1980 on grounds of negligence after a
major management crisis following the discovery of a widespread embezzlement
scheme concerning the sale of pruning tools to farmers (para. 4.07).
4.06     Until 1978 there had also been considerable instability and turnover
of expatriate staff. This too hampered effective project management. Three
internationally recruited experts were already in post when the Project
started at the end of 1975: a coffee processing officer, a construction
officer, and a coffee extension officer. The internationally recruited
Project Manager, a second Extension Officer for fooderops and the Financial
Controller joined the Project during the second half of 1976. The new team,
however, had a difficult start in view of the gap created in Project
management at the end of 1976, which led to a general breakdown of discipline
and morale among all Project staff. The appointment of an expatriate Project
Manager coincided with a period of tensions between expatriate and local staff
in mid-1977, during which the expatriate coffee processing officer was fired.
Moreover, at that time, Government restrictions on the use of official



- 37 -
vehicles and the elimination of travel hotel allowances for expatriates
working under Government contracts made working conditions difficult. The
contract of the first Financial Controller had been terminated only after
three months for reasons of incompetence and bad health. The Project Manager
resigned in mid-1978, and the extension officers also left at about the same
time. Up to that time, experience with internationally recruited management
and technical staff had not achieved the intended purposes. The difficulties
stemmed in part from OCIBU's recruitment procedures. Hiring decisions were
only based on the candidate's C.V. and OCIBU generally chose from a very short
list of candidates --- sometimes one -- since very little publicity had been
given to job openings.
4.07     Lack of discipline, poor motivation and, on at least four occasions
since 1978, discoveries of fraud armong staff responsible for key Project
operations (e.g. washing stations and extension), contributed to the
disruption and weakness of Project management throughout the execution of the
Project. For example, in 1978, Project management had to dismiss two senior
staff members who had become responsibile for directing the coffee washing
stations after the departure of the expatriate manager in early 1977. Both
had been trained for five years to assume this responsibility; however, under
their management it was discovered that the operations of the washing stations
had come to a virtual halt because they had falsified the payment lists.
Subsequently, four young Barundi university graduates who had been hired in
early 1979 to eventually join Project management with responsibilities for
extension services and washing stations, were fired for lack of work
discipline and poor motivation. Project management was shaken at its
foundations when, in early 1980, a widespread embezzlement scheme based on
malversation of proceeds from the sales of pruning tools to farmers, was
discovered. It involved eleven out of fifteen of the Project's agronomes
(extension supervisors) who had retained for their own personal use about
one-half of approximately FBu 2 million. A similar embezzlement scheme, on a
smaller scale, had already been discovered in mid 1978. Since dismissal of
the alleged culprits would have left the Project with only four of the fifteen
agronomes, all were retained. Apparently the leniency was misinterpreted, as
the practice of diverting for personal use funds derived from the sale of
pruning tools continued in 1980; in 1980/81 it extended to funds collected
from farmers from the sale of fertilizers. Finally, more than half of the
fifteen agronomes were fired in 1981. But proceeds from the sale of
fertilizers continued to be unaccounted for at the end of 1981, indicating
that the problem still had not been brought under control.
4.08     The difficulty of management in imposing sanctions on the
perpetrators of fraud illustrated above made it doubly difficult to impose
work discipline and motivate field staff responsible for extension services.
The agronomes, who are generally responsible for rural development at the
district level and were thus expected to play a key role in the implementation
of the Project, were apparently ill-prepared for their tasks. Their four-year
training at the Burundi Training Institute (ITAB) is rather academic and
little field work is included in their program of studies, so that upon
graduation they are inexperienced in the realities of agriculture and lack
completely in experience for super-vising the moniteurs (field agents) who work
directly with the farmers. Once in the field, the agronomes seemed to be
rather frustrated and showed their lack of motivation by doing little or
nothing, an attitude which was then reflected in the work of their
subordinates. The seed multiplication farms (for the foodcrop development



- 38 -
program) failed partly because of a lack of diligence by those managing them,
in failing to maintain appropriate records for trials, and tolerating the
diversion of the farms' output for personal use by the staff (para. 3.54).
The apparent lack of motivation and work discipline of extension staff has
been all the more disappointing as those working for the Project were better
paid, equipped and housed than their peers working for the Plinistry of
Agriculture in other parts of the country. Moreover the Project has a well
defined extension program, based on the training visit (T&V) system within a
well established hierarchy, prescribing simple technical packages and
techniques to farmers.
4.09     There is no immediate remedy to the ineffectiveness or lack of
sanctions imposed for inefficiency or fraud. That is, in fact, one of the
most disappointing aspects of the Project since it had been expected that upon
Project completion, it could continue independently of expatriate technicians
and managers, one of whose important tasks has been to maintain a degree of
accountability for funds and work performance. After more than twelve years
of project implementation with expatriate technicians and managers, therefore,
the third phase of the Ngozi Project will start with a new technical
assistance team of seven internationally recruited experts.



- 39 -
V. PROJECT IMPACT
5.01     The impact of the two IDA-financed Projects on coffee production in
Ngozi Province is as difficult to assess upon completion of Ngozi II as it was
during preparation and appraisal. As in 1974, the only reliable figures are
those of relaized FOB prices, and/or exported quantities, which are usually
equated with production. Even though systematic surveys of coffee plantations
and production started in 1977, they stopped in early 1979, because of lack of
fuel and vehicles at that time. The need for more reliable information is
further discussed in para 5.08.
5.02     The annual coffee production figures for the country as a whole are
quite accurately known, since virtually all of it is exported. Only
insignificant amounts are internally consumed in urban areas, and coffee
growers themselves do not drink coffee. The official export figures may be
understated because of unrecorded sales in border areas with Zaire and Rwanda,
but the quantities involved are probably insignificant. Production figures
adjusted to compensate for annual fluctuation indicate that the production of
Arabica coffee has been increasing at an average rate of 2.47 per year during
the last 18 years and that of robusta coffee (grown on a few private estates)
by 9.7% per year 1/. However, during the last five years the average annual
rate of arabica production has been declining by -0.1%. These figures compare
unfavorably with those given in the Ngozi I PCR, which showed that the
production of arabica coffee had been increasing at an average of 3.47 per
year during the previous 13 years, and that of robusta by 12.5% per year.
During the implementation period of Ngozi I, it appears (paras 1.01 and 1.02)
that coffee production is most coffee growing areas has tended to decline
since 1974/75. This decline, however, has to a large extent been offset by
the increase of coffee production in the Ngozi Province.
5.03     Coffee production is estimated to have increased at an average annual
rate of 101 annually during 1976/77 - 1980/81. This is based on adjusted
production estimates for 1976-78 and OCIBU marketing data since 1977/78.
Except for the production of the coffee washing stations, which at present
process about 67 of the national coffee production, all coffee is pulped and
dried by the farmers themselves and sold to local traders, who in turn arrange
for transport to one of the hulling factors in Bujumbura. Since 1977/78,
coffee marketing has been organizied by OCIBU and all coffee traders are
1/ The most striking feature in annual production series is the large
fluctuations from one year to another. A record production of 26,000 tons
green coffee in 1974, for exaimple, was followed by a 7-year low of 15,000
tons in 1975, and again in 1979 and 1980 production figures were
respectively 26,000 tons and 17,000 tons. Weather conditions are believed
to be the major determinant factor for the volume of the harvest and a
year of unusual high production is invariably followed by one of low
yields, during which the trees recuperate from the previous year's heavy
bearing. It is generally believed that consistently good maintenance of
the plantations reduces the annual fluctuations to some extent, since the
trees are then in better shape to withstand the demands of heavy bearing.
In order to eliminate the effect of the yearly fluctuations, therefore,
5-year moving averages of annual production have been calculated (Annex
XIV).



- 40 -
required to indicate the origin of their coffee purchases upon delivery to one
of the hulling stations in Bujumbura. Coffee traders are selected on a
regional basis by OCIBU and Provincial Administrators who,  in turn, control
coffee marketing in primary markets to ensure that only authorized traders
purchase coffee in their districts. OCIBU believes that this system, after
initial difficulties, has provided relatively reliable information about the
geographical distribution of coffee production in Burundi during the two
coffee seasons, 1979/80 and 1980/81. Prior to 1977/78 regional distribution
of coffee production was based mainly on agricultural statistics collected by
Provincial agricultural staff. These statistics usually underestimated coffee
production by about 10 to 20%. It is, therefore, likely that coffee
production in the Ngozi Province was underestimated during the 1976/77 and
1978/79 seasons. According to these estimates, coffee production of the Ngozi
Province averaged between 35 and 457. of national production during the last
decade, with a definite upward trend during the last five years. In fact, the
three moving average production for Ngozi indicates an average annual growth
rate of about 107 during the years 1976/77 - 1980/81 (Annex XI).
5.04     On the basis of available information, its is difficult to assess to
what extent the growth in coffee production was caused by higher productivity
of existing trees or by an increase in the number of trees (paras 3.21 - 3.23)
and Annex XII. Nevertheless, if the assumptions made about the number of
trees are correct, it can be concluded that in the Ngozi Province coffee
production has been growing by about 2% per year because of a corresponding
increase in new plantations and by a further 87 because of increased
productivity of the trees, as discussed below.
5.05     Projected yield at full development of Ngozi II (1991-1995),
including the effects of Ngozi I, is expected to be 425 g oi parchment coffee
per tree annually (XII and XIII). This is admittedly lower than the average
yearly production of SOOg/tons in the country as a whole estimated by the
appraisal mission. It is now apparent that the yield estimate made during
appraisal was too high because the total number of coffee trees had been
underestimated by a comparable factor to that in the Ngozi Province (327).  On
the assumption that the underestimate is comparable to that found in Ngozi, a
revised estimate of the countrywide tree population at 1975 would be 65.9
million, producing 19,000 tons green coffee, which would be equivalent to an
average of 380g parchment per tree per annum rather than 500 g. The lower
yield figure was confirmed during the preparation of the Kirimiro Rural
Development Project in 1978 1/. The revised countrywide yield estimate is in
line with the observed yield from the audited tree population of the Ngozi
Province of 1978/79, which was 380g parchment per tree (tree population 27.9
million and production of 10,765 tops of parchment coffee). The average
incremental yield between pre-Project and with Project can be expressed as a
72g parchment, which is in line with the 75g parchment assumed in the PCR for
Ngozi I.
1/  Surveys conducted in the Kirimiro region - the second most important
coffee producing area in Burundi - indicated that average yield figures
varied between 250-350g parchment coffee/tree.



- 41 -
5.06     As indicated in the study on tree population and potential yields
(Annexes XII, XIrl and XIV), maximum production is not reached until 1985,
four years after the presumed Project completion. However, because of the
eight year period required for young trees to reach the standard five year
pruning cycle, combined with the five year pruning cycle adopted for mature
trees at the commencement of the Project, full development is not attained
until 1991 (even without a third phase, i.e., Ngozi Irr). It is equally
obvious from this study that considerable variations in production can be
expected each year, which reflect the number of trees at any given point of
the five year pruning cycle. These variations are completely divorced from
fluctuations caused by climatic conditions or latency following a bumper
harvest.
5.07     The long term impact of the Ngozi I and Ngozi II projects is
indicated below, assuming that production of parchment coffee increased at an
annual rate of about 107. and yields per tree by about 97g parchment coffee
during the implementation of Ngozi II.
('000)           (tons parch)         (gm parch)
Project Period Year           No. of trees       Production 1/    Yield Per tree
Pre-project (1976)             22,2213.20           8,333               359
Project  Completion (1981)   28,71L.00             13,099               456
Difference                      5,482.56            4,766                97
Full Development               29,569.56           13,378 2/            452
Difference 3/                   6,341.36            5,045                93
1/ Based on official production statistics (Annex XI).
2/ Mission estimates (Annex XII).
3/ Full project impact.
If, as previously estimated (5.04), 2. of this increased production is due to
extension planting prior to Ngozi II, then 77g of parchment coffee (87)
represents the increased productivity due to better husbandry and inputs,
i.e., mulching, pruning and minimumal fertilizer application. This figure is
comparable to the assumptions of the PCF for Ngozi I (75g) and agrees with the
mid-Project year (1979) projection discussed at Para 5.05 (72g). The result
of the Project's husbandry activities (pruning, infilling, replacement and
extension) does not reach equilibrium until 1991 when the average yield per
tree over a representative five year pruning cycle (1991 to 1995) is estimted
at 452g of parchment coffee. The average incremental yield per tree of 93 g
of parchment coffee is then the outcome of all aspects of husbandry inputs,
including tree plantings, carried out during the five years of implementation
of Ngozi II. It should be noted that large fluctuations in production from
1991 onwards in any given five year period (high of 13,820 tons to a low of
12,700 tons parchment coffee) are a result of the distribution of trees in any
given phase of the five year pruning cycle.



- 42 -
5.08     There is clearly an urgent need for better information on tree
population and the productivity of the coffee trees at various levels of
coffee husbandry, not only in the Project area but at a national level as
well. In the absence of reliable yield figures for the Project as a whole, it
is almost impossible to disentangle the effects that improved husbandry
practices (rpuning, mulching, pest control and fertilizer application) may
have had on the yields. The proposed third phase of the Project has included
a formal monitoring unit to systematically collect and evaluate the required
data; this, combined with ISABU research findings, should provide more
conclusions answers upon completion; hopefully most of the third project.
B. Production of FWA Coffee
Price Differentials for Fully Washed Coffee
5.09     A basic aim of the first and second Ngozi Coffee Improvement Projects
was to achieve an export premium for the fully washed coffee produced by
washing stations over the traditional semi-washed coffees produced by
farmers. By extrapolation with Kenyan coffees, which are processed in the
same way as by the Project washing stations, at appraisal of both the first
and second phases, it was presumed that the premium of fully washed high
altitude arabica coffee over semi-washed arabica coffee (OCIBU 3A/3B) would be
between 10 and 157.
5.10     Upon completion of the Ngozi I Project (1975) the actual premium was
only 57, probably because the small quantity of fully washed coffee produced
by the Project's five washing stations had not established a reliable
"identity" on world markets. In the succeeding years of the second phase of
the Project, as the quantity of fully washed coffee increased, the average
premium has steadily increased to 157 in 1980 (Annex XV, Tables 1 to 16) and
appears to have remained at this level.
5.11     The following Table summarizes the performance of washing stations
and indicates the rapid increase in total production of FWA coffee and the
favorable price differential progressively obtained for Burundi FWAA/A coffee
in world markets. Other technical performance indicators (para 3.46)
underline the success of the Project's washing station component.



- 43 -
1976    1977      1978     1979       1980   Total
Production Clean
Fully Washed Coffee
kg ('000 FWAA/A)              265      355      450    1,242        899    3,191
Price Differential:
Fully 1/ Washed minus
OCIBU 3A/3B (BuFr per
kg)                         26.01  -245.52    0.78    50.31    40.86
Price Differential in 7        30        -       12        16        15
Total Differential
Benefit (BuFr '000)         6,892  -82,249  13,851   62,485   36,733   37,712
(119,961) 2/
Source: Annex XX Table 2
1/ In actual prices.
2/ Excluding 1977.
The total differential value of FWA coffee production during the 1976-1980
Project implementation period amounted to only FBu 37.7 million because, in
1977, the fully washed coffee was inexplicably sold by BCC to the USA at
approximately 457 below the unit value for Burundi semi-washed coffee. If
total benefits are thus compared with total FWA coffee production, the price
differential obtained is only about F Bit 11/kg or much less than its
additional processing costs. This grace loss illustrates that all Project
efforts to produce FWA coffee can be nullified, if other institutions in
Burundi's coffee economy are not geared to the marketing of a quality product.
5.12     The present post-washing station infrastructure in Burundi is
unlikely to improve upon this 157 premium, since the sophisticated milling
and electronic sorting equipment required for the highest premium mild
arabica coffees are not available in Burundi. The small milling units run by
OCIBU are quite satisfactory for the lower quality semi-washed arabicas but
are far too rudimentary for the stringent milling requirements of the high
premium milds. Further, the BCC marketing system currently employed for the
fully-washed coffees is identical to that used for the semi-washed coffees.
To achieve the highest possible premiums, it is essential that the marketing
system for the fully washed coffees be converted to an open bidding auction
system (including liquoring facilities for potential buyers to taste the
coffee) and not be the longer term closed contract bidding, currently
employed for the semi-washed coffees. Finally, the highest premiums are
awarded for the highest tasting quality of coffee. Improvements in premium
must necessarily come from further improvements in quality starting from the
coffee hybrids planted, through improved husbandry practices, processing,
milling, sorting, marketing, storage and transportation. Each phase of the
coffee industry has contributions to make in maintaining or improving the
quality of the end product for the gustatory benefit of the final consumer
and the economic benefit for Burundi. It is essential that each
participating entity contribute to the whole in an integrated manner,



- 44 -
preferably through the unifying directives of an integrated management
system. Thus, with Government's decision to set up more washing stations in
the Ngozi Province and in other coffee growing areas of the country (e.g.,
Kirimiro), a complete structural change in the present Burundi coffee
production, processing and marketing system will be required, whereby the
separate institutions presently involved in the management of the coffee
sector should be brought under a unified management.
C. Coffee Prices
5.13     The average export prices for Burundi's Arabica coffee and official
producer prices during the Project period were as follows (at current prices):
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
/76     /77      /78     /79      /80     /81      /82
Average Exp. Prices
BuF/kg clean coffee       103      235     479      241     328      278     195 1/
Appraisal 2/
Estimates BuF/kg
clean coffee               86      109     136      169     194      219     237
Producer Price BuF/kf
parchment coffee           39       65     112      112     115      115     115
Producer Price BuF/kg
equivalent clean
coffee                     54       91     154      152     153      154     154 1/
Shares of farmers 7        52       38      32       53      48       55      79 1/
1/ Estimates.
2/ Appraisal report's coffee price projections in 1975 constant terms were
converted into current terms by applying the International Price Index.
World Bank November 12, 1980.
The above Table indicates the exceptional world market conditions for Burundi
coffee at the beginning of the Project implementation period, when coffee
prices more than quadrupled because of the Brazilian frost in 1975. The
exceptional character of the coffee boom becomes all the more evident when
actual world market prices are compared with those projected by the appraisal
mission in 1975. To pass on part of its higher coffee export earnings, the
Government raised producer prices from FBu 39/kg parchment coffee in 1975/76
to FBu 112/kg in 1977/78, thereby almost a tripling of farmgate prices over
a two-year period. Despite the substantial rise in producer prices,
Government reaped the major profits from the coffee boom through export taxes
and contributions to the Coffee Stabilization Fund, which in 1977/78 had
accumulated more than FBu 4.0 billion. In fact, Government's share of total
coffee export earnings rose to about 507 during the 1976 and 1977 coffee
seasons, from 20-307 during previous years.



- 45 -
5.14     This very favorable world market situation changed rapidly when, in
1978/79, world market prices for coffee started to decline. If the decline
continues, major adjustments will be required in the near future to adapt
Burundi's economy to deteriorating terms of trade. In fact, while world
coffee prices declined, producer prices have remained stable at FBu 115/kg of
parchment coffee since 1978/79, because a reduction in producer prices in
line with world Market prices would have been very difficult for Government
to implement for political and social reasons. Thus, while farmers' relative
share of Burundi's rapidly falling coffee export earnings increased, the
Government's share - essential for the financing of its current and
investment budgets- plunged and it could become negative during the present
1981/82 coffee season. In fact, indications are that, because of a further
decline of world market prices in 1981/82, Burundi's coffee sliding scale can
be financed only with the held of foreign financial assistance (i.e. Stabex)
as Burundi's Coffee Stabilization Fund has no more funds available to cover
the foreseeable financial gap. In fact, the considerable resources of the
Stabilization Fund were mainly used to finance public investment expenditures
during past years. Unless world prices for coffee recover soon, and since
foreign aid is unlikely to continue to subsidize Burundi's coffee economy,
indications are that only a change in the exchange rate would provide the
needed revenue.
D. Farmers Income
5.15     For reasons explained earlier (para 5.03) it is difficult to
determine accurately the net income of the farmers who benefitted from the
Project. Based on official production statistics, it can be estimated that
the average income increased from FBu 4,036 in 1976 to about FBu 9,072 in
1981, representing an increase of 124%.  Most of the increase (78*) is due to
the substantial rise in nominal farmegate prices for parchment coffee, while
the remaining 227 derives from higher yields. It can be safely assumed that
incremental incomes varied substantially, depending on the extent to which
farmers adopted improved husbandry methods and on whether or not they sold
their cherries to washing stations (para 3.43). Income gains also depended
on the importance of coffee plantations, which are not evenly distributed
throughout the Ngozi Province. In fact, 447 of farmers have fewer than 150
coffee trees, 357 have between 150 and 300, and 217 own more than 300 trees
1/ Average income figures are based on an average of 173 trees per farmer.
5.16     Whatever the uncertainties concerning the rise in farm income, it is
certain that farmers have reaped considerable income gains, due in part to
the Project, but mostly due to the exceptional world coffee prices at the
beginning of the Project. Since 1978, as the producer prices remained
unchanged (para 5.13). It is estimated that in real terms, farmers' 1980
coffee income was more or less at the same level as in 1976, when the Project
started. Unfortunately, because of unfavorable worked market conditions the
decline in the farmers' terms of trade is expected to continue in the
1/ These figures are based on survey of coffee plantations in Ngozi
Province, conducted during the 1977-1979 period by Project Management and
Minplan.



- 46 -
foreseeable future, which may lead to a growing dis-interest in coffee
production and thus seriously hinder future development efforts in this
field. Thus, despite five years of Project efforts in coffee development in
the Ngozi Province, farmers are not better off now then they were at the
beginning of the Project. Admittedly, their present situation would have
been worse without the Project.
VI. Economic Analysis
6.01     The primary benefits of the Ngozi II Project were envisaged, at
appraisal, to be the increased production of coffee and foodcrops and an
improvement in the quality of the coffee prqcessed in the washing stations.
The economic rate of return for the Project as a whole was estimated at 217;
the rate of return of the agricultural services component was estimated at
24*; and that of the coffee processing component at 97.. Foreign exchange was
valued at 207 above the official exchange rate and costs for the coffee
research program, experimental rural development activities and social
infrastructure, were not included in the economic analysis.
6.02     The Project's economic rate of return has been re--estimated for its
two main components, namely, agricultural services and coffee processing.
The economic rate of return for the agricultural services was found to range
between 247 and 1057., depending on the statistical information and estimates
used, whereas, the rate of return for washing stations would be between 12
and 227 (para 6.08). These favorable rates reflect the fact that Project's
impact on coffee production and throughout of washing stations has been much
greater than originally anticipated. The substantial rise in coffee export
prices at the very beginning of the Project implementation period and higher
than expected price differentials for Project's fully washed coffees have
also contributed to these favorable results.
6.03     In recalculating the rates of returns of the agricultural services
and coffee processing components of the Project, the following assumptions
were made:
(a) costs and benefits originally estimated in 1975 prices were updated
to 1980 constant terms;
(b) in contrast to the appraisal report, foreign exchange earnings and
costs were not shadow-priced during the 1976-1980 Project
implementation period, because of Burundi's favorable balance of
payment position during that time; from 1981 onwards foreign
exchange has been valued at 207 more than the off'icial rate to
reflect its scarcity;
(c)  as in the appraisal report, the cost of the research program has not
been included in the analysis, as its benefits would accrue only in
future projects;
(d) in line with the appraisal report, unskilled labor has not been
shadow-priced, the net effect of doing so would improve the rate of
return;



- 47 -
(e)  in calculating the economic rate of return, incremental coffee
production has been valued at F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam prices (actual
until 1980, estimated thereafter in accordance with Bank projections
of November 12, 1980), less processing, marketing and transport
costs; the same information was used to calculate the actual and
projected differentials of FWA coffee;
(f)  the life of the Project is estimated to be 25 years instead of the
20 years assumed at appraisal, mainly to reflect the benefits of
washing stations, built during the last year of Project
implementation.
Agricultural Services
6.04     The main objective of the Project was to increase both coffee and
fooderop production and agricultural services, therefore, was the largest
component of the Project. The annual increase in coffee production brought
about the Project at full development (Year 7) was estimated at 1,000 tons of
parchment coffee. It was also estimated that about 6,000 farmers would
participate in Project's foodcrop development programs and at full
development (year 5) would produce an additional 750 tons of maize. Since
benefits from the foodcrop development programs have been negligible, they
are excluded from the economic ana:lysis. However, development and operating
costs of these programs, mainly the running costs of the Gisha see
multiplication center, have been included In the cost stream, as these costs
will have to be recovered by Project's coffee production benefits.
6.05     Actually achieved incremental coffee production was estimated as
varying between 3,000 and 5,000 tons of parchment coffee per year after full
development of the Project, depending on the statistical information and
estimates used (Annexes XI and XII). Despite the great uncertainties in
accurately assessing the impact of the Project on coffeee production (para
5.03), it is clear that that the appraisal target of 1,000 tons of parchment
coffee at full development has largely been exceeded. Benefits were taken as
the incremental yields of coffee, including the maintenance of yield
increases already achieved under Ngozi I, as well as the production of new
coffee trees planted during the first phase of the Project. As the impact of
Ngozi I on incremental production achieved during Ngozi II is difficult to
estimate, all operating costs of the Second project have been included in the
cost stream. In fact, the maintenance of the achievements of the first
Project would have required the continuation of extension services in the
Project area of the first phase. However, all projects costs of Ngozi I have
been treated as sunk costs. Actual export prices for coffee F.O.B.
Dar-es-Salaam far exceeded appraisal estimates at the beginning of the
Project implementation period, as a result of a quadrupling of world coffee
prices in 1976/77. However, since then, world market prices have started to
decline and are not expected to recover before the middle of the 1980s. The
different world market situation as compared to appraisal projections is best
illustrated by the fact that, in 1975 constant prices, the appraisal report
estimated world coffee prices to increase from USc5O/lb in 1975/76 to USc
76/lb in 1980/81. At present (1981) world market prices for Burundi's
semi-washed coffee have dropped to USi 73/lb in current terms.
6.06     Based on the preceding assumptions and considerations, the rate of
return of the agricultural services component was first calculated by using



- 48 -
the official coffee production figures for the Ngozi Province (see Annex XI
and Annex XVI). The rate of return was found to be higher than 100%
resulting mainly from the favorable impact of the Project on the quantity of
the coffee produced in the Project area. This high rate of return is
explained by a number of factors, i.e., (a) the treatment of all Project
costs for the first phase as sunk costs; (b) the shadow pricing of all
foreign exchange earnings by 20%; (c) the high world coffee prices at the
beginning of the Project period; and most importantly, (d) the likelihood
(para 5.03) that total coffee production at the beginning of the Project had
been underestimated, implying that incremental coffee production throughout
the projection period has systematically been overestimated. A second rate
of return was therefore calculated (Annex XVI) based on ProJect management's
coffee tree population count in 1978/79 and mission yield estimates (Annex
XII), which assume a much higher baseline coffee production for 1976/77 than
official OCIBU figures. The rate of return for this calculation, 247, is a
more likely, though prudent, estimate of Project's economic performance.
6.07     In order to take into account the windfall from the 1977-1978 coffee
price increase, coffee prices were averaged over a three year period
throughout the life of the Project. By this method the 1977 price would be
reduced from FBu 493/kilo to FBu 306/kilo and those for 1978 and 1979 would
rise somewhat. The IRR, however, would remain at 24%. If only 1977 prices
are reduced to attenuate the effects of the windfall, the economic rate of
return remains at a respectable 19.6% Consequently, whwate:ier the rate of
return of the Project may be, within the range, it is evident that favorable
results were obtained by the Ngozi Coffee Improvement Projects.
Coffee Processing
6.08     Even though the appraisal mission regarded the washing stations
under Ngozi II mainly as an extended trial period during which the
assumptions with regard to price premiums and throughput capacity were
expected to be tested, their economic viability with sound management has now
been conclusively demonstrated. With efficient meLnagement, washing stations
can produce high quality fully washed coffee which in European markets,
commands a premium of about 15% over the price of Burundi traditional
semi-washed coffee. The appraisal mission had assumed a maximum l010 price
differential, reflecting the poor results achieved by washing stations during
the first phase of the Project, and had also underestimated the throughput
capacity of a three disc-pulper washing station. In fact, while a production
capacity of between 125 and 150 tons of parchment coffee was used in the
appraisal rate of return forecasts, the actual amount of coffee parchment
produced varied between 200 to 250 tons. The higher than expected price
differential and throughput capacity had obviously a decisi-ve effect on the
economic rate of return of washing stations, which was re-estimated at 22%
compared to 9% in the appraisal report (Annex VIII). As in the appraisal
report, the mission has treated the investment costs of the four washing
stations built during the first phase of the Ngozi Project as sunk costs.
6.09     For the sake of consistency, the rate of return on investments in
washing stations was recalculated to account for the lower value of fully
washed coffee in 1977, (Annex XVII). The loss, in financial terms, amounted
to about BuF 124 million. This one time loss reduces the IRR for washing
stations from 22 to 11.75% (say, 12%).



- 49 -
6.10     In addition to the major elements of price differential and
throughput capacity in the economic analysis of washing stations, there are
number of other factors which woulcl further improve the economics of washing
stations. However, because of their altogether secondary importance and
difficulties in quantifying them, the mission, has excluded them from the
economic rate of return calculations. Firstly, it must be noted that one
washing station would replace eight hand-pulpers which ould have to be set-up
by Government in the "without" case. Hence, the investment and operating
costs of eight hand-pulpers should be deducted from the cost stream of
washing stations in the economic arLalysis. Secondly, under the fully-wet
processing method, it can be assumed that the ratio of cherries to parchment
would improve from 5.5 to 6 in hancLpulping centers to about 4.5 to 4.9 in
washing stations. Moreover, the hulling losses for coffee produced by
washing stations are about 207 compared to about 257 for Burundi's
semi-washed coffee. In other words, in addition to the price differential
obtained for FWA coffee, the greater efficiency of the fully-wet process
allows for a greater ouput of clean coffee compared to that obtained by the
traditional semi-washed process. Thirdly, under the present marketing and
hulling system for fully-washed cof'fee in Burundi, a price differential of
about 15% is considered a maximum.  However, with better hulling facilities
(a new hulling station is expected to be built in Ngozi in the near future)
and a more integrated marketing system, the price differential may inrease
from 157 to 18-20S over the long term, in particular in an over-supply world
market situation in which demand for high quality coffee is immune (i.e.
demand is inelastic with respect to price) to price changes. If these
various factors are taken into consideration, the economic rate of return of
washing stations would increase and probably ranger between 257 and 307.
Finally, the expectations during the preparation of Ngozi II, that the
washing stations are to become focal points for a large number of rural
development activities have materialized. There are unquantifiable economic
benefits. In fact, the use of washing stations as centers for the
distribution of inputs and consumer goods as well as catalysts for the
setting up of cooperatives in the Ngozi Province has already been considered.
VIT. IDA PERFORMANCE
7.02     The Bank played a major role in Project identification and
preparation. During this stage, IDA was urging Government to be more
restrained in its objectives, especially the construction of new washing
stations. The changes in Project design suggested by the appraisal mission
were also reasonable, in particular the further reduction in the number of
washing stations to be built and the realistic approach to fertilizer use and
financing. Thus, while Bank staff has tried to reduce the Second Ngozi
Project gradually to a size which was considered more compatible with
Government's execution capacity it turned out that Bank assessment of the
borrower's implementation capacity had still been too optimistic. With the
benefit of hindsight, it now appears that the program of building the 20
washing stations initially accepted by the appraisal mission (the further
reduction to four additional coffee factories was based on ecomic
considerations only) would have been much too ambitious, as it took Project
management more than five years to construct the 10 washing stations which
were finally included in the Project. As pointed out earlier, while the
appraisal mission had overestimated the construction capacity of the Project,



- 50 -
the successful management of washing stations, in particular during the last
three years proved the appraisal mission to be too conservative with respect
to the profitability and the economic justification of these stations. In
contrast, the appraisal was again too optimistic concerning capacity to carry
out a number of other production and infrastructure programs.  In fact,
neither the experimental rural development activities, including economic and
social infrastructure programs, were carried out during the second phase of
the Ngozi Project, nor were the pilot foodcrop development programs
achieved. Admittedly, when the Ngozi II appraisal mission had to judge the
profitability of coffee factories six years ago, data on the merits of these
factories was very limited and not too encouraging.
7.02     IDA supervision, both in quality and frequency, was good; staff
continuity was maintained in all (except the first) of nine supervision
missions, which were carried out by the same Bank staff member during the
five-year implementation period. Moreover, as the same staff member was also
responsible for the preparation of new rural development schemes and
therefore visited Burundi almost every third month, he was able to establish
a more frequent dialogue with OCIBU/Project management than is normally
possible. The combination of supervision and project preparation proved,
indeed, to be beneficial as the experience gained from the supervision of the
on-going project was very helpful in the preparation of new rural development
schemes (Ngozi III and Kirimiro). Supervision missions were frequently able
to highlight the major issues and obstacles to Project implementation, to
alert Government officials to these problems, and to suggest appropriate
corrective measures. For instance, with the assistance of consultants,
supervision missions identified the major problems the Project was facing in
its pilot drainage scheme, foodcrop development programs, Government
fertilizer policy and coffee research program. Finally, supervision missions
acted as project coordinator, if not mediator, to reduce tensions which
frequently existed between Project and OCIBU management, as well as between
OCIBU/Project management, ISABU and Government, not to mention the strained
relations between expatriate and local staff. Despite these often delicate
tasks, relationships between IDA and Government, on the one hand, and
OCIBU/Project management on the other remained very good throughout Project
implementation.
VIII. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
8.01     The Project was intended to improve the quality and increase the
production of Burundi's most important export crop by more efficient
processing of parchment coffee, together with the application of an improved
technical package by farmers. A start was also expected to be made to
improve farmrs' foodcrops as a necessary complement to future coffee
development in the Project area. At the end of the second Ngozi Coffee
Improvement Project, it can be concluded with some degree of confidence that
measured against appraisal objectives, coffee development results in
quantitative as well as qualitative terms have significantly exceeded
appraisal expectations. In contrast, the Project failed to meet the
appraisal objectives of increased foodcrop production and other social and
economic infrastructure programs.  This failure stemmed mostly from
difficulties in Project management and, in particular, inefficiencies in its
extension services.  In fact, after twelve years of Project implementation



- 51 -
with expatriate technical assistance, the Project did not succeed in training
and setting up a national management team nor did it succeed in establishing
a well-functioning extension corps. Despite these difficulties, in economic
terms the Project has been of benefit to Burundi and substantially
contributed to arrest a declining trend in the country's coffee economy. On
balance, the Project is perhaps best described as a qualified success.
8.02     Without any doubt, the washing station component of the Project has
successfully demonstrated its ability to produce the required product. It
has been the Project's most commendable achievement. It now remains for the
research program to produce arabica hubrids with the highest possible
inherent quality potential (combined with high yield potential and disease
resistance), and for the milling and marketing components of the Burundi
coffee industry to capitalize on the high quality coffee demonstrably
produced from the Project's washing stations. Thus, after the factors
essential to efficient and profitab:Le processing of quality coffee have been
successfully identified and implemented under the Ngozi II Project, future
progress towards improving Burundi coffee to fully-washed standards will
depend mainly on continued efficient management of washing stations and
Government's willingness to establish a system whereby all entities presently
involved in the management of the coffee economy will be geared to the
production of quality coffee; this is an objective which can only be achieved
under an integrated management.
8.03     On the coffee production side, the Project has partly accomplished
its aims. After a protracted struggle, spanning a full decade, the Project
has successfully demonstrated its ability to control the major insect
predator of the Burundi coffee industry - antestia. This pest should no
longer significantly affect either the quantity or quality of the farmer's
coffee production and, hopefully, the success of future pest control
campaigns will not be impaired by a lack of diligence in management or timing
of insecticide applications.
8.04     A further positive aspects for the Project was the adoption of sound
mulching practices by most farmers in the Project area. In fact, the
majority of farmers (707) recognized the obvious differences in the physical
well-being of coffee trees provided with adequate mulch and those with none.
The major problem for the future is to provide sufficient available mulching
material for the farmer to use. In the long term, the ideal solution will be
provided by the introduction of a suitable cover crop, but for the short term
all available sources of suitable material should be tapped. In this respect
it is unfortunate that the extensioni services have not been entirely
successful in convincing farmers about the importance and correct use of
mulching grasses like trypsacum and pennisetum.
8.05     The Project has still not proved unequivocally that any advantage of
either yield or quality is to be gained by the application of inorganic
fertilizers. The Project management: and the Projects' research group still
feel that the application of urea to the nitrogen deficient soils of the
Ngozi Province must have a beneficial effect. Hopefully, the newly designed
trials, which commenced in 1979/80, will give the desired answer during the
early part of the proposed third phase of the Project (Ngozi III). However,
the result will not only depend on t:he result of the fertilizer research
trials, but also on the economics of fertilizer use at that time.



- 52 -
8.06     The Project has only achieved a partial success in persuading
farmers to adopt correct primary and secondary pruning routines. This is
pernaps most easily seen from the smaller number of prunino tools sold in the
second phase of the Project than in the first, despite the greater area and
the much larger number of trees requiring rehabilitation. While the
increased cost of pruning tools may have played some part in the lack of
enthusiasm on the part of the farmer, the major problems seems to stem from
the observed lack of motivation and dynamism of Project extension services,
which has overshadowed all extension work of the Project.
8.07     None of the experimental rural development activities have been
carried out during the second phase of the Project and the results of the
foodcrop development programs have been most disappointing. This failure, in
our view, is partly due to a lack of a proven technical package and farmers'
responsivEness, but mainly to inefficient management extension services.
Thus, an important opportunity was missed to start a more balanced
development of both coffee and foodcrops in Ngozi Province, which would have
been particularly relevant because of the high population density in the
Project area and farmers' deteriorating financial situation, which both are
likely to overshadow the future development of the Ngozi Province.
8.08     The Project illustrates the dramatic effects of high inflation and
rapid deterioration of Burundi's terms of trade on the inconne gains achieved
under the second phase of the Ngozi Project. In fact, becatuse of these
factors farmers' real income from coffee production has considerably declined
since 1978 and can be expected to continue to drop in the medium term
future. Hence, with coffee production becoming less and less profitable for
farmers, their incentive to properly use modern costly inputs on coffee
plantations is likely to diminish in the future. More important, future
coffee development must be seen in the dynamic situation of the Ngozi
Province, where population will continue to increase and soil fertility and
land availability continues to decline. Under these circumstances, farmers
will require more time and land to grow foodcrops for their survival, and to
feed a rapidly growing urban population.  Hence, declining world market
prices for coffee and growing population pressure must be considered the main
risks, which in the long run, may jeopardize the favorable achievement of the
Ngozi Coffee Improvement Projects.
8.09     To help maintain these achievements and to further assist farmers to
improve their income and welfare, a third Ngozi Project was prepared by
Government with Bank assistance. It is expected to start in early 1982
without interruption from the completion of Ngozi II. While development
programs for coffee production and the construction of washing stations will
continue, a new start will be made on foodcrop development, albeit limited to
six districts in the Project area. Moreover, another objective would be to
improve rural living conditions by building or maintaining water sources,
equipping social centers and developing wood resources. Finally, by putting
strong emphasis on training and providing technical assistance, the Project
would enhance the management capability of the Regional Dlevelopment
Authority, which will carry out the third phase of the Ngozi Project.
Because of the above mentioned constraints it is likely that the third Ngozi
Project will have to be carried out in a considerably more difficult
environment than prevailed during the implementation period of the second
phase. Besides these constraining factors, the success of the continued



- 53 -
development efforts will to a large extent depend on the efficiency and
motivation of extension services and other national staff, as well as
Government's willingness to gear its policies and institutions to the
development of the rural sector.



I



- 55 -
ANNEX I
BURUNDI
Second Coffee Improvement Project: Credit 593-BU
Project Completion Report
Burundi Coffee Exports by Quantity and Quality
OCIBU 3B, 4B,
FWAA and FWA          OCIBU 3A           B & HT
Years      Total Exports    Superior Quality   Standard Quality  Inferior Quality
tons            tons         %       tons        %       tons        x
1970          21,218            458      2.16    15,756       74.26    5,002        23.58
1971          23,271            377      1.62    17,611       75.68    5,283        22.70
1972          17,901             70      0.39    10,657       65.12    7,174       34.49
1973          19,600            260      1.33    11,207       57.18    8,223       41.49
1974          26,446            571      2.16    18,636       74.26    7,239       23.58
1975          15,016            228      1.52      7,418      49.40    7,370       49.08
1976          19,982            265      1.33,    8,462       42.35   11,255       56.32
1977          15,127            335      2.22      7,383      48.81    8,409       48.97
1978          20,878            450      2.16      9,045      43.32   11,383       54.52
1979          25,533          1,242      4.86    12,450       48.76   11,841       46.38
1980          16,781            899      5.76      7,211      42.9      8,671       51.6
Source: OCIBU.



- 56 -                         ANNEX II
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI COFFEE EXPORTS: TOTALS
(Tons)
Year /a                  Arabica                Robusta              Total
1958/59                     9.640                  300                  9.940
1959/60                    20.727                  900                21.627
1960/61                     9.991                 278                 10.269
1961/62                    12.937                 196                 13.133
1962/63                    13.972                 204                 13.176
1963/64                     5.856                  197                  6.053
1964/65                    17.689                 600                 18.289
1965/66                    12.826                  731                13.557
1966/67                    14.094                 917                 15.011
1967/68                    17.929                 753                 18.682
1968/69                    15.517               1,023                 16.540
1969/70                    13.299               1,251                 14.550
1970/71                    21.218                 900                 22.118
1971/72                    23.271               1,780                 25.051
1972/73                    17.901               1,502                 19.403
1973/74                    19.600               1,795                 21.395
1974/75                    26.446               1,694                 28.140
1975/76                    15.016               1,908                 16.924
1976/77                    19.982               1,446                 21.428
1977/78                    15.174               1,856                 17.030
1978/79                    21.007               1,776                 22. 83
1979/80                    25.866               1,862                 27.728
1980/81                    16.781               1,694                 18.475
Sources: Banque de la Republique du Burundi.
OCIBU
/a From June 1st to May 31st of the folLowinv year.



- 57 -                          ANNEX III
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPRO'VEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI COFFEE EXPORTS: TOTALS
(Tons)
Year /a                 Arabica                Robusta              Total
1958/59-1962/63            13.453                376                 13.829
1959/60-1963/64            12.697                355                 13.052
1960/61-1964/65            12.089                295                 12.384
1961/62-1965/66            12.656                386                 13.042
1962/63-1966/67            12.887                530                 13.417
1963/64-1967/68            13.679                640                 14.319
1964/65-1968/69            15.611                805                 16.416
1965/66-1969/70            14.733                935                 15.668
1966/67-1970/71           16.411                 969                 17.380
1967/68-1971/72            18.247              1.141                 19.388
1968/69-1972/73            18.241              1.291                 19.532
1969/70-1973/74            19.058              1.446                 20.504
1970/71-1974/75            21.687              1.534                 23.221
1971/72-1975/76            20.447              1.736                 22.183
1972/73-1976/77            19.789              1.689                 21.458
1973/74-1977/78            19.244              L.740                 20.984
1974/75-1978/79            19.525              1.736                 21.261
1975/76-1979/80            19.409              1.770                 21.179
1976/77-1980/81            19.762              1.727                 21.489
Average growth rate
on 18 years                 2.4%                    9.7%              2.7%
On the last 5 years        -0.1%                  -0.1%              -0.06%
/a  From June 1st to May 31st of the following year.



- 58 -                 ANNEX IV
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Pyrethrum Test - No. of Insects per Tree
01/72   09/72   01/73   03/74   09/74   03/75   06/78   11/79   11/80
Project area        3.5      2.52    3.11    3.5      1.46    2.7      2.1      2.4      0.1
Outside project
area                7.5      9.56    7.06    6.22    4.1       6.1      3.6     n.a.    n.a.
100-Cherry Test - % of Damaged Cherries
1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Ngozi              14.1   27.2    32    19.9   33.5   26.7    n.a.  28.0    n.a.   19.1
National
Average            15.5   27.5    32.5  20.4   30.8   29        29.2   20.3    n.a.    n.a.
Source:  OCIBU/ISABU



- 59 -                          ANNEX V
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Inventory of Buildings Constructed During Second Phase
Location
A.  Agricultural Storage Facilities                                   Matongo
Ruhororo
Gisha
Marangara
Giheta
Tangara
Mubanga
Muramvya
Kabamba
Mihigo
Mparami rundi
Jene
Buraniro
Rango
TOTAL   =  15
B.  Houses for "Agronomes"                                            Rango
Maramvya
Gashikanwa
Mubuga
Buraniro
Kayanza
Matongo
Marangara
Gatara
Jene
Gatsinda
Ruhororo
Mihigo
Tangara
Kizemba
TOTAL      15
C.  Residential Buildings                                  5 houses for Expatriate Staff
4 houses for National Staff
5 houses for medium-level local
Staff
TOTAL  =  14



- 60 -                          ANNEX V
Page 2
LDcation
D.  Administrative Buildings                              Office Building at Ngozi
Central Warehouse
Workshop
Water Reservoir
Petrol Station
E.  Washing Stations                                      Mugomera
Rukurazo
Murambi
Murama
Rugori
Nkaka
Mubuga
Kibuye
mirango
Karinzi
TOTAL  =  10
Source: OCIBU/Project.



BURUNDI
Deuxiemie Project d'Amelioration du Cafe
Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
Analyse Financiere Investissement du Projet
1976               1977                   1978                   1979                  1980                 1981
INVESTISSEMENTS
1976-1980 VARIATIONS        Projet      Usines    Projet    Usines    Projet          Usines    Projet    Usines    Projet         Usines    Projet  Usines
comptes  libell -------------------------------------------------------FBu  000------------------------------------------------------
21       TERRAINS            -           168           -        137         -          20         47        70          45           -          -        -
22        IMMOBILISATIONS
CORPORELLES
220  Batiments           2                         1.282      7.270    3.161       18.727      1.313    1.398       25.517       8.069
225 Amenagements et
installations   208            626
226 Ouvrages infra-
structure           1.114        1.038
222  Materiel de
transport           2.223                    7.285                5.687    558          14.506    2.306        3.791        5.209
223 Mobilier et
materiel          949           37                                5.144                  1.702                  1.006
224 Machines et
equipe-ent          2.140        4.887       1.910      2.784 2/ 2.963       10.617   983          9.262       3.884        2.433
230 IMOBILISATIONS
EN OJURS
(Variations)       3.290         4.032       1.260      7.625   10.669       10.940      2.469  864            8.518
TOTAL                         9.926 1/   10.838 1/  12.277    12.248   26.624          18.982    21.020   13.900        26.686       15.711    37.000  43.000
1/  Chiffres corrig6s diff6rant de la comptabilite pour tenir compte des incidences de la premiere phase du Projet.
2/ Regularisation et transferts.
3/ Estimations.
Source:  OCIBU - Bilan du Projet.  Les sommes figurant dans les colonnes "Projet" et "Usines" des annees 1976 A 1980 sont les soldes des
mouvements du compte pendant V'ann&e consideree.



ANNEX VII
Page 1
BURUNDI
Deuxigmie Project d'Amelioration du Cafe
Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
Analyse Financigre: Re'sultats du Projet
1976 1/             1977                  1978                    1979                  1980
Frais de Fonctionnement        Projet      Usines    Projet    Usines    Projet          Usines    Projet    Usines    Projet          Usines
et soldes caracteristiques
de gestion                                     _________________ _-----------FBu '000------------
72   Production stockee                                                                                                   2.116
70   Recettes sur Ventes
cafe                   1.363 2/   65.563                   83.814    -           115.712      -       262.878       -         212.408
72   Travaux faits par
L'enterprise pour
elle meme                                                                                                          Z9.946
-60   Cerises mises en
consommation         173 2/         35.839                 74.903    -            96.475      -       176.552                  154.110
-80   Marge brute             1.184       29.724                   9.011    -           19.237      -        86.326       28.062      56.298
-61   Matieres et Four-
nitures consommees   2.980         723          48.883   325         18.298        2.332    41.663    2.074        63.486        8.621
-62   Transports consommes 174             2.236        6.502      2.017    1.559        2.867       1.227    9.417        -           8.140
-63   Autres services
consommes              3.371         2.366       6.978   470         15.326        1.367    29.874    1.745         9.523        1.692
-63   Usinage et emballage -               1.178        -          2.020    -            3.603      -          6.728       -            7.030
81    Valeur ajoutee         -5.341       23.220    -62.363        4.179  -35.183        8.878   -72.764   66.362    -44.947          32.815
.                                    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX VII
Page 2
BURUNDI
Deuxiemie Project d'Amelioration du Cafe
Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
Analyse Financi4re: Resultats du Projet
1976 1/                     1977                          1978                           1979                  1980
Frais de Fonctionnement       Projet        Usines        Projet        Usines       Projet         Usines       Projet          Usines       Projet      Usines
et soldes carecteristiques
de gestion                    --------------------------------------------------------FBU '000-------------------------------------------------
63   DDtation aux auor-
tissements et
Provisions                 -             -            7.917          3.437       5.419          3.848        8.052             6.970    10.159       8.306
82   Resultat net d'ex-
ploitation                47.982       +17.589    -133.83          -6.476   -113.626           -3.836    -164.492            +44.800  -188.989    +6.816
082   Resultat net hors
exploitation             +32.508         -         -110.955       +27.175       +5.346         +1.417      +11.208         +201         +46.783  +960
84    + Vl.AUe sur ses-
sions d'actifs             -             -           +6.494          -          28              -         +336                 -         -1.048     -
870   R4sultat net ex-                                                                                                                                           a
ploitation et
hors exploi-
tatics                   -15.474       +17.589    -238.145        +20.699   -119.000           -2.469    -152.968            +45.001  -163.249    +7.776
1/    Remarque:  en 1976, annee du projet, la comptabilite no a's pas fait de distinction entre le projet 593 et les usines 82 Koweit.  Des
chiffres projet et usines sont des estimations.
2/    Remarque:  pour 1976.  Colonne Projet:  II s'agit de recettes diverses tirges de cessions hors cafe et d'achats correspondant a ces recettes.
3/    Exercise 1977.  Produits et Profits divers - 26.237 transfert beni financier de 1976.
Remargue. Les sommes marquees de l'asterisque dans les bilans 1976, 1977, 1978, 1979 et 1980 sont des profits hors exploitation (compte 76) ou
des recettes hore exploitation comptes 72 et 73 du bilan 1980).
Source: OCIBU - Comptes d'Exploitation du Projet.
x
H
'-



- 64 -                         ANNEX VIII
BURUNDI
Second Coffee improvement Project Credit 595-BU
Project Completion Report
Increase in Project Cost
Examples                          Appraisal Report                 Actual
1975/1976                       1979/80
Staff house 1/                        2,100,000                  3,500,000
Lorry                                 1,500,000                  3,385,000
Tractor                               1,000,000                  2,300,000
Land Rover                              650,000                  1,700,000
Passenger Car                           380,000                    800,000
Motorcycle                               40,000                    120,000
Warehouse                               400,000                    750,000
6,070,000                 12,555,000
Rate of Increase                      6,485,000 = 106%
l/                                             Cost of cement.
cement             1975              a bag                    400
cement             1976              a bag                     600
cement             1977              a bag                     612
cement             1978               a bag                    712
cement             1979              a bag                  1,200
Rate of Increase                       300%
Labor                                      1975/76                1980/81
Extension agent (agronome)                 13,425/month           25,200/month
Unskilled laborer                              50/day                 60/day
Accountant             11,523/month        25,200/month
Carpenter                                      80/day                150/day
Source: OCIBU/PROJECT7.



- 65 -                       ANNEX IX
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDA Disbursements by Category
(US$)
Amount of            Amount of Credit       Actually 2/
Category                Credit Allocated         after Reallocation   Disbursed
(1) Equipment, agr.         500,000                  587,000            622,962
inputs (other
than fertilizers)
(2) Fertilizers and         600,000                  605,000            551,9b5
Insecticides
(3) Construction            200,000                 428,000            453,923
materials, fixtures
and furniture
(4) Civil Works             300,00C                  336,000            210,741
(housing, offices)
(5) Livestock               200,000                    4,000              3,178
(6) Technical Assistance,
consultants, salaries
and other operating
costs                 2,700,000               3,240,000          2,638,694
(7) Unallocated             700,000               _                  _
TOTAL                 5,200,000              5,2000,000          4,481,463
1/ Reallocation took place in May 1980.
2/ As of April 30, 1981.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Expatriate Staffing Schedule
1976              1977                     1978                  1979                  1980            1981
1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2
Heide
Project Manager            broek    Pulincks         Villard
Financial Controller                      Lauvers                                               Devaux
Extension Officer            Pastels
(Agriculturalist
Coffee)
Extension Officer                                 Chausse                                                      Lambrechts
(Agriculstalist
Fooderops and
Coffee)
Processing Officer                 Veeger                                                              De Smet
Construction Officer                                                Gasparini
Source: OCIBU/Project.



- 67 -                          ANNEX XI
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE DIPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT CO[PLETION REPORT
Production of Arabica Coffee in the Ngozi Province
(Clean coffee (tons))
Year /a      Total Exports    Ngozi Proportion            'Tlree-Year    Index
X     Quantum        Moving Average  100+70/71
1969/70           13.299         29          3.860
1970/71           21.218         35          7.430             6.480        100
1971/72           23.271         35          8.140             7.040        109
1972/73           17.901         31          5.550             7.180        111
1973/74           19.600         40          7.840             7.200        111
1974/75           26.446         31          8.200             7.500        116
1975/76           15.016         43          6.460             7.220        111
1976/77           19.982         35          6.990             6.250         96
1977/78           15.174         35          5.310             6.480        100
1978/79           21.007         34          7.140             7.960        122
1979/80           25.866         44         11.440             8.900        137
1980/81           16.781         48          8.110             9.824 /b    151
/a  From June 1st to May 31st of the following year.
/b  Estimate:  Indications are that the 1981/82 harvest will be as favorable
as in 1979/80.
Source: OCIBU.



- 68 -                          ANNEX XII
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Tree Population in Ngozi Province
The main purpose of this Annex is to derive consis:ent figures for
coffee tree population and age distribution in Ngozi Province at the
beginning and end of the project, from which to derive estimates of coffee
production based on (a) the 1979 tree audit, and (b) the rate of planting of
new (extension) and replacement seedlings. Thus, the attached table is not
intended to be either a refinement of the 1978/79 audit or a definitive tally
of tree population, and planting of new and replacement seedlings.
The attached table was also necessary to compare the coffee yield
forecasts to 1999 with factual three-year moving average yields in order to
check the consistency of the assumptions made.  As a result, it is also
possible to distinguish increased coffee output due to higher yields from
that due to the increase in the number of trees.
Distinguished between the Tree Audit and Table XV
('000 trees)
Audit               1979          Difference (2-1)
1                               196.8             994.8          +    798
2                               792.0           1,419.3          +    627
3                             1,639.8           1,418.0          -    222
Mature                       18,666.6          23,228.0          -  1,211 2/
Pruned 1978                   2,600.0
Pruned 1979                   3,172.1        _                      _
Sub-total                   27,067.3           27,060.0                  7.0
(rounded)
Seedlings
Extension                       871.0              871.0
Infills and
Replacements                    65.0              936.0
Total                       28,003.3           27,996.0          -       7.0



- 69 -                          ANNEX XII
Page 2
The differences in data by age group between the 1976/79 tree audit
and the 1970 column in the attached table can be explained on methodological
grounds as follows:
(a) Since the audit was a static count requiring over one year to
complete, it could not take account of changes (extension and
replacernent/infilling) that occurred during the period, much less
distinguish between the uses made of seedlings. Hence, in the
attached table it was assumed, for statistical consistency, that all
seedlings at the end of 1976, 1977 and 1978 became one year old
trees (less 10% mortality) in the next year. This explains the
difference of 798,000 one-year old trees.
(b) Because of the difficulty in distinguishing seedlings used for
extension from those used for replacing/infilling in any age group,
statistical consistency was maintained in the attached table by
adjusting figures for two/three year old and three/four year old
trees beginning to reach maturity. Thus, reported audit total of
1,640,000 three year old trees in 1978/79 was reduced to 1,417,950
in 1979 to make it consistent with the 1,577,550 seedlings planted
in 1976 (less 10% mortality). Likewise, for two-year old trees, the
1979 difference of 627,351 trees between the audit and the attached
table contains 222,000 trees "lost" in the three-year old group due
to mortality plus 405,351 trees (from 450,390 seedlings( inferred
planting to expand the coffee producing area.  If the latter
assumption is not made, the tree population at the beginning of the
project would have to be further increased by one-half million trees
in order to agree with the tree audit, or it would have to be
assumed that these 450,000 seedlings were not in fact used, which
would be contrary to data reported by the Project/OCIBU.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Projected Production of Arabica Coffee in the Ngozi Province
Year 2/   Tree Population               Projected Yield (tons)                      Average                       Actual Yields
Parchment   Conversion 1/   Clean               Projected Yield               3 Year Moving Average
Factor                      Year 3/  Clean Coffee (tons)    Clean Coffee (tons)
1976         23,228,200           10,414          0.71         7,394         1976/77      7,529                         6,250
1977         24,646,150           10,497          0.73         7,663         1977/78      7,808                         6,480
1978         26,065,440           10,747          0.74         7,953         1978/79      8,304                         7,960
1979         27,060,250           11,539          0.75         8,654         1979/80      8,897                         8,900
1980         27,902,060           12,186          0.75         9,140         1980/81      9,221                           -
1981         28,711,050           12,403          0.75         9,302         1981/82      9,248                           -
1982         29,519,560           12,258          0.75         9,194         1982/83      9,191                           -
1983         29,569,560           12,249          0.75         9,187         1983/84      9,692                           -
1984              "               13,594          0.75        10,196         1984/85    10,300                            -
1985              "               13,870          0.75        10,403         1985/86    10,259                            -
1986                              13,486          0.75        10,115         1986/87      9,920                           -
1987                              12,965          0.75         9,724         1987/88      9,587
1988                              12,600          0.75         9,450         1988/89      9,840
1989              "               13,638          0.75        10,229         1989/90    10,295
1990                              13,814          0.75        10,361         1990/91    10,244                            -
1991                              13,503          0.75        10,127         1991/92      9,970                           -
1992                              13,803          0.75         9,812         1992/93      9,677                           -
1993                              12,721          0.75         9,541         1993/94      9,931                           -
1994                              13,760          0.75        10,320         1994/95    10,344                            -                 m
1995                              13,823          0.75        10,367                                                                        X
1/   Conversion from parchment coffee to clean coffee: factual from 1976 to 1980; projected from 1981.
2/   Calendar year January 1st to December 1st.
3/   OCIBU Seasonal Year, from June 1st to May 31st of the following year.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Projected Production of Arabica Coffee in the Ngozi Province
Period              Clean Coffee - Five Year Moving Average                  Index
(Tons)                         100 = 1976-1981
1976-1981                                8,161                                100
1977-1982                                8,542                                105
1978-1983                                8,849                                108
1979-1984                                9,095                                111
1980-1985                                9,404                                115
1981-1986                                9,656                                118
1982-1987                                9,819                                120
1983-1988                                9,925                                122
1984-1989                                9,978                                122
1985-1990                                9,984                                122
1986-1991                                9,976                                122
1987-1992                                9,978                                122
1988-1993                                9,996                                122
1989-1994                               10,014                                123
1990-1995                               10,032                                123
1991-1996                               10,033                                123



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam
Mqnthly Values - (US  per lb)
1980
Coffee Category                     Jan      Feb      Mar    Apr      May          Jun     Jul         Aug       Sept       Oct      Nov      Dec    Annual
Aver rge
Guatemalan Prime Washed    3    157.4   177.5   174.0   184.1   175.5    148.9              129.3    119.2    119.3        107.7   114.1   120.6    147.4
(C.P.W.)
Burundi PW.AA)                       -        -        -        -        -       186.2      178.42/  122.41/  122.41/        -        -        -      160.2
Burundi PW.A )
Burundi OCIBU 3A)                                      -      149.8      -      (160.0)    166.4    148.6    112.3         102.1      -     106.9    139.6
Burundi OCIBU 3B)
G.P'W.
Ratio   3A/3B                        _        _        -        1.23    -          0.93       0.78      0.80      1.06       1.05    -         1.13      1.06
PW.AA/A
Ratio   G.P.W.                       _-                                  -         1.25       1.38      1.03      1.03       -        -        -         1.09
Ratio   PW.AA/A                                        - -  _   _                  1.16       1.07      0.82      1.09       _ -          -              1.15
3A73B                                      ___ 
1/   Long forward contract to unspecified E.E.C. Destination at US f 122.4 per lb.
2/                                                                    I  US k 137.8 Der lb together with FW.A to Finland at US  183.3 per lb.
3/   G.P.W. as C.I.F. New York less US 4 7.0 per lb Transport, handling and insurance to F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam.
D Ox
SOURCE:  OCIBU/ECC                                                                                                  



- 73 -                     Annex XV
Table 2
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COFFEE PRICE DIFFERENTIALS
SUMMARY OF DIFFERENTIAL RATIOS BY CATEGORY OF COFFEE
Year        Month              Ratio          Ratio          Ratio
G.P.W.         FW.A          FW.A
3A/3B          3A            G.P.W.
1980      January
1980      February
1980      March                   _
1980      April                   1.23           _              _
1980      May                     _              _              _
1980      June                   0.93           1.16           1.06
1980      July                   0.78           1.07           1.20
1980      August                 0.80           0.82           0.95
1980      September              1.06           1.09           1.03
1980      October                1.05            -              -
1980      November                _
1980      December                1.13           -              -
Annual Average         1.06           1.15           1.09
1980      Moving Average         1.05           1.15           1.10



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam
Monthly Values - (US $ per lb)
1979
Coffee Category                     Jan      Feb      Mar    Apr       May         Jun      Jul        Aug       Sept          Oct        Nov        Dec    Annual
Average
Guatemalan Prime Washed    3    116.15  123.58  132.11  143.04  186.49   197.19    191.11   201.36   202.99                   199.14    186.53    161.40   166.80
(G.P.W.)
Burundi PW.MA)                       -        -        -        -        -       193.36    184.43   187.03   186.341/    174.871/  174.871/    -              188.58
(196.78)2/ _/
Burundi PW.A )
Burundi OCIRU 3A)                     _       _        _        _        _       147.19    145.41   170.82   171.71           175.06    167.60    155.42   163.26
Burundi OCIRU 3B)
G.P.W.
Ratio   3A/3B                                                                      1.34        1.31     1.18       1.18         1.14       1.11       1.04      1.02
PW.AA/A                       _        _       _        _        _         0.98        0.96      0.93      0.92 1/      0.881/    0.941/    -           1.13
Ratio  G.P.W.                                                                                                    (0.97)2/
Ratio   PW.AA/A                       _       _        _        _        _         1.31        1.26     1.09       1.09 1t      1.002/    1.012/    -           1.16
3AF3B                                                                                                  (1.15)Z/                                      (1.20)
1/   Small lots of coffee (approx1mately 50 bags/month) sold under advance contract to E.E.C. (Unspecified).
2/   500 bags sold to Finland at 196.78 US 4 per lb.
3/   Guatemalan Prime Washed C.I.F. New York less US  6.0 per lb Transport, handling, insurance to F.0.B. Dar-es-Salaam.
mx*S



- 75 -                           Annex XV
Table 4
BIJRUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COFFEE PRICE DIFFERENTIALS
SUMMARY OF DIFFERENTIAL RATIOS BY CATEGORY OF COFFEE
Year         Month              Ratio          Ratio          Ratio
G.P.W.         FW.A           FW.A
3TW             3A            G.P.W.
1979      January
1979      February
1979      March
1979      April
1979      May                      _               _              _
1979      June                    :L.34          1.31            0.98
1979      July                    1.31           1.26            0.96
1979      August                  1.18           1.09            0.93
1979      September               1.18           1.09            0.97
1979      October                 l.14           1.00            0.88
1979      November                1.11           1.04            0.94
1979      December                :l.04           _               _
Annual Average          1.02           1.16           1.13
1979      Moving Average          1.05            1.14           1.12



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Monthly Values - (US  per lb)
1978
|Ctategory of Coffee c-              Jan      Feb      Mar    Apr       May         Jun      Jul         Aug   .  Stpt           Oct        Nov        Dec    Anvaral
Category of Coffee  Jan  Feb                                                                                   Dec   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Average
I - ___  __ ____                   ____ _                          ___ ______                                         _______                                    - _ _ _ _  _____
Guatemalan Prime Washed    1    199.13  190.03  166.06  171L08  164.50   162.41               128.55   132.61    149.23         148>06     140.35    124.59   156.38
Burunodi Fully Washed AA      2       -        -        -        -        -          -           -                   -             -          -   _
BSurundi Fully Washed A       2   _-                                      -       155.14    115oO0    125.00   146.36                                   -       139.87
flurundi OCIBU 3A             2        .       _        _        _      141.56   135.70    103.42   105e47   138.80            140.59      131.87     130.00   124.32
Burundi OCIBU 3B              2       _                                        -          -          -          -                  -          -         -       124.54
Ratio   3A                    3       _           _        _              1.16       1.20       1.24      1.26      1.08          1.05       1.06       0.96      1.13       1
Ratio   CPW                                                                          -          -          -           -          -           -                     -
FW,AA                         _        _         .       _        _          -          -          -         -             _          _
Ratio   GPW| 
Ratio  PA.A                   3                                                      0 _  _  _  _  _.96  0.80  0.94  0.98     |          |                        0.92
Ratio  PWA.AA                 3                                  -                    114       1.11      1.19      1.05      |                -        -          1.12
3A
From ICO values CIF New York less 5.5 per lb for conversion to FOB.
2    Unit values provided by OCIBU.
3.   Average monthly ratios.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Monthly Values - (US $ per lb)
1977
Category of Coffee                 Jan      Feb     Mar    Apt       May         Jun     Jul        Aug       Sept         Oct        Nov        Dec    Annual
Average
Guatemalan Prime Washed    1    213.75  240.59  299.32  312.86  280.26   257.14    217.97   196.52   183.81               162.63    190.47    197.62   299.40
Burundi Fully Washed AA    2        -        -        -       -        -         -           -    (148.26)      -            -          -        -      [148.26]
Burundi Fully Washed A       2      _-                                           -           -    (141.69)      _-                                -     [141.49]
RBurundi1 OCIRIT 3A          2      _ -          -        -            -       281.00    282.15   265.30        _      -          -               -     (276.15)
Burundi OCIRU 3B             2    200.67  227.47  297.46    -          -       292.14    287.20   284.03        -            _          _               (264.83)      -
G.P.W.
Ratio     3A                 3      -        -        -       -        -         0.92       0.77     0.74       _      -           -              -       (0.81)
Ratio   G.P.W.
3B.               3       1.07    1.06    1.01    -         -         0.88       0.76     0.69       _      -           -              -       (0.91)
FW.AA
Ratio  G.P.W.                3       _ -         -        -        -             -          -       (0.75)      _      -           -              -        10.751
Ratio  F.W.A.                3      _-                                                       -      (0.72)      _      -           -              -        [0.721
G.P.W.
Ratio  PW.AA/A               3       _-                                                      -      (0.56)      _-                                -        [0.56]
3A
From I.C.O. values CIF New York less 5.0 per lb for conversion to FOB Dar-es-Salaas equivalent.
2    FOB Dar-es-Salaam - unit values provided by OCIBU.
[    Fully washed coffee sold to USA at half the unit value of current semi-washed unit values; these results have been excluded from the total averages. '-
Average January to August 1977.                                                                                                                                  a
3    Average monthly ratios.



- 78 -                                       Annex XV
Table 7
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY OF DIFFERENTIAL RATIOS BY CATEGORY OF COFFEE
Year         Month               Ratio          Ratio          Ratio           Ratio
G.P.W.         G.P.W.         FW.A            FW.A.
3A            3B              3A           G.P.W.
1977      January                                 1 1.07           -
1977      February                  _             1.06             _
1977      March                     _             1.01             _
1977      April                     _              _
1977      May                       _              _
1977      June                     0.92           1.88             _
1977      Juily                    0.77           0.76            -               _
1977      August                   0.74           0.69           0.56            0.72
1977      September                 _              _               _              _
1977      October
1977      November
1977      December                  -              -                              _
Annual Average          0.81           0.91           (0.56)          0.72
1977      Moving Average           1.05           1.07                     J     0.72
1978      January                   _              _               _
1978      February                  _              _
1978      March                     _              _
1978      April                     _              _
1978      May                      1.16            -               -              _
1978      June                     1.20            -              1.14           0.66
1978      July                     1.24            -             1.11            0.80
1978      August                   1.26            -              1.19           0.94
1978      September                1.08            -              1.05           0.94
1978      October                  1.05            -               -              _
1978      November                 1.06            -               _
1978      December                 0.96            -               -              _
Annual Average          1.13            -              1.12           0.92
1978      Moving Average           1.06            -              1.12           1.00
(  )  The FW.A of 1977 was sold at an inexplicably low price to the USA, approximately
50% of the corresponding OCIBU 3B unit value.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT . CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COPLETIONI REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Monthly Values
1976
Category of Coffee                  Jan      Feb     Mar    Apr       May         Jun     Jul         Aug       Sept         Oct       Nfov        Dee    An=mal
___  ___      . _____il  _                                                                                                 _   __
Guatemalan Prime Washed    1        87.80   94.21   94,52  117.36  130,49   144.58    132.24   148.73   154.33              168.41    177.72    201.77   137.68
Burundi Fully Washed AA      2   _   _           _   _-                         -          -         -        -               -
Burundi Fully Washed A       2       -        _  -                              138.88    139.00   138.74         -            -          -^        -      138.87
Burundi OCIBU 3A             2       _        -                -        -        89,84,    92.05   101.52   117.75          130.65    150-26    201.77   126,25)   1
BSruvudi OCIBU 3B            2      81.08           _         87.95       _      97.22    110,39   114e23   143.23          142.21    171.00                125.35)
G,Pw.W
Ratio      3A                3   _   _           -             -          _       1.61       1.44      1.47      1,32         1.29       1,18       1.00      1.33
Ratio   G.P.W.
3B                3       1.08    _        _        1.33               1.49       1.20      1,30      1,08     |   1.18       1.04       1.12     1.20
-V. AA
Ratio  G.P.W.                3       _        _          _     _                       -                -         - _  _3
Datio  F.W.A.                3                -        -                          0.96       1.05      0.93       -                                            .9 
Ratio  PW.AA/A               3                                                    1.3 1-  -      26    1.21
I    From I.C.O. values CIF New York less 5.0 per 1D for conversion to FOB Dar-es-Salaam equivalent.
2    FOB Dar-es-Salaam - unit values provided by OCIBU.
3    Average monthly ratios.
G 4
a'2



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Monthly Values - (US + per lb)
1975
Category of Coffee                 Jan      Feb     Mar    Apr       May         Jun     Jul        Aug       Sept         Oct        Nov       Dec    Anu Ial
I              ~~~~Av=erg
Guatemalan Prime Washed    1       51.34   48.97   45.55   43.14   46.35    51.44          61.17    79.98    76.98         75.89      73.02      78.75    60.92
Burundi Fully Washed AA    2        -        -        -       -        -        45.18        -        -       77.30          -          -        _        61.24
Burundi Fully Washed A       2      -       53.99    -        -        -        44.05        -        -       76.16        76.20        -        -        62.60
Burundi OCIRU 3A             2      -       50.99    -        -        -        53.91        -        -       73.74        73.83        -        -        60.62
Burundi OCIRU 3B             2      -       47.99    -        -        -        43.92        -        -       71.24        72.79        -        -        58.99
G.P.W.                                                                                                                                                      0
Ratio     3A                 3       -       0.96    -        -        -         1.17        -        -        1.04         1.03        -         -        1.05     o
Ratio   G.P.W.
3B                3       -       1.02    -         -       -         1.17        -        -        1.07         1.04        -         -        1.08
NW.AA
Ratio  G.P.W.                3      -        -        -       _        _         0.88       _         -        1.01          -          _         _        0.95
Ratio  F.W.A.                3       -       1.10    -        _        _         0.86        _        -        1.00         1.00        _         _        0.99
GE.P.W
Ratio  PW.AA/A               3       _       1.06    -        _        _         1.03        _        -        1.05         1.03              _    _        1.04
3A
I    From I.C.O. values CIF New York less $4.5 per lb to convert from CIF New York to fob Dar-es-Salaam equivalent.
2    FOB Dar-es-Salaam - unit values provided by OCIBU.
3    Average monthly ratios.
Ct



- 81 -                               Annex XV
Table 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COFFEE PRICE DIFFERENTIALS
Suzmary of Differential Ratios by Category of Coffee
Ratio          Ratio          Ratio
G.P W.         G.P.W.         FW.A           FW.A.
3A            3B              3A          C.P.W.
1975      January          1           _       _
1975      February                0.96           1.02           1.06           1.10
1975      March                    -             1.01            -              _
1975      April                    _
1975      May                      - _            _              _
1975      June                    1.17           1.17           1.03           0.88
1975      July                                                  10             0 8 
1975      August                   -       _        _
1975      September               1.04           1.07           1.05           1.G1
1975      October                 1.03           1.04           1.03           1.00
1975      November                10-            1_0                           1.0
1975      December                 _              _              _              _
Annual Average         1.05           1.08           1.04           1.00
1975      Moving Average          1.02           1.05           1.05           1.06
= -~I=-- _ ____ _                                   _t _      _.
1976      January                  -             1.08    4
1976      February                 _              _
1976      March                    -              -
1976      April                    -             1.33
1976      May                      -              -
1976      June                    1.61           1.49           1.43           0.96
1976      July                    1.44           1.20           1.26           1.05
1976      August                  1.47           1.30           1.21           0.93
1976      September               1.31           1.08            -              -
1976      October                 1.29           1,18            -              _
1976      November                 1.18          1.04            - _
1976      December                1.00           1.12            -    
Annual Average          1.33           1.20           1.30           0.98
1976      Moving Average          1.06           1.10           1.11           1.04
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ __,



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT : CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Monthly Values - (US t per lb)
1974
Category of Coffee                 Jan      Feb      Mar    Apr'   May           Jun     Jul        Aug       Sept         Oct        Nov       Dec    Anmargl
Average
Guatemalan Prime Washed    1       64.92   70.19   66.96   65.80   66.52    67.51          64.59    58.05    50.08         52.31      54.85      54.29    61.35
Burundi Fully Washed AA    2        -        -        -       -                  -           -        -         -            -          -        56.99    56.99
Burundi Fully Washed A       2     44.32   69.60    _-                                 -              -         -            -          -         -       69.60
Burundi OCIRU 3A             2     57.48   70.70    -         _        _        72.82     70.49    66.51    57.76          50.47      49.33      49.48    60.55
Burundi OCIRU 3B             2     57.26   65.89    _         -                  -        60.75    54.61    55.50          48.45      47.46     46.55    54.56
G.P.W.
Ratio     3A                 3       1.13    0.99    _        _        _         0.93       0.92     0.87      0.87         1.04       1.11       1.10     0.99      o
Ratio   G.P.W.
3B                3       1.13    1.07    _        _        _         _          1.06     1.06      0.90         1.08       1.16       1.17     1.08
FW.AA
Ratio  G.P.W.                3      _-                         -                            -         -         -            -          -         1.05     1.05
Ratio  F.W.A.                3      0.68    0.99    _         _        _          _          _        _         _            _                    -        0.99
G.P.W.
Ratio  PW.AA/A               3      0.77    0.98      -       _        _          _          _        _         _           _           _        1.15      0.98
3A
1    From I.C.O. value CIF New York less t4.5 per lb for transport and insurance to convert from CIF New york to
to FOB Dar-es-Salaam equivalent.
2    FOB Dar-es-Salaam - unit values provided by OCIBU.
3    Average monthly ratios.                                                                                                                                         I 
ax 



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Monthly Values - (US + per lb)
1972
Category of Coffee                  Janr    Feb      Mar    Apr       May         Jun     Jul         Aug      Sept          Oct        Nov       Dec    Annuale
l                                ~~~~~~~~~~Average
_____ _...____  ____ _ __._                                                  _._____ ___  _      I
Guatemalan Prime Washed             44.93   45.33   46.18   45.81   47.03    48.53          56.07    54.47    53.01          53.43      53.76      55.20      7
(Spot New York)
Ratio OCIBU 3A               1      41.5    41.1    40.3       -        -        43.3       44.1      48.3     51.4          52.1       53.4        _       46.17
Ratio G.P.E.                 2       1.00    1.10    1.15    -          _         1.12       1.27      1.13      1.03         1.03       1.01                 1.10
Burundi 3A               -                                                                                                      -
F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam plus USf4.0 per lb to convert to CIF New York equivalent.
Source OCIEU 1972 Annual Report.
2    Average monthly ratios.
1973
Guatemalan Prime Washed    1        47.OOt  50. 00   54.00   52.00   47.99         i 54.99  57.48    57.00    55.48          51.13         67      5378T
Burundi Fully Washed AA    2         _   -        -            -               -        -         -                -                   4                    52.29
Burundi Fully Washed A       2       -        -       -        -        -         -           -         -         -          59.08      59.15      59.11    59.10
Burundi OCIBU 3A             2       -        -       -        -        -         -           -_        -         -          55.02      55.82     56.86    55.20
BuruDdi OCIBU 3B             2  |        -        -        -        -             -           -         -         -          54.06      54.53      57,16    55.25
G.P.W.
Ratio      3A                3       -   -        -        -        -        -          -          -              -           0.93       0.85       0.95      0.91
Ratio   G.P.W.
3B                3       -        -       -        -        -         -           -         -_        -           0.95       0.87|   0.941    0.92
FW.AA
Ratio  G.P.W.                3  |    _          _ -        -        -         -         -         -                            -          -_         -        -
Ratio  F.W.A.                3       -        -       -        -        - _                   - _  _                          1.14       1.25       1.09      1.16
G.P.W.
Ratio  PW.AA/A               3  |-                              -         -        -         -                                 -         1.061   1.04         1.06
_ _ _    3  __  _ _   __                                  I_                                 _    -_  __    I _ __  _    -_    _    _ _  _ _    -- - - I _ _    I    - _
I    From I.C.O. value CIF New York converted to F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam by deduction of USt4.0 per lb.
2    Unit values obtained from OCIEU; F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam.
3    Average monthly ratios.



- 84 -
ANNEX XV
Table 13
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Differential Ratios by Category of Coffee
Year         Month            Ratio           Ratio         Ratio        Ratio
G.P.W.         G.P.W.        F.W.A.       F.W.A.
3A             3B             3A         G.P.W
1973       January              -              -              -             -
1973       February             -              -              -             -
1973       March                -              -              -             -
1973       April                -             -               -             -
1973       May                  -             -               -             -
1973       June                 -             -               -             -
1973       July                 -             -               -             -
1973       August               -              -              -
1973       September            -              -              -
1973       October              0.93          0.95            1.07          1.14
1973       November             0.85           0.87           1.06          1.25
1973       December             0.95           0.94           1.04          1.09
Annual Average      0.91           0.92           1.06          1.16
1973       Moving Average       1.03           0.92           1.06          1.16
1974       January              1.13           1.13           0.77 1/       0.68 1/
1974       February             0.99           1.07           0.98          0.99
1974       March                -              -              -              -
1974       April                -              -
1974       May                  -              -
1974       June                 0.93           -              -             -
1974       July                 0.92           1.06           -             -
1974       August               0.87           1.06           -             -
1974        September           0.87           0.90           -             -
1974       October              1.04           1.08           -             -
1974       November             1.11           1.16           -             -
1974       December             1.10           1.17           1.15          1.05
Annual  Average    1.00            1.08           1.07          1.02
197        Moving Average       1.02           1.04           1.06          1.10
1/ Probably erroneous value since out of context with remaining unit values.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Monthly Values - USc per lb)
1969
Category of Coffee              Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    July    Aug    Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec    Annual
Average
Guatemalan Prime Washed
(Spot New York)                37.36  37.96  37.38  36.69  36.55  35.87  35.03   36.85   40.93  47.18  46.35   47.45   39.63
Burundi OCIRU 3A           1   36.99   -        -       -       -      34.2   36.0    36.7    40.9   46.7    -             -       38.58
Ratio   G.P.W.
Burundi 3A        2    1.01   -        -       -               1.05   0.97    1.00    1.00   1.01   -             -        1.01
1970
Guatemalan Prime Washed
(Spot New York)                51.57  51.95  53.12  54.56  55.20  54.71  54.98   53.66   52.63  50.72  46.42   44.09   51.97
Burundi OCIRU 3A           1    -       -       -       -       -      55.2   56.3    55.5    53.2   50.1   46.8    44.8    51.70
Ratio G.P.W.               2    -       -       -       -       -       0.99   0.98    0.97    0.99   1.01   0.99    0.98    0.99
Burundi 3A
1971
Guatemalan Price Washed
(Spot New York)                45.33  44.47  45.95  44.85  46.15  45.42  45.01   45.59   43.74  42.77  43.78   46.30   44-95
Burundi OCIRU 3A          1    44.2   43.3    -        45.5    -       44.3   43.8    41.7        -      41.0   41.2    42.5    43.06
Ratio G.P.W.              2      1.03   1.03   -        0.99   -        1.03   1.03    1.00    -          1.04   1.06    1.00    1.04
1   F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam plus US c 3.5 per lb to convert to C.I.F. New York equivalent.
Source OCIBU - Annual Report.
2   Average monthly ratios.



-86 -
ANNEX XV
Table 15
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Summary of Differential Ratios by Category of- Coffee
Year         Month             Ratio          Ratio         Rat:io        Ratio
G.P.W.         G.P.W.        F.W.A.        F.W.A.
3A             3B             3A          G.P.W.
1969        January              1.01
1969        February             -
1969       March
1969        April
1969       May                   -
1969        June                 1.05
1969        July                 0.97                                        -
1969        August               1.00                                        -
1969        September            1.00                                        -
1969       October               1.01                                        -
1969       November              -
1969        December             -
Annual Average       1.01          -
1969       Moving Average        1.010         -
1970        January              -             -
1970        February             -             -               -             -
1970       March                 -             -               -             -
1970        April                -             -               -             -
1970       May                   -             -               -             -
1970        June                 0.99          -               -             -
1970        July                 0.98          -               -             -
1970        August               0.97          -               -             -
1970        September            1.01          -               -             -
1970        October              1.01          -               -             -
1970        November             0.99          -               -             -
1970        December             0.98          -               -             -
Annual Average        0.99         -               -             -
1970       Moving Average        0.996         -               -             -



- 87 -
ANNEX XV
Table 16
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coffee Price Differentials
Suimmary of Differential Ratios by Category of Coffee
Year         Month             Ratio          Ratio         Ratio         Ratio
G.P.W.         G.P.W.        F.W.A.        F.W.A.
3A             3B             3A         G.P.W.
1971        Janury               1.03
1971        February             1.03
1971       March                 -
1971        April                0.99 
1971       May                   -
1971        June                 1.03 
1971        July                 1.03,
1971       August                1.09
1971        September            -             -
1971        October              1.04          -
1971       November              1.06          -
1971        December             1.09          -
Annual Average       1.04          -
1971       Moving Average        1.015         -
1972        January              1.08          -               -             -
1972        February             1.10          -               -             -
1973       March                 1.15          -               -             -
1973        April                -             -               -             -
1973       May                   -             -               -
1973        June                  .12          -               -             -
1973        July                 1.27          -               -             -
1973        August               1.13          -               -             -
1972        September            1.03          -               -             -
1972        October              1.03          -               -             -
1972        November             1.01          -               -             -
1972        December             -             -               -             -
Annual Average       1.10          -
1972       Moving Average        1.04          -               -             -



- 88 -                                   ANNEX XVI
Table 1
Page 1
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 593:BU
PROJECT OOMPLETION REPORT
Economic Producer Price Calculations 1/ (for clean coffee)
(BuF/ton)
1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81
FOB Price. Dar-es-Salaam
(current terms)                235,182       478,799    241,571       318,456      278,077
FOB Price. DSM 2/
(1980 constant terms)          389,374       729,876    311,302       358,218      278,077
Less: Marketing and
Processing Costs
(current erms)            35,054       34,357      37,954       42,268        57,980
Marketing and Processing
Costs (1980 constant
terms) 3/                        60,752       53,266      53,911       47,706       57,938
= Difference
(current terms)               200,128      444,442    203,617        276,189      220,139
= Difference
(1980 constant terms)         328,622       676,610    257,391       310,512      220,139
Economic Producer Price
(current term - equivalent    142,891         323,998    150,260       207,417      164,223
parchment coffee)               (71.4)       (72.9)      (73.8)       (75.1)        (74.6)
Economic Producer Price          234,636      493,248    189,954       233,194       164,223
(1980 constant terms -
equivalent parchment
coffee)                          (71.4)       (72.9)      (73.0)       (75.1)        (71.6)
Economic Producer Price              235          493         190           233          164
Budget - 1980 (constant terms)
Actual Financial Producer             65          112         112           115          115
Price BuF/kg - current terms)
Actual Financial Producer
Price
BuF/kg - 1980 constant terms         113          173          150          129          115
1/ Based on actual prices and costs.
2/ Index of International Inflation used. World Bank - Commodity Price Forecasts,
Nov. 12, 1980.
3/  Using GDP deflator as follows:   1980    1979   1978   1977   1976
100    88.6   70.4   64.5   57.7



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 593:BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Producer Price Calculations 1/ (for clean coffee)
(BuF/ton)
1990/91-
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86         1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1995/96-
FOB DSM) 1/                      245,000   225,000   236,000   246,000   257,000   262,000   266,000   272,000    278,000   282,000
Shadow priced at 20X             294,000   270,000   283,200   295,200   308,400   314,400   319,200   326,400    333,600   338,400
Less: Marketing and
Processing  Costs         58,000    58,000    58,000    58,000    58,000    58,000    58,000    58,000              58,000    58,000
(60% of 11 and P costs
shadow priced at 20%)             64,960    64,960    64,960    64,960    64,960    64,960    64,960    64,960             64,960    b4,960
- Difference (shadow
priced items)                  229,040   205,040   218,240   230,240   243,440   249,440   254,240   261,440    268,640   273,440    '
Economic Producer Price
(equivalent parchment
coffee at 75% conversion
ratio)                          171,780   153,780   163,680   172,680   162,580   187,080   190,680   196,080    201,480   205,080
Economic Producer Price              172        154        164        173         183        187        191        196         201        205
(BuF/kg)
1/ See Annex XVII.
P3 lb1
0| a.



ANNEX XVI
Tabi  2
-90 -
BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations -   ricultural Services Component
(In 1980 contract term - EuF '000)
YEARS              1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1996     1987      1988      19o9   1990-2UUU
Profits
incremental coffee
prodoction 1/            -       315    2,317    3,528    1,790    3,652    3,502    3,406    4,811    5,217    4,733    4,212    3,047    1,665   u,c9-
Economic Producer
Price 2/                 -      493       190       233      164       172 3/   154       164       173      lb3       187       i91      196       zoUl     05
Total Benefits           -  155,295  440,230  822,024  785,560  620,144  539,770  573,344  837,493  954,711  655,071  bO4,492  250,012  981,665 962,0b6
Costs 3/
Development Costo  17,202   19,034   37,818   23,724   26,636   34,720 4/          -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -       _
Replacement Costa 5/    -          -        -         -        -         -   14,940   14,940   14,940   14,940   14,948   14,94U   14,940   14,94U  14,9'U
Operating Costs 6/ 62,204  194,847  153,563  176,568  178,850  193,100 7. 193,100 193,100 193,400  193,100  186,U60  180,060  186,060  168,U60 .60,u00
Insecticides
Costs 7/            31,716   36,974   25,770   32,418   32,016   32,016   38,400 8/ 38,400  38,400   38,400   38,400   38,428   36,400   38,u00  38,4UU
Techninal Asois-
tance Costs/
Washing Stations 8/ 4,200    4,200    4,200    4,200    4,200    5,040 3/ 5,040    5,040    5,040    5,040               -
TOTAL OOSTS        129,582  216,655  212,581  228,510  233.332  261,180  241,400  241,400  241,400  241,400  241,400  241,460  241,400  241,4UO 241,4UU
Net Benefits
(Costs)           (129,982) (91,360) 227,279  593,514  552,229  366,564  298,310  331,944  596,093  713,311  643,671  563,292  512,t12  742,485 724_465
Internal Rate of Return L   1052
Footnotes
1/  See Anneo XI and XII.  Clean coffee produced during period 1976-1980 was converted into equivalent of pacomnnl: cf'e  by  hich nactul
percentage of hulling losses.  For projection period 1981-2000 hulling cost of 25% woo assumed.
2!  See Annex XVI.
3!  Foreign exchange elements         low pricnd from 1981 onwards at 20% morn than thn current eschange rate (US$1-90).  Project bhnefito at 10X
development costs at 652 operating costs at 40%, insecticides costs at 105%, technical assistasce at 1000.
4/  -ctual price c000.  as pr-jeeted in Annex VIII and IX expressed in 1980 constant tenos uciog the GDP deflator as followed:
1980    1979    1978    1977    1976
100     68.3    70.4    64.5    57.7
5/  Replacement costs include vehicles, equipment and other materials to be replaced after five years.  Replaceen  -cost were calculated as an
average annual basis. All infrastructure facilities are ecpected to last beyond the 25 projection uiod.
6/ It is assumed that personnel costs will gradually be reduced after 1981. However, savingo oo perennial cocst are expected to be offret by
increased use of fertiliners, which will be required to keep coffee yield. at levels as used io sbove projec-sanc.
7/  Insecticides costs covered by OCIBU budget.
8/ Includes in operating coats of the Project.



ANNEX XVII
Table 1
BURUNDI
Second Coffee Improvement Project: Credit 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Alternative Price Data for Sensitivity Analysis
of IRR of Agricultural Sources 1/
Economic Price       Revised Economic         Revised Net
in PCR               Price /2               Benefits
-------------------------BFu/000/ton------------------
1.    1976                  235                   235 3/             - 129,982
2.    1977                 493                    306                - 221,257
3.    1978                  190                   305                - 111,386
4.    1979                  233                   196                  - 8,010
5.    1980                  164                   189                  101,576
6.    1981                  172                   163                   63,353
7.    1982                  154                   163                   54,282
8.    1983                  164                   164                   59,540
9.    1984                  173                   173                  308,740
10.   1985                  183                   181                  402,236
11.   1986                  187                   184                  323,848
12.   1987                  191                   187                  235,637
13.   1988                  196                   196                  187,056
14.   1989                  201                   201                  406,423
15.   1990-2000             205                   205                  366,015
Revised ERR                                                       (or 19.6)
1/    Source:  Annex XVI and Tables I and 2.
2/    Three-year moving average.
3/    Same data used due to lack of adequate time series for prior years.
4/    19.6% if benefits for 1978 onward are calculated at the lower PCR
indicated prices.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations - Agricultural Services Component
(In 1980 contract term)
YEARS               1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985     1986      1987      1988      1989   1990-2000
F_____ ________--__-----------------------------------------------FBu '000-------------------------------_-_________________-__
Profits
Incremental coffee
production 1/(tons of   -          83       333    1,125    1,772    1,991    1,814    1,835    3,180    1,556    3,072    2,551    2,186    3,224   2,963
parchment coffee)
Economic Producer
Price 2/                  -       293       190      233       164       172 3/   154        164       173       183       187       191       196      201      205
Total Benefits            -   10,919   63,270  262,125  290,608  342,452  279,356  300,940  550,140  650,748  574,464  487,241  428,156  647,623 607,415
Costs 4/
Development Costs  17,202   19,034   37,818   23,724   26,666   34,720 5/            -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -       -
Replacement
Costs 6/             62,204  194,847  153,563  176,568  178,830  193,100 7/ 193,100 193,100 193,100  193,100  188,060  188,060  188,600  188,600 188,600
Insecticides
Costs 8/            *31,776   36,974   25,770   32,418   32,016   38,400 8/ 38,400  38,400   38,400   38,400   38,400   38,400   38,400   38,400  38,400
-Technical ABsis-
tance Costs/
Washing Station 8/ 4,200    4,200    4,200    4,200    4,200    5,040 3/ 5,040    5,040    5,040    5,040                   -         -         -         -        -
TOTAL COSTS        129,982  246,655  212,953  228,510  233,320  261,180  241,180  142,400  241,400  241,400  241,40-  241,400  241,400  241,400 241,400
See Benefits
(Costs)           (129,982) (205,736) (149,681) 33,615  57,276   81,272   37,956   59,540  308,740  104,348  333,064  245,841  187,056  406,123 366,015
Internal Rate of Return - 245
For footnotes, please see Annex XIX
Source:  Annex Xv.



BURUNDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis - Washing Stations
Historical Price Differentials - F.O.B. Dar-es-Salaam
TABLE A                                           TABLE B
Coffee Category           1976      1977      1978      1979      1980    1976       1977     1978      1979      1980
1. Guatemalan Prime
Washed F.O.B.Dar-
es-Salaam
(USc per kg)           330.1    505.5    346.5    367.8        325.0   303.1   505.5        346.5    367.8   325.0
2.  Burundi Fully
Washed AA/A
(USc per kg)           306.3    322.81/  309.5    415.8        353.2   306.3   607.51/   308.5    415.8   353.2
3.  Burundi ICIBU 3A/18
(USc per kg)           277.4    595.0    274.3    359.9        307.3   277.4   595.6        274.2    359.9   307.8
4.  Differential-Fully
Washed minus OCIBU
3A/3B (US c per kg)   28.9   -272.8         34.2      55.9       45.4    28.9    11.9        34.2      55.9    45.4
5.  Differential-Fully
Washed 2/ minus OCIBU
2A/23 in constant 1980
US Dollars
(USc per kg)          47.8   -415.9       44.1      62.9       45.4    47.8    16.1           44.1      62.9  45.4
6.  Differential & Fully
Washed minus OCIBU
3A/3B in constant
1980 Prices             42.54  -370.15    29.25    55.98         40.41   42.54   16.12       39.25    35.98   40.41          'OH
7.  Production Clean                                                                                                                .
Fully Washed Coffee                                                                                                            m > 
kg ('000) FVAA/A       265       335       450      1242        899      265     335        450      1242      899
8.  Total Differential
Benefit ('000)
constant 1980 prices 11,273 -124.000 17,662  69,327    35,328  11,273   5,400    17,662   69,327  36,523
1/  Realistic value of fully washed Burundi coffee during the very high overall coffee market prices of 1977, has been
assessed at a conservative 2% premium over the Burundi Semi Washed Coffees (OCIBU 3A/3B). In 1977, the Fully
Washed Project coffee was inexplicably sold by BEC to the USA at 1 unit value approximately 154 below the current
unit value for Burundi Semi-Washed Coffee.  Therefore figures in Table (B) were used in accurate rate of return
calculation.
2/  Converted to constant 1980 USDollars by applying International Price Index 1955-1980.  World Bank Commodity Price
Forecasts, November 1980.
3/  US$l.00 = BuF 89.0



BURU1WDI
SECOND COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: CREDIT 593-BU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis - Washing Stations
Price Projections - Guatemalan Prime Wshed - New York Spot (USC per Kg)
--Actual--      --------------------------Projected-----------------------------
1978   1979    1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
1. GPW Constant 1980 Dollars 1/           471    429       362   305   282   295    307  320   325   331   338   344    350
(USc per Kg) CIF New York
2. GPW FOB Dar-es-Salaam 2/
(Equiv. USc/kg)                                        346   289   266   279    291  304   309   315   322   328    334
3. BurundiOCIBU 3A/3B FOB 3/
Dar-es-Salaam
USc per Kg                                              329   275   253   265    27b  289   294   299   306   312    317
FBu per Kg                                              293   245   225   236    246  257   262   266   272   278    282
4. Burundi FAAA/A FOB 4/
Dar-es-Salaam
USc per Kg                                             378   316   291   305    317  332   338   344   352   359    365
FBU per Kg 5/                                           336   281   259   271    282  295   301   306   313
Difference (4 - 3) FBU/Kg                                43    36    34    35       36   38    39    40    41    42        43
(Price differential FWAA/A to ICRU
3A/3B)
1/ Source - World Bank - Commodities and Export Projections Division - November 12, 1980.
2/ Deduct USc 16.0 per Kg for transport, handling, insurance CIF New York to FOB Dar-es-Salaam.
3/ Presumed discount of 5% below GPW within the projected period (Average discount for past 13 years).
4/ Presumed premium of 15% above OCIRU 3A/3B over projected period (Average premium for past 3 years).
5/ Rate of BuF 89.0 per US$1.00.
00Er
1m -



