7-70
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 593 BU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Coffee Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 5, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 593 BU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Coffee Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSCCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 5, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By the Development Credit Agreement (Coffee Improvement
Project) dated April 11, 1969 between the Borrower and the Association
(hereinafter called the 1969 Credit Agreement) the Association made available to
the Borrower a Credit (hereinafter called the 1969 Credit) to assist the Borrower
in financing the project described in Schedule 2 to the 1969 Credit Agreement
(hereinafter called the 1969 Project);
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of Parts A, D, E, G(i), G(iii) through G(v) aid H of the second coffee improvement
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project)
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund) a loan (hereinafter
called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to one million two hundred
thousand dollars ($1,200,000) to assist in financing the other parts of the Project,
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kuwait
Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "OCIBU" means the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
established and operating under Royal Decree No. 001/464 dated June 18, 1964
and includes any successor thereto;
(b)   "ISABU" means Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi;
(c)   "Project Area" means the province of Ngozi; and
(d)   "Project" means the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million two hundred thousand
dollars ($5,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 3 1, 198 1 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the iprincipal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
January 15, 1986, and ending July 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ISABU to carry out Part C and
G(ii) of the Project and shall cause OCIBU to carry out the other Parts thereof
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction on the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall make available to OCIBU the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Parts G(7i), G(iii) through G(v) and H of the
Project, the  Borrower shall cause OCIBU       to  employ  consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Parts G(i) and G(iii) through G(v), of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause OCIBU to promptly appoint or maintain in
employment, in consultation with the Association, qualified and experienced
specialists as follows: a Project manager, a coffee processing officer, a construction
officer, a coffee extension officer, a food crop extension officer and an
administrative and accounting officer.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause OCIBU to consult with the Association prior
to making any further appointment to the positions referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section.


﻿6
Section 3.04. In order to review proposed work programs and budgets under
the Project and to monitor the progress of the Project, the Borrower shall establish
a coordinating committee, composed of the Ministers of Agriculture and Livestock,
of Finance, and of Planning or of their representatives, the President of the Bank
of the Republic or his representative, the Directors General of OCIBU and of
ISABU, the Governor of Ngozi province and the Project Manager.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall not later than January 31, 1976, or
such other date as the Association shall agree, cause OCIBU to establish an account
in a banking institution acceptable to the Association in which repayments by
farmers in the Project area of the cost of fertilizer and other inputs shall be
deposited.
(b)   The amounts deposited in the account referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section shall be used exclusively for the procurement and distribution in
the Project Area of agricultural inputs.
(c)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its comments not
later than December 31, 1979, or such other date as the Association shall agree,
a detailed plan for the recovery of input costs from farmers in the Project Area
and for the operation of the account referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
based on the experience gained in input repayment during the execution of the
Project and to be implemented upon completion of the Project.
(d)   Until such time as the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association
the plan referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall consult
with the Association, not less than once every yar, on the prices to be charged
to farmers for fertilizer and other inputs req6red for coffee and food crop
cultivation in order to ensure that farmers have adequate financial incentives to
use such inputs while paying a reasonable portion of the cost of such inputs.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the number of new coffee trees
planted in the Project Area in any calendar year does not exceed 4 percent of
the total number of coffee trees existing in the Project Area at the end of the
previous calendar year.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause OCIBU to formulate and furnish
to the Association not later than December 31, 1977, plans for coffee processing,
based on the experience gained in the operation of the four washing stations
constructed under the 1969 Project as well as the experience acquired under Parts
B and G(i) of the Project.


﻿7
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause OCIBU to maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) except for Parts
C and G(ii) thereof and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
*         proceeds of the Credit allocated to the said parts of the Project, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall cause ISABU to maintain records adequate
to record the progress of Parts C and G(ii) of the Project; (iii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documerts; and (iv) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause OCIBU to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition. Such accounts shall include separate
accounts for the Project.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower shall cause OCIBU to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its respective financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause OCIBU to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the works and facilities included in
the Project to be maintained in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering
and administrative practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided the funds,
facilities and resources therefor.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall provide the necessary funds and personnel
to provide agricultural extension and other technical services in the Project Area
after completion of the Project and shall at all times cause such services to be
made available to growers and processors through an adequate staff of officers
trained in techniques appropriate to the Project. For the purpose, OCIBU's Project
Department will be adequately staffed with trained personnel for the supervision
and execution of field work, and trained agricultural officers and field assistants
will be made available in adequate numbers from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, as and when required.
Section 4.05. The rate of taxe rdmundratoire on coffee exports shall be
adjusted from time to time by the Borrower to such levels as shall be necessary
to provide OCIBU with funds sufficient to cover its annual operating expenses
attributable to coffee. The Borrower shall inform the Association prior to any
change in the current procedures for assessing and collecting such tax.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿9
(a)   the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of OCIBU or for the suspension of its operations;
(b)   Royal decree No. 001/464 of the Borrower dated June 18, 1964 shall
have been amended, waived, suspended, abrogated or repealed in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of OCIBU to carry out the Project;
and
(c)(i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement, or
(B)   the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)       Subparagraph (i) of this par.agraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c)(i)B of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of


﻿10
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement has, or will concurrently with this Agreement, become fully effective.
Section 6.02. The date of March 31, 1976 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02
and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02(a) of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VH
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Boite Postale 1830
Bujumbura
Burundi
Cable address:
MINFIN
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s / Joseph Ndabaniwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)   Equipment, agricul-               500,000             100% of foreign
tural inputs (other                                   expenditures and
than fertilizers                                      70% of local ex-
and insecticides),                                    penditures
materials and ve-
hicles for Parts A,
D and G(i) and
G(iii) through
G(v) of the Project
(2)   Fertilizer and in-                600,000             100% of foreign
secticides for                                        expenditures and
Parts A and D of                                      70% of local ex-
the Project                                           penditures
(3)   Construction mater-               200,000             100% of foreign
ials, fixtures and                                    expenditures and
furniture for hous-                                   70% of local ex-
ing, offices and                                      penditures
stores under Part
A(iii) of the Pro-
ject
(4)   Civil works, inclu-               300,000             70%
ding housing, offices
and stores, under Part
A(iii) of the Project


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)   Livestock, materi-               200,000            100% of foreign
als, equipment and                                  expenditures and
agricultural inputs                                 70% of local ex-
for Part E of the                                   penditures
Project
(6)   Technical assis-               2,700,000            100% of foreign
tance (except under                                 expenditures and
Part G(ii) of the                                   70% of local ex-
Project), consul-                                   penditures
tants' services,
staff salaries and
other operating
costs
(7)   Unallocated                      700,000
TOTAL         5,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect


﻿14
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) on account of expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000;
(b) no withdrawals shall be made under Category (5) until the Borrower
shall have furnished to the Association a detailed plan acceptable to the Association
for the activities under Part E of the Project; and
(c)   no withdrawals shall be made for local expenditures with respect to
imported goods, other than for expenditures for transportation to the place of
use or installation of such goods (excluding in particular the cost of storage of
such goods and similar expenses).
5.    Notwithstanding   the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to support the development of smallholder
coffee and food production in the Project Area, consists of the following Parts:
(A)   The strengthening and expansion of input distribution and extension
services started under the 1969 Project including:
(i)         the  procurement   and   distribution  to  coffee growers of
production inputs;
(ii)        the strenghtening of extension services to coffee growers; and
(iii)       the construction of management housing, offices and stores.
(B)   Construction and equipping of four coff6e washing stations.
(C)   A  coffee research program covering selected subjects in agronomy,
entomology, phytopathology, pedology and microbiology and including the
equipping of the ISABU laboratories under construction at Bujumbura and the
construction of two houses for technical experts.
(D)   The provision of inputs, the conducting of field trials and the provision
of extension services for the production of food crops in the Project Area.
(E)   A pilot program in rural development including the improvement of
livestock production and the organization of cooperatives and other community
development activities.
(F)   The construction and/or rehabilitation of about 300 potable water
sources, and 300 bridges and culverts.
(G)   The utilization of technical assistance to:
(i)         assist in the operation of the four coffee washing stations
constructed under the 1969 Project and to conduct experiments
on alternative processing methods;
(ii)        conduct research on coffee cultivation;
(iii)       carry out field trials on food crops, soil conservation and
livestock development;


﻿16
(iv)        strengthen extension and farm  support services; and
(v)         provide in-service training.
(H)   The utilization of consultants' services to provide OCIBU and ISABU
assistance in the preparation of their annual work programs and to provide Project
management with assistance in solving technical problems arising in the execution
of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Fertilizer and insecticides shall be procured under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for similar items shall be grouped together for purposes of bidding.
3.    Goods other than fertilizer and insecticides shall be procured under the
Borrower's procedures.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Burundi may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Burundi if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods


﻿18
includes a value added in Burundi equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Burundi.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for the Project shall be carried out by force account.
D.    Review of E-ocurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000
or more.
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿19
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


