Report No. 453a-TA
Appraisal of Kigoma
Rural Development Project                                                        FILE COPY
Tanzania
July 15, 1974
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                       Tanzania Shilling 7.1 4 (Tsh)
Tshl.00                                      US$0.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)                                10 000 m2 . 2.46 acres
1 kilometer (km)                              0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kn2)                     0 0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                               2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                                   0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton      =                0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
KILIMO                                       Ministry of Agriculture
MAJI                                          Ministry of Water and Power
MAJI/K                                        Regional Water Engineers - Kigoma
NBC                                           National Bank of Commerce
MMC                                           National Milling Corporation
TANU                                          Tanganyika African National Union
TCA                                           Tanzania Cotton Authority
TRDB                                          Tanzania Rural Development Bank
Union                                        Kigoma Regional Cooperative Union
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   ...................       .....  i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION   .................................    1
II.    BACKGROUND  ........       .............................      2
A.   The Economy of Tanzania                    .      ..     2
B.   The Agricultural Sector  .................        ..    2
C.   Agricultural Marketing and Pricing  ........    3
D.   Agricultural Credit  .....         ..................    4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA  ...............................              5
A.   Economy of Kigoma Region            ..................    5
B.   Regional Government and Administration                   6
C.   Rural Infrastructure   .....         .................    8
D.   Agriculture and Fisheries  ....... ..........   10
IV.   THE PROJECT  .......        .............................   11
A.   Brief Description  ........          .................    11
B.   Detailed Features   .....        ....................   12
C.   Project Costs  ......         .......................   16
D.   Financing             .................................   18
E.   Procurement   ......        .........................   18
F. Disbursement . . . 19
G.   Accounts and Audit    .          .     ................   20
H.   Ecological and External Effects ........ .              20
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ......           ..............   20
Regional Government  .......... .............   20
Village Planning   . .21
Agriculture   ...............................   21
Regional Cooperative Union  ...............       .   22
Tanzania Rural Development Bank            ............   23



'fable of Contents (Continued)
Pate No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND
FINANCIAL RESULTS  ......      ........................  24
Production, Yields and Marketed Surplus         24
Markets and Prices   . .25
Farmer Benefits  ............ ...............  25
Financial Results  ........... ..............  25
Government Revenues and Outlays .. ..........  26
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ......      ........................  27
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS.                                        :8
ANNEXES
1.   Cooperatives
Chart 1   Organization Chart of Rural Development Division
Table 1  Affiliated Primary Societies and Produce Handled
Table 2   Union Produce Purchases - 1971-72
2.   Tanzania Rural Development Bank
3.   Agriculture in Kigoma Region
Table 1  Mean Monthly Rainfall Records
Table 2   Estimated Labor Needs (Mandays) and
Audibility per 3.5 Acre Farm
Table 3   Herd Projection for Boran Nucleus Herd
4.   Government and Administration in Kigoma Region
5.   Education
6.   Rural Water Supply
7.   Public Health
8.   Fisheries
Appendix A     Resources and Enviroument of Lake Tanganyika
Appendix B     Rough Comparative Data on Lake Tanganyika
Fishing Techniques
9.   Recommended Qualifications and Responsibilities of Staff Financed
under the Project
10. Regional Planning, Project Preparation and Evaluation



Table of Contents (Continued)
11. Cost Estimates
Table 1   Cost Estimates by Year
Table 2   Water Supply and Health Facilities
Table 3   Education
Table 4   Feeder Roads and Tsetse Clearing
Table 5   Estimated Credit Needs for Villages Productive Infrastructure
Table 6   Loans and Equity Contribution to Kigoma Cooperative Union
Table 7   Rural Training Centers
Table 8   Trial and Training Center and Livestock Pilot Project
Table 9   Technical Assistance
Table 10  Project Preparation and Evaluation
12. Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
13. Procedures for Selection of Villages
Appendix A     Proforma Village Site Feasibility Report (VSFR)
14. Trading and Lending Procedures
Chart 1   Trading and Lending Cycles
Table 1  Kigoma Cooperative Union - Annual Cash Flow
Table 2   Purchase and Sale of Agricultural Inputs
Table 3   Purchase and Sale of Marketable Surplus
Table 4   Unit Costs of Wholesaling Agricultural Inputs
Table 5   Unit Costs of Wholesaling Marketable Surplus
Table 6   Kigoma Cooperative Union - Operating Costs
Table 7   Kigoma Cooperative Union - Transport Cash Flow
Table 7(a)Kigoma Cooperative Union - Buildup of Motor Vehicles
Table 7(b)Kigoma Cooperative Union- Lorry Account
Table 8   Capital Investment and Repayment
Table 9   Kigoma Cooperative Union - On-lending Activities
Table 10  Annual Cash Flow of Primary Society
15.  Crop Budgets
Table 1  Maize Acre Budgets
Table 2   Bean Acre Budgets
Table 3   Cotton Acre Budgets
Table 4   Groundnuts Acre Budgets
Table 5   350-Family Village Production Model at Full Development
Table 6   350-Family Village Acreage and Production Buildup
Table 7   350-Family Village Marketable Surplus Buildup
Table 8   Buildup of Regional Marketable Surplus
Table 9   Credit and Input Needs by Volume and Cost
Table 10  Volume and Costs.of Inputs for Demonstrations
16. Economic Analysis



Table of Contents (Continued)
Cr:ARTS
8466   -   Overall Government Organization
MAPS
10941  -   Project Area
10942  -   Population Density and Major Ecological Zones



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania places high priority on agriculture and rural development,
in keeping with the needs of the 90% of its population who live in rural
areas and mainly work in traditional agriculture. Government policies aim
at gradually narrowing the sizable gap in rural and urban incomes. Particu-
lar emphasis is being placed on the poorer regions. To facilitate rural de-
velopment, Government in 1972 decentralized into 18 regional administrations
the principal responsibility for planning and implementing development
projects within each region. Directly productive and social investments and
the need for developing collective and self-help activity through ujamaa
villages are being stressed.
ii.       The project would aim, over a five-year period, to improve the
production, incomes and living standards of some 250,000 people, about one-
half of the rural population of Kigoma region, one of the poorest in Tanzania.
A principal objective would be to double the annual per capita incomes of
villagers under the project, from US$20 to US$40 (compared to rural per capita
income of US$85 for Tanzania as a whole), through simple improvements in agri-
cultural practices and the provision of inputs to about 135 newly-established
and existing ujamaa villages. The project would also aim to provide a market-
ing and credit system, extension-related agricultural research and social
services. Mlaize, beans, cotton and groundnuts would be farmed in the villages
on the basis of "block" farms in which each family would be responsible for
a particular plot.
iii.      The project would consist of: (a) land-clearing of tsetse bush,
simple feeder roads and improved social services (including water supplies,
health services and schools) for villages; (b) loans to creditworthy village
primary cooperative societies for crop inputs and productive infrastructure
such as godowns, maize mills and simple fish-catching and processing equip-
ment; (c) loans to the regional cooperative union (Union) for godowns and
vehicles; (d) expanding the region's rural training centers, establishing a
livestock pilot project and an agricultural trials and training center and
providing vehicles, aerial photography and simple radio-telephone communica-
tions within the region; (e) technical assistance by way of resident staff
and provision for short-term consulting services; (f) Government proposes to
prepare comprehensive rural development projects in other regions and provi-
sion has been made for a project preparation team to prepare rural development
projects in three other regions and to assist in the early phases of the
evaluation of the Kigoma project.
iv.       The project would constitute a major part of the regional govern-
ment's development activities and would be implemented through departments of
the regional administration. The Regional Development Director (RDD) would
be responsible for overall project planning and implementation. The regional
."vornment's annual plan for village development under the project would be
submitted to IDA for discussion and agreement. The regional government's



- ii -
technicians would examine the viability of villages to be included under the
project according to agreed-upon criteria. Government would also discuss
with IDA its annual program for all village development in the region. The
Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB), lending channel for a nmber of
earlier IDA projects, would be the channel for lending to the Union and
village primary societies. The Union would transport, warehouse and deliver
production inputs and marketable surplus under the project.
v.        The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would cover 75% of the
project's total cost. Under parallel financing the United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF) would provide a grant of US$1.5 million, to go
towards the costs of the water supply and health components. The IDA credit
and UNCDF grant would together cover the foreign exchange cost and two-thirds
of the local cost, or 86% of total costs. Government would channel funds to
TRDB at 4% annually under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactoy to IDA.
Interest rates would be in accordance with general government policy for
agricultural credit; existing rates are 8-1/2 percent for short-term (seasonal)
credit and 7-1/2 for medium- and long-term credit. These rates are currently
under review.
vi.       Imported fertilizers, pesticides, sprayers, radio-telephone equip-
ment, and aerial photography (US$1.4 million) would be purchased through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA, guidelines.
In evaluation of bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference
margin of 15% or the existing rate of import duty whichever is lower. Orders
of less than US$30,000 would be procured in accordance with Government pro-
cedures, which are satisfactory. Vehicles would be required in small lots
over the disbursement period and would therefore be purchased under local
competitive bidding from local agents of well-represented foreign suppliers
who are equipped with essential service facilities. Classrooms, houses,
village water supply supplies, godowns, dispensaries, other building, tsetse
clearing, and access roads, are of small scale, varied design and are geograph-
ically scattered; they would be constructed by force account and local competi-
tive bidding.
vii.      After 8 years, incremental marketable surplus at producer prices from
villages under the project is projected at about T Sh 30 million (US$4.2 mil-
lion). Gross annual direct foreign exchange earnings would be about US$4.8
million.
viii.     Allowing for use of self-help village labor for most land clearance
and village housing and for certain other village structures, notably school
buildings, the full capital cost of village settlement (including allowance
for regional infrastructure expenditures) would be approximately US$75,000
generated as a result of increased agricultural production, would approximately
double village and family income from agriculture over an 8-year period of
village development. The economic rate of return to the project is estimated
at 22%.



- iii -
ix.       The project has greater than usual risks stemming from the economi-
cally unproven nature of ujamaa villages and the need to create a completely
new marketing and distribution network to service project villages. Tech-
nical assistance would be provided under the project to strengthen village
planning, agriculture, and the marketing and credit system, which should
reduce the risk. This, and the project's potential for improving markedly
the incomes of large numbers of rural poor in a disadvantaged region of
the country at relatively low cost, make the risks worth taking.
x.        Six IDA credits totalling US$62.1 million have been previously
approved for agricultural projects in Tanzania (one each in agricultural
credit, tea, tobacco and cotton and two for livestock). A recently approved
loan provided US$21 million for a cashewnut project. In addition, an educa-
tion credit in 1971 provided US$3.3 million for agricultural training. Per-
formance under these projects has been mixed.
xi.       The project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million
to the Tanzanian Government.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Tanzania places high priority on agriculture and rural development
in its development strategy, in keeping with the needs of over 90% of its
population who live in rural areas and are mainly engaged in traditional
peasant agriculture. Incomes of the rural majority have traditionally been
much lower than those of the small urban sector and Government's long-term
aim is to narrow this gap. Particular emphasis is being placed on the poorer
regions and on the development of collective and self-help activity through
ujamaa (in Swahili, literally "familyhood") villages (para. 2.05). In order
to facilitate rural development, Government in 1972 decentralized principal
responsibility for planning and implementing development projects to 18
regional administrations.
1.02      Since mid-1972 the newly-regionalized administration in Kigoma
region has been organizing the development of the rural areas by encouraging
the formation of ujamaa villages. The proposed project would provide direct-
ly-productive and improved social infrastructure in selected new and existing
villages. The project would also aim to strengthen the marketing and collec-
tion system in the region through improved organization and management. The
project would directly affect about 250,000 people, roughly one-half of the
rural population of the region.
1.03      Six IDA credits totalling US$62.1 million have been approved thus
far for agricultural projects in Tanzania. These include one for agricultural
credit, two for livestock and one each for tobacco, tea and cotton. A recently
approved loan provided US$21 million for a cashewnut project. In addition,
an education credit in 1971 provided US$3.3 million for agricultural training.
Performance under the projects has been mixed. Management and staffing has
been a continuing problem. In reference to cotton loans extended under the
now completed credit project, a need was found for improved supervision of
cooperative society loan records and input distribution. The first livestock
project has progressed satisfactorily and is nearing completion, and the
second credit has only recently become effective. The development of the
tobacco project has been disappointing and slower than expected and has
encountered difficulties due to inadequate services (mainly water) in the
new settlemwnt areas and the premature introduction of collective cultivation
under the ujamaa system. There are recent signs that implementation of this
project is now proceeding more satisfactorily. The smallholder tea project
is also encountering problems with farmer recruitment, and the planting program
is about two years behind schedule. Weak management and other difficulties
have slowed progress, and it is expected that the project will be rephased.
The cashewnut loan was only recently signed and is not yet effective.
1.04      The loan application was prepared by the Government assisted by
the IBRD Resident Mission East Africa (RMEA). This report is based on the
.indiags of an appraisal mission to Tanzania in October/November 1973 con-
sisting of Messrs. D. Martinusen, S. MacLeod, D. Pickering and D. Turnham
(IDA) and G. Gerhardsen, R. Hennion and C. Pineo (consultants) and an updating



-2-
rission in Mlarch 1974 consisting of Messrs.  D. Martinusen, S. MacLeod and
D. Turnham. Under parallel financing the United Nations Capital Development
Fund (UNCDF) would provide a grant of US$1.5 miUion to go towards the costs
of the water supply and health components of the project.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy of Tanzania
2.01      Tanzania has an average population density of under 15 per km2, but
most cf its 14.0 million people are concentrated in a few areas.  The popula-
tion is increasing at about 2.7% a year. Overall growth of production remains
modest, particularly in agriculture whose growth in recent years has not kept
pace vith population growth. Per capita GNP is estimated at US$110 (World
Bank Atlas 1973).
2.02      Tanzania's socialist development philosophy aims at reducing
inequalities in income distribution through emphasis on smallholder agricul-
ture and rural development, and through State ownership of important indus-
tries, services and large-scale agricultural entterprises. Growth has been
behind the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-1974) targets. Due to recent favor-
able export prices for coffee, cotton, sisal, diamonds and meat, Tanzania's
balance of payments has improved but the full effects of the recent dramatic
increase in oil prices have yet to be felt.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General Background
2.03      Agriculture accounts for roughly 40% of Tanzania's GDP with half
of tie sector subsistence production. About 80% of total exports come from
agriculture, mainly coffee, cotton, sisal and cashews. Most of the population
(94Z) live in rural areas, usually in small isolated communities, and 90Z of
the economically active population are engaged in agriculture.
2.04      Most production is from smallholdings, using family labor.  Large-
scale agriculture in estates produce sisal, coffee, tea and wheat; state
farms mainly produce wheat, rice, sisal and livestock. Estate production
lhas diminished in importance part±cularly as sisal has declined, and the state
farm program remains small. Tanzania's national herd, the second largest in
Africa, is grazed extensively over the 40% of the country which is free from
tsetse fly infestation. It is largely managed along traditional lines. There
is limited use of oxen for cultivation, mainly in the western cotton areas.
In years of normal rainfall Tanzania is largely self-sufficient in staples,
although some imports of wheat and maize occur in most years; imports of
staplds hlave been particularly heavy in recent months.



-3-
Ujamaa Villages
2.05      The Arusha Declaration of 1967 reaffirmed Tanzania's commitment to
a socialist society and identified the ujamaa village as a means of effecting
self-reliance and a community approach to development. The ujamaa village
was seen as a vehicle for providing economies of scale in delivering improved
agricultural techniques and inputs and social services, thereby improving the
lives of rural people. Development of ujamaa villages was intended to be
voluntary, although because of the excessive zeal among some local officials,
this has not always been adhered to in practice. The precise pattern of
development within each ujamaa village was to be left to villagers them-
selves to decide. Villages would eventually become registered as multi-
purpose cooperative societies with powers to own land and to borrow. The
Tanganyika African National Union (TANU), Tanzania's only political party,
has called on all rural people to support Ujamaa. Government has provided
considerable assistance to newly-developed ujamaa villages, chiefly by way
of transport of villagers' effects and local building materials for houses
and provision of water supplies and other social services. Special suppor:
has been con centrated in several poorer regions (including Kigoma). By late
1973, some 2 million persons were members of 5,600 ujamaa villages throughout
Tanzania. The extent of collective activity varies among villages and the
precise workings of ujamaa are still evolving. Government's initial objective
was that all ujamaa productive activity should be communal; early difficulties
with communal agriculture have caused the block farm approach, in which each
family is responsible for a particular plot, to be the most likely form of
production for the foreseeable future.
C. Agricultural Marketing and Pricing
2.06      For most major traded crops, Tanzania operates a single marketing
channel with a parastatal (state-owned or controlled marketing board or
corporation) as the principal focus of the system. The cooperatives (primaries
and regional cooperative unions) act as agents of the parastatals in collecting
marketable surplus and selling processed products in the regions. The number
of parastatals and their crop responsibility has changed frequently in recent
years; currently, for maize and beans the relevant parastatal is the National
Milling Corporation (NMC), for cotton, the Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA),
and for groundnuts, the General Agricultural Products Export Corporation.
2.07      In collecting produce from the regions, parastatals typically take
title to the goods and make payment when the goods are delivered to the wkre-
houses of the regional cooperative union or directly to the parastatal's own
warehouses. The Unions, borrowing from the National Bank of Commerce for
working capital, provide for cash payments to producers through member primary
cooperative societies.



-4-
2.08      Producer prices, the parastatals' buying and selling prices are set
by the Central Government under approval of the Economic Committee of the
Cabinet. Producer prices for a particular harvest are set in advance of the
planting season and, starting with 1973-74, are uniform, within low and high
priority zones, over the entire country. Parastatals' buying prices vary
among regions according to differences in costs of collection and handling;
their selling prices are uniform. Producers may sell small quantities of
food crops outside official channels, often at prices considerably in excess
of official producer prices. Unofficial and illegal trading in food crops
also continues. At present, official consumer prices for maize, meal and
flour are maintained at low levels, in relation to the parastatal's (i.e.,
NMC's) full costs, and the NMC, which would otherwise incur losses on
operations in maize, is compensated by Government on an ad hoc basis. For
cotton, on the other hand, operations are sufficiently buoyant to support a
10% ad valorem export tax (partially offset by subsidies to producers for
purchased inputs). Input prices are also set centrally but are not on a
uniform country-wide basis. Input subsidy schemes are undertaken from time
to time to familiarize producers in their use and to increase agriculture
production. The Tanzania Cotton Authority currently provides a subsidy of
50% of the cost of inputs used in cotton production.
2.09      Performance among cooperative unions and primary societies varies
enormously. Scarcity of skilled manpower to manage, keep the books of, and
supervise cooperatives remains a big problem in both Unions and primaries.
The shortage of people at all levels who can maintain proper accounts and
interpret their results is particularly great. Management of cooperative
unions' transport and handling is also a general problem. Cooperatives are
discussed further in Annex 1.
D. Agriculture Credit (Annex 2)
2.10      The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was founded in 1971, the
fourth of a succession of rural credit institutions and the third in the
decade following independence. TRDB provides long, medium and short-term
credit to farmers through cooperative societies; it also administers special
funds on behalf of Government, and is the main credit channel for IDA funds.
Ihe standard rates of interest set by Government (currently under review) and
chai-ed by TRDB are 8-1/2% on short and medium-term  loans and 7-1/2% on long-
term loans. Societies on-lend to members at the same rate. At the end of
Narch 1973, TRDB loans to societies totalled T Sh 122 million. TRDB is a
;3atisfactory channel for continued lending of IDA funds.



-5-
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. The Economy of Kigoma Region
Location, Climate and Ecology (Annex 3)
3.01      Kigoma region, covering an area of 37,000 km2, lies to the extreme
west of Tanzania (Map 10941). The region is bounded by Burundi to the north-
west and Zaire to the west, across Lake Tanganyika. Kigoma port, served by
the Kigoma-Dar es Salaam branch of East African railways, is the main access
to the sea for land-locked Burundi and is also an important base for shipments
to and from Rwanda and Zaire. A weekly air service and telephone link operate
between Kigoma town and Dar es Salaam.
3.02      The region's elevations range from 1,050 meters to 2,300 meters
above sea level. Annual rainfall varies between 600 and 1,600 mm, and the
annual mean maximum and minimum temperatures range from 28"C to 12"C. A
single rainy season lasts for six to seven months from November to early May
followed by a prolonged dry season. Precipitation is reliable and allows a
wide range of crops to be grown, with some double planting of short-season
crops.
3.03      Climate and topography, together with the effects of past and
present human settlement, give rise to three distinct ecological zones (Map
10942):
(a)  The Highland Zone (altitude 1,500 to 1,750 m, and annual rainfall
1,000 to 1,600 mm) is located above the tsetse fly belt and
contains most of the region's cattle. Cattle are more a store
of wealth and status than for production; annual offtake is low.
Maize, beans and bananas and, in the higher, wetter areas, coffee
are the most important crops. The zone is overpopulated.
Soils are depleted and erosion is a problem.
(b)  The Intermediate Zone (Altitude 1,200 to 1,500 m, and annual
rainfall 850 to 1,100 mm) is below the highland zone and contains
areas of tsetse fly infestation. Population is much less dense
than in the highland zone and until recently it had few settle-
ments.  Cattle are much less common than in the highland zone.
(c)  The Miombo Zone (altitude 1,000 to 1,200 m, and annual rainfall
600 to 1,000 mm) covers much of the east and southeast. Tsetse
infestation throughout the zone has tended to restrict migration
from higher population density areas. A distinct sub-zone iS
formed between the interior mountains and Lake Tanganyika,
extending inland at river mouths. Fishing is the principal
activity and population is dense along the northern shore,
but, due to steep slopes, is sparse along the southern shore.



- ) --
His_tory, Demography mnd Economic Activity
3.04      Kigoma is populated by Bantu peoples, principally the Ha (70% of
the total) and the Rundi, who are mostly migrants from Burundi. Kigoma is
an area of comparatively late settlement, and with a tradition of relatively
5ree movement from and to other regions of Tanzania and with Burundi.  Tusi
pastoralists mDved into the highland region during the 19th century and
remained the dominant group in terms of wealth and political leadership until
the late colonial period. Settlement of white colonists and farmers was
discouraged or prevented although a number of missions were opened, especially
in the highlands. Communications to the Kigoma port railhead remained poor,
thus discouraging the development of commercial crops away from the immediate
vicinity of Kigoma town. The number of Asian traders remained small, and
almost entirely confined to Kigoma-Ujiji township. The region's only com-
mercial bank branch is in Kigoma town.
3.05      The Kigoma region is divided into three districts:  Kibondo, Kasulu
and Kigoma (Map 10942). The region's population is estimated at about 550,000
in 1973. Over 90% of the population is rural, mainly settled in the highland
and intermediate zones. Kigoma-Ujiji township, with a population of about
30,000, is the only sizable urban center.
3.06      Until recently the region experienced a sizable outmigration of
young men for low-paying and arduous work on estates in other regions. This
movement is evidence of the traditional lack of opportunities in Kigoma to
earn cash income. In 1967 the percentage of labor in paid employment (2.6%)
was the lowest of any region. Employment has been overwhelmingly in agricul-
ture of a low productivity kind. Seed was mainly of unimproved varieties;
cultivation was by hand (mainly by women); and almost no fertilizer or other
inputs were applied. Families shifted their dwellings every few years as
fertility declined. Per capita incomes of most of the rural population are
still, very low, in the order of US$20 per year.
3.07      The lack of industry and the backwardness of agriculture are, to
some extent, related to the isolation of the Region.  Historically, the most
active attempts to spur development in Tanzania were direc$td to more accessible
regions. Even today, the administrative centers of Kasulu and Kibondo districts
have no power supply or telecommunicatlons link with Kigoma town. A simple
oequest for a spare part, from anywhere in the region to Kigoma town, for
eaxample, must go through the mails oI, as often required, by a special jeep
.-ip. According to the 1967 Census, Kigoma region was second to last in
jnzania in literacy levels and '; adult population with no schooling (over
'iK,% of tihe total). Since the building of the railway in 1914 until recently
little attempt was made to develop Kigoma region.
B. Regional Government and Administration (Annex 4)
With effect frow 'March 1972) Regional and District administrations
-anzania were reorganized and strengthened to promote rural developmuent
r-c ravs more effectively.  The chief political officer in the Region, the



- 7 -
Regional Commissioner (appointed by the President), was given cabinet rank.
The Regional Development Director (RDD), as head of the regional civil ser-
vices, is now equivalant to the Principal Secretary of a central government
ministry.  The most important effect of the changes was to make all civil
servants working in a region in principle responsible to the RDD of that
region and not, as before, to central ministries in Dar es Salaam.
3.09      The philosophy behind the decentralization has been that more
effective rural development would be promoted if decisions taken at local
level were to reflect more closely local views. In turn, local views and
support for government programs would be sought through the political process,
working through local level development committees. Thus, much more than in
the past, the local level political structure, from the ten-family cell basic
TANU unit through Ward level, District and ultimately Regional Commissioner,
interacts with the civil service in program identification, preparation and
subsequent implementation.
3.10      Once approved, responsibility for carrying out the programs rests
with the Regional Development Director, supported by the District Development
Directors, in respect of the district programs.
3.11      For all of Tanzania the percentage of the budget channeled through
the regions is still small (in 1973/74, 13% of the development budget and
20% of recurrent expenditures). However, these percentages are growing as
regional planning and management capabilities are further developed. For
Kigoma region the recurrent budget allocation for 1973-74, at T Sh 27 million,
was up almost 30% on 1972/73 and the development budget, at about T Sh 15 mil-
lion, was up almost 100%, due partly to a carry-over of unfinished work from
the previous year. The regions have no taxing powers of their own and are
bound by national regulatory, pricing and licensing policies.
3.12      In Kigoma region initial problems have centered around staff short-
ages and inexperience with the new roles. The extra strain caused by launch-
ing Operation Kigoma (para. 3.13) and delivery problems on supplies and spare
parts have caused some delays in implementation. Overall, however, the new
focus at the regional and district levels of responsibility for planning and
implementing projects has now been largely effected and should lead to more
active development efforts in the Region than in the past.
Operation Kigoma
3.13      Between July 1972 and November 1973 some 76 ujamaa villages con-
taining about 24,000 families -- roughly one quarter of the region's rural
population -- were established under Operation Kigoma (para. 2.05). The rate
of starting new villages and settling families into them has since increased.
Usually, villagers are drawn from isolated homesteads scattered in the vicinity
of the ujamaa site. The latter is often based on an older village nucleus of
perhaps 30-50 families, sometimes with certain facilities already availa;le --
e.g., road connections and a school. Settlement takes place largely during
the slack season after harvesting and before land preparation; in the ujamaa



- 8 -
village, villagers build their own houses largely from niud and bamboo; apart
from some transport of bamboo and poles provided by Government in some cases,
the houses involve no cash cost. Villagers moving into villages started during
1972 have succeeded in clearing and planting house plots of 0.4 ha (I acre),
building houses and rough clearing perhaps half of their initial acreage in
village "block farms" for maize, beans, cotton and groundnuts. The initial
favoring of wholly-communal block farm has been replaced by a system of indi-
vidual plots in contiguous groups under the particular crop. Thus, each
"block" of a particular crop contains a number of individual plots, each farmed
by a particular family. Initial problems were faced in village siting, and
in shortages of transport, spares and skilled manpower of all types. The
provision of social infrastructure to the new villages lags considerably behind
their establishment.
C. Rural Infrastructure
Education (Annex 5)
3.14      About 32% of Kigoma region's school age population (35,260 pupils;
35% of whom females) attended primary school in 1972, an increase in absolute
numbers of almost 50% in 5 years. The provision of universal free primary
education by 1989 is a national goal which, as achieved, will require large
increases in the national budget for education. Large numbers of adults in
Kigoma region are registered in village adult education classes "under the
trees" but attendance has been irregular and measurable results to date
unspectacular. The Region's existing primary education facilities are below
standard. Tools for school gardens and the few school work shops are non-
existent; textbooks and desks are worn and in short supply and teachers'
houses and classrooms are often in a poor state of repair.
3.15      In order to provide education that is more relevant to the Region's
overwhelmingly rural population the regional education authorities plan in
the future to give more attention to teaching practical subjects (e.g., farm-
ing, carpentry, masonry and smithery).  Priority will be given to providing
short courses for teachers in teaching practical subjects and in equipping
-raucical workshops in rural primary schools.  The courses for teachers could
-  n-ov-ded at the Region's rural training centers, involving some expansion
of these centers for this and other purposes. Priority will also be given to
-rcviding textbooks and desks for existing and new classrooms and for teachers'
louses. Additional classrooms, also required as the percentage of school
Attenders rises, will also be necessary. New ujamaa villages are often located
near existing schools which would te expanded as the villages' populations
Lncrease.
Village Water Supplies (Annex 6)
3.16      Provision of clean water at convenient public points in villages
is an important government objective and an important part of its ujamaa
.zillage program.  In Kigoma the office of the regional water engineer (Maji/K)



-9-
has been engaged u'-ader Operation Kigoma in providing village water supply
systems to newly-established ujamaa villages. Much of the Region is well-
endowed with perennial streams, but villagers (usually women) have to walk
3 to 5 km for water from a source that is in varying degrees contaminated;
the time so spent is often at the expense of productive work in the fields.
The principal focus of Maji/K to date has been on providing pumped supplies
which deliver water to 10 to 20 public hydrants located at convenient points
througnout the village. The new pumped system if properly installed provides
water that is cleaner and safer than the former source (usually a stream).
It also saves much time for villagers compared to their former walk to the
water source. Despite shortages of transport and materials Maji/K has
developed to the point where it can nuow install 10-12 such systems per year.
This rate is, however, much slower than the rate of opening new villages
and there is now a large backlog of newly-established villages having no
improved water supply at all.
3.17      No charge is levied in Tanzania for water delivered to public
hydrants. This, coupled with a preference for pumped systems, will result
in very large claims on the budget for both capital and recurrent costs.
There is need to utilize more cost-effective methods of water supply. For
example, simple dugwells, sealed and equipped with handpumps, where adequate
shallow groundwater exists, provide clean water at convenient points at a
fraction of the cost of pumped systems.
Public Health (Annex 7)
3.18      In 1972, national priorities in health services were reordered to
give greater attention to preventative medicine and health services in rural
areas. The rural treatment system would consist of (a) a rural health center
with 5 outlying dispensaries per 50,000 population to cover all non-hospital
needs of families and (b) rural hospitals at regional and district levels to
provide major curative services. Government's quantitative goals for dis-
pensaries and rural hospitals have largely been met, although the spread is
uneven and some districts are below national norms. For the rural health
centers, however, more than half of the program is still to be completed.
The supply of trained staff is a problem but newly-established schools should
provide a rapid increase during the next several years in numbers of medical
aides and rural medical aides, the personnel who operate, respectively, the
rural health centers and dispensaries.
3.19      For Kigoma region, the development of the rural health service is
on a par with rural Tanzania as a whole. As well as more rural health centers,
however, some additional dispensaries will be needed as the population is re-
settled in new ujamaa villages. The staffing constraint will be eased by
the newly-created training school in Kigoma for rural medical aides. More
needs to be done on preventative medicine. For example, currently nothing
is yet being done to introduce improved methods of excreta disposal, a first
step in dealing with the internal parasite problem.



- 10 -
D. Agriculture and Fisheries
Agriculture (Annex 3)
3.20      With the exception of the densely-populated areas in the Highlands,
traditional agriculture is based on shifting cultivation. Maize, beans,
cassava and such minor crops as sweet potatoes, sorghum, pigeon peas and
groundnuts are most commonly grown in mixed stand and in varying combinations
throughout the Region. Bananas and plantains also form an important part of
the diet--raw, cooked or fermented and consumed as beer. They are normally
planted close to living quarters where they receive organic manuring in the
form of domestic refuse and compound sweepings. No other crops are normally
so treated.
3.21      No data are available on traditional cropping patterns.  Local
opinion and field observations point to maize, bean, cassava mixtures as the
most common staple crop grouping, with a length of cropping ranging upwards
from about three years depending on fertility and topography. Inorganic
fertilizers have rarely been used in the past but during the last two seasons
have been increasingly introduced by Government free of charge or subsidized
(e.g., by the Tanzania Cotton Authority) to promote their use.  Although
improved seed of maize and groundnuts are apparently appreciated, their dis-
tribution to date has been limited to selected ujamaa villages created since
1972. The regional government intends that inputs in future be provided on
credit, thereby avoiding a large budget drain when use of such Inputs becomes
widespread.
3.22      The circumstances outlined above prevent an accurate estimate of
yields and production under traditional practices. Cash incomes are derived
mainly from sales of crops grown surplus to subsistence needs; however
arabica coffee in the Highland Zone, oil palm products mainly in Kigoma
District, and cotton in the Intermediate Zone, are also of some importance.
3.23      Achievement of improvements to traditional practices ham been
seriously hampered by three factors.  First, little or no research work has
been carried out in Kigoma Region so that extension staff have at best very
generalized and only partially proven recommendations to put across to farmrs.
Second, the numbers and quality of farmer contact extension workers have been
inadequate to make a real impact on the farm population. Third, the pattern
of settlement throughout the Region tends towards a scatter of population
wijith relatively few nucleated villages. This makes contact with farmers
difficult and severely limits the impact of extension workers.
3.24      Marketable surplus in the region has been extremely small.  The
Ki gomz regional cooperative union, the official channel for handling market-
able surplus, is small and weak both financially and managerially.



-. 1 1 -
Fisheries (Annex 8)
3.25      Fisheries in Kigoma region, mainly on Lake Tanganyika, involves
some 10,000 fishermen operating about 7,000 canoes from 35 fishing villages.
The most important species caught is dagaa, a small, sardine-like fish that
is dried and traded widely throughout Tanzania and neighboring countries.
Some improvements in catching technique have been introduced in recent years
by way of pressurized lamps for attracting fish during night fishing (the
principal form), and beach seines. In addition, three purse seine units
(each costing about US$70,000) have begun operating out of Kigoma harbor.
A recently commenced FAO/UNDP fisheries project centered in Kigoma will
experiment with other simple improvements for traditional fishermen, as well
as with improved dagaa drying techniques (currently a problem in the wet
season when catches are greatest). Some of these techniques will be avail-
able within two to three years; some credit will be necessary so that
villagers can adopt them.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project, over a five-year disbursement period, would continue
to support village development already started under Operation Kigoma and of
new villages to be established during the project period. Most of the rural
population of the region (some 500,000 people) would benefit in some measure
from the project; about half would be directly involved, as residents of
about 135 project villages. The main objective of the project would be to
double present annual per capita income in the project villages from the
equivalent of about US$20 to US$40. Through support for agricultural and
cooperative development, regional infrastructure, farmer and staff training
and technical assistance, the project would also develop a marketing and
credit system, strengthen village-level extension and introduce a program of
adaptive agricultural research. These services are increasingly necessary
as ujamaa development in Kigoma region moves forward from the initial settle-
ment phase to the stage at which village ujamaa communities are to fully sustain
themselves on a permanent basis through economic activity. In addition, the
level of social services would be improved through provision of education,
health facilities and village water supplies. The project would consist of:
1.   Investments in eligible villages for public water supplies,
education and health facilities, tsetse clearing and feeder
roads;
2.   Loans to eligible and creditworthy villages for:  (a) pro-
duction-infrastructure including godowns, maize mills, fish
catching and processing equipment and (b) seasonal produc-
tion inputs;



- 12 -
3.   Loans to the regional cooperative union for facilities such
as godowns, offices, and transport equipment;
4.   Investments in regional supporting services, including:
(a) construction and rehabilitation of rural training
centers; (b) a small regional radio-telephone system;
(c) a livestock pilot project; (d) aerial photography
of areas to be developed; and (e) a regional agricultural
trials and training center;
5.   Technical assistance to include (a) a financial controller,
an operations manager and a training supervisor
for the regional cooperative union, a land-use planner and
trials and training officers for the agricultural trials
and training center together with training; (b) backup
support such as housing and transport; and (c) a project
special fund for use by project management for specific
problem-solving;
6.   Monitoring and evaluation; and,
7.   Project preparation for rural development projects in other
regions.
The regional government would have overall responsibility for project implementa-
tion. The Tanzania Rural Development Bank would be the channel for credit under
the project.
B. Detailed Features
Vi llage Infrastructure
4.02      To be eligible for financing under the project, a Village Site
Feasibility Report (VSFR) would have had to be prepared (para. 5.04) demon-
strating that the village is appropriately sited in relation to various
factors including available agricultural land and water. To assist in this,
the project would provide for the aerial photography of about two-thirds of
the Region.
Water Supply Systems
4.03      Water supply systems under the project would bring potable water
year round to public points located so that villagers would generally not
have to walk more than 200-300 m for water. The regional water engineer's
office (Maji/k) would design for a particular site the type of system that
would provide adequate year-round supplies of clean water at minimum cost.
Where adequate shallow groundwater exists a number of dug wells, generally



-  3-
of less than 10 m depth, covered and fitted with handpumps, would be con-
structed. In some cases Oravity delivery, direct from a water source, may
be possible. WJhere handpumps or gravity feed are not possible a diesel-powered
pump system may be required.  This is generally a more expensive system to
build anJ has higher operational costs, At negotiations assurances were
otta4ned tnat village water supply systems would be designed according to
minimum cost szecifications, taking into account the alternative systems
described above.
4.04      Government policy in Tanzania is to provide domestic water free of
charge except if the supply is through a house connection. As part of the
project preparation component of the project (para 4.17) a study would be
undertaker, to examine the fiscal implications of the water supply component
and appropriate methods and procedures for allocating and financing the cost
of such services. IDA and Government would exchange views on the study's
findings and recommendations. Assurances on the study and exchange of views
were obtained at negotiations.  Village water supply is discussed furtheL in
Annex 6.
4.05      Village-level education facilities financed under the project would
iinclude tools and practical workshops, textbooks and desks, teachers' houses,
and classrooms according to regional priorities for primary education (para.
3.15). The facilities would also be used for adult education. When a new
villaee is started a single classroom would be built in the first year for
first grade. An additional classroom would be built in each subsequent year
until the full primary school, covering seven standards (or grades), would be
completed. Where new villages are established near existing schools they
would be rehabilitated and also expanded as necessary. Facilities would be
provided in accord with Government's national education norms (para 3.14 and
Annex 5).
'4.06     Local level health care facilities including rural health centers
and simple dispensaries would be provided where health coverage is below
national standards for rural areas. Dispensaries are generally of two rooms,
stocked with a limited range of medicines and manned by dispensary assistants
who have had some training in a regional hospital. The project would also
include provision for about 10% of project villages of pit privy slabs and
with instruction in their installation and use, as a pilot phase of a program
of improved excreta disposal. Many low-lying areas are infested with tsetse
flv which transmits sleeping sickness. Where a village is located in such an
area, the project would support tsetse clearing of bush in and around the
villaga. site, using simple tools and labor-intensive methods (on a partial
self-help basis). Feeder roads would join those villages (probably less
than hlalf) not already connected to the existing road system. They would be
simple tracks, capable of handling loaded lorries, mainly in the dry season.
.L; .o vll1ages for Productive Purposes
4.07      Creditworthy villages under the project would be able to borrow
from TRDB through the regional cooperative union (para. 5.10) for productive
infrastructure, including godowns and maize mills. Villages that are wholly



- 14 -
or partly dependent on fishing could borrow for improved catching methods
(e.g., beach seines) or processing equipment (e.g., simple equipment for
drying dagaa during the wet season).  Some of the loans would be for catching
or processing improvements expected to be proven by the UNDP fisheries project
(para. 3.25).
4.08      Creditworthy villages would also borrow from the regional cooperative
union which in turn would borrow from TRDB (paras. 5.08 to 5.10) for incremental
production inputs including fertilizers, pesticides and, in the case of cotton,
ultra low volume (ULV) sprayers. To be eligible for credit a village must be
registered as a cooperative society and have in residence a qualified bookkeeper
and agricultural extension officer.  A new village would not normalJF be eligi-
ble for credit before its third season.
Loans and Equity Contribution to Regional Cooperative Union for its
own Facilities
4.09      The regional cooperative union (Union) would distribute production
inputs to project villages and purchase, collect and deliver the villages'
marketed surplus to the relevant parastatal for marketing or further process-
ing. Once villages are eligible for credit, their marketed surplus and
requirements of production inputs are expected to grow rapidly under the
project (para. 6.03) and requirements of the Union for godowns, offices and
lorries would increase correspondingly. It is expected that the Union would
borrow for a core fleet of about 15 lorries, together with necessary service
facilities and spare parts. The Union would hire additional transport (from
parastatals, the regional government and private sources) during peak periods.
Government, as part of its share of project cost, would also make an equity
contribution or long-term loan (para. 5.12) as required to cover expected
losses during the first four years of the project, estimated at about
T Sh 1.2 million (US$170,000).
Regional Supporting Services
4.10      A new rural training center would be constructed in Kigoma and the
existing centers at Kasulu and Kibondo would be improved and expanded under
the project. The three centers would house various training activities
accompanying the project, including courses for village officials, teachers
and government officers, as well as courses on a variety of rural affairs
subjects currently conducted at the existing centers. Courses would also
be held for supervisors, tradesmen and operators involved in the construction
and operation of water supply systems.
4.11      The project would also include a simple radio-telephone hookup
between regional headquarters in Kigoma town and each district headquarters
and between each district headquarters and several major villages within each
district.
4.12      A regional agricultural trials and training center would be established
under the project at a central location that is typical of much of the Region's
agriculture, perhaps near Kasulu town. The center annually would provide to



- 15 -
about 25 primary school leavers, having some farming experience, a combination
of classroom and -:ractical training of about one year's duration, that would
equip each student to work as an agricultural field assistant in an assigned
village. The center would also conduct field trials to test the suitability
under regional conditions of seeds and agronomic practices recommended by the
national agricultural research center at Ukiriguru. The project would cover
the necessary land preparation, physical structures, equipment, housing and
staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that selection of the site,
based on a detailed soil and topographic survey made available to IDA, would
be carried out and actual construction started within six months of credit
signing, with construction to be completed within 12 nDnths thereafter.
Located adjacent to the agricultural trials and training center would be a
livestock pilot project whose purpose would be to investigate and demonstrate
livestock management systems appropriate to the Region and to introduce breed-
ing stock (from types such as the Boran) for the gradual upgrading of the
local Ankole cattle. The project would also include funds for a small number
of vehicles and lorries to enable the regional administration to carry out
its increased activity resulting from the project.
Technical Assistance
4.13      In order to strengthen the regional cooperative union (Union) the
project would provide an operations manager, a financial controller and a
training supervisor.  The operations manager would set up and
initially operate the Union's distribution, collection, transport, scheduling,
storage and handling, quality control and physical planning activities, and
train staff. The financial controller would carry out similar functions
relating to the Union's accounting, financial reporting, budgeting, credit
appraisal and collection, internal auditing, and cash management activities
(para. 5.11). Staff training would be a major responsibility for both. The
training supervisor would work closely with the  DlD's office in
establishing a simple village-level bookkeeping control system and in training
school leavers from the Region to become village-employed bookkeeper/business
managers. He would also assist in initial training and continuing supervision
of the Union's Society Credit Officers and in general training and credit
matters.
4.14      The land-use planner would advise and assist in the layout of
villages, with particular reference to the siting and alignment of block farms
on the basis of aerial photography and ground surveys. He would also be
responsible for supervision and on-the-job training of regional land-use
planning staff. The training officer at the agricultural training and trials
center would be principally responsible for planning and conducting training
courses at the center, drawing on the assistance of the land-use planner and
others. The trials officer would be in charge of the center's trials program
which would also involve village level observations and demonstrations located
at suitable sites in the Region. The project would finance inputs required
for other demonstrations and would also cover during training the subsistence
and training costs of village-level bookkeepers and agricultural field
assistants.



- 16 -
4.15      Reco_mmnded terms of reference and required qualifications for staff
to be financed under the project are in Annex 9. The project would also finance
required housing and vehicles for these staff. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that within six months of effectiveness the operations manager
and financial controller would be hired with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions acceptable to ID&; in addition,
Government would hire competent and experienced persons as the training super-
visor of the Union, the land-use planner and the trials and training officers.
4.16      A number of problems would inevitably arise in a project of this
type which cannot be precisely identified in advance.  A project special fund
would therefore be included for use at the discretion of the Regional Develop-
ment Director for consulting services and technical assistance in solving
specific problems of project implementation. The fund could be used, for
example, to send staff to similar projects elsewhere in Tanzania or nearby
countries for insights in solving particular problems or for bringing in
specialists for short periods. The management of spare parts and vehicle
maintenance in the region is a problem; regional staff could be sent to appro-
priate courses or, alternatively, a consultant could be brought in for advice
and training. Expenditures in excess of US$30,000 equivalent in any one fiscal
year or over US$10,000 equivalent in any one contract would require prior IDA
approval.
Regional Planning, Project Preparation and Evaluation
4.17      The project would provide support for the further development of
Tanzania's rural development program through finance for a team of experts,
to be attached to the Prime Minister's Office, to assist the regional staff
of other regions in project preparation of rural development projects and
regional plans, including examining their policy and fiscal implications.
It is expected that three regions would be covered over a two-year period.
The program would be directed by a coordinator who would work out of Dar es
Salaam. The team would liaise closely with RMEA. With the help of the
specialist staff and local expertise, the coordinator would also be responsible
for implementing a system of monitoring and evaluation of the Kigoma project.
Details of the proposal are further described in Annex 10.
C. Project Costs (Annex 11)
4.18      Total project cost, over a five-year disbursement period, is
estimated at T Sh 95 million (US$13.3 million), of which US$8.0 million (60%)
would be the estimated foreign exchange component. Details are summarized
in the following table:



- 17 -
Foreign
Local   Ftroei   Total        Local    Fbrin   Total    Xxch&nKe
----- T8hZ        -             -----O                        %
Vilage Infrastructure
Water Supply                        6,206    6,1459   12,665         869        905    1,7714 
Health                                868      682    1,550           122        96       218
Iduoatima                          7,100    8334   15,14314          9914      1,167   2,161.      5
Beder Roads                          766       192      958          107          27      1341     20
Taste. Clearing                       716      126      842          100          18      118      15
SUB-TOTAL                   15,656   1.5,793   31,1449       2,192      2.213    4,405
koans to Villaesr
Seasonal Inputs Revolving Fumd    1,541    6,165    7,706            216         863    1,079      8C
M1d-Twrm Credit for Production
Infraatruotue                 &         3.120   5.7h             37                           57
SUB-TOTAL                    3,895    9,285   13,180           5546     130    1,8346
Loa"he h  isr.1  OmUlbaO           2,108    3,590    5,698           295        503       798      63
Regional Infrastruatire
Regional Trainlg Centero              990      778    1,768           139        109      248       4
Radio-Tol yhone Hookup                154      196      350           22          27       49      56
Agric. Trall/Training Oenter and
Livestock Pilot ProJect             498       375      873           70          53      123      43
Vhicle.a                             140       420      560           20          58       78      75
Demonstrations                        43       171      214            6          24       30      80
Aerial Fhotography                   180    1,620    1,800            25        227       252      90
SUB-TOTAL                    2,005    3560    5,565            282        498      780
Technical Assistanoe                  1,768    4,124    5,892          248         577      825       70
Project. Prearatim and Evaluation  j1,481          4       2            208        622      830       75
TOTAL                                                        JA.7 71.
Centingency Alowanoe
Phymical                           1,126    1,762    2,888           158        246       404
Price                              9,545   14,467   24,012         1,337      2,026    3,363
Ttal6^ Prodot oet                    Z7,584   57,025   9229             6        7,985    .251        60



- 18 -
Costs are based on November 1973 prices, with fertilizer prices updated to
February 1974. Price contingencies of 14X for 1974, 11% for 1975 and 7-1/21
per year thereafter have been added to all costs. A physical contingency of
5% has been added to all costs except seasonal credit production Inputs.
D. Financing
4.19      Financing of project costs would be shared as follows:
T Sh                US$
(mllion)          (million)        x
IDA                       71                10.0          75
Government of Tanzania   13                  1.8          14
UNCDF                     11                 1.5          11
95                13.3        100
The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would be on standard termn to
Government and would cover 751 of total costs. Under parallel financing the
United Natie.. Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) would provide a grant of
US$1.5 million, to go towards the costs of the water supply and health compo-
nents. The IDA credit and UNCDF grant would together cover the foreign exchange
cost and two-thirds of local costs, or 861 of total costs.  Fund for credit
to cooperatives (i.e., the regional cooperative union and village primary
societies) would be made available by Goverment to TRDB at 4% annually for
25 years including 5 years' grace under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable
to IDA, the execution of which would be a condition of effectiveness. Because
village primary societies are new and have little or no savings, TRDB would
on-lend up to 100% of project costs. Villages would pay an interest rate of
8-1/2% for seasonal inputs and 7-1/21 for economic infrastructure, the pre-
vailing interest rates throughout Tanzania. Government is currently reviewing
these interest rates. TIDB would lend to the Union for its own facilities and
for on-lending to villages for seasonal inputs and village infrasture.
TRDB in sowe cases would also lend direct to village primary societies for
village productive infrastructure. Where the Union on-lends to villages it
would not take an interest margin but would cover its costs from its levies
on handling villages' produce and inputs. Government would retain funds for
all other parts of the project.
E. Procurement
4.20      Requirements for fertilizers, pesticides and ULV sprayers (about
US$1.1 million) would be bulked with similar item required under other IDA-
financed projects in Tanzania. These items together with aerial photography
and radio equipmut (about $0.3 million) would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines for



- 19 -
procurement. Bulking of orders for vehicles and spare parts (about $0.48
million) would not be practicable since they will be purchased in small lots
as required over a period of about five years. Purchases would be made follow-
ing competitive bidding by local agents of well represented foreign suppliers
who are equipped with essential service facilities. In the evaluation of bids
local manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of 15% or the
existing rate of customs duties, whichever is lower. Orders of US$30,000 or
less would be handled in accordance with existing government procedures which
are satisfactory.
4.21      Contracts for construction of classrooms, houses, water supply
systems, godowns, dispensaries and other buildings, which are all small,
of varied design and geographically scattered, would not be a sufficient size
to attract international bidders and would be constructed by a coubination of
local competitive bidding and force account. In evaluating bids domestic
contractors would be allowed a 7-1/2% preference.
F. Disbursement
4.22      Disbursement of funds from the credit would be on the following
basis:
A.   UNCDF would disburse 75% of total expenditures for water
supply systems and health facilities.
B.   IDA would disburse against the following:
(a) 90% of civil works for education facilities, feeder
roads and tsetse clearing, and housing;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures
for the incremental cost of seasonal inputs;
(c) 90% of amounts disbursed to the Union as sub-loans for
vehicles and spares and other collecting and marketing
facilities and to project villages as sub-loans for
productive infrastructure;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures
for aerial photography, radio telephone system, vehicles
and spares (other than for the Union), equipment and
seasonal inputs for trials and equipment for the rural
training centers, classrooms and the pilot livestock
program; and,
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures
for project preparation, evaluation and technical assistance
and related equipment and expenditures from the project
special fund.



- 20 -
Disbursements against A and (a), (b), (d) and (e) of B would be fully documanted.
In the case of disbursements against certificate of expenditure (i.e., (c) of
B above) documentation would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be
available for inspection during IDA project supervision. The incremental oost
of seasonal inputs in (b) above would be the amounts spent in a particular
year over and above amounts spent in previous years under the project. Any
funds remaining in the credit account on completion of the project would be
used, at IDA discretion, on further development in Kigoma region. An esti-
mated schedule of IDA disbursements is shown as Annex 12.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.23      TRDB and Government would maintain separate accounts for disburse-
ments and subloans under the project. Both sets of accounts would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and the accounts and auditors'
reports would be submitted to IDA within six mDnths of the close of each
financial year. Auditing of the cooperatives in the Region is the responsi-
bility of the audit and supervision fund of the Prime Minister's Office.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that audits of cooperatives
participating under the project would be completed within six months of the
close of each financial year and that to facilitate this, auditors, reporting
to the office of the Registrar of Cboperatives in Dar es Salaam$ would be
established within the Region prior to any lending to cooperatives under the
project.
H. EcoloRical and External Effects
4.24      The fertilizers and insecticides to be used in the project would
have only a small effect on the local ecology given normal precautions in
their use. Endosulphan insecticide is toxic to humans and appropriate safety
instructions would be included in all staff and farmer training. The existence
of an erosion hazard following from village formation and land consolidation
has been fully recognized. Village site selection, based on the Village Site
Feasibility Report (para 5.04), together with subsequent housing and farm
layout will be in accordance with sound soil and water conservation principles
laid down and monitored by project land use planning personnel.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAUEHENT
Regional Goverment
5.01      The project would constitute a major part of the regional govern-
ment's development activities and would be implemented through departments
of the regional administration.  The Regional Development Director (RDD)



- 21 -
would be responsible for overall project planning and implementation.  The
Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB) would be the channel for lending
under the project.
Village Planning
5.02      The regional government would coordinate planning for the number and
location of new villages started in a particular year. The final decisions
on new villages and on public investments in existing villages would be
embodied in the district and regional plans and budgets as finalized through
the annual budget process (Annex 4).
5.03      In order to ensure that new and existing villages to be financed
under the project are suitably sited in relation to agricultural land, water
and other factors, each site would be studied by relevant district and
regional functional managers and specialists to determine the site's economic
feasibility. The study team would generally consist of specialists in agri-
culture, public works, land planning, water, livestock and finance, supple-
mented, as necessary, by specialists in education, forestry and health.
5.04      Each team would prepare a village site feasibility report (VSFR),
a detailed assessment of the site's agricultural potential, water and infra-
structure availability, village development plan and cost estimates and a
signed opinion on the overall feasibility of the site and its maximum sustain-
able size. The land planner (para. 4.14) and agriculturalists would use the
results of special aerial photographic surveys (para. 4.02). Each team would
examine the extent, location and quality of arable land adjacent to the
proposed site and estimate the site's maximum carrying capacity, taking into
account time taken in walking from homes to block farms. The water engineer
would examine alternative means of providing village water and estimate their
costs.  To facilitate this, irhere appropriate, one or two dug wells would be
sunk, as part of the VSFR exercise, to determine the availability of ground-
water. VSFRs would not be forwarded to IDA but would be available in Kigoma
for review during supervision.
5.05      Government would annually prepare and make available to IDA by March
of each year for discussion and agreement an annual development plan for
village investments and training to be financed under the project during the
following fiscal year.  Govermnent would also supply to IDA for comment its
annual village development plans covering all villages in the Region.
Village planning procedures and a pro forma VSFR are described further in
Annex 13. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the procedures
outlined in paras. 5.02 through 5.05 and in Annex 13 would be followed in
identifying, selecting, planning and implementing investments in project
villages.
Agriculture
5.06      Each project village would have had an agricultural field ass3stant
stationed permanently at the village for at least one season before it could
borrow under the project. About 80 agricultural extension workers currently



- 22 -
work in the Region and would be supplemented by those trained at the regional
trials and training center which would be set up under the project (para. 4.12).
The field assistants would work with village committees in organizing demonstra-
tion plots and in advising villagers on agricultural practices.
5.07      After a village reaches a stage where it would be able to utilize
purchased inputs (generally not before its third season of development) it
would apply for loans from the regional cooperative union (Union). The
village to be eligible for loans, would, among other things, have to
become a registered multi-purpose cooperative society and have hired a book-
keeper (para. 4.08). The village (assisted by the field assistant and
village bookkeeper) would decide on the amount of loan it would apply for
and on-lending arrangements with its members. During harvest the village
(as a cooperative society) would deduct, from harvest payments to members,
outstanding loans for inputs.
The Regional Cooperative Union (Union)
5.08      The Union would submit a loan request to TRDB to cover the requests
for seasonal inputs by villages which the Union has approved. TRDB would
procure (para. 4.20) the inputs for approved loans and would arrange for their
shipment to Kigoma. The Union would receive the inputs at Kigoma and arrange
for unloading, storage, documentation, making up of village lots, and trans-
port (generally around September-November) to the villages.
5.09      During and immediately following harvest (generally May-July) the
Union would buy and collect the villages' crops. To effect this the Union
would make small cash advances to the villages during harvest. The Union
would deduct these advances before making subsequent payments to villages
for crop purchases. The absence of any form of banking or other financial
network in the Region's rural areas requires the Union to get involved in
sizeable credit operations.
5.10      The Union would also borrow medium term from TRDB for its own
needs (e.g., trucks) and for on-lending to villages for production infra-
stnrcture (e.g., village godowns). Trading and lending procedures under the
project are further described in Annex 14.
13.11     The Union would be strengthened by the hiring of an operations
manager and a financial controller to set up operating and financial systems,
initially operate them and train staff in their use (para. 4.13). The finan-
cial controller would screen loan requests from villages in preparing its loan
requests to TRDB.  He would also monitor the Union's overall financial position,
reporting at least monthly to TRDB and, with diagnosis and recommendations, to,
the Union's management and the Regional Development Director.' A training super-
visor would also be hired whose principal responsibility would be training
village-level bookkeepers and providing other assistance on credit matters.
5.12      In order to place the Union on a firmer financial footing the Gov-
erment would effect a financial reorganization of the Union. The reorganiza-
tion would combine a capital contribution by Goverment (to be used to repay



- 23 -
part of the Union's outstanding borrowings from the government-owned National
Bank of Commerce (NBC)) and a partial write-off and/or rescheduling of re-
maining principal and interest by NBC. The objective of the reorganization
would be to provide the Union with a level of debt service payments that
it can carry in light of anticipated margins, volumes and expenses; specify-
ing exactly what this amount is must await completion of the Union's audit-
ed accounts. The financial reorganization would be followed by subsequent
measures such as a capital contribution (or suitably-deferred long-term loan)
by Government sufficient to cover losses, during the first four years of the
project, as and if they arise; these are currently projected at about T Sh
1.2 million (US$170,000) (para 6.08). During negotiations assurances were
obtained that within six months of effectiveness Government would carry out a
financial reorganization of the Union and, in accordance with good financial
practice, would take such other measures as might be required from time to
time ensure that the Union can service its debts.
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
5.13      The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB), with which IDA has
considerable experience in several projects (para 2.10), would be the lending
channel for loans to the Union (and ultimate on-lending to the villages).
TRDB opened an office in Kigoma in 1972 and plans to increase the number of
credit supervisors stationed there as the volume of business expands. TRDB
would not lend until the operations manager and financial controller were hired,
the union's books had been satisfactorily audited and the financial reorgani-
zation of the Union had been effected. TRDB would lend direct to the Union for
agricultural inputs, which the Union would on-lend to its member village/
cooperative societies, and for the Union's own needs (e.g., for transport
equipment). TRDB would also lend direct to villages or through the Union for
village infrastructure. TRDB's appraisal of the Union's periodic loan requests
would include examining the individual loan requests of villages to the Union.
5.14      The Union also borrows for working capital needs (chiefly for
inventories and cash advances) from the National Bank of Commerce, the
official source of such credit in Tanzania. Since these total borrowings
affect the Union's ultimate creditworthiness TRDB would also continuously
monitor the Union's overall financial situation. Assurances were obtained
from TRDB at negotiations that it would strengthen its office in Kigoma as
the project requires and follow lending procedures as outlined in paras.
5.13 and 5.14 and in Annex 14.
5.15      Margins, allowed primary societies and Unions in selling and buying
prices, affect their respective debt-servicing abilities (para. 6.08). During
negotiations assurances were obtained that Government and IDA would discuss
from time to time the adequacy of these margins having regard to the financial
viability of primary societies and the Union, and reasonable incentives for
producers.



- 24 -
VI. PRO W CTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Production, Yields and Marketable Surplus
6.01      The following projected crop yields for the principal crops at full
development compared with yields under tradiitonal agriculture without the
project are based on limited field experiments carried out in Kigoma region
(paras 3.21 and 3.22) and on field trials and experience under similar ecologi-
cal conditions elsewhere in Tanzania and ne.ghboring countries. Yield increases
from existing low levels would be facilitated under the project by the training
of farmer contact extension workers, further trials and demonstration of recow-
mended practices on farmers' plots, provisioa of a credit and inputs delivery
system at the village level, and by the principle of individual responsibility
for plots within the block farms in each ujamaa village. The latter factor is
of particular significance in promoting the transfer of recommended practices
because of the ease of access to farmers for both extension advice and input
supply.
Traditional         At Full Village
(vithout project)   Development (Yr. 8)
   - - - - - - -  (kg/ha) - - - - - - -
Maize                                 600                   1,460
Beans                                 280                     600
Seed cotton                           390                     990
Groundnuts                            390                     600
6.02      A sizeable portion of a typical village's production of food crops
under the project would be expected to go for subsistence, at consumption
levels above those under traditional settlement and assumed to increase at
3% per capita per year during the project period.  The production, subsistence
consumption and marketable surplus of an average 350 family village at Year
8 of its development is projected as follows:
Maize    Beans   Seedcotton  Groundnuts
Village production (tons)           287       122       155          52
Subsistence consumption (tuns)    174          74         -          22
Marketable surplus (tons)           113        48        155         30
o.03      Marketed surplus prior to the project by families under the project
is Kiot known but would have been slight. Marketable surplus for the total
project is projected as follows:



- 25 -
Project Year
2                     5                   8
Tons     Value       Tons     Value       Tons      Value
(OOOs)  (T Sh mil.) (0OOs)  (T Sh mil.) (000s)   (T Sh mil.)
Maize                 1.5        0.5        8.4       2.9        10.0       3.5
Beans                 1.0        0.9       4.9        4.1         4.7      3.9
Seedcotton            1.1        1.4      10.7       13.9        14.3     18.8
Groundnuts             -          -        0.7        1.0         2.6      3.6
Total value                2.8                  21.9                 29.9
Assuming 85% of the cotton was exported, the project's annual gross direct
foreign exchange earnings at Year 8 would be about US$4.8 million.  Crop
budgets together with projections of buildup of input needs, cropped areas,
and marketed surplus are presented in Annex 15.
Markets and Prices
6.04      Tanzania currently produces about 400,000 bales of cotton lint
annually of which some 85% is exported, mainly to Asian countries. Project
output of cotton would be less than 1/20 of 1% of world production and would
have no significant impact on world prices.
6.05      Domestic requirements of maize, for which Tanzania has been a net
importer during most years, are projected to continue to grow rapidly.
Beans and groundnuts are marketed domestically. For all three, projected
marketable surplus under the project at full development is expected to
account for a small proportion of the increase in domestic requirements above
present levels. A discussion of market prospects for crops expected to be
grown by project villages appears in Annex 16.
Farmer Benefits
6.06      Incomes of farmers prior to joining the project are not precisely
known but are believed to be near subsistence level and are estimated at
T Sh 700 (US$100) per family or T Sh 140 (US$20) per capita. By Year 8 of
the project, incomes from agriculture are projected to double from T Sh 115
(US$16) to T Sh 230 (US$32) per capita; total income (including estimated off-
farm income) would double over a 12-year period from US$20 to US$40 per capita.
Financial Results
6.07      Financial models for both a village primary cooperative society and
for the Union have been prepared on the basis of projected volumes, operating
costs and margins and are shown in Annex 14. At projected volumes and margins



- 26 -
thc primary society (Annex 14 Table 10) is able to meet its operating costs
and debt-service obligations and earn a small surplus which could be used to
cover any bad debts. The projected volumes of marketed surplus handled by the
primary society could fall by 40% and it could still cover its expenses and
debt service obligations.
6.08      The Union (Annex 14 Tables 1-9) is projected to incur losses during
its first four years under the project (mainly of a "start up" nature) but
thereafter to earn surpluses. The financial viability of both the primary
societies and the Union depend on volumes handled and the amount of society
and Union margins or levies. In particular, any substantial increase in the
level of bad debts (a perennial problem for a number of cooperative unions
in Tanzania) would place the Union in a loss position. The level of levies
is largely set by Government (para. 2.08 and Annex 14) and would be discussed
from time to time with Government (para. 5.15).
Government Revenues and Outlays
6.09      The major marketed project output would be cotton, on which an export
tax at the rate of 10% ad valorem is levied, and approximately T Sh 30,000
per annum would be recovered from a village at full development through this
and other minor tax proceeds. On the other side, large increases in govern-
ment recurrent expenditures can be expected; recurrent expenses of Government
in project villages at full development would be about T Sh 80,000 per annum.
This includes the operation and maintenance of a primary school (at T Sh 50,000
per annum), a village water supply (T Sh 6,500 per annum), and a share of
rural medical facilities (T Sh 10,000 per annum), together with the salary
of a village agricultural assistant and other minor items. Supervision and
overhead staff servicing for these facilities at district and regional levels
might add an additional 20 - 25% to the in-village costs, bringing the total
to about T Sh 100,000 per annum.
6.10      Not all these costs are strictly incremental to the project, since
Government now supports a considerable number of schools and medical facili-
ties in the Region, some of which would be available in project villages. In-
cremental government outlays under the project might be roughly two-thirds of
ernmnnt servauts; allowing for their payments of income tax, project expendi-
tures, on balance, would result in a net current account deficit of roughly
T Sl 30,000 per village per annum.  Tue gradual implementation of Government
norms for provision of social services to rural areas would result in similar
increases in Government recurytnt costs, with or without the project. To the
extelnt that provision of similar levels of social services is attained else-
wJhere in Tanzania, Government will need to consider ways in which additional
revenue can be raised, either in the villages or from other sources, to cover
tihese additional outlays or to provide similar services at lower cost.



- 27 -
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The 135 villages to be supported under the project would receive
varying types of assistance, depending on facilities already available in
the village and how far development proceeds during the disbursement period.
The economic analysis (Annex 16) examined a representative model village,
settled at the beginning of the project period, with no previously existing
village facilities. An attempt was made to include in the calculation of
costs, estimates for all expenditures taking place in the village relating
directly to quantifiable benefits, together with a share of complementary
investments supported under the project at regional level (including technical
assistance outlays). Directly quantifiable benefits under the project would
be derived from improvements in village agriculture as calculated from the
farm budgets, with the assumption that without the project farmers would 41-
tivate a similar area using traditional practices.
7.02      On the basis of these assumptions, the economic rate of return wculd
be 22%. This relatively high rate is due essentially to the very low initial
level of agricultural productivity among peasant farmers in the Kigoma region,
and the opportunity to reach them in an effective way for the first time. with
the concentration of population into the ujamaa villages, In this regard,
it is important to allow for the effect of the substantial investments in
village social infrastructure provided under the project, since, without the
early prospect of such services being available, it is unlikely that many
villages would attract settlers in the first place or could retain them through
the settlement period. Moreover, the long-run development of ujamaa villages
will require on the part of villagers higher general levels of education and
health which the social services under the project would help to bring about.
There is on this account a plausible case for associating the social elements
with the productive elements under the project in a truly integrated way,
but it is not possible to evaluate the package in its entirety using rate
of return criteria because of the difficulty in quantifying direct benefits
from the use of the social service facilities. This question is further
considered in Annex 16. However, even if the direct benefits due to social
services no more than paid for the costs of providing them, the rate of return
under the project would still be 18%. Total capital costs per village are
roughly US$75,000 (including an allocation of regional level capital expendi-
tures), less than US$50 per capita. About US$50,000 or two-thirds are for
social service facilities.
7.03      A relatively high rate of return should be read in the context of
the high risks associated with: the experimental and untried nature of ujamaa
settlement in Kigoma region, particularly as regards agricultural developinept;
and the need to develop a complete input delivery, credit and marketing sys em
within the region, to serve the project villages, beginning from a situatioi
in which the capacity to provide these services is virtually zero.
7.04      Either directly, because of a failure in village management, or
indirectly, because of inefficiencies in marketing or overall administration,
the major risk to the project relates to a failure of agricultural productioa



- 28 -
at the village level. One possible outcome would be where all inputs are
provided, but agricultural yields are less than predicted. If gross yields
are 20% below those expected, the effect would be to reduce the anticipated
rate of return to 5%; with a loss of 25% the project becomes economically
worthless. A second type of failure would be where some villages fail entirely
and fall apart, while others perform according to expectations. While more
disruptive socially perhaps, this type of failure is less serious in terms
of impact on the overall rate of return because some inputs are saved. Thus,
if 30% of project villages fail after the third year of settlement, the rate
lof return under the project could still be 15%. Technical assistance, streng-
Ithening of institutions and training would be provided under the project to
reduce these risks and the project's potential to improve the incomes of large
numbers of poor in a poor region makes the risks worth taking.
7.05      The estimated pre-project income among the bulk of the village families
that would benefit directly under the project is the equivalent of US$20 per
capita. This compares with an estimated household income for Tanzania as a
whole of perhaps US$90-100 capita or 4 to 5 times higher. The project is
therefore directed toward meeting the needs of a relatively poor part of the
population of Tanzania.
7.06      It is further anticipated as a result of improved agricultural prac-
tices under the project that agricultural labor input per farm family would in-
crease by 25%.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  Village water supply systems would be designed according
to a least-cost approach as outlined in para 4.03; further,
it would undertake a study under the project into the fiscal
implications of the water supply component and appropriate
methods of financing the cost of water supply and would consult
with IDA on the findings of the study (para 4.04);
(b)  within six months of signing, it would select a suitable site
and commence construction for the regional trials and train-
ing center, as outlined in para 4.12;
(c)  within six months of the credit's effectiveness the operations
manager, financial controller and training superviser of the
regional cooperative union, and the land use planner and trials
and training officers would be hired, as outlined in para 4.15;
(d) it would follow auditing procedures as described in para 4.23;



- 29 -
(e) it would plan project villages and consult with IDA as
outlined in paras. 5.02 through 5.05;
(f) within six months of effectiveness it would carry out a
financial reorganization of the Union, as outlined in para
5.12; and,
(g) it would discuss with IDA from time to time the adequacy
of cooperative levies (para. 5.15).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from TRDB that it
would strengthen its Kigoma branch office as necessary and follow lending
practices and procedures as outlined in para 5.14.
8.03      A condition of effectiveness of the credit would be that a sub-
sidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA between Government and TFRB had
been executed (para. 4.19).
8.04      The project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperatives
Introduction
1.        Cooperatives exist in large numbers throughout Tanzania.  By the
end of July 1973, there were 2,200 registered cooperatives, including the
Cooperative Union of Tanganyika, the Savings and Credit League, 25 cooperative
unions, 1,518 cooperative marketing societies, 265 cooperative production and
marketing societies, 314 savings and credit societies, and 78 cooperative
consumer societies. The existing cooperative structure is in the process
of change. The present 25 cooperative unions are to be consolidated and
reduced to 18, one for each region. In addition, cooperative societies are
to be closely integrated within the program of ujamaa village development.
wherein ujamaa villages are expected eventually to become multipurpose
cooperative societies, ultimately providing the full range of productive,
marketing, financial and consumer services to their members. The existing
265 cooperative production and marketing societies are, in fact, ujamaa
villages that have already undergone this transformation. Moreover, it is
expected that ujamaa villages, and subsequently their counterparts the
multipurpose cooperative societies, will absorb most existing cooperative
marketing societies.
2.        The cooperative movement of Tanzania has a considerable history.
Voluntary "growers associations" existed as early as the 1920's. In 1932,
in the Kilimanjaro area, the first agricultural cooperatives were registered
to promote coffee as a cash crop for peasant farmers. The movement soon
became very popular and spread quickly to other areas where commercial
peasant farming was relatively advanced and involved a wide range of economic
activities. By 1952, there were 172 registered societies and by 1961 their
numbers had increased to 857. Thus, cooperatives grew up spontaneously in
the regions of Moshi, Arusha, Bukoba, Mwanza, Ruvuma, Rungwe and Iringa.
Shortlv after independence, the Government decided that cooperatives should
be established in all parts of the country where they were previously absent.
In subsequent years, the Government exercised an increasing degree of super-
vision and control. The Government, for example, now sets many of the margins
within which the cooperatives have to operate, controls the hiring and firing
of all union officials with a salary above T Sh 650 a month, has assumed,
direct responsibility for the management of three unions (Dodoma, Mbeya and
Bukoba), controls all cooperative education, has assumed virtually all
responsibilities for inspection of cooperative societies, has tramsferred
to the unions special tasks previously performed by the private sector and
has moved to link inextricably the cooperative movement with ujamaa village
development. The cooperative movement has thus evolved from a spontaneous
effort designed to provide the benefits inherent in economies of scale to
its member farmers, into a program initiated, supervised and controlled by
Government.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        The principal responsibility of the cooperative unions, apart from
various conasmer, financial, transport and other services they might perform,
is to move the marketable surplus of virtually all scheduled crops in virtually
all regions of the country from the primary societies to the appropriate mar-
keting boards. Affiliated primary societies, in turn, assist the unions in
this task by acting as their collecting agents. The cooperatives have been
assigned sole buying rights for most crops. However, agricultural production
has sometimes suffered from such monopolistic practices, because the coop-
eratives have often been marked by poor management, petty corruption and low
marketing efficiency. Problems arise, in particular, from an acute shortage
of management and accounting skills, an absence of personal accountability
within the system and the frequent allocation of unrealistic coastings and
margins.
Legislation, Organization, and Supervision
4.        The first Cooperative Societies Ordinance, stipulating the legal
basis for all cooperatives, was enacted in 1932. It was subsequently repealed
and replaced by the Cooperative Societies Ordinance of 1968. This legislation
is soon to be amended in order to specify the process and criteria by which
ujamaa villages are to become multipurpose cooperative societies. As the
amended legislation would reflect, it has been suggested that the registration
of primary societies would observe three stages, whereby the ujamaa village
would be: (i) a probationary multipurpose cooperative society, with full
legal status, but with unlimited liability and dependence on the directives
of the Registrar of Cooperatives; (ii) a fully registered multipurpose
cooperative society, with complete legal independence and status and limited
liability; and (iii) in addition, a full-fledged community with powers to
mete laws and impose justice.
5.        The cooperative structure in Tanzania consists of an apex organiza-
tion, The Cooperative Union of Tanganyika (CUT), regional cooperative unions,
and constituent primary cooperative societies. CUT's functions as a repre-
sentative of the cooperative movement--exercised by agreement with the unions,
not by law--appear to have been eroded in recent years. CUT has provided
and does still provide advisory, educational and legal services to the
countrv's cooperatives. However, many of its functions have been transferred
t*._ CGovernment, e.g., CUT's education wing, the Cooperative Education
Center, has been absorbed by the Cooperative College at Moshi and many of
its legal and advisory activities appear to be shifting to the Prime Minister's
Office.
6.        Following the Government reorganization of July 1971, the Rural
Development Division, headed by the Commissioner for Rural Development, was
established to deal with matters relating to cooperatives. The Division
contains two principal subdivisions, one on Ujamaa and Cooperatives, and the
other on Rural Development Operation and Control, each headed by the respective
assistant commissioner (see Chart 1). This central cadre is supported in each



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of the 18 Regional Administrative Governments by an ujamaa and cooperative
functional manager and his staff. Regional staff consists of ujamaa and
cooperative development trainees, assistants and officers, all of whom provide
advice, supervision and inspection to ujamaa villages and cooperative societies,
both from headquarters and in the field. The Commissioner of Rural Development
also serves as The Registrar of Cooperatives, responsible for the registration
of all cooperatives. At the regional level, the Regional Development Directors
have recently been named Assistant Registrars of Cooperatives and have been
charged with registration of all multipurpose cooperative societies within
their respective regions. Other institutions within the Prime Minister's
Office dealing with the cooperatives include The Unified Cooperative Services
Commission and the Audit and Supervision Fund. The former is charged with
the recruitment, appointment (including promotions and transfers) and termi-
nation of all cooperative personnel earning T Sh 650 per month or more. The
latter is responsible for the audit and supervision of the financial records
and the preparation of financial statements of all registered cooperatives.
7.        The Audit and Supervision Fund currently has a network of 7 zonal
offices distributed throughout the country, which it plans to expand into
18 regional offices by December 1974. Total staff consists of 135 personnel,
of which only 9 are qualified accountants. Approximately 10 percent of the
staff is expatriate, projected to be phased out by June 1976, as qualified
Tanzanian staff become available following the necessary training at either
the Cooperative College at Moshi or the Institute of Development Management
at Morogoro. Only about 50 staff members are currently qualified to audit
and supervise the financial accounts of primary societies and but a fraction
of these the financial accounts of the cooperative unions. Each staff member
could audit approximately 10 societies per month if the accounts were properly
maintained, but most societies are insolvent and their books in total dis-
array, requiring the accounts first to be reconstructed before they can be
audited. To simplify and standardize accounting practices at the society
level, a simplified, uniform bookkeeping system for ujamaa villages is in
the final stages of preparation. In summary, problems of audit and super-
vision of the cooperatives can be expected to persist throughout the country
during the next five years. Financial accounts of both primary societies
and cooperative unions are rarely prepared adequately for audit and super-
vision. Moreover, neither the quality nor quantity of staff of the Audit
and Supervision Fund is sufficient to respond satisfactorily to the large
task required.-
Education and Training
8.        The extensive network of ujamaa villages and cooperatives, and the
supporting programs and institutions, draw upon a large number and variety
of personnel, all of whom require training and education. The only national
institutions qualified to provide such services are the Cooperative College
at Moshi and the Institute of Development Management at Morogoro, still under
construction. The Cooperative College currently offers diploma, final



ANNEX 1
Page 4
inspectors, and induction courses to a total of 272 students.  The Institute
of Development Management presently has 240 students enrolled in a four-year
diploma accountancy course, to be doubled upon completion of building con-
struction. In addition, rural training centers, correspondence courses,
and regional educational programs contribute to education and training at
the local level.
9.        Under the first cooperative education plan, 287 staff and leaders
of primary societies were trained, including 81 society secretaries. An
ujamas village secretaries' and treasurers' course was offered to 242
personnel. About 278 staff of the cooperative unions participated in
different courses of two to ten weeks' duration. To upgrade staff of the
Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Division, a basic inspectors' course was
given to 270 personnel and a final inspectors' course of six months to a
smaller number of qualified staff. About 50 persons from the cooperative
unions, the parastatals and Government completed the cooperative diploma
course. Finally, a series of brief courses to cooperative members and
leaders were given to over 20,000 persons in 1970 and 12,000 in 1971. In
1970 and 1971, respectively, 712 and 1,052 individuals successfully completed
cooperative correspondence courses.
10.       Past efforts have, however, only begun to address the pressing
needs to train and educate staff of the primary cooperative societies, the
cooperative unions, and the Rural Development Division. The ujamaa and
cooperative education plan (1973-1979) therefore proposes to establish over
the next two years five more zonal cooperative colleges as branches of the
Cooperative College at Moshi. The Zonal Colleges will each have an eventual
capacity of 150 students, will each require at least six teachers, and will
provide courses for primary societies' secretaries, basic and final manage-
ment and administration, and basic and final inspectors. Between 1973/74
and 1978/79, it is estimated that 6,900 staff and leaders of ujamaa villages
and 6,300 of other primary societies will be trained. In addition, training
for approximately 650 union accountants and assistants and 1,100 senior and
Junior bookkeepers is projected over the period.
11.       Finally, substantial cooperative technical assistance is currently
being provided by the five Nordic countries. Of the 30 experts now operating
-id"- a2 agreement originally signed in 1968, six are working within the
Rural Development Division to establish systems for wholesaling and transport,
credit financing, management accounting, promotion and supervision and con-
sumer and retail activities, 11 are working on the specific problems of 11
regional cooperative unions, and the remainder are working in the Cooperative
and Zonal Colleges. It is intended that the systems developed at the center
(transport and primary society bookkeeping systems are near completion) will
be both integrated into the cooperative college curriculum and incorporated
within the operations of the cooperative unions.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Kigoma Region Coeuerative Organization
12.       In Kigoma region, a staff attached to the regional and district
Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Offices of approximately 100 personnel
provides support, advice, and supervision to ujamaa villages and cooperative
societies. The staff is divided as follows: 7 in the regional office, 32 in
the Kigoma district office, 33 in the Kasula district office, and 30 in the
Kibondo district office. Of these, 8 personnel are employed in the 2 rural
training centers in Kasulu and Kibondo, both of which fall under the administ-
ration of the Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Office. In addition, there
are currently 57 rural development assistants (RDAs) who operate at the
village level to mobilize and educate the rural populations in ujarna prin-
ciples, to assist villages resettlement, and to coordinate the various
government activities. Moreover, approximately 15 cooperative inspectors
(CIs) now operate out of the district offices to supervise and inspect the
financial performance of the primary societies. However, very few are
adequately trained, particularly in accountancy and bookkeeping techtniques,
a fact which has contributed to the adverse financial situation of the region's
cooperative system.
13.       The posts of both RDAs and CIs are now to be transfonmed into that
of ujamaa and cooperative development assistant (UCDA). The task of the UCDA
will be to mobilize, organize, and train villagers in the skills of forming
and managing ujamaa villages and to promote, supervise and counsel ujamaa
cooperative societies. RDAs are to be upgraded through correspondence courses
and subsequent coursework at the zonal cooperative colleges to fulfill the
tasks expected of UCDAs. The Government plans to post eventually one UCDA
in each ujamaa village.
14.       There are at present in Kigoma region 6 consumer cooperative societies,
5 savings and credit societies, 14 cooperative marketing societies, and 1
cooperative producer society. The 15 marketing and producer societies affiliated
with the Kigoma Regional Cooperative Union are estimated to represent a member-
ship of approximately 5,000 (out of a rural population of about 100,000 families).
The marketing societies handle a variety of crops, particularly paddy, cotton
and palm oil, most of which is channeled through the Union (see Table 1). The
societies, however, are generally poorly managed and the majority are insolvent.
Mbreover, the bulk of agricultural surplus produced by their members, parti-
cularly maize and beans, is marketed outside the cooperative system.
15.       The cooperative system within the region is now undergoing substantial
transformation, as ujamaa villages are established and as multipurpose primary
cooperative societies are subsequently formed. The majority of existing market-
ing cooperatives are expected to be absorbed by the multipurpose cooperative
societies, wyherever the respective memberships overlap. It is planned that
ai network of multipurpose primary societies would emerge, whose firm financial
and operational management would be assured from the outset, and which would
eventually take on the full range of marketing, savings, credit, and consumer
functions.



ANhNTEX 1
?age 6
Primarv Societv Registration
16.       Several measures, of which registration procedures are the most
-niortant, have been planned to assure the viability of the new multipurpose
Drimary societies. For a ujamaa village to be fully registered as a multi-
Durpose primary cooperative society, the following steps must be taken: (a)
an individual constitution and by-laws must be prepared and approved by the
villagers; (b) an application form must be orepared and an entrance fee paid;
(c) an economic feasibility report must be prepared by the Ujamaa and Coope-
rative Development Office; (d) The District Development Conmitcee must approve
each application; and (e) all material must be forwardea to the Regional
Development Director, who, in his capacity as Assistant Registrar of Coopera-
tives, would approve final registration. The economic feasibility report
must examine size of the village (minimum size is presently 150 families),
planned and Dotential economic activities, quality of leadership, and proven
ability to implement programs. At the beginning of each year the District
Development Director and his staff determine which ujamaa villages within the
respective district might be eligible for registration during the year; and
the registration procedures are subsequently initiated by the district office
of Ujamaa and Cooperative Development. There are currently three ujamaa
villages registered and 12 in the process of registration.
17.       Under the project additional measures are proposed to assure the
viability of project villages. As a condition for lending by TRDB, each
village would be required to have a qualified bookkeeper and agricultural
field assistant (AFA). To fulfill the bookkeeping requirements, a UCDA, with
the requisite training, would be placed in each creditworthy village for up
to two years. During this period he would help to train a bookkeeper, who
would be selected by the Village Development Committee (VDC) and paid from
the income of the primary society. A Standard VII education would be required.
In addition, both the village bookeeper and the UCDA would be trained in
elementary bookkeeping, in courses following the curriculum to be laid down
by the credit and training supervisor of the Union, to be held in the rural
training centers. The curriculum would follow wherever possible that of the
zonal cooperative colleges. The training in bookkeeping and accounting pro-
cedures should be sufficient for preparation of ledger accounts, trial balances
and monthly income statements. Training of the AFAs would be provided within
the program of the proposed Agricultural Trials and Training Center.
Kigoma Regional Cooperative Unicon
18.       The Kigoma Regional Cooperative Union was registered (No. 1463) in
1965 under the Cooperative Societies Ordinance. It acts primarily to market
the produce of its 15 affiliated primary societies. It also provides trans-
port services, including the distribution of beer and cooking oil within the
region. The Union's total fixed assets, including two lorries and a Landrover,
currently do not exceed T Sh 150,000. All office and storage space is rented.
At present, it has a staff of eight personnel, excluding those required for
transport, although an additional five posts have recently been allocated.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
19.       The Union s procedures for organization and management follow the
instructions recently issued by the Rural Development Division. These
instructions attempt to improve the quality and delineate the activities of
the membership, management committee, and management, and in particular, to
prevent the corruption that has undermined parts of the cooperative movement
in the past, including the Kigoma Cooperative Union. The General Meeting of
the Union, in which generally two to three members of each affiliated society
participate, usually convenes once a year to review outstanding Union issues
and policy and, in particular, to discuss management's recommendations on
prices and wholesaling costs for crops handled by the Union in the coming
year. The Union has an Executive Committee, which meets every month, con-
sisting of the general manager, a chairman elected by the General Meeting
every three years, and a vice-chairman elected each year. In addition,
there is a Management Committee, which meets every three months, consisting
of ten Members, one-third of whom must resign or stand for reelection each
year. All committee members must be approved first by both TANU (Tanzania's
political party) and the regional administration before standing for elections.
At present, the posts of chairman and vice-chairman and four positions on the
management committee are vacant, following a recent reorganization of the Union.
20.       The Union's past financial performance has been poor.  The last
audited accounts for the Union were for the financial year ending April 30,
1972. At that date the Union was suffering a negative balance of T Sh 509,775,
as compared to T Sh 932,000 for fiscal 1970/71 and T Sh 736,250 for fiscal
1969/70. In fiscal year 1971/72 current liabilities amounted to T Sh 1.5
million, of which about T Sh 1 million represented bank overdrafts, and current
assets amounted to only T Sh 980,000, at least part of which is of questionable
value. In fiscal year 1972/73, it is estimated that interest charges alone
amounted to T Sh 137,000 and that the NBC overdraft at year's end was almost
T Sh 2 million and that outstanding obligations from affiliated societies were
approximately T Sh 1.8 million. This persistent insolvency appears to result
from two principal causes:  (a) a continuing rise in debt balances from primary
societies and concomitant increases in the Union's NBC overdraft, arising from
unrepaid cash advances for crop purchases; and (b) a perennial operating
deficit.
21.       To improve the UInion's performance several measures are recommended
prior to and during project implementation: (a) the completed audit of the
Union's 1972/73 financial statement by time of negotiations; (b) the partial
or total write-off and/or rescheduling of the Union's persistent outstanding
debt; (c) the substantial strengthening of Union organization and management,
including hiring of a new general manager, operations manager, financial
controller, credit and training supervisor (see Annex 9), and society credit
officers; (d) the establishment of new trading and lending procedures (see
Annex 14), in particular, carefully controlling the advancement of cash for
crop purchases; and (e) the imposition of similar trading and lending procedures
for all non-project affiliated societies, including hiring of society book-
keepers.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
22.       Critical to the efficient disbursement, supervision, and control of
NBC cash advances would be the SCOs proposed under the project. In the past,
cash has been advanced through the Union to affiliated primary societies for
crop purchases without adequate control or supervision. This has resulted
in large increasing debts from the societies to the Union and frou the Union
to NBC. To prevent such problems in the future, new lending procedures are
proposed which rely heavily on the SCOs. The SCOs would control the advance-
ment of cash and supervise its use during regular visits to primary societies.
In addition, they would regularly report on the financial situation of their
respective societies to Union management, and ultimately to NBC and TRDB.
To prepare qualified individuals to undertake these functions effectively,
the following training is proposed. Form IV leavers would be recruited for
training at the Institute of Financial Management, where they would undertake
a program similar to that now followed by TRDB's credit supervisors. The
course involves 18 months of training in management, economics, accountancy,
and related subjects, to which might be added some training in relevant crops
by the appropriate marketing boards. Once working for the Union, SCOs should
receive salaries commensurate with their high qualifications. The Unified
Cooperative Services Comission, or other government entity, might participate
in the training and subsequent remuneration of SCOs.



TANZANIA
KlGOMI RURa DEVELOPSIIT PROJECT
ORGAtilZATIONAL CHART OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVIESION
Prime Minister's Office
Rural Development Division
Ujamaa and Cooperative Sub-division          Rural Development Operation and Control
Sub-division
Promotion and Supervision       Planning and Development              Development                      Training
of Ujamaa and Cooperative|          Research Section              Operational-Control                   Section
Societies Section                                                 Section
Audit and                           Planning and                                         Staff Ujamaa and
Supervision                          Performance                                      Cooperative Training
Services
Industiial                          Farm Management                                      Home Economics
Coopers ive                              Analysis                                           and Women
.Jea4gMejtL                                                                                  aining Services
WhoJesi.te ad                       Marketing                                           Rural Construction
Retail t                            Coordination Analysis                              Training Services         J
|  Statistics and                                     i             s
L  R-eporting                                     Lsand Servicing Team
Publicity and Radio
|       Program                    C |






TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Kigoma Regional Cooperative Union
Affiliated Primary Societies and Produce Handled
Type of Produce                                        Nguruka
Kigoma/Ujiji Kaseke  Ukaranga  Uvinza Mgambo  Mwandiga  Kalya  Ilagala  Kibondo  Kasulu Coffee  Manyoru  Makere  Buhoro  P-it
Paddy                                                  x         x       x       I                    .
Cotton                                                                                             x            x                    x         x       X
Coffee                                                                                                          x             I      X         x
Maize                                                                    YI                                     Y
Palm Oil                X           x         x                          x_                                                                      _
Palm Kernel             Xx                                    Y          x         _                                                    .   _           _
Bees Wax                                                x                        .                              X
Pidgeon Peas                                                              x                                                          X 
Beans                                                                     x                         Y           I             X       X         X      X
Groundnuts                                              X                                           X _
Simsim                             X                                      X       __
Millet (White)                                                                      _                                                 X
Cassawa
Castor Seed                                                               x        _     .   ,
Sun flower
Cashew nuts            X
SOURCE: Regional Administration



ANNEX 1
Table 2
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RIUL DEVEIL)P T PROJECT
Kizvaa Regional Cooperative Union
Union Produce Purchases - 1971-72
Crop                                  Volume (toas)                   Value (Tah 000's)
1. Paddy                                      755                                  572
B. Bs Wax                                      49                                  441
p  Cotton                                     325                                 32B
4. -Palm Kernels                              592                                  302
5. Yellow Bean.                               141                                  92
6. Pas-I Oil                                   23                                   68
7. Pidgeon Peas                               175                                   67
8. Groundnuts                                  42                                   50
9. Coffee                                       3                                   45
i0. Mixed Beans                                 71                                   39
11. Millet                                      98                                   29
12.  Maize                                       35                                  14
13.  Six Siji                                    10                                   214
Aii.   Castor Seeds                               1                                    1
15.  Cashewnuts                                   I 
2321                                2063
SOURCE: Audited Accounts of Xigoma Cooperative Union.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVEIPMENT PROJECT
The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Resources of TRDB
1.        TRDB has an authorized capital of T Sh 100 million, divided in 100
equal shares, to be subscribed exclusively by the Government. The initial
subscribed share capital of T Sh 25 million, representing the tangible assets
transferred from NDCA (TRDB's predecessor), was raised through successive
Government contributions and finally reached T Sh 47 million by the end of
1972. General reserves as of December 31, 1972 were about T Sh 0.7 million,
as compared to about 1.7 million at the end of the previous year. This
reduction was mainly due to the loss of almost T Sh 1 million recorded for
the half-year ending December 1972.
2.        Other resources of TRDB comprise short-term deposits of T Sh 26.2
million, 1/ as well as medium and long-term loans totalling approximately
T Sh 37 million. Besides a number of IDA credits, the latter include a
National Bank of Commerce overdraft of T Sh 3.3 million, loans from SIDA for
grain storage facilities and trucks, and a loan from the ICO for the local
purchase of seasonal inputs. The bulk of TRDB 's funds available for lending
to date have originated from the five IDA credits extended to Tanzania for
agricultural projects over the last seven years.
Date of       Credit        Amount Disbursed
Credit                                Credit       Amount       as of Feb. 28, 1973
No.          Purpose             Agreement  (US$ million)        (US$ million)
80-TA General Agriculture
Credit                   Jan. 1966        5.00               5.00
132-TA  Beef Ranching
Development              Oct. 1968        1.30               1.20
217-TA  Small Farmer Flue-Cured
Tobacco                  Oct. 1970        9.00               0.55
287-TA  Smallholder Tea            Mar. 1972       10.80               0.65
382-TA  Livestock Development      May  1973        18.50                  -
Total                                          44.60               7.40
P.s of December 31, 1972, IDA funds represented almost 80% of TRDB's medium-
and long-term liabilities with a total of T Sh 28.5 million.
1_   Including T Sh 20 million reserved by the Lint and Seed Marketing Board
for cotton purchases.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        TRDB is also expected to receive special funds from the Government,
bearing the name of "soft window," to be administered separately from ordinary
capital resources and used for the purpose of extending loans on concessionary
terms to finance special development projects. To date, this procedure has
not been used by TRDB.
Lending Operations
4.        TRDB provides short and medium-term loans generally at an interest
rate of 8-1/2% and long-term loans at 7-1/2%. Maturities are usually based
on the productive capacity and estimated life of the assets to be financed
and a rough distinction can be made between the following categories:
(a) Short-term loans for agricultural inputs due for repayment within
12 months from the date of disbursement.
(b)  Medium-term loans repayable over a period of five years.  These
loans are mainly for farm implements and machinery, trucks,
piggeries, poultry farms, fishing boats and equipment and
small-scale industries.
(c) Long-term loans with a maturity of up to 15 years. These
cover major investments such as produce godowns, buildings,
coffee pulperies, tea factories, ranches, etc.
5.        As a matter of policy, TRDB does not normally finance more than
75% of total project cost and a loan for any single project should not exceed
10% of the Bank's net worth. Eligible borrowers are mainly the Cooperative
Union and Societies, the District Development Corporations, the ujamaa villages
and registered associations. Crop financing remains the prerogative of the
National Bank of Commerce and the various agricultural produce Marketing Boards.
6.        TRDB's outstanding loans as of December 31, 1972 amounted to T Sh 134
million, of which 121 million or 90% were with Cooperative Societies. The
composition of the outstanding cooperative loan portfolio at the time was as
follows:
Table 1
Short-term loans  :  T Sh 69 million or 57%
Medium-term loans :  T Sh 34 million or 28%
Long-term loans   :   T Sh 18 million or 15%
Short-term loans cover seasonal inputs for a number of crops; tobacco, tea,
coffee, and cotton currently represent about 95% of the short-term outstanding
portfolio.  Tobacco is by far the most important crop for TRDB with a share
of about 40%. The medium-term loan portfolio is heavy geared toward vehicles
(usually trucks), which account for almost 85% of the medium-term funds out-
standing, and the remainder is equally shared by tractors and spray equipment.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Long-term loans in the past have mainly been for the construction of godowns,
buildings, coffee pulperies, tea factories and coffee rehabilitation. These
items represented about 85% of the long-term outstanding portfolio at the end
of 1972.
7.        Four of the eighteen regions--Iringa, Tabora, Mbeya and Mwanza--
currently hold almost 60% of the total outstanding loan portfolio, while
other regions such as Central, Kigoma and Morogoro are hardly represented
at all. Investments from IDA funds represent about 20% of the total amount
outstanding and are largely in the form of short-term loans for tea, coffee
and cotton inputs.
Arrears Situation and Credit Recovery
8.        The accumulation of overdues has been a constant feature of TRDB's
operations over the last three years, and at the end of December 1972, these
amounted to T Sh 35.6 million, or 26.5% of the loan portfolio. This situation
arose mainly from bad debts on medium and long-term loans inherited by TRDB
from its predecessors; overdues on the loans extended by TRDB itself were
only 7% of the outstanding amount in February 1973.
9.        Pursuant to IDA's request that a statement of measures to reduce
the amount of arrears be prepared, TRDB recently submitted a detailed proposal
for rescheduling and writing off a number of bad debts. The proposal received
IDA's approval and loans amounting to T Sh 9.9 million were rescheduled, while
a balance of T Sh 4.4 million was written off. This combined with a large
collection of overdues totalling T Sh 7.2 million during the first quarter of
1973, reduced total arrears to T Sh 11.3 million (that is, 9% of the new
outstending portfolio), fully covered by the provision for bad debts.
10.       Along with the above measures, TRDB expressed its intention to
improve credit recovery in the future. This would be achieved through a
series of measures including claims against stocks held by the delinquent
unions, repossession of vehicles, seizure of cattle, etc. In some cases,
TRDB would seek to obtain a lien on crop sales to the National Agricultural
Product Marketing Board (NAPB) or on fees paid by NAPB to the Unions for the
rental of godowns. TRDB also plans to take court action against societies
which refuse to pay in spite of their good liquidity position. The determi-
nation of TRDB to recover its overdues is beyond doubt,. but its success
hinges upon the backing which the Government will be willing to provide.
Organizational Structure and Management
11.       The major element affecting TRDB's structure has been the regional-
ization of the country. TRDB's former 58 field offices were replaced by 18
!-. Ioral offices, each having a regional representative and a credit super-
visor. The responsibilities of the new regional offices include pre-
investment studies, project appraisal and supervision, technical assistance
and the maintenance of permanent contacts with borrowers, regional repre-
sentatives of Ministries and branches of the National Bank of Commerce.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
As a result of this reorganization, the operations of TRDB will undoubtedly
gain in effectiveness, and some improvements in credit recovery may be expected.
On the other hand, the staffing and operation of such offices vll be an
additional burden on TRDB's already strained financial resources, since the
regional allocation of staff has been made irrespective of the nature of the
Bank's involvement in any given region. The overall increase in staff was
from 90 before the regionalization to about 180 today. A recent development,
which should have a positive bearing on TRDB's future operations, was the
appointment of six UNDP specialists who will reinforce Management's skill in
a number of key areas: namely, farm management, rural credit, marketing,
livestock and agricultural machinery. All six specialists have now joined
TRDB and are expected to play a key role in project appraisal.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Kigoma Region
Climate, Soils and Ecology
1.        A variable land form characterizes the region with elevations
ranging from 1,050 m to 2,300 m above sea level. Most of the region forms
part of the Central Plateau, an immense, undulating peneplain with a profile
of gentle slopes and shallow valleys with large areas of swamp bordering
the main water courses. Elevation increases gradually to the northwest,
then abruptly into the Kibondo and Kasulu highlands which border Burundi.
The Malagarasi River, which rises in the highlands north of Kigoma and forms
the Tanzania-Burundi boundary for about 160 km, drains most of Kigoma Region.
2.        Annual rainfall in the region is between 500 and 1,100 mm (Table 1)
and the annual mean maximum and minimum temperatures range from 28° to 12°C
respectively. A single rainy season lasts for six to seven months from
November to early May followed by a prolonged dry season. The Malagarasi
swamp, Lake Tanganyika and the highlands act as climate modifiers and, in
the highlands, this results in higher annual rainfall and slightly lower
annual maximum and minimum temperatures than those that prevail in lower
lying areas. Precipitation is reliable and allows a wide range of crops
to be cultivated with some double planting of short-season crops.
3.        Climate and topography, together with the effects of past and
present human settlement, give rise to three distinct agro-ecological zones
(Map 10942):
(a) The Highland Zone. A continuation of the Burundi mountains,
which follows the northwestern boundary of the region, is
the wettest of the three. The Zone has a rolling to hilly
physiography with incised seasonal streams and rivers.
Elevation ranges from 1,500 m to 2,300 m, becoming higher,
hillier and generally more dissected near the Burundi border.
Annual rainfall is normally above 1,000 mm being highest on
the northern slopes. For the most part, soils are well
drained, dark red to reddish brown sandy clay loams.
Hill crests often have shallow soils and there is severe
rill and gully erosion in areas of high population pressure.
The climax vegetation has long since been eradicated, but
there are some remnants of Brachystegia woodland, and higher
levels were probably under broad-leaved forest. Medium to
tall Hyparrhenia-Sporobolus grassland covers much of the



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Zone and in the north there are areas of Hyparrhenia-
Combretum bushed grassland. Glades in the highland forests
were probably the first settled areas of Kigoma region,
but most of the Zone has now been degraded by over-
cultivation and soils are heavily depleted of phosphorous
and nitrogen. The Zone covers roughly 510,000 ha of which
perhaps 20% is cultivable. Little unoccupied land suitable
for cultivation remains and holdings are small (about 1 ha).
A wide range of crops is grown, of which maize, beans, and
bananas are the most important. Coffee is grown in the
higher, wetter areas. Most of the region's cattle are
concentrated in the Highland Zone.
(b) The Intermediate Zone lies between the densely populated
highlands and the almost uninhabited Miombo woodlands. The
Zone is narrow and has an undulating physiography with
occasional hills and a predominance of perennial streams
and rivers. Elevation ranges from 1,200 m to 1,500 m with
an annual rainfall of 850 mm to 1,100 mm.
Soils that are dusky red to darkish red sandy clay loams
predominate and there is slight gully erosion on the
steeper slopes. Overall, the Zone is sparsely populated
though out-migration from the Highland Zone has concentrated
in some localized areas. A climax vegetation of Brachystegia
Julbernardia woodland covers much of the Zone with a tall
understory of Panicum maximum and Hyparrhenia spp. Soils
are moderately fertile but significant responses to phosphorous
and nitrogen applications are expected. The Zone covers
roughly 300,000 ha of which an estimated 50% is cultivable.
Settlement, however, has been restricted by the incidence
of tsetse fly, Clossina morsitans, which is common in the
uncleared Brachystegia woodland. There are also a number
of endemic sleeping sickness areas (Map 10942). Holding sizes
are larger than in the Righland Zone (1.5 to 2.0 ha) with
a larger proportion of the cultivated areas left to fallow
after four to five years of cropping. Most of the population
live in scattered homesteads and until recently, there were
few nucleated villages.
Maize and cassava are the major subsistence crops; beans,
bananas, groundnuts, sweet potatoes and a range of other
vegetable crops are also grown and in recent years cotton
has been promoted by Government staff. In the Intermediate
zone cattle and small stock ownership is less common than
in the Highland Zone.



ANLNEX 3
Page 3
(c) The Miombo Zone covers most of the east and southeast areas
of the region and is characterized by an almost featureless,
gently undulating peneplain with occasional small hills and
large areas of swampy depressions. Streams and rivers from
the highland areas converge to form wide, shallow river
valleys; in this Zone perennial water supplies are less
accessible. The ranges in elevation are from 1,000 m to
1,200 m. Few climatic recordings have been made in this
Zone, but annual precipitation is expected to vary between
600 mm and 1,000 mm and is known to be reliable.
Soil on the upper slopes and crests go from being deep,
well drained dusky red sandy loams to sandy clay loams
lying over dark red clay loams. The lower slopes and
depressions have imperfectly drained dark grey to black
clays. Brachystegia Julbernardia woodland with an understory
of tall Panicum maximum and Fyparrhenia spp. covers most of
the Zone, but there are some unforested alluvial pockets
that have attracted human settlement. Soils of the Miombo
belt are typically deficient in nitrogen and phosphorous,
but the region has large areas of a typical, tall, thick
trunked woodland with soils of moderate to good fertility
offering a sound potential for agriculture.
Tsetse infestation throtighout the Zone has restricted
migration from areas of high population pressure, although
some villages have been established during previous
regional resettlement programs, and there are scattered
settlements along the line of rail. Traditionally, the
Zone has been important for honey gathering, hunting and
fishing.
CROP PRODUCTION
4.        Maize, cassava, beans and bananas are the staple foods in the
project area, supplemented by such minor crops as sweet potatoes, sorghum,
pigeon peas and groundnuts. Cash incomes for farmers are largely derived
from sales of these crops surplus to consumption needs; however, coffee,
oil palm products and cotton are of localized importance and al:so make a
small contribution to the economy. Flue-cured tobacco is also under inves-
tigation as a cash crop at two sites in the Kigoma district.
5.        Data on crop production and marketing are extremely limited.
Results of a crop yield survey carried out during the 1972 National Agricul-
tural Census are not yet available. A small proportion of production passes
through cooperative marketing channels (no more than about 2,500 tons per
year) and a larger, uncontrolled and unquantified export trade is carried
out by private traders to neighboring Burundi and Zaire.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
INSTITUTIONS
Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo)
6.        Responsibility for agricultural development rests mainly with the
Ministrv of Agriculture (Kilimo) whose regional staff is divided into crop
production and animal health and tsetse control departments controlled by
regional functional managers at the Senior Field Officer level. In late
1973 technical staffing of the two departments totalled some 241 located
as indicated below:
District
Regional    Kigoma   Kasulu  Kibondo    Total
Crop Production
Senior Field Officer (SFO)             1          -         -       -            1
Field Officer (FO)                     3          2         2        2          9
Assistant Field Officer (AFO)          6         28        23       17          74
Field Assistant (FA)                  _           6        14       17         37
Sub-total                          10          36        39      36         121
Animal Ilealth and Tsetse Control
Senior Field Officer (SFO)             1          -         -        -           1
Field Officer (FO)                    -           -         -        1          2
Assistant Field Officer (AFO)          3          8         7        9          27
Field Assistant (FA)                  -          22        35       33         90
Sub-total                           4          30        42      43         120
7.        Over 50% of total technical staff in Kilimo, i.e., the FA grade,
have received little or no formal technical training. They are mainly
primary school leavers who have been given some in-service instruction in
sp-cific activities, such as maize production, or dip operation.  Except
ahere specific functions, such as dip operation, are called for their present
usefulness is generally very limited. Of the remainder almost 42% are in
the AFO grade, a level of staff based on two to three years of technical
training after secondary school. Mlost are strangers to the region and thus
are initially unfamiliar with its people and agricultural conditions. They
are usually young men whose lack of local background compounds their overall
lack of experience, further limiting their usefulness as agents for agricul-
tural development. Fortunately, at the FO and SFO level, the region has a
number of experienced and dedicated men capable of providing support and
guidance to lower level staff. However, numbers are small in relation to
the task and their impact is lessened by difficulties of communications and



ANNEX 3
Page 5
the lack of firm information on which to base recommendations to farmers
and hence instructions to subordinate staff. The project would seek to
utilize the skill and experience of such staff much more fully by the intro-
duction of training and trials programs (see below) and the development of
technical backup services for field workers.
Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA)
8.        In addition to the regional cooperative union and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB) which are described in Annexes 1 and 2
respectively, one other institution, the Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA),
plays a potentially highly significant role in the agricultural development
of the region. Established in March 1973 as the successor to the Lint and
Seed Marketing Board, TCA is charged, inter alia, with responsibility for
promoting the development and improvement of the country's cotton industry.
This responsibility includes organization of seed supplies, marketing of
seed cotton, ginning, seed crushing and the regulation and control of the
marketing and export of cotton lint.
9.        Because it is a new organization with considerably wider scope than
its predecessor, TCA has had to recruit additional senior personnel from a
number of other agencies including Kilimo. It is still substantially under-
staffed, particularly at the field level, and in areas such as Kigoma where
the crop has been of comparatively minor importance.
10.       TCA operates a scheme whereby insecticides, sprayers and fertilizers
are distributed to farmers at 50% of delivered cost. Limited supplies of
knapsack sprayer and DDT/Sevin insecticide together with some 270 tons of
Sulphate of Ammonia were provided for the 1973/74 planting season. Plans for
distribution and demonstration were being drafted late in 1973 but arrange-
ments for distribution and sale were far from finalized at that time.
11.       To summarize, although Kilimo has a comparatively large number of
staff in the region, most are either inadequately trained, inexperienced or
both. Bad communications and lack of firm recommendations for improved
practices compound the problem of providing ujamaa villages with extension
staff capable of servicing the needs of villagers. A further complication
is the present inability of TCA to support its expansion plans for cotton to
any meaningful extent. These facts combine to dictate that initial plans
for agricultural development must be based on simple measures that can be
seen to pay off and that can be understood and transmitted to farmers by
village-level extension workers who have received only limited technical
training, as explained below in more detail.
TRAINING NEEDS
12.       It is anticipated that national plans for training general agricul-
turists at AFO level will result in a yearly outturn of about 300 by 1978.
Competition from other regions, projects and agricultural parastatal organi-
zations such as TCA, is likely to be such that Kigoma region would receive



ANNEX 3
Page 6
no more (and probably less) than 5% of outturn, or at most 10-15 AFO's per
year. Because of the low level of general education in Kigoma, comparatively
few pupils progress to secondary education and hence eligibility for AFO
training. Therefore, such AFO's as may be posted to Kigoma are likely to
come from other regions and be unfamiliar with its social and agricultural
conditions. Thus unfamiliarity is apparent in AFO's recently posted to the
region, to the extent that they require a period of at least one year of
acclimatization to Kigoma conditions before becoming effective extension
workers. The problem of staff shortage and orientation could be overcome
by a limited regional training program of village level workers as outlined
below.
The Kigoma Training and Trials Center
13.       The primary objective would be to train village level extension
workers of the FA grade in the rudiments of crop husbandry as they apply
under Kigoma conditions. Primary school leavers who are natives of Kigoma
would be selected for an initial nine to ten month course at the Kigoma
Training and Trials Center. The Center, which would be provided under the
project, would be centrally located, at the site typical of the Intermediate
agro-ecological zone. The training wing would have a capacity of 25 board-
ing students and be staffed by one FO and two AFOs with experience of Kigoma
conditions. Teaching staff would be seconded from the regional establishment,
would continue to be responsible to the regional functional mnanager, and
would be assisted from time to time by the staff of the trials wing of the
Center on such topics as fertilizer responses.
14.       Training would consist of simple classroom work on the elements
of crop production, pest and disease control, agricultural mensuration and
extension methods, together with extensive practical work during which
classroom lessons would be put into effect in the field. The Center would
have a training farm made up of a number of units of crop sequences recom-
mended for ujamaa village block farms that would be operated by groups of
sttudents. The curriculum for basic training of FA's would be developed by
regional staff in consultation with education specialists from the Department
of Mlanpower Development in Kilimo's Dar es Salaam office.
5.       Successful completion of the basic course of training would result
$ appointment to the FA grade and posting to an ujamaa village. To the
extent possible, newly qualified FA's would spend their first crop season
helping more experienced staff. Thereafter each would assume responsibility
for promotion of agricultural development in an ujamaa village.
16.       Subsequent to their basic training, FA's would receive specific
in-service courses on subjects such as cotton spraying and maize cultural
practices. These courses would be given by Training Center staff to all
village extension personnel on a district-by-district basis. Courses would
e timed such that narticipants would apply their lessons immediately on



ANNEX 3
Page 7
returning to their villages. Additionally, the Center would be used for
short residential courses such as seed cotton grading, seed multiplication
and land use planning for Kilimo and TCA staff during the two to three
month period between FA courses. Field Assistants who had proved themselves
worthy of further training should be considered for acceptance at Central
Agricultural Training Institutes (CATI) operated by Kilimo on a national
basis. Successful-completion of CATI courses would result in promotion to
AFO level with prospects of further advancement.
17.       Because of the urgent need to train village level extension staff,
establishment of the Training and Trials Center would receive high priority.
Regional authorities would undertake to select and provisionally set aside
a suitable 250-ha site in the Intermediate agro-ecological zone preferably
in Kasulu district. Site selection would be on the basis of a topographic
and detailed soil survey which would be made available to IDA within three
months of credit signing.
18.       As the national training program gathers momentum and the need
for regional basic training lessens, the purpose of the training wing would
change toward provision of residential short courses for established staff
and farmers. Such courses would include orientation for new staff and
tovics of particular regional significance based on results obtained at
the trials wing of the Center.
RESEARCH REQUIREMENTS
19.       Kigoma region comes under the jurisdiction of Kilimo's Western
Research Station at Ukiriguru some 30 km south of Mwanza, and 350 km north-
east of Kigoma. The region has received little attention in the field of
crop research and since 1966/67 has not been included in any territorial or
district trial programs. Since no comprehensive investigations to test
variety and yield responses have been conducted throughout the region's main
agro-economic zones, the 1Western Research Center's published trials results
that refer to Kigoma are not representative of the region as a whole. Never-
theless, the marked responses which have been obtained from improved cultural
practices, new varieties and fertilizer applications in similar ecological
areas in Tanzania and elsewhere in eastern Africa indicate the considerable
scope for crop production development in the region.
The Kigoma Training and Trials Center
20.       Because there is a dearth of information on all crops currently
cultivated, it is important that initial investigations should focus sharply
on rro': of major economic and nutritional significance.  The trials wing
of the Training and Trials Center proposed for inclusion under the project
would concentrate primarily on the maize, cotton, bean, and groundnut crops.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Work would be directed towards testing the applicability of recommendations
from the Ukiriguru Research Station to Kigoma region conditions by field
trials at the proposed Center and at selected sites in the region. In
addition, the Center would be used as the Kigoma location for any relevant
territorial or related trial programs operated from Ukiriguru. Research
requirements for the different crops are outlined below.
Maize
21.       Of the several composite varieties bred in Tanzania for cultivation
above about 900 m altitude, Ukiriguru Composite A (UCA) significantly out-
yielded the local variety in Kigoma by over 55Z in the 1966/67 territorial
trials. Although no further trials have been carried out since this time,
considerable quantities of UCA seed have been distributed to farmers in the
region. Performance has apparently been satisfactory as the variety appears
to be widely acceptable. Future trials should test new varieties developed
at Ukiriguru against Local and UCA.
22.       The apparent superiority of UCA over Local on farmers' farms should
be further refined by observations on varieties of response to such basic
treatments as planting date, spacing, number of weedings and stem borer
control.  Additionally, fertilizer response studies should be initiated with
particular reference to the economics of application and the form of nitro-
genous and phosphate fertilizers best suited to the predominantly acid and
Vhosphate-deficient soils encountered over much of the Intermediate and
Miombo zones.
Cotton
23.       Current recommendations for planting the UK64 variety in early
mid-December are based on trials carried out in the mid-1960s. District
variety trials should be reintroduced together with time of planting, spacing
and weeding observations. The present reconmendation for pest control using
DDT, Sevin and Dimethoate and conventional knapsack sprayers in a six-to-
eight spray regime is likely to be superseded shortly. Trials at Ukiriguru
have indicated the superiority of endosulfan applied using ultra low volume
(ULV) techniques through battery-powered hand sprayers. -This recommendation
is incorporated in project proposals, but before widespread application by
farmers, the trial wing of the proposed Center would carry out investigations
with particular reference to type and timing of insect attack with a view
to formulating optimal spraying regimes. Although a chlorinated hydrocarbon,
endosulfan does not accumulate in the body and is thus less hazardous to
human health than is DDT.
24.       No broad cotton fertilizer trials have been conducted in the
region. Although research on this matter is required, general indications
from trials in comparable situations elsewhere in Tanzania indicate signi-
ficant response to nitrogenous and phosphate fertilizers. These should be



ANNEX 3
Page 9
investigated under Kigcra conditions particularly to test the feasibility
of prolonging maturation by nitrogenous manuring and thus utilizing the
totentially long growing season by developing large framed plants with
heavw yielding capabilities.
Beans
25.       There have been no field trials in Kigoma on beans despite their
nutritional and economic importance. It is not intended that an elaborate
program should be launched, rather, the Trials Officer should consult with
appropriate specialists of the Ukiriguru Research Center to design a program
of trials relevant to the needs of the region. This might include time of
planting, spacing, fertilizer response, and insect control investigations
together with some limited variety testing. However, experience elsewhere
in this field on beans for local consumption points to strong preferences
for indigenous types and a need to concentrate on increasing their potential
productivity.
Groundnuts
26.       The groundnut crop appears to have a promising future in the
Intermediate and Miombo zones of the region where it is already a popular
minor crop. The local, Mwitunde-type variety has the benefit of a degree
of Rosette resistance, but is inferior to the larger seeded Bukene type,
recently introduced, on the grounds of kernel quality and yield. Again,
the trials program for the crop would be designed in consultation with
specialists at Ukiriguru with particular reference to the needs of the
Droject. In addition to varietal testing it would need to focus on time
of planting, spacing, seed dressing, incidence and control of Cercospora
leaf spot, and response to fertilizer, particularly phosphates and possibly
sulphur. As in other fertilizer investigations, the economic aspects of
application under farmers' conditions would be closely examined before
formulation of recommendations and their transmittal to extension staff.
Crop Sequences
27.       Although trials of this nature would be unlikely to provide meaning-
ful results within the life of the project, it is nonetheless imperative that
thev should be initiated without delay. Their importance stems from the fact
that ujamaaization is founded on permanent settlement and prolonged cropping.
Soil-carrying capacity under these circumstances is unknown, but field observa-
tions clearly indicate the need to establish viable crop sequences. Design
of investigations should draw on work already underway at Ukiriguru. As for
other activities at the Center, emphasis should be on simplicity and strict
adherence to the needs of the region.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
The Trials Wing
28.       As indicated above, field trials would be initiated at the Training
and Trials Center proposed for inclusion under this project (paragraph 20).
They would be complemented to the extent possible by outstation trials at
locations in the different districts of the region in order to provide fully
meaningful results. The trials wing would be headed by a professional
officer with experience of agronomic research in Tanzania and preferably
elsewhere. Discussions in Dar es Salaam during appraisal indicated the
probable availability of such personnel with in-service training at the
Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in Mexico. The Trials Officer
would be assisted at the Center by three AFO's. The proposed program of out-
station trials would be formulated in consultation with the District and
Regional Agricultural Managers. The Trials Officer would be professionally
responsible to the officer in charge of the Ukiriguru Research Station, al-
though his administrative and day-to-day supervision would be provided by the
Regional Development Director through the Regional Agricultural Manager.
Seed Multiplication
29.       In addition to the investigational work proposed, the trials wing
would also undertake to provide nucleus stocks of improved seed of maize
and groundnuts for distribution and further multiplication at established
ujamaa villages, as indicated below (paragraphs 52, 53, 54). It would also
provide newly established villages under the project with initial seed
requirements for proposed demonstrations.
CROP PRODUCTION IN UJAMAA VILLAGES
30.       Villages established under Operation Kigoma by late 1973 were
just beginning to develop crop production plans at that time. One acre
(0.4 ha) house plots had been cleared and planted and block farms were at
different stages of clearing in readiness for planting with crops such as
maize, beans and cotton in the 1973/74 crop season. Experience in 1972/73
w-i*h communal farms had, with very few exceptions, proved unsatisfactory.
Crors had been planted late and poorly tended, and yields were disappointing
-r. consequence. As a result most village development councils, with the
concurrence of district and regional authorities, opted to change their
01ock farm operations from a communal to an individual basis. In practice
this meant the allocation of a one acre plot to each family on each of the
block farms proposed for operation by the village. Villagers would then
clear, plant and harvest their individual plots and he free to dispose of
any surplus over subsistence through the village primary cooperative society.
In most cases plot allocation had been made on the basis of contiguous blocks
conforming to the 10 family cells.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 1
31.       Most commonly in 1973/74 two such block farms were to be planted,
one with maize and/or maize and beans, and the other with cotton. Attain-
ment of the initial targetted block farm plantings of two acres per family
appeared unlikely in many cases because of the heavy clearing required and
understandable preoccupation with house plots and house building. This
problem, however, should diminish over time as villages become established
and calls on labor for activities such as water carrying and village estab-
lishment are lessened.
Project Proposals
32.       The organization outlined above, i.e., individual plots on block
farms, would be followed in villages financed under the project, but the
initial clearing target would be no more than one and one half acres,
instead of two acres of block farm per family.
Cropping Sequence
33.       A suitable cropping sequence has still to be established for the
area. For planning purposes in the two lowland zones, where the bulk of
resettlement is to be expected, a sequence of cotton then maize followed by
late planted beans, groundnuts, and a four-year bush or cassava fallow is
proposed. Farmers would, at full development, thus operate their one acre
house plots plus one acre each of cotton, maize/beans and one-half to one
acre of groundnuts with a possible cassava fallow to follow or a total of
three-and-one-half to four acres (1.4 to 1.6 ha).
Block Farms
34.       All villages that are to be financed under the project would be
the subjects of satisfactory Village Site Feasibility Reports (VSFR), which
are described in detail in Annex 13. From the viewpoint of cropping acti-
vities this would mean an adequate supply of land of a quality and topography
suitable for sustained cropping within ready walking distance (say 2 km) of
the village living area. Thus a 350-family village would have at least
1,000 ha (350 x 7 ac) of such land in reasonably contiguous blocks. Block
farms would be demarcated by the land-use planning staff of Kilimo. It
would be allocated by the village development council or an appropriate
committee, probably in 10-acre blocks to cell leaders who would then sub-
allocate to the individuals within their cells.
Labor Availability
35.       Local opinion has it that farmers in traditional settlements
operate about three to four acres, usually in plots scattered round the
homestead. These estimates are supported by a limited survey carried out



ANNEX 3
Page 12
in 1968. 1/ The average family size is about five persons, probably equi-
valent to a little over two working adult equivalents per family. The size
of traditional holdings is probably largely governed by labor availability
during peak seasons, such as land preparation, weeding and harvest of the
staple maize and bean crops. Introduction of additional crops as proposed
under the project would tend to spread labor needs more uniformly, providing
more total employment and significantly increased returns to labor. An
approximate estimate of labor requirements for a typical family following
pronosed project practices is provided in Table 2. This indicates the
probability that labor would be available when needed in the crop year
vith a surplus for clearing and non-agricultural activities.
Cropping Practices Proposed under the Project
36.       Earlier sections have indicated the paucity of relevant research
data and the generally low level of technical assistance at the village.
These considerations together with the fact that most ujamaa villages and
their inhabitants have had limited exposure to modern agricultural technology,
suggest the need for careful introduction of improved cropping practices.
These would be designed to increase productivity, marketable surplus and
hence cash income at minimum risk to farmers. In no cases are there specific
recommendations for improved practices based on series of field trials carried
out in the Kigoma Region. The practices proposed are extrapolated from experi-
ence elsewhere. It may be argued with validity that farmers organized with
a fair degree of political fervour in a 10-family cell basis, and cultivating
the same crop on contiguous plots are much more readily accessible than most
small-scale producers and are therefore likely to be highly responsive to
innovations. This could lead to higher production than has been estimated.
Exnerience over the first years of the project together with the results of
field trials and demonstrations will provide the basis for revision of present
production estimates.
Demonstrations
37.       Although it is claimed that most farmers in the region are now
generally aware of the benefits of modern inputs, such as improved seed
fertilizer and insecticides, field observations indicate a need for demon-
strations to show farmers how to maximize input effects. For this reason,
s)rovision is made under the Project for the supply of inputs for demonstrations
_r ujamaa villages, preferably by selected farmers, under 4v  supervision of
oxtension staff. Demonstration would be based on packages of practices and
inputs as defined by crops below.
1/   Agricultural Economy of Kigoma Region by A. A. Moody, Agricultural
Economics Dept., Western Research Centre, Ukiriguru, M?anza 1968,
Mimeographed.



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Maize
38.       Considerable quantities of UCA seed are already in the region.
Sta&e I is defined as the use of such seed with no other refinements, thus
differentiating between traditional maize cultivation using the local variety.
A yield increase owing to variety approximating 25% is assumed, from 535 to
675 lb shelled grain per acre (600-750 kg/ha). Stage II would involve timely
planting, use of UCA seed, spacing at three plants per stand at three feet
on three-foot ridges, two or three weedings, and dusting with DDT 5% dust
against stem borer (Busseola spp). Yields under this regime are estimated
at about 1,000 lb shelled grain per acre (1,100 kg/ha) an increment of 325
lb/ac (48%) over Stage I.
39.        Stage III would differ from Stage II in the introduction of nitrogen
and phosphate fertilizer. Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (CAN) plus Di Ammonium
Phosphate (DAP) would be applied, each at 56 lb/ac (63 kg/ha). This is the
level proposed for planning purposes but it may well need to be amended
following field trials and changes in price relationships during the course
of the project. Proposed application levels are estimated to result in
yields of 1,700 lb shelled grain per ac (1,900 kg/ha), an increment of 700
lb/ac (70%) over Stage II.
40.        Details of estimated effects of these treatments are given in
Annex 15 Table 1. Salient points of interest are summarized below on an
acreage (ha) basis.
Level of Husbandry
Maize                     Traditional    Stage I   Stage II  . e III
Yield (lb/ac)                                535          675        1,020        1,700
(kg/ha)                              (600)        (720)    (1,140)       (1,900)
Gross Return (T Sh)                           85          108          163          272
(per ha)                     (210)         (267)       (403)        (672)
Material Cost (T Sh)                           7             8          17           95
(per ha)                     (17)          (20)        (42)        (235)
Labor Cost (mandays)                          45            50          60           66
(per ha)                        (111)        (123)       (148)        (163)
Net Return Excluding
Labor (T Sh)                                78          100          146          177
(per ha)                           (193)        (247)       (361)         (437)
Return to Labor (T Sh/manday)               1.76         2.00        2.43          2.6P
41.        For planning purposes the rate of uptake of the different stages
of maize cultivation has been estimated as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 14
Project          No. of Villages in Different Stages            Total No. of
Year              I               II              III            Vllaites
2               5               10               5                20
3               5               25              15               45
4               5               35              30                70
5               5               45              45                95
It is recognized that there will be variations in uptake by different farmers
in any one village. The foregoing assumption implies this fact.
Beans
42.       Nothing specific has been established by field trials for improving
bean yields in the Kigoma region. It is known that a late (April/May) planted
sole crop of local yellow beans yields at least double that of an early
(November/December) planting. This is due largely to reduced competition
and improved seed setting. Project proposals include one basic recommendation
for beans on block farms. This is for planting through maize, spacing at two
feet on three-foot ridges, and two or three weedings, depending on whether or
not the previous maize crop has received fertilizer with the latter being the
factor differentiating between Stages II and III.
43.       Details of the effects of these treatments are given in Annex 15
Table 2. They may be summarized on an acreage (ha) basis as follows:
Level of Husbandry
Beans                 Traditional    Stage I    Stage II
Yield (lb/ac)                             250           500         600
(kg/ha)                           (280)         (560)       (670)
Gross Return (T Sh)                        95           190         228
(per ha)                  (235)         (470)       (565)
Mfaterial Cost (T Sh)                       8            14          14
(per ha)                  (20)          (35)        (35)
Labor Costs (mandays)                      24            45          50
(per ha)                     (60)         (111)      (123)
ULet Return Excluding
Labor (T Sh)                             87           176         214
(per ha)                        (215)         (435)       (551)
Return to Labor (T Sh/manday)            3.62          3.92        4.28
Rate of uptake is assumed to be the same as for maize, since the crops would
are grown in association.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
Cotton
44.       Recommendations proposed for improving cotton yields are based on
experience in the Western Cotton Growing Area of Tanzania and in locations
elsewhere having similar soil, climatic and pest problems. Farmers in
Kigoma Region growing UK64 cotton without insectidal control, planted in
January at suboptimal spacing, without fertilizer, improperly thinned and
inadequately weeded obtain yields approximating 350 lb of seed cotton per
acre (390 kg/ha), under the Traditional system. Under these conditions
the proportion of first grade (AR) to second grade (BR) seed cotton approxi-
mates 55:45. Mid-December planting at the recommended spacing of two feet
on three-foot ridges, application of CAN and DAP each at 90 lb/ac, thinning
to two plants per stand, two or three weedings, and insect control by six
sprays at seven to ten day intervals is estimated to give yields approxi-
mating 1,000 lb of seed cotton per acre (1,120 kg/ha), the recommended
Advanced level of production. Under these conditions, because of control
of insect pests, mainly boll worms, the proportlon of AR to BR grade of
seed cotton is estimated at 80:20. Current control measures are based on
use of DDT, Sevin and Dimethoate applied from a conventional knapsack
sprayer. Project proposals are based on experience in Tanzania and else-
where using Endosulfan applied through battery powered ultra low volume (ULV)
sprayers. One such sprayer would be adequate for five acres of cotton, or
two for each 10-family unit cell.
45.       Details of the effects of these treatments are given in Annex 15,
Table 3. They may be summarized on an acreage (ha) basis as follows:
Level of Husbandry
Seed Cotton                            Traditional         Advanced
Yield (lb/ac)                                            350              1,000
(kg/ha)                                          (390)            (1,120)
Gross Return (T Sh)                                      177                602
(per ha)                                 (437)            (1,487)
Meterial Cost (T Sh)                                       1                243
(per ha)                                  (2)               (600)
Labor Costs (mandays)                                     62                 83
(per ha)                                  (153)               (205)
Net Return Excluding Labor (T Sh)                        176                359
(per ha)                  (435)               (887)
Return to Labor (T Sh/manday)                           2.84               4.33
46.       For planning purposes the rate of uptake of the different stages
of cotton cultivation has been estimated as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 16
'.oject              No. of V_la _s~ in Differe, t S_:ages             Total No. of
Year                     Trad ,ciona          4dve -iced                Villages
2                           10                   0                       20
3                           15                  30                       45
4                           15                  55                       70
5                           15                  80                       95
As for maize, it is recognized rh3t there will be var.acion in uptake bj
different farmers in any one vl'!Age.
Groundnuts
47.       Groundnuts are presently a popular but comparatively minor crop
in the Intermediate and Miombo agro-ecological zones. NLo trial results are
available but conditions in the region are .u'fficiently atEmiar to those
in other groundnut growing areas to permit realistlt assApt-ions for plan-
ning purposes as to the effects of a simple package'    reuommended practices.
The traditional Muitunde variety, suitable only for e-,  late ani frequently
interplanted at suboptimal spacing without fertll=ter, is estLm.ated to yield
350 lb of shelled nuts per acre (390 kg/ha). Ite Bukene variety,.of
confectionery quality has been introduced within the past five years.  It
is popular with farmers because of its higher yield porenti&l and larger
kernels which earn a premium price. Planted as a so1e crop at a spacing
approximating nine inches on three-foot ridges with a dressing of single
superphosphate of 112 lb/acre (125 kg/ha), 't is aazuaied that this variety
would yield 700 lb of kernels per acre (780 kg/hs;, i.e., double the yield
from the assumed traditional practices.
48.        Full details of the two types of groundnut production are giveni
in Annex 15 Table 4. They are summarized on an acreage (ha) basis below:
Level of HuabWdry
Groundnuts                    Traditional         Advance.
Yield (lb/ac)                                 350                .0C
(kg/ha)                               (390)             (090)
Gross Return (T Sh)                           198               .1433
(per ha)                      (489)            (1,0 69)
Material Costs (T Sh)                          26                 93
(per ha)                     (64)               (230)
.r'or Inputs (mandays)                        54                 87
(per ha)                      (133)               (215)
Net Return Excluding
Labor (T Sh)                                172                340
(per ha)                            (425)              (839)
;k-turn to Labor (T Sh/manday)              3.19                3.91



ANNEX 3
Page 17
49.       It is not intended that improved practices for groundnuts would
be introduced until Year Four of the project when a program of demonstrations
would be mounted. Py this time several years of trials would have been
conducted at the proposed trials wing of the regional Training and Trials
Center. The results of these investigations may dictate a different form
of recommendation; however, the relative orders of magnitude of benefits
are likely to be larger rather than smaller than those assumed above. For
planning purposes it is estimated that 11 of the longest established villages
would adopt improved practices for groundnuts by project Year Five.
Supply of Inputs
50.       With the exception of supplies of improved seed, inputs would
be provided on credit through each village cooperative via the regional
cooperative union by the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB). Such
credit would not be made available until the village had demonstrated its
eligibilitv for credit by registration as a primary cooperative society.
Further details on village and individual eligibility criteria, and the
mechanics of input procurement and distribution, and credit administration
are in Annex 14.
51.       Cotton seed is currently distributed at no charge by TCA.  It
is assumed that this arrangement will continue, with the costs of the
operation reflected in producer price.
52.       Improved maize seed, currently Ukiriguru Composite A, has been
provided free by the Regional Administration using the Regional Development
Fund to purchase foundation stocks from State farm in other regions that
were subsequently bulked on block farms in newly established ujamaa vl"¶ages.
This procedure would be modified under the project such that the prop(:
Training and Trials Center would multiply breeders' seed to provide nucleus
stocks for further multiplication on isolation blocks in ujamaa villages.
Seed would be changed every three years so that a 350 family village would
need to set aside a six-acre (2.45 ha) multiplication block for this purpose.
Assuming a seed yield of 1,500 lb/ac (1,675 kg/ha) this area would supply
sufficient seed to plant the village block farm (350 acres).
53.       Improved groundnut seed would similarly be produced in the village
frorm nucleus material supplied by the Training and Trials Center. It has
been assumed that farmers would grow an average of 0.5 acres of groundnuts.
Thus, assuming a seed rate of 70 lb/ac and replacement every three years,
a 350-family village would require some 4,100 lb of seed per year. With
improved groundnuts yielding 700 lb of seed per acre, some six acres of
groundnuts would need to be planted for seed each year.
54.       Seed multiplication at the village level would be organized by
the Field Assistant in consultation with the village development council.
The past practice of seed production on a communal farm should be resisted
because of the difficulty of obtaining labor when needed. Rather, the
village should pay labor to work the seed farms--which would need to be
isolated from other crops because of the risk of outcrossing--exchanging
the seed with farmers for an equivalent quantity of commercial grain or
kernels, and utilizing this material to finance the operation.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND TSETSE CONTROL
55.       Animal production in Kigoma region is severely restricted by
tick-borne diseases, trypanosomiasis and internal parasites such as liver
fluke. Most of the livestock population is concentrated above 1,500 m
in the Highland Agro-ecological Zone above the wooded habitat of the tsetse
flies (Glossina morsitans) which trasmit trypanosomiasis. About two-thirds
of the cattle population is located in the highland area of Rasulu District.
Livestock census results for 1955, 1961 and 1971 show an apparent increase
in cattle numbers at the expense of sheep and goats. 1973 census figures
are in course of preparation.
Year           Cattle           Sheep           Goats
1955          55,800            30,500         106,900
1961          65,100            39,200         151,000
1971          78,000            25,200         108,500
56.       Cattle are almost entirely Ankole, well suited to extensive
management but of poor carcass quality, slow maturing and with low repro-
duction rates. Herd size is small at two to five head, and cattle are kept
mainly as prestige symbols. There is no tradition of using cattle for draft
purposes and the numbers and beef quality of local animals are such that
substantial numbers of Zebu slaughter stock are imported annually, as
indicated in the following table showing recorded number of animals
slaughtered in Kigoma Region.
Year     Sheep      Goats                         Cattle
Total    Imported    Local       Local %
1969       792      3,732       5,262       2,132      3,130        60
1970       733      3,342        5,708      2,468      3,240        57
1971       948      4,461        5,938      2,559      3,379        57
1972     1,157      5,769        7,664      2,527      5,137        67
These data are collected during meat inspection and are almost certainly
low estimates of actual slaughter, particularly of sheep and goats.  Never-
theless, they still imply an extremely low off-take, below 5% in 1971, which
is indicative of low calving and high calf mortality rates. The local Ankoles
are probably slaughtered around six years of age at a weight of 200-250 kg,
fetching T Sh 250-300 on the average in 1973.
57.       The regional administration operates a regional network of dips
to control ticks, and hence tick-borne diseases. Field staff with veterinary
training provide a limited diagnostic and treatment service for other diseases
in the three districts of the region. Dip establishment is on the basis of a
cattle population of 500 within an 8-km radius. Below this level tick control
is effected by stirrup pump sprays. In 1973, Kilimo operated 32 such dips
and proposed construction and staffing of a further 20 in the 1973/74 financial
year.



ANNEX 3
Page 19
Tsetse Control
58.        Despite the importance of tick-borne diseases, livestock develop-
ment is most severely constrained by trypanosomiasis. As indicated in Map
10942 the presence of tsetse flies, and hence the disease, effectively contains
the cattle population within less than 20% of the region. Chemotherapy is
generally considered to be uneconomic for livestock. The effect of ujamaa-
ization and the move from more densely populated, and hence cleared, areas
into the Intermediate and Miombo zones will be to extend the fly-free area,
since G. morsitans cannot breed and survive without bush cover. This
process will take some years in each village, i.e., until the farming area
has been totally cleared.
59.       Because of the overall benefits of tsetse clearing on livestock
and human health, the ongoing, satisfactory system of payments to villagers
fer. this purpose would be continued under the project. Clearing costs
vary according to the size and density of the tree and bush population.
Kil imo experience indicates typical clearing costs approximating 40-50
mandavs/ha in the Intermediate zone, rising to 50-60 mandays/ha in the
Miombo zone. Payment at the full minimum daily rate would be prohibitively
expensive and unwarranted, since farmers should not be paid to clear their
own plots. On the other hand during the first period of establishment of
an uiamaa village, farmers are unlikely to make even a small cash income
since most are moving to a new locality, opening new farms and building a
house. Payment of a token amount for clearing one or two acres per familv
in the first year provides cash for basic necessities, such as salt, and
ensures an area of farmland for subsequent cropping.  In 1973 such payrl.,
ranged between T Sh 5.00 and T Sh 15.00 per acre depending on the density of
bush cover. These levels would be continued under the project.
60.       Assessment of the rate, and of the need for tsetse clearing would
be part of the Village Site Feasibility Report (VSFR) referred to earlier.
Tsetse control staff of Kilimo would carry out a survey in the village area
to assess the tsetse fly population and the amount of clearing involved.
The field survey and report by an AFO trained in tsetse control assisted by
two FA's, would take approximately 14 days for each village area. Such men
are already in post in each district and are supervised by the Regional
Tsetse Control Officer.
Pilot Livestock Project
61.       Present tsetse-free areas are inadequate to support current cattle
and human population, hence the erosion and overgrazing typical of the
Highland zone. New ujamaa villages created in the Intermediate and Miombo
Zones will have a greater chance of siphoning off surplus population from
the highlands if they can hold out cattle-keeping possibilities to livestock
owuners. As indicated earlier, this can only occur following clearing, and
the creation of areas free of tsetse fly. Additional attractions would be
the provision of veterinary services and opportunities to upgrade local



ANNEX 3
Page 20
stock. Apart from the obvious benefit of reducing the highlands cattle
nopulation, such a move would also permit the introduction of cattle into
lowland farming systems. The benefits of mixed crop and livestock farming
would be considerable from such standpoints as land utilization, soil
fertility maintenance, and human nutrition.
62.       It will be some years before cattle keeping will be practicable
in many ujamaa villages, although action needs to be initiated in the near
future to investigate stock and land management practice appropriate to the
region with reference to both highland and lowland zones. Such investigations
should also be related to attempts to upgrade the local Ankole cattle by
crossbreeding with improved types such as the Boran.
63.       The project would finance the initiation of a pilot project along
these lines that would be located together with the proposed Training and
Trials Center. A small herd of 30 improved Boran heifers with two bulls
would be established at the Center. Its purpose would be twofold: first
to investigate and demonstrate livestock management systems incorporating
utilization of crop residues and fodder crops, and second, in the longer
term, to produce breeding stock to be used for upgrading local Ankole cattle
in ujamaa villages that had adequate grazing land and had undertaken to
participate in livestock health and improvement programs. Implicit in these
objectives is the need to demonstrate the benefits of a commercial orienta-
tion to cattle keeping in the region. Although the primary objective would
be integration of cattle keeping and cropping to promote beef production,
the possibility of training draft animals would also be investigated. It
is unlikely that these activities would make much of an impact on ujamaa
villages during the life of the project; however, the results obtained would
provide the information necessary for preparation of subsequent investment
proposals.



AN x7?:j
Tabu,
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mean Monthly Rainfall Records to December 1970
Station                             Kigoma                                Kasulu
Elevation above
Mean Sea Level (m)                   885                                   1,380
Recording Period (years)              32                                      39
Rainfall (mm)
January                             127.7                                  165.1
February                            120.4                                  158.3
March                               151.4                                  178.8
April                               151.5                                  197.8
May                                  52.3                                   53.3
June                                  5.6                                    3.7
July                                  1.9                                    0.5
August                                2.4                                    2.1
September                            14.7                                   21.1
October                              53.8                                   66.5
November                            131.5                                  135.3
December                            151.9                                 '76.2
Mean Annual Total                   965.1                                1,158.7
Source: East African Meteorological Department.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
TANZANIA
KIIQ4A RURAL DEV`LOMIENT PlDJ3CT
Estimated Labor Needs and Availability Per 3.5 Acre Farm  (madsYs)A'
Crop             Acreage Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May june July Aup. §Ot. Nov. Moc.           Total
Houseplot             1      8    6    7    7    5    -    -   -       5    8    8    6      60
Maisez/               1      8    6    -    5    5    2    -   -    10  10  14    6          66
Beans/                1      _    -   10    5    5    6    6   -       -   10    8    -      50
Cotton                1      8    7    6    2    6   10    4 10        8    8    -   12      81
rounuts               0.5    9    8    7   -   10   15   16  _         -    -   10   10      87
Monthly Total               33   27   30   19   31   33   28  10    23   36   40   34    34s
Labor AvailablaV/           40   40   40   40   40   40   40  40    40   40   40   40    480
Net Surplus                  7   13   10   21    9    7   12  30    17    4  NIL    6    136
1/ Aesuea adoption of noat labor-intensive techniques, i.e. at full development, and a
mean six hours workday.   In fact, the average workday would probably be divided
between the houseplot and the block farm.
t/ Maize and beans are grown on the same land, i.e. beans are planted in maize fields
about one month before maize harvest.
/   sumes two adult equivalents per family of five, working an average of 20 days per
month.
Sources  Annex15 Tables 1 through 4 and mission estimates.
Note:   Despite national adoption of the metric system, actual usage in the region is
still with acres.   Accordingly, the calculationa in this table are based on
acres.



ANNEX '
Table 3
TANZANIA
lIGGfA RURAL DEVELtOPMENT PROJECT
Herd Projection for Boran Nucleus Herd
PROJECT YEAR
Herd                                   Age
.5niFpOritt~On                          in years             1        2       3        4        5       6        7        8        9      10       11       12 on-ard
3+                                 25      23       29       33      33       33       33       33       33      13
Hei fer.                                 2-3                          27               10        9        7        7       7        7        7        7        7
Subtot.al  Breeding Females                                        27       25       33      38       40       40      40       40       40       40       40
llel ters                                1-2                 27               11        9       12       12      14       14       14       14       14      14
Hei,ers                                  0-1                          11       9       12       12      14       14       14       14       14       14      14
Ills in S,rvtce                            2+                 2        2        2       2        2        2       2        2        2        2        2        2
R;"I  s                                  1-2                                  11        8       12      11       14       14       14       14       14      14
1I'lls                                   0-1                          11       8       12       11      14       14       14       14       14      14       14
Tot.l No-sbers                                            29       51       66       76      87       93       98       98      98       98       98       98
e.a- of Stock
C Iled Bl lIs                                                                          1                                  1                         1
Ci.led Cows                                3+                                  1        1        3       4        6        6        6        6       6        6
Pl I ed Hei fers                         2-3                                            1                 1       1        1        1        1       1        1
(H ,lled Heifers                         1-2
In Calf Heifers                         2-3                                                              4        4        6       6        6        6        b
Rreeding  RlOls                            2+                                          11        8      12       11       14      14       14       14       14
T-t.al Sales                                                                 1      14       11       21       22      28       27       27       28       27
In Palt Heifers                          2-3                 30
Breeding Bulls                             2+                 2                         1                                 1                          1
Total Porch,ses                                          37                         1                                  1                          1
Btrths
{lelfer Calves                                               12      10       13       13      15       15       15       15       15      15       15       15
Boll Calves                                                  12        9      13       12       15      15       15       15       15      15       15      15
Total Bi rths                                             24       19       26      25       30       30       30      30       30       30       30       30
Deaths
Co-s                                       3+                                  1        1        1        1       1        1        1        1        1       1
HrL  IrS                                 2-3                  3
Hei fers                                 1-2
Heifers                                  0-1                           1       1        1        1        1       1        1        1        1       1        I
Bulls in Service                           2+
B-Ils                                    1-2
Bulls                                  0-1                           1       1        1        1        I        I       1       1        1        1        1
Total Deaths                                               3        2        3        3       3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3
Technical Coefficients
Ca>ns Rare (71                                  ~~~      ~~~    ~~~      ~~~~~90  75  75  75  75  75  75      75       75       75       75
Ntortah ty Rate 17.)
Cows                                       3+                                   3       3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3        3
Heifers                                  2-3                          io./     3        3        3 3              03  3    3        3        3 
Heifers                                  1-2                                    3       3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3        3
Heifers                                  0-1                                  10       10       10       10      10       10       10       10       10      10
Bulls In service                           2+
Bulls1                                   1-2                                   3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3        3       3
Boils6                                   0-1                                  10       10       10      10       10       10       10       10      10       10
Culling Rate (I)
CH es                                       3+                                  5       5       10       15      20       20       20       20      20       20
Heifers                                  2-3                                            5        5        5       5        5        5        5       5        5
H/eifers                                 1-2                                            5        5        5       5        5        5        5       5        5
-1/ Incl.des loss in transit together with normal mortality.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION IN THE KIGOMA REGION
Regional Government After Decentralization
1.        With effect from March 1972, Regional and District administations
in Tanzania were reorganized and strengthened to promote rural development
programrs more effectively. Chart 8466 shows the main features of the new
organogram. The chief political officer in the region, the Regional Com-
missioner (appointed by the President), has been given cabinet rank. The
Regional Development Director (RDD), as head of the regional civil service,
is now equivalent to the Principal Secretary of a central government minis-
try. The most important effect of the changes was to make all civil servants
working in a region in principle responsible to the RDD of that region and
not, as before, to central ministries in Dar es Salaam.
2.        The new District authorities, helped by the Regional Secretariat,
identify and prepare projects geared to the needs and potential of their
areas and supervise their implementation. Programs and projects are re-
viewed and collated in the region and subsequently submitted in the form
of. budget proposals accompanying a regional plan to the Prime Minister's
Office (which Office has responsibility for the overall planning of rural
development). Following review and clearance at this level, regional pro-
posals become a rural development program for the nation and eventually,
with proposals from the central ministries and financing implications pre-
pared by Treasury, part of the national plan. Following clearance of the
plan and budget by the Economic Committee of the Cabinet, final authority
resides in the National Assembly, which body approves separate regional as
well as national budget estimates.
3.        As indicated in the organogram, and detailed in the Organizational
Guide 1/, the District Development Director is responsible for obtaining the
participation and commitment of local communities and for ensuring that gov-
ernnment staff work closely with the people in preparing, and executing the
programs. He is assisted by three staff officers (for planning, finance
and personnel) and by eight to ten district functional managers (functions
or sectors as indicated in Chart 8466) in charge of technical and specialist
services at district level.
'7   'The New Organization:  A Management Guide."  Government of Tailania,
January 1972.



ANN tX 4
egionol i      s rc,is' to  s   the Ita n,)rT.en dti.trict prepara-
. ivn and implc eniat _ _-n and generat g-ov- >niaent objecti ves and policies. The
.-egional Developmerdt OiroeAtox tlhus  Ja-i.ntains a flow of plans a-;id record of
achievement frour 0rh- districcts to zh cernter, while aztempting to ensure an
appropriate flow of technical ass1stance and resotirces to the districts.
Regional organization closely miriors organization at district level but in
general, regional staff are nfic .:3erior and experienced3 than their district
counterparts,  Staf.t  Officers assist  lbv RDI) in the tasks of coordination
and control buit are also expected to assist district officers with profes-
..ional advice ;i  wA .bn e to the Pr,i) ard to district counterparts, though,
in principle, operav !a` respofl:> n'iity Is veste(d in ;,F  district level
faanagement.  (An exception is the Regional Water Engineer who takes personal
responsibility for the implementatiors of all water programs in the region.)
Regional functional managers also liaise with the central departments to
2nsure that Districts get the resourues needed to carry out their programs.
in sunmary, with * ontrol exercised over the whole range of technical gov-
*ernment services as these operate a, local level, the tuse of integrated or
comprehensive approacnes, =ore in Keeping, with riral development objectives,
is facilitated.  The coTnbination} ot authority, responsit4ility and account-
ability focused at the District and Regi.onal level should lead to much more
active promotional efforLs than it; the past, particiolarly in the more back-
~-ard and isolated rfgioals that were so easily neglected under the old system.
'c-Xp2rience ill thi tll"- <
Administrar-ve structtire. ii 'K.igoma region follow  those described
in the proceeding section; curretltily, ,ere are approximately 120 higher
level 1/ staff distributed over the Regional office (sited in Kigoma-Ujiji
tcwnship) and the three cistrict offices of K(igoima, Kasulu, and Kibondo.
IlRese are consideiably blelow establishr-at staffing leve's (which allow for
ab.ut 200 posts), And at levels just belew District Finetional Manager --
., among senior and middlc level profess.`onal grades, only about one-
ihalf of the 60 established posts a e filled.
As well a3  s& ,  equireme:ts o,  the project  sn respect of ada(itlonal
'tnctional speciali._is, discussed elsewhere in the Report, some strengthening
rn the accountting and pla-aning Set tio-,s at District level is particularly
nrgent.  1n Kasulu and Kibondo, ttie Planning Officer has no supporting staff
In contrast to an establishment of s.:- posts, while the District Finance
ficers are in ani even worse position, with zero staff in contrast to a
;Xo t establishment of about 20.
In addition to staff    ae    with most of the new regional staff
act familiar with con,ditions it thc region, somux  rime must elapse before re-
-Jonai planning and pioject prepa;atrAon t-a[i become fully effective.  Moreover,
of necessity, relatively inexpertencer! or newly promoted staff now occupy
U    Higher Execut.ve :.zkote _j!7cer ;iA.  3hbove, inclutiing junior level
-rofessitvnal 3 taff.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
many of the posts that carry major responsibility for plan and project pre-
paration. Often the background of previous experience does not chime par-
ticularlv well with the predominantly rural setting in Kigoma. In general,
regional headquarters staff, having greater experience and seniority, are
called upon to take a more directly executive and operational role than the
job descriptions, of para 4 might suggest. The differences are sharpest at
district ltevel, between old style civil service administration and the pro-
motional-and management orientation called for under the new system, and
many disttict officer wvill at first need consi4tible help in coping with
their more demanding new jobs;.
S.,       Finally, the launching of Operation Kigoma, following hard after
tlie,initial decentralization and reorganization of government in the region,
resulted in a very considerable additional strain on regional and district
staff. In these special circumstances, it is no criticism of the administra-
t on that proper financial control and budgeting are hardly yet firmly es-
tablished nor that planning, either at district or regional level, is still
in its infancy. Difficulties are also occasioned by comparative remoteness
from Dar es Salaam including tardy and uncertain delivery of vital spare
parts and materials (especially for water supply systems, and water trans-
port). These problems have resulted in significant delays in completing
programs in respect of water supply, and school building and ujamaa devel-
opment in general.
Regional Finances
9.        At present, the proportion of government resource for develo --nt
that is channeled tlLrough the regions is still relatively small. For }9Xi/
74, the regions are expected to account for expenditures totalling T Sh 170
million or 13% of tne capital resources available to government (excluding
expenditures relating to the TanZam railway). Already, however, this is
double the amount allocated in 1972/73, the first full year after decen-
tralization, and the share is likely to grow as project preparation and
management capabilities are further developed in the region. 1/
10.       For Kigoma region, development expenditures totalling some T Sn 7
million were authorized for 1972/73, including a substantial increase from
the original (pre-decentralization) budget estimate of T Sh 4.3 million.
Of the total, T Sh 1.5 million remained unspent at the end of the period,
due partly to the difficulties with supplies and transport mentioned under
para 8 above. In addition, the sharp acceleration in regional construction
activity levels, called under Operation Kigoma and associated programs, was
difficult to accomplish in the few months available after start up.
1/   1:I respect of recurrent expenditures, the regional share is about one-
fifth of government expenditures, and totalled about T Sh 460 million
in 1972/73.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
11.       For the current fiscal year 1973/74, authorizations may exceed
T Slh 15 million, an increase of more than 100% over expenditures in the previous
vy..r. Part of the increase, about one quarter of the total, is to take account
of unfinished work from 1972/73 and the effect of rising costs. Major budget
headings are as shown in Table 1.
Table 1: PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES
1973/74: KIGOMA REGION
T Sh
Million                   Notes
Operation Kigoma expenses           3.0    Allocated by PMO quarterly
Regional Development Fund           0.9    Allocated 6 monthly, for small
projects
Rural Water Supplies                4.3    Includes a request for 2.0
million to complete the 1972/73
program
Primarv School Facilities           2.1    Includes a request for 0.9
million for cost increases
Agriculture and Forestry            0.8
Rural Health Facilities             0.5    Includes 0.1 million supplementary
request
Others, including Urban Programs   3.8
TOTAL                         15.4
Sources: Regional authorities and published estimates.
12.       For the recurrent budget, the approved estimates for 1973/74 total
T Sh 26.6 million up from 20.7 million in 1972/73. Of the total, pri-
mary education, with a budget of T Sh 5.6 million, is the largest item, fol-
lowed by regional administration 4.6 million, extension and other agricul-
tural services 2.6 million and road maintenance 1.9 million. A noteworthy
feature is the substantial increase in allocations for maintenance, repair
and renewal of equipment and structures; including the road program, in-
creasing from T Sh 2.3 million to T Sh 4.2 million.
13.       Up to the present time, no powers have been granted to regional
authorities in respect of taxation, nor local discretion or deviation in the
application of national policies regarding regulatory practices, licensing,
marketing of produce or pricing. All funds continue to be channeled to the
Treasury in Dar es Salaam (some very minor sources for local revenue have in



ANNEX 4
Page 5
fact been abolished). There is thus a somewhat lopsided ability to generate
programs of expenditure on the part of regional government without the
stimulus to economy in resource use likely to result from more reliance on
local financing. For the longer term, as regional programs of expenditure,
recurrent and capital, become more important, a degree of fiscal self-reli-
ance at regional level should be considered. As discussed elsehwere (Annex
16), the introduction of user charges at village level fo: services could be
one of the more promising avenues leading in this direction.
The Budgetary Process
14.       The philosophy behind the decentralization scheme has been that
more effective rural development would be promoted if decisions taken at
local level were to reflect more closely the views of local people. In
turn, local views and support for government programs would be sought through
the political process, working through local level development committees.
Thus, much more than in the past, the local level political structure, form
the ten family cell basic TANU Unit through Ward level, District and ul-
timately Regional Commissioner, interacts with the civil service in program
identification, preparation and subsequent implementation.
15.       The process relating to the preparation of the regional development
budget can be said to begin in the districts with meetings at Ward level of
Development Committees, made up from village leaders of the basic TANU ten-
family cell units, plus civil servants at Ward level -- agricultural tech-
nicians and rural development assistants, and chaired by the Ward Exec"-ive
Officer.  This group operates mainly at the very early stages of progr i.
identification, for example, in regard to possible sites for new ujamaa
villages (see Annex 13). Their proposals, together with others from district
and regional staff are considered by a District Development Planning Committee
with the District Area Commissioner as Chairman and district functional
managers together with a selection of Ward-level elected councilors as m2mbers.
Subsequent draft plans are considered by a District Development Council and
District Executive Committee of TANU before transmission to regional level
bodies.
16.       Based on the three district plans, a similar review process
culminates in the transmiss_on of a draft regional plan and accompanying
budget through the Regional Executive Committee of TANU to the Prime Minister's
office, in principle in March, i.e., four months prior to the commencement
of the financial year in question. Subsequently, discussions with the Prime
Minister's office take place, prior to finalizing the program. In practice,
this procedure has not been fully established until this current year, due
to the newness of the institutions and procedures.
17.       Once approved, responsibility for carrying out the programs rests
with the Regional Development Director, supported by the District Development
Directors, in respect of the district programs. The district programs are
not, however, separately identified in budget estimates, except for certain



ANNEX 4
Page 6
items financed through foreign aid appropriations (e.g., rural health centers
and rural water supply systems).
18.       Accounts are the responsibility of the Regional Finance Officer,
supported by district finance officers and the accounting sections of the
functional managers. The system draws heavily on long-established procedures,
centered around "votes" or "sub-votes" under which expenditures on specified
objects to the defined limits are authorized. "Vote books" are kept in which
expenditures falling under that particular authority to spend are recorded
and spending agencies are issued with a "Warrant of Fund" as authorization
instrument, detailing the votes or sub-votes and amounts made available there-
under. Funds may be issued for expenditures over periods of varying length
witnin t'1e accounting period; warrants are usually issued on a monthly basis
from tne office of the Regional Finance Officer. Transfers of funds within
sub-votes may be authorized at regional level; transfers between sub-votes
require treasury approval.
In principle, provided expenditures are conscientiously recorded
under the relevant item and checked in sufficient detail, it would be pos-
sible to identify expenditures down to the level of particular activities in
identified villages using these procedures. But to use the system for this
purpose, as would be required under the project, (and as in principle is
already required by government), a considerable strengthening of accountancy
staff at district level would be necessary.
20.       Not part of the accounting process, but related to it, are the Im-
plementation Reports, prepared by the regional planning secretariat on a quart-
erly basis detailing progress through the year in meeting the objectives of the
regional plan and expenditures authorised under the budget. The report for the
final quarter of the year includes the Annual Implementation Report, which is
close to a post mortem on the year's activities, including details of special
difficulties and reasons for under or over-spending in relation to the original
and supplementary estimates.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education
National Education Policies
The national education goals of the government are to:
(a) Expand a revised scheme of a seven-year primary education
(including academic and practical subjects) to 100% of the
school-age population by 1989 (presently 37%; 40% in
Standard I);
(b) Eradicate illiteracy through a massive campaign to be ended
by 1975 and then provide facilities for a continuing adult
education scheme, partly aided by part-time volunteer
teachers;
(c) Establish in each ujamaa village a Community Education Center
consisting of school premises, teacher's houses, workshops
(domestic science, carpentry, masonry, smithery and a school
farm), rural dispensary, day care center for children, and
assembly hall.
2.        Achieving these goals will be difficult and expensive to the na-
tional treasury. Education centers have been provided under several Bank-
financed projects, the least expensive of which would have an investment
cost of about T Sh230,000 (US$34,000) or about US$100 per pupil with recur-
rent costs of about T Sh 60,000 per year (US$25 per pupil). The goal of
uniiversal primary education would require annual capital outlays of T Sh 115
million (US$17 million) compared to the present annual development budget
for pricmarv education of about T Sh 15 million (about US$2 million). This
fiscal burden may require reducing the rate of expansion of primary educa-
tion or developing innovative and less expensive ways of disseminating basic
education among the different age groups of the population.  Additional
thioughlt may well be warranted as to whether the traditional formalized pri-
mary education is the best and most cost-effective way to help rural groups
with thie problems they are likely to face.
Iducation in Kigoma Region
3.        Primary Education.  About 32% of school age population (35,260
-,s about 35% of whom were females) attended primary schools in 1972, an
increase in absolute numbers of about 50% in 5 years. The 861 primary
teachiers provided a teacher-pupil ratio of 1:45 which is approximately in line



ANNEX 5
Page 2
with the national average.  Mlost teachers are from regions other than Kigoma
and have some knowledge of farming but little teacher training in craft skills.
Primary teacher's salaries start at T Sh 320 per month, somewhat above the
minimum wage and some 5 to 10 times the income of families whose children
they are teaching.
-4.       Existing primary education facilities in the region are generally
below standard with teacher's houses and classrooms often in a poor state of
repair with variances depending to some extent on the interest of the head
teacher.  In order to obtain better housing teachers try to be transferred
to other regions as the school construction program has fallen behind because
of slhortage of resources.  The self-help contribution has been less than
hoped for:  furniture is scarce; there are desks for less than half the
students and in some classrooms there are no desks; textbooks are insufficient
and out of date with only a few having been received in the region during
the last three years. There are no school libraries. In a few schools a
room for practical training has been provided but without equipment or tools.
Each school has a garden in which students work a few hours each day, using
tools brought from home (when possible). School farms could be made more
effective by adding equipment and teaching basic agricultural skills.
5.        Adult Education.  An extensive network of adult classes "under the
trees" has been established in all villages. The main subjects taught are
reading, writing, and political education, along with health and agriculture
in some instances. The materials used are those prepared and printed in
quantitv for the RIESCO/UNDP experimental programs. Although registration
is hipn, attendance in these classes that assemble three times a week is
irregular and in cases where a literacy test has been given (after 15-month
courses) the percentage of success seems to be about 10X)
6z.       The teaching staff is composed of certified school teachers and a
number of volunteer teachers (who are paid T Sh 30 per month when funds are
available from reserves) who have completed the Standard VII of primary schools.
The volunteer teachers receive special training in seminars organized at the
district rural training centers and/or through special courses organized in
local sclhools.
7.        Administration, Planning and Finance.  Following decentralization,
thie administration of Primary Education and Adult Education is carried out
at the regional and district levels by an education officer, an inspector,
acI adult education officer, and a supplies and statistics officer.
S.        Estimates of capital and recurrent expenditures are prepared
annualLy by the district and regionai education officers and are included
iLl thit total regional budget request. The total regional allocation for
FY72/73 for education was T Sh 8 million (recurrent and capital) of which
about T Sh 3,700,000 was for teachers' salaries.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.        Requests and allocations are established on an annual basis with-
out benefit of long-term planning and with no provision for future allocations.
10.       Priorities.  In coping with rapidly increasing primary student
enrollments the regional budget requests in recent years have emphasized
the building of additional classrooms and teachers' houses. By maintaining
this priority, an academically poor network of conventional schools deliver-
ing a type of formal education not well suited to the needs of much of the
rural population could result. Accordingly, regional authorities consider
that future priorities will be oriented more to the practical needs of the
rural population. The following priorities have been established:
(a) Initiating short special courses at the rural training
centers to train some teachers in practical work such as
carpentry, farming, masonry, and smithery. Local skilled
artisans could be utilized for some of the training.
(b) Tools and workshops for practical training to be provided
for schools having five or more classes (i.e., from Standard
V). Workshops and tools could also be used in adult education.
(c)  Desks, textbooks and copy books.  Most existing schools
require a complete issue.
(d) Teachers' houses.
(e) Additional classrooms and furniture.
11.       The project would provide funds for tools, textbooks, desks, shops,
additions to rural training centers, teachers' houses and classrooms in
accordance with the above priorities. Cost estimates together with calcula-
tions of numbers of each of the above items required under the project are
provided in Annex 11, Table 3.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOHA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY
A. General
Historv
1.        In 1970 the Ministry of Water Development and Power (known as Maji 1/)
was established in Tanzania to consolidate with in one ministry the functions
of rural water supply development and irrigation, in addition to providing
urban water supply and power. The Ministry's main activity is water develop-
ment: the power sector is limited to planning and control with implementation
being the responsibility of the Tanzanian Electrical Supply Company TANESCO).
2.        In 1972 the administrative and implementation responsiblities of
the ministries in Tanzania were regionally decentralized and direct control
of the rtural and urban water supply programs passed to the appropriate re-
gions. In the water sector today the principal tasks of the Ministry are:
(a) Providing overall direction through planning and control,
setting guidelines and standards;
(h) Initiating, planning and executing national water projects,
including those in major urban areas such as Dar es Salaam-
(c)  Advising and assisting the regions in all technical matters;
(d) Procurement; and,
(e)  Manpower development.
3.        The regional administration. under the Regional Development Director
(RDD)) has full responsibilitv for the design, construction, operation and
maintenance of all rural water supply projects. In the Kigoma region, the
regional administration is also responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the urban sYstems. The Regional Water Engineer, in his capacity as func-
tional manager of water development, has direct control over the design, con-
struction and operation of all water supply schemes.  He deals with Maji
1/   In this annex Maji/K will be used for the Kigoma Regional Water Office.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
headquarters through the office of the RDD except when he consults directly
on technical matters.
4.        Tanzania has embarked on an ambitious program of no more than
twenty years to provide adequate and clean water for domestic use to all
its people. Increasing emphasis is being placed on rural water supply
systems. Of the 1973/74 budget allocated for urban and rural water supply
construction, 43% was budgeted for rural water supplies. The promise of
clean water is one of the key inducements for encouraging people to move
into ujamaa villages to exploit the resources of the country collectively.
Organization
5.        Since 1965 the organization of Maji has been reviewed by four dif-
ferent groups of consultants. Each study has resulted in reforms, keeping
the Ministry in an almost constant state of change. The basic organization
of Maji currently is as follows:
IPrnipal Secre,tar; I
,--s earcn n Planniag &!        -                  Opera1tons II    Finance &
TrUaini   YProjec;             Construction        Maintenance  I   AdminIstration
Div.     XPrep. Div.|         IDivision            Division          Division
Including Procurement.
6.        In 1973, Maji including regional and district offices had about
7,000 permanent employees, the majority working on construction and main-
tenance. Of these, more than 220 were expatriates from 22 countries, who
held senior positions at headquerters or in the regions as executive en-
gineers, designing engineers, mechanical inspectors, and technical assist-
ants (in planning, project preparation, construction, operation, and main-
tenance). Some of the expatriates were provided through bilateral tech-
nical assistance programs: the remainder are paid on a contract basis.
Many of the expatriates have no counterparts working with them, so little
advantage is taken of the possibility of providing Tanzanian technicians
with in-service training.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        Regionally, except for a research and training division, the Office
of the Regional Water Engineer has the same basic organization as Maji head-
quarters. Under the new system of decentralization, the regional Maji
office is dependent on the Regional Commissioner's Office (i.e., the central
coordinating body in the region), with planning, finance and personnel being
controlled by the Regional Development Director.
Funding
8.        Capital for the water supply program comes from both national and
external sources insofar as there has been external bilateral assistance by
way of loans, grants and technical assistance (through provision of both
advisers and regular staff). The exact distribution of development funds
between the Ministry and the regions differs from year to year. Large scale
projects are under the control of the Ministry, whereas, virtually all con-
struction related to rural water supplies is carried out by the regions.
This is illustrated-by the distribution of the water development budget for
1973/1974 below.  1/
Water Development Budget - 1973/1974
Distribution           Ministry               Regions               Total
of Funds           TSh million %            T Sh million %        T Sh million X
Rural supplies        3.1       5           5.9         95       63.0        100
Urban supplies       78.9      95           4.2          5       83.1         100
Proj. Prep.          20.4      86           3.3         14       23.7        100
Training              2.0     100           0            0        2.0        1030
Total               104.4      61          67.4         39      171.8        100
9.        Revenue from all water supply systems collected from households
witlh water connections goes to the national treasury. Funds for operation
and maintenance of all systems, both urban and rural must come from the na-
tional treasury through an annual budget for recurrent expenditures. For
1973/74 recurrent expenditures were budgeted at T Sh 77 million, 54% by the
regions and 46% by the Ministry. As the projects in operation in rural
areas increases the recurrent expenditures (including 60% for personnel
costs) will rise.
1/   Estimates of Public Development Expenditures 1973/74.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
B. Kigoma Region
Organization and Staff
10.       The Maji organization structure for the Kigoma region is similar
to that of the Ministry in Dar es Salaam. Shown below is the structure in-
cluding numbers of technical and non-technical staff for each division.
MAJI/K
1 Kigom-! Rn,-Tional 'W1 tor -iner|
1 --i-i            ,,    r1.    i01   i -intr ,O,2ancI
|, !'K .p- 'rD-i.,     'vio. tr;      -- viOI  -3 iL i ontnneaiiisrv
'           '                      D.iV              iS -o ti ol t
Ih -i J   ! LxI?cr               3 uporvisor       Office Supervisor
0
.i.-t. ci.nicail u       40                 46                 29
The regional staff totals 263, including personnel working on both urban
(Kigoma, Kasulu and Kibondo) and rural systems and stationed at the regional
depot in Kigoma and in the district offices in Kasulu and Kibondo. A con-
siderably smaller depot is under construction in Kibondo while office and
storage space for the Kasulu District is provided in the space used for the
Kasulu town water supply system.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
11,       Except fo- 7umo' operators. construction crews with foremen and
works inspectors, tne above staff all wore in the Kigoma Regional Depot.
When the Kibond:l District Depot is completed, the operatiorn and maintenance
staff for that district, including supportinig staff, equipment, and vehicles
will be moved to the new depot, thus permitting cioser supervision and main-
tenance for the Kibondo region.
12.       Although the Regional Water Engineer is a Tanzaniaii, most of the
techiLicians and supervisors are expatriates. Because only one of the ex-
patriates is working with a Tanzanian counterpart, little advantage is being
taken of in-service training possibilities.
Res orisibilities of the Regional Office
13.       The Maji/K office has overall responsibilitv for all phases of
rural and urban water stipplies. For urban stupplies, this responsibility
includes billing and collection for house-connected water services. opera-
tjif and maintenance, and extensions of improvements to the systems serv-
ing 1igoma-UjiJi, Kasulu and Kibondo, where the approximate populations are
29,000 5,000 and 5,000 respectively.
14.       For the rural systems, the responsibility includes field surveys
and studies for proposed villages, preparing designs (which are later re-
viewed and approved by the Maji office in Dar es Salaam); ordering materials
and supplies through Maji in Dar es Salaam; constructing new systems and
extensions, and operations and maintenance of all systems in the Region.
Physical Plant and Equipment
15.       The regional offices, stroehouse and workshops, are housed in a
modern depot in Kigoma. The offices are adequate for the current staff,
but practically no provision has been made for recuired additional personnel
if there is a major expansion of the present program. Space is available
within the compound for additional offices and working areas, although pro-
tected storage space for plastic pipe is needed.
Activities
16,       Surveys and Investigations.  To date village sites have been selected
without paving adequate attention to the probable source of water supplv.
This has resulted in the construction of systems requiring two to three km
of pipe from the intake to the village and in one system, an additional two
km of pipe to reach the storage tank location.  It has also resulted in
systems pumping against a head of 100 m or more, requiring installation of
expensive pumping equipment, longer and stronger pipes for the rising main
nndl morn costly operation and maintenance. Some of these problems could
,ilve been avoided had the Maji office participated in village site selec-
tion. (This involveme;C would be provided for under the project; Annex 13).



ANNEX 6
Page 6
17.       Once the site is selected and the decision made that a system will
be installed, a survey is made by the design office of Maji/K, including
a site plan with the necessary sections and details of the pipe, fittings
and references to standard plans that have been prepared for intakes, pump
houses and installations, storage tanks and public watering points. Lists of
materials are compiled and a cost estimate is prepared. Requisitions are pre-
pared for the pipe, fittings and other materials and forwarded to the Maji
office in Dar es Salaam where the requisitions are filled from stock, from
the local market, or ordered from outside when necessary. From three to nine
months and sometimes a year is required to obtain all of the items required
for one system.
18.       Pumps and engines are not specified by the region but are selected
at Dar es Salaam based on the characteristics indicated by the Maji/K office.
To avoid the need for multiplicity of spare parts, the  2aji office in Dar es
Salaam is trying to standardize the pumps and engines to be utilized.
19.       The engineers are handicapped by lack of data on stream flows and
on the area's groundwater possibilities, although water is fairly plentiful
in the Kigoma region from streams, a few rivers and some lakes. NORAD of
the Norwegian government recently signed an agreement with Tanzania to con-
duct a meteorological survey of the Kigoma region including the gauging
of flows in some of the larger rivers. A groundwater survey will not be
done owing to the cost and the fact that the region's agriculture cannot
utilize widespread groundwater irrigation at this time.
20.       Design.  The systems for Kigoma region are being designed based
on experience and the guidance of a set of lecture notes, prepared at Ubungu
training school. The lecture notes stress the design of pumped systems, pay-
ing almost no attention to seeking the lowest cost (capital and recurrent)
system. Neither the merits of a hand-pumped shallow well nor the possibili-
ties of developing protected wells are mentioned and little emphasis is
placed on quality of water furnished at public watering points. Although
designers specify gravel and sand packing around pipes to provide filtering
actioni at the system's intake, lack of supervision during construction
sometimes results in a direct connection from the source to the system.
21.       A few gravity systems are being designed, however, the majority
of systems designed to date are pumped systems using river water collected
with perforated pipe laid in a bed of gravel and sand near the river. The
water is pumped from a well lined with concrete rings to an elevated storage
tank made of concrete blocks tied together with horizontal reinforcing bars
placed in grooves cast in the concrete blocks. In most cases, the pumps
utilized are centrifugal pumps that are driven by diesel engines.
22.       Estimated Costs.  Both capital and recurrent costs at a particular
site vary widely according to the type of system installed. Where adequate
groundwater supplies exist, digging a shallow well provides by far the



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC HEALTH COMPONENT
A. General
Tanzanian Priorities and Problems
1.        Although their precise effect on economic growth is difficult to
measure, short life expectancy and a high incidence of illness in Tanzania
adversely affect the productivity of the labor force. In Tanzania, 41Z of the
population is affected by tuberculosis of the lung. Child mortality is high:
one child in ten dies before reaching 5 years of age in rural areas, due to
malnutrition, pneumonia or diarrhea. Infectious and parasitic diseases, includ-
ing malaria, affect two thirds of the country's inhabitants.
?.        In 1972, following a reorganization of the Ministry of Health, national
priorities were switched toward preventive medicine and health services for
rural areas. At the same time, the establishment of a Manpower Development
and Training Division in the Ministry gave recognition to the cirtical import-
ance of health education and training for medical staff in the short and medium
term future.
3.        The Government's strategy is to develop an economical rural based
system organized around: (a) a Rural Health Center with 5 outlying dispensaries
per 50,000 population, designed to cater for the entire health needs of the
family except those which can be provided only in hospitals, and to organize
preventive campaigns such as nutrition education, environmental sanitation,
mzternal and child health services and immunization. The centers consist of
simple buildings for handling out-patients, maternal and child welfare clinics,
maternity units, and holding beds. Rural dispensaries, designed to serve a
population of approximately 10,000, cater for the more simple medical needs of
the community. Each dispensary consists of an office, a store and a treatment
room and is intended to be manned by a Rural Medical Aid, who would be a grad-
uate of a three-year medical course; and (b) rural hospitals at regional and
district levels, equipped to provide major curative services. These facilities
are complemented by health services at the national level, provided in consul-
tation hospitals in Dar es Salaam, Moshi and Mwanza and in three government
~iospitals specializing in tuberculosis, mental disease and obstetrics respectively.
4.        Tanzania has surpassed its targets on a nationwide basis for dispen-
saries and for rural hospital beds (1 per 1,000 population), although these
facilities are unevenly spread and below minimum targets in some districts.
Hlowever, the number of Rural Health Centers increased during 1969-1972 to only
'O of the required number.  Further development will be aimed at (a) achieving



ANNEX 7
Page 2
the target for Rural Health Centers and (b) expanding rural facilities and
dispensaries, as required for population growth and for equality of distribution.
In 1972/73, 11 Rural Health Centers were built, bringing the total to 100.
For 1973/74, the target is an additional 29 centers plus 100 more rural dispen-
saries (of which there are currently over 1500 in operation).
5.        Tanzania can meet all its targets for rural health facilities within
the next ten years, without having to increase the recent average rate of annual
investment in this area. External aid will probably provide a substantial por-
tion of investment requirements (up to 50%), as in the past. To finance the
additional recurrent costs of operating the system, the Goverment has recently
decided to increase its recurrent health budget by at least 10% p. a. (compared
with 5.7% p. a., 1970/71-1972/73). This would raise the share of health in the
total Government recurrent budget from 8Z in 1972/73 to approximately 9.5% by
1980.
6.        The strategy calls for medical auxiliaries to operate the country's
health care facilities at all levels, under the overall supervision of physi-
cians. Key auxiliary personnel are Medical Assistants (MAs) and Rural Medical
Aides (RMAs) who are to operate, respectively, the rural health centers and
the dispensaries. Together with Assistant Medical Officers, 1/ MAs also staff
the hospitals substituting to a large extent for physicians.
7.        The supply of auxiliary personnel has not been adequate for the proper
staffing of Tanzania's health care facilities, despite a considerable expansion
in recent years. In 1972 there were only 578 trained Rural Medical Aids and
335 Medical Assistants for the whole country. But the annual output of RMAs
and }As increased from 60 in 1965 to 150 in 1971 with the establishment of
three new schools and it is intended that the combined yearly output would
increase to a level of 480 per annum by 1978. Current shortages of Medical
Officers are even more critical and in consequence the health care given by
the auxiliaries in the rural areas has suffered from a lack of professional
guidance. Of about 495 doctors now working in the country, less than 200 are
citizens. Fifteen medical graduates from the Faculty of Medicine in Dar es
Salaam qualified in 1972. With the goal of 700 citizen doctors by 1980, it
has been decided to have an annual intake of 48 Tanzanians at the Faculty of
Medicine in Dar es Salaam and 16 at other colleges within and outside of East
Africa.
Funding
8.        The development budget for 1973/74 was approved in an amount of
T Sh 58 mIllion (US$8.5 million), of which T Sh 23 million, or 40% of the
total is allocated for regional expenditures (mainly for health centers and
dispensaries). Total recurrent expenses increased from T Sh 152 million in
1972/73 to an estimated T Sh 206 million for 1973/74. (This is equivalent to
a little over US$2.00 per person). Regional health services account for
T Sh 119 million, or 58% of this.
1/ An assistant Medical Officer is an upgraded Medical Assistant.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
B. Kigoma Region
Existing Facilities
9.        On a population/hospital bed basis, Kigoma is well above the national
standard of 1,000 per bed with an average of 730 per bed in the region as a
whole. There are now four rural health centers operating in the region, with
one addition scheduled for construction in the current fiscal year. In relation
to rural population, there will still be over 100,000 people per health center,
at the beginning of the disbursement period under the proposed project, more
than twice as many as the targetting 1 to 50,000 national standard. 1/
10.       There are 61 dispensaries currently operating at village level, (mostly
in ujamaa villages), with an additonal 12 under construction from the 1972/73
program. Including the 12 under construction, rural population per dispensary
will be 7,200 by mid 1974, ranging from 8,100 in the Kasulu district to 5,800
in Kigoma (rural) district. These ratios are well within the original national
target of one dispensary per 10,000 of rural population, and within the 1974
national average one one per 8,800 of rural population. However, it has
become clear that one dispensary per five villages or 10,000 people is not, in
practice, enough to provide coverage for more scattered and remote elements
of the rural population. Currently, additional facilities are allocated on a
weighting system taking into account the ratios of population to dispensary at
District level, the porportion or rural population residing in ujamaa village
and share of population more than 10 km from any medical facility. For 1973/74,
however, this weighting scheme did not give any additional dispensaries to
Kigoma Region (100 new dispensaries were allocated).
11.       This is currently a critical problem in the region, particulai,, with
the considerable expansion over the past two years in physical facilities.
Because of the shortage of doctors, the rural medical centers are operated
largely by Medical Assistants and Rural Medical Aides, supported by a scattering
of trained nurses, midwives and health auxiliaries.
12.       The daily load on the health center staff is demonstrated by the
number of outpatients attended by each staff member (excluding midwives) at
three typical centers (assuming that each one handles the same number of out-
patients during a six-day week):
Bitale         -          80 per staff member per day
Mabama         -          61 per staff member per day
Kakonko        -          60 per staff member per day
In addition, the in-patients must be attended and, theoretically, dispensaries
supervised; however, lack of transport, even if staff were available, makes
this practically impossible.
1/ However, there are two important Voluntary Agency health facilities in
Kasulu district which perform some functions of a rural health center.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
13.       Staffing of the dispensaries is even more precarious.  In the 14
dispensaries operating in Kigoma District during 1972, there were a total of
six rural medical aids, ten auxiliaries and nine midwives. The 25 medical
personnel attended a total of 376,655 people in 1972, an average of almost
50 per staff member per day. In Kasulu district it was reported that there
were only 2 Rural Medical Aides in the 18 dispensaries operating in 1972, and
in Kibondo, three for eighteen dispensaries, the other being operated by mid-
wives and health auxiliaries. The intent is for each dispensary to have at
least an RMA, a midwife and a health auxiliary.
14.       There are one-year hospital training courses for nursing assistants,
village mid-wives and six month courses for health auxiliaries. (Essentially
a course for imparting first aid service information.)
15.       To increase the supply of Rural Medical Aids, a training school was
started in Kigoma in April 1973, with an expected annual output of 30 graduates
per annum from 1976 onwards.
16.       Ad hoc seminars and refresher courses are conducted in the rural
training centers into subjects such as the treatment and prevention of malaria,
gastro-enteritis, dysentery, lep Dsy and TB.
Administration/Supplies
17.       The chief medical officers in the hospitals and health centers in
Kigoma region are also the head administrators, resulting in a loss of valuable
medical services and less than adequate administrative services. The regional
hospital is supposed to supervise the district hospitals which in turn supervise
the rural health centers and dispensaries and there is a need for trained
administrative personnel at each level. Courses for training medical personnel
in elements of administrative practice are needed.
18.       Lack of transport also makes supervision and maintenance of the
necessary links between the various levels of health service extremely difficult.
The referral system is almost impossible to operate under current conditions.
Furnishings and drug supplies in the medical centers and dispensaries are also
scanty.
Preventive Services, Environmental Sanitation and Health Education
19.       While the importance of preventive services is now widely recognized,
health workers are still heavily engaged in curative medicine. The budget for
preventive services has increased about two and a half times for 1973/74 from
the 1972/73 level, but the total is still well under 10% of expenditures on
curative services (and only 6% if rural health centers and clinics are added
to the curative side).
20.       Some health education principles are taught during adult education
courses in ujamaa villages. However, these efforts need to be increased in
order to teach people the advantages and proper use of good health practices.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
21.       Internal parasites (e.g., hookworm), are an imnDortant health problem
in the region.  The problem can be attacked effectively and cheaply by install-
ing a concrete slab in each household pit privy. A hand-dug pit of a meter or
more in depth, capped with a suitable slab with squat-type hole, is effective
in combating the parasite cycle. Public education through the schools and
adult education classes is necessary to teach villagers of the need for and
use of the new method. Teaching must begin with teaching the village teachers
and health attendants. Making slabs available, instructing teachers and
village leaders in their use, and persuading villagers to install and use them
will take time. However, without such an involvement there is a danger that
health benefits as might otherwise flow from the provision of controlled-access
water supplies will not be realized.
22.        In regard to water itself however, surveillance of water quality
being distributed in towns and villages is inadequate. Samples are taken from
the source when a new system is to be installed and are sent to Dar es Salaam
for chemical analysis, but little bacteriological analysis is being carried
out. No routine tests are carried out. The Ministry of Water Development and
Power is considering establishing a water quality laboratory in each regional
water office. It is suggested that in Kigoma this might be installed at the
hospital in combination with the laboratory there, thus strengthening that
laboratory and not installing a separate facility with separate equipment and
personnel.
Financing of Health Care
23.        Following substantial capital outlays in 1972/73, the current program
is modest, the major item being an additional rural health center, to cost
T Sh 400,000. The effects of the 1972/73 capital program do, however, show up
as a 51% increase in the recurrent budget, which increased from T Sh 3.3 mil-
lion to T Sh 4.9 million. Details are shown in Table 1:
Table 1: Recurrent Expenditures on health care
Kigoma Region
1972/73          1973/74
----T Sh million ---
Medical Staff Salaries               1.38              2.09
Other Staff Salaries                 0.45              0.71
Drugs and Hospital Supplies          0.77              0.86
Other Expenditures                   0.66              1.28
'4.       Recalling that the region is still well below authorized staffing
levels in respect of medical positions, the costs of medical care are already
onerous.  The recurrent costs, under present scales for dispensaries and
rural health centers, should be about T Sh 14,000 and T Sh 130,000 per annum.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Project elements for health care:
25.       In general, Kigoma region is not below average for the nation in
respect of the rural health facilities and it is anticipated that the major
effort for the next few years should be towards improving the quality of service,
through more adequate staffing and furnishings for the existing facilities.
However, the population movements with the settlement of new villages would
justify additional dispensary facilities particularly as some settlements on
the miombo woodland frontier would be relatively remote from existing services.
Accordingly, provision has been included for construction of 10 new village
dispensaries, to be sited in ujamaa villages accepted under the project.
26.       Kigoma region is still well below national targets in respect of rural
health centers. It is anticipated that the number of additional staff to man
these centers will gradually improve over the project period, so justifying
some additonal construction. On current expectations, some 30 new centers will
be built each year over the next several years in the nation and by the close
of disbursements under the project it is anticipated that the ratio of rural
population to health centers will have falled to 60,00n to 1. On the basis
of maintaining a regional pace of development in line with development in the
nation as a whole, it is proposed to finance an additional three rural health
centers under the project, to serve the needs of the project villages. To
allow time for training and adequate staffing of existing facilities, expendi-
tures under this component are phased to take place mainly in the last two
years of the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries - Kigoma Region
Introduction
1.        Tanzania is one of the largest producers of fish in Africa.  Total
fish production, although varying considerably from year to year, has greatly
increased during the past decade. In 1970 the total fish catch was 188,600
tons live weight, of which 25,400 tons equivalent were exported, although in
1972 production declined to 157,000 tons. Production over the last decade
has increased over three times, although some of this may be due to better
reporting. Some 80-90% of the catch is taken in inland waters. Fish accounts
nationally for perhaps a third of total animal protein intake, and consumption
in 1970 was 13.1 kg per capita.
2.        The fisheries industry is mostly carried out by artisanal fishermen
operating with relatively primitive vessels and gear on a small scale and
individual basis. The marine fisheries, carried out primarily around the
islands of Zanzibar, Pemba and Mafia and in the inshore areas of mainland Tan-
zania, employs some 5,350 fishermen and 2,000 vessels using a wide range of
gear to fish shrimp, lobster, snapper, shark and many marine invertebrates.
On Lake Victoria, over 12,000 fishermen employing almost 3,800 canoes are active
in pursuing inshore fisheries for tilapia and catfish with beach seines and
gill nets. On Lake Tanganyika, some 10,500 fishermen engage in fisheries of
dagaa, small sardine-like species, and of its predators, primarily Nile perch.
Some 7,000 canoes with light attraction techniques and "lusenga" nets, as well
as beach seine and gill nets, are used.
Fisheries Production in Kigoma Region
3.        The fisheries of Kigoma region are carried out primarily on Lake
Tanganyika. The lake has surface of 32,900 km2, of which 13,500 km2 or 41%
belong to Tanzania, and an average depth of 700 m and maximum depth of 1,435 m.
The total lake catch within Kigoma region has been growing in recent years and
has been in the order of 45,000 to 50,000 tons in the last several years.
Increases were due primarily to the growth of the fishing community together
_.t- introduction of synthetic fibers in fishing gear and other improvements.
aximum sustainable yield from the Kigoma waters of Lake Tanganyika is only
FouT being studied but is estimated at double current production levels. The
principal pelagic resources of the lake include four species of prey (all dagaa)
and four of predator. The relative importance of dagaa varied from 43% of
totn' catch in 1967 to 88% in 1970, 94% in 1971, and 68% in 1972.  The fish
resources of the lake and their environment are described in Appendix A.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The total number of fishermen along the Kigoma lakeshore, mostly
located in some 35 villages, has increased from approximately 5,100 in 1970
to 10,500 in 1972, according to annual reports of the Fisheries Division.
These fishermen operate about 7,000 dugout or planked canoes. About two-thirds
of the fishermen catch dagaa mostly with a scoop net known as "lusenga", canoes
and kerosene pressure lamps, but also, in recent years, with beach seine nets.
The remaining one-third fish the predator species, principally with gill nets,
but also with such other methods as line and hook and beach seine. As both
dagaa and its predators are attracted by light, most fishing is carried out
during the 22-23 relatively moonless nights, although bad weather reduces to
about 18 the average nights of active fishing per month.
5.        Natural conditions vary considerably along the lakeshore.  While
some villages are relatively well protected against the prevailing winds, most
are exposed to the frequent rough weather and large waves. While parts of the
lake's edge are smooth and gently sloping, others are steep and full of obstacles.
For all villages, the natural setting determines the fishing methods and equip-
ment to be used (e.g., scoop net, gill net, beach seine net, line and hook).
Villages also vary according to their accessibility to roads, services, market
outlets and extent of farming activity. In introducing new techniques the
unique features of each viUage must be taken into account; this has not al-
ways been done in the past.
6.        The traditional fishing methods, as well as natural conditions, vary
considerably:
(a) The most common method --"lusenga" net, kerosene lamp and canoe--
involves the relatively small investment of about T Sh 1,000 and
the participation of two fishermen. The average catch is
approximately 5-7 tons per man per year. Notwithstanding the
modest investment required, the equipment is often owned by
middlemen who, according to some reports, exact as much as
four-fifths of the catch. Although evidence is often con-
flicting and unclear, it would appear that a reform of the
ownership and sharing patterns might induce a favorable impact
on fishermen's welfare. Ujamaa fishing villages, for example,
divide their profits by thirds and allocate evenly for mis-
cellaneous village expenses, a special bank account, and the
individual fishermen;
(b)  Beach seine units consist of 3 boats, 3 kerosene lamps and
1 net costing approximately T Sh 8,600, and require about 20
men to haul in the net. Mechanized boats can be introduced,
as they have been in the two ujamaa villages, to set the net,
but problems of repair and maintenance must first be overcome.
Beach seine units can be used for both night and daytime
fishing, and smooth and shallow beaches, without obstructions,
are most suitable; and



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(c) Gill nets are designed for big fish and are used mostly
in the river, swamps and delta area of the Malagarasi.
Gill nets, which have been given by Government to six
villages, are used almost exclusively by some villages
while used in combination with dagaa fishing techniques
in other villages.
7.        Since 1969, 17 beach seine nets, 158 lamps, 3 mechanized boats, 32
canoes and 158 gill nets have been given to ujamaa villages by Government.
Little if any information is available on the results obtained from this equip-
ment. Moreover, it is unclear whether the recipient villages have been able
to generate sufficient surplus to replace the equipment when it wears out.
8.        In addition to traditional fishing practices, a small number of Med-
iterranean-type purse seine units have been introduced to Kigoma waters in
recent years. They are similar to those now used extensively elsewhere on
Lake Tanganyika (Burundi has 16, Zambia 4, and Zaire 24 units). Each unit
consists of one purse seine net 300 m long and 110 m deep, one mechanized boat
15-18 m long and powered by a 100-140 hp engine, one netboat and 5 lightboats.
Two units are owned and one rented by Kigoma Uvuvi Ltd. (KUL), a company
established in August 1972 and owned jointly by the Kigoma Development Corpora-
tion, the Dar es Salaam Development Corporation and a private individual, and
one unit is owned and operated by a Greek fisherman. The units belonging to
KUL were purchased secondhand to T Sh 365,000 and T Sh 370,000 and the nets,
also secondhand, were purchased for an additional T Sh 70,000 each. Each
unit is manned by a crew of 30 and a skipper. Total annual operating costs
are roughly estimated at T Sh 330,400 and annual yields at 500 tons per unit.
Profits of these units rely heavily on catches of larger fish for the local
market rather than on dagaa; because of the small size of the local market
landed prices (and profits) drop sharply when large catches are delivered.
Appendix B presents a comparison of the costs, yields and manpower requirements
of the nurse seine and more traditional techniques.
9.        Some fisheries within Kigoma region are being or could be undertaken
outside Lake Tanganyika. Fishing takes place in the marshes and lagoons of
the Nguruka area, where six fishing villages are located, and in some of the
rivers, primarily the Malagarasi River. It is estimated that some 2,000-3,000
fishermen may be engaged, mostly on a part-time and subsistence basis, in the
annual production of approximately 3,000 tons. In addition, some subsistence
fish farming has been practiced and although techniques are still in an embry-
onic stage and many problems (e.g., water supply and retention, selection
.f soil and species, fertilizing and feeding methods) must still be resolved,
long-term prospects may be promising; more study and development work is
required.
Fisheries Processing and MarketinR
10.       Virtually all dagaa is sun-dried.  Traditional drying methods, how-
ever, are generally unsatisfactory. The fish is often stored in baskets for
several hours before drying, thus adversely affecting the final quality; the



ANNEX 8
Page 4
fish is placed directly on the sand for drying to which it adheres and which
is difficult to remove; the climate of the humid rainy season induces spoilage
before drying and rain at any time during the 24 hours necessary to complete
drying destroys the fish's quality. Kigoma Uvuvi Ltd. have introduced some
improvements in the processing of dagaa by using metal screens for drying and
a closed building for weighing and storage. Other improved techniques merit
testing under local conditions. Big fish, on the other hand, are now generally
smoked in the villages before distribution. Possibilities of freezing and
refrigerated railroad transport to consuming centers are currently under review.
11.       No statistics are available on the quantity of dried dagaa produced
each year.  Estimates range between 6,000 and 12,000 tons. 1/  Some 650 tons
of production was recorded for export to Zaire, Burundi and Zambia in 1972,
although these countries recorded much higher corresponding import statistics,
indicating a sizable illegal traffic. About 1,200 tons of dried dagaa were
transported by rail from Kigoma to Dar es Salaan and other destinations. Of
the 6,560 tons of big fish harvested in 1972, it is assumed that most was smoked
and distributed throughout Tanzania.
12.       Very little information is available on the marketing and distribution
of fish within the region. It is not know, for example, what the current and
potential markets for big fish and dagaa are or which geographic areas and
income groups make up these markets. Likewise, many of the middleman's oper-
ations are unclear, relating, for example, to his operating procedures, his
average captial and profit margins, and his ownership pattern. It is known,
however, that marketing and distribution are complex, involving, inter-alia,
a diversity of regional customs and difficulties in transport. Fish are usually
taken when caught to a landing station for sale to fish traders. Fish are sold
by piece, baskets or piles. In villages infrequently visited by traders or
far from consuming centers, fishermen themselves undertake the processing of
fish, but generally the fish are processed by the traders. Sun-dried or smoked
fish, because they are easier to handle, have a wide distribution, being carried
by traders ovef long distances to consuming centers by head load, bicycle, bus,
lorry, boat and train. Fresh fish marketed in Kigoma are kept under running
water, without ice or cold storage. At the close of market, the unsold fish
are smoked to prevent spoilage and to improve appearance for marketing the
following day.  Individual traders sell between 5 and 25 pieces of big fish
(1-3 kg each) per day in the market place.
13.       About 1,175 tons of dried dagaa have been transported elsewhere in
Tanzania, according to reports of the Fisheries Division.  Most presumably
traveled by rail, for which the charges to Dar es Salaam are T Sh 29.10 per
100 kg (2 bags) and to Tabora T Sh 11.25.
1/ The ratio of wet to dry dagaa has been reported to be as little as 3:1
and as much as 6:1, while 4.5:1 is perhaps the best estimate for a
properly dried product.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
14.       The price of fish is obtained by bargaining and differs widely with
a variety of factors, including quality and quantity, supply and demand. For
example, during the rainy season, when productivity of the lake is highest and
conditions for drying unfavorable, the price of dagaa can be three times that
of the dry season.  Moreover, the price of fresh dagaa caught by the purse
seine units and sold in Kigoma varies from T Sh 0.20 to 0.75 per kg depending
primarily on the quantities landed. According to some sources, the producer
price of dried dagaa ranges form T Sh 60 to T Sh 200 per 50 kg bag, or T Sh
1.20 to T Sh 4.00 per kg. Because fish prices are not at present controlled
and because a portion of the fishermen's catch is often paid to the middleman
for use of boat or equipment, the middleman may reap far greater profits than
the fisherman. Moreover, the fisherman has no way to check whether he receives
correct payment for his share of the quantity originally delivered. In Kigoma
town in October 1973, the retail price of dried dagaa was the equivalent of
about T Sh 2.75 per kg. Prices of dried dagaa have reportedly been generally
rising over the last five years. In comparison, the producer price of big
fish ranges from T Sh 2 to T Sh 3 per kg and up, and observes considerable
variation among species.
15.       The larger predator species such as Nile perch have a lucrative
export market if properly caught, handled, frozen, packed, stored and exported.
The local "opportunity cost" of such species is therefore high. Apart from a
small market in Dar es Salaam it is doubtful that many persons in Tanzania
could afford to pay the prices that these larger species would be worth (assum-
ing required processing and export marketing procedures could eventually be
developed). Therefore, such fish have little roles in improving the nutrition
levels of Tanzania's predominantly rural population. That role must continue
to be performed by the much cheaper and well known dried dagaa.
Government Programs and Capabilities
16.       Rapid and extensive development of the fisheries sector is a goal of
the Government of Tanzania. Likewise, it is committed to the improved economic
and social welfare of the fishing community and to uJamaa village development
as the appropriate vehicle of such improvement. The Government has recently
accelerated efforts to achieve these two objectives. First, it plans the
development, probably through Kigoma Uvuvi Ltd., of an industrial fisheries
project in Kigoma town, including additional purse seine units, a fish receiv-
ing station, a boat building yard and refrigeration facilities. Provision in
the 1973/74 budget has been made for a demonstration unit (T Sh 153,000), a
fish receiving station (T Sh 500,000), and a boatyard (T Sh 600,000). Manage-
ment of Kigoma Uvuvi Ltd. requires strengthening even for its present level
~:f operations. Management experienced in operating fishing enterprises, in
conditions similar to Kigoma's is necessary. An incentive scheme for paying
crews on fishing vessels should also be considered. Initial development
should be modest pending results of the UNDP/FAO project's market, processing
and catching studies and activities. Secondly, it plans to increase incomes
of the lakeside fishermen through the introduction of improved techniques and
equipment to ujamaa fishing villages. A 1973/74 budgetary allocation for a
mobile service unit (T Sh 300,000) has been made as a beginning to such a program.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
17.       The conception and coordination of plans and policies for development
of the fisheries in the Tanzanian waters of Lake Tanganyika warrant strength-
ening. A development strategy directed at both the modern and industrial
sectors embodies potential conflicts, particularly at points of production and
marketing. Maximum production and fishermen's welfare are not necessarily
consistent. In addition, planning seldom demonstrates the consumer orientation
required. Mbreover, the different components and parties involved in a common
development strategy require coordinating.
18.       A UNDP/FAO Lake Tanganyika Fisheries Research and Development Project
was recently approved to provide the basis for the optimum development of the
lake's resources. The project's work program, already started, should gain
considerable impetus when a project manager, to be stationed in Kigoma, is
appointed. The information and technical assistance to be provided by the
project should contribute significantly to properly planned and coordinated
development. The project sets out to assess the lake's fish stocks in order
to identify maximum sustainable yields and corresponding investment opportun-
ities; to assist in improving the lake's fishery statistics services; to im-
prove fishing methods, the exploitation of untapped resources, and the fish
marketing structure; and to introduce improved fish processing methods. Under
the project will be hired a project manager, fishery biologist, stock assess-
ment specialist, fishery statistician, master fisherman, fisheries technologist,
fish processing technologist, fish production and marketing economist, socio-
logist, marine engineers and consultants on boat construction, civil engineer-
ing, investment, and other services. The close coordination and consolidation
of the work of the UNDP/FAO project with the operations of the regional fisheries
staff would be highly desirable for project success and staff development.
19.       Because so little information on the subject is available, the
marketing part of the Project is of special significance. It will hopefully
provide new information, inter-alia, on: i) The impact on the existing fish-
ermen of industrial fisheries development; ii) The present and future market
for dried, fresh and frozen fish and the subsequent ice production and refrig-
eration requirements, possibly using existing transport and refrigeration
facilities to experiment with the processing and marketing of fresh and frozen
fish; iii) Protein deficiency in the hinterland villages of the region and the
use of fish as a means to improve nutrition levels, including reference to
such specific operational considerations as identifying target groups, income
levels of target groups, profit margins, price variations, consumer preferences,
and preservation characteristics; and iv) The existing and recoimnended owner-
ship and marketing patterns of artisanal fishermen and middlemen.
20.       The project hopefully will also examine the income generating cap-
abilities of the lakeside ujamaa village, including whether the equipment
already granted by Goverrment has generated sufficient income for replacement
when worn out and existing and alternative systems to allocate the benefits of
communal production.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
21.       Important experimentation will be undertaken of possible new equipment
and techniques, including: i) Small purse seine units, including appropriate
siting, chiromila nets, pelagic longlining, and gill netting; ii) Innovation
and extension in the traditional sector through experimentation with lift nets,
trimarans, catamarans, benthic longlines, improved benthic gill netting and
handling, and the application of oars, sail and outboard engine to traditional
fishing methods. The experiments in the traditional sector could best be
carried out at the village level under village conditions and in conjunction
with local fishery officers. The techniques of one region might be tested in
another, e.g., light fishing in the southern part of the lake where it is
currently practiced less.
22.       Because poor processing methods render the fisherman victim of both
the weather and the middleman, improvements in processing, pa,rticularly the
drving of dagaa, will be given particular attention.
23.       The Regional Fisheries Division has a sizable staff which, following
upgrading and reorientation and in conjunction with the UNDP/FAO project,
should provide the impetus for fisheries development on Lake Tanganyika. The
Regional Fisheries Division is staffed by 67 personnel, of which 6 are assist-
ants, 45 field assistants, 10 assistant field officers, and 6 field officers.
There are 6 staff in Kasulu and Kibondo Districts, and 30 in Kigoma town. In
addition in 8 fisheries stations along the coast of Lake Tanganyika are perhaps
20 staff, whose principal responsibilities are the collection of statistical
information.
24.       The training of regional fisheries staff has been primarily insti-
tutional, and although representing a range of professional levels and disci-
plines, has involved little field work. Emphasis has been more on the theoret-
ical than the practical, more on biology than engineering and economics, more
on statistical compilation than on new equipment and techniques. A wider range
of disciplines in the training of fisheries personnel, and more interchange of
personnel among regions, may be useful. Consequently, one of the principal
constraints to regional fisheries development is the lack of technical know-
ledge and experience relating to a variety of new fishing methods and equipment.
If an independent and dynamic fisheries services is to be established, capable
of the required innovation and extension work, then the training and activities
of regional fisheries staff must be given a more practical on-the-job focus.
Two 8-m boats under construction in Mwanza, for training in purse seine fishing,
represent a first step.  In addition, a sizable training component is included
within the UNDP/FAO project which will hopefullv become more important as the
project develops further.
25.       Following  government decentralization in 1972, Regional Administra-
ti>a was made responsible for planning and implementation of projects in the
regions and the ttinistries in Dar es Salaam for technical support. In the
case of fisheries, some confusion continues to exist over the respective roles
of the region and center on project preparation and investment.  The roles of a



ANNEX 8
Page 8
number of national parastatal organizations now being formed to service the
fisheries sector (the proposed Tanzania Fisheries Development Corporation and
its subsidiary, the Tanzanian Boat-building Corporation, the Tanzanian Fish
Processing Corporation, and the National Cold Chain Operation) also require
clarification.
Project for World Bank Support
26.       A pilot fisheries component was proposed by the preparation report
on the Kigoma Integrated Rural Development Program, submitted by the Govern-
ment in May 1973 and amended in October 1973 during the visit of the Appraisal
Mission. It was proposed that the component include:
(a) The introduction of small purse seine units to 14 lakeshore
villages to be promoted and assisted through the services of
a qualified fisherman;
(b) The construction of a boatyard in Kigoma town, with expatriate
manasement and training;
(c) The improvement of lake fish carrier services; and
(d) The provision of simple, improved fishing gear, in the form of
beach seine nets, small powered vessels, light attraction units
and drying racks to lakeshore ujamaa villages.
Tqtal estimated cost of the project as revised and expanded would be approx-
imately US$0.8 million.
27.       A fisheries credit fund, to finance ujamaa fishing villages with
simple new techniques and equipment, has been included under the project.
Such a component would serve to accelerate ujamaa village development and im-
prove the welfare of its inhabitants. Powever, the proposals for additional
purse seine units, a boatbuilding yard, and improved carrier facilities were
felt to be either inappropriate or premature at the time and warranted further
study and/or elaboration. In general, insufficient information existed upon
which to make investment decisions that would have a profound and as yet un-
predictable impact on the fisheries and fishing community of Lake Tanganyika.
Specifically, it was determined that:
(a) The small purse seine units, requiring safe berthage and
various services, must operate out of a harbor, probably
Kigoma, and not from the scattered villages. They would
thus make no contribution to ujamaa village development.
Instead,they would employ only a limited number (about 30
each boat) of fishermen, who would be required to live in
and work from an urban setting (Kigoma town);
(b) Little is currently known of the effect on fish prices of
any marked increase in industrial fishing. A drop in prices
(especially of dagaa), which is quite possible, would



ANNEX 8
APPENDIX A
Page 1
THE RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT OF LAKE TANGANYIKA
1.        The major pelagic resources of interest in the fishery development
of Lake Tanganyika include four species of predators and three of prey. The
predators are Lates augustiphous (called Nile perch, gombe, capitain and some-
times sangala), L. marine (called sangala), L. microlepis (called nonzi), and
Luciolates stappersi (called makeke). The prey are the sardines Limnothrissa
and Stolothrissa (both called dagaa) and juvenile Luciolates (called dagaa
also). The sardines are quite short-lived, maturing in 6-12 months, while the
predators are much longer-lived. The Benthic resources in greatest demand
include Sangala and Boulengerichromis (kune), as well as several of lesser
importance.
2.       Lake Tanganyika is a meromictic lake (never mixes top to bottom).
Below about 170 meters the lake is toxic and devoid of life, due to hydrogen
sulfide, other products of decomposition, and an absence of oxygen. The water
is very clear and gives the appearance of low productivity, but high tempera-
tures (23-28C) and an interchange of nutrient salts between the dense toxic
layers and the surface waters maintains high productivity levels. The lake
temperature stratifies and develops a thermocline at 60-80 meters in the wet
season, but is mixed above the toxic layers in the windy dry season.
3.        WTind significantly affects the lake's productivity.  The most con-
sistently strong winds occur from July to October. These North-South winds
produce a tilting of the temperature layers and turbulence at lee and windward
shores. This turbulence probably brings nutrients into the well-lighted
surface waters and substantially increases production of phytoplankton and
zooplankton. The pelagic sardines enjoy a rapid growth in biomass during this
period Deak about October-November and then declining to a low in April-May.
Areas of sufficient turbulence to increase local production may include at
least the Zambia and Burundi ends of the lake, and embayments near Kalemie in
Zaire and Karema in Tanzania. Little is known about turbulence-induced nroduc-
tivitv in the lake, but the Kalemie and Karema areas appear to be conductive to
an upwelling because of a more gradually sloping of the bottom.
4.        The pelagic stocks off Kigoma seem to be holding up well, and the area
should be able to sustain greater exploitation. Increased exploitation, how-
ever, should be carried out extremely cautiously. Purse seines, lift nets,
chiromila nets, longlines and drifting gill nets all offer potential for in-
creased harvest. In addition, the benthic fishery may be developed with long-
line, gill net, and with trawl in a few locations. Monofilament gill nets also
offer possible gains in the clear waters of the lake.
5.        Little is known of the homogeneity or heterogeneity of pelagic stocks.
They may consist of one, a few, or many populations. They may be highly mobile
or remain in one area for long periods. Stock heterogeneity, as well as esti-
mates of growth, mortality, and biomass is of critical importance in assessing



ANNEX 8
APPENDIX A
Page 2
effects of the expanded fisheries on traditional harvests. In addition,
virtually nothing is known about the density of pelagic stock that could be
^ished outside Burundi, Zambia, Kalemie, and the area very near Kigoma. In-
dications suggest that fishable stocks exist in several areas of Tanzanian
waters, although traditional fisheries are all limited to five km of the lake
shore. Large areas of the coast are not fished because of inhabitable terrain
on the steep, rocky shores. Moreover, little dagaa fishing occurs at night
south of Kipili for reasons not well known, except that daylight beach seining
i very successful there.



KICMMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rough Comparative Data on Lake Tanganyika Fishing Techniques
Purse Seine                    i,each Seine
(1b m, 3 light 6oats)
1   Man hours/dat                      '                                 8                       6
2. Manpower Rtequirements             31                               24                        2
3. Capital Costs
a. Plank Canoes                                                     2,400 TSPi               800 rsn
(dugout canoes)                                                (3,600 TSh)            (1,200 TSh)
bo  Purse Seine boats            419,300 TSn
c. Net                            80,000 TSh                         6,000 TSli              1 50 TSP
d. Lamps                              700 TSh                          330 TSh               220 TSh
4. Depreciation
ao  Plank 6anoes                                                   4 years                    4 years
(dugout canoes)                                               (8 years)                  (8 years)
bo Purse Seine uoats             10 years
co Net                             5 years                          3 years                   2 years
d. Lamps                           2 years                          2 years                   2 jears
5  Annual Lield                       600 tons                          25 tons                   6 tons
2/
6O  Lnnual Itevenue                1,0>0,000 TSiI                       43,750 Wh             10,500 DSP
7.  Minus:
a. Operatina Costs                330,000 TShP
bo  Depreciation                   58,350 TSh                        2,7 50                   00
B.  8et Income                        661 ,650 TSh                      40,230 TSh              9,815 TS h,
9.  Net Income/Man                     21,000  TSh                       1 ,700 rsn              ,100 TSP
1/  Figures ass-me occasional second shift, witLh 25  additional manpower.
2/ Figures assume 1 .75 TSh per kg.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recommended Qualifications and Responsibilities of Staff Financed Under the Project
1.   Operations Manager of Regional Cooperative Union (Union)
-    Would be directly responsible to the General Manager of the regional
cooperative union.
Qualifications
-    Bachelor's degree or equivalent work experience and at least ten years'
successful work experience in handling logistical matters, at least
three of which in a senior position.
-    Must be capable of designing and instituting documents and procedures
for the control of collection, transport, storage and transfer of
large numbers of lots of a variety of goods.
-    Must have experience in maintaining and operating road transport
equipment.
-    Experience in handling agricultural commodities would be useful.
-    Work experience in a developing country (preferably Africa) essential.
Personal Characteristics
-    Person must be adaptable.
-    If candidate does not speak Swahili, some facility with languages
would be necessary.
-    Must be able to cooperate with a variety of other agencies to get the
job accomplished.
-    Must be capable of coping with ambiguities of roles and relationships.
-    Must have an ability to train subordinates and delegate authority
while retaining efficiency.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    Setting up as necessary and initially managing the Union's systems
and procedures for: transport, warehousing, vehicle operation and
maintenance, shipping, vehicle hire and leasing, quality grades and
standards and control, forecasting and scheduling. The Operations
Manager would give great attention to staff training. During the
last six months of his stay the Operations Manager would be expected
to be an adviser only, leaving actual operating to the person selected
,as his replacement.
-    Planning the Union's facilities and equipment requirements.
-    Liaising with villages, transport firms, parastatals, TRDB and
regional government in handling crop inputs and outputs, vehicle
use and repair, and other matters.
-    Hiring transport from other parties to handle the Union's peak
season requirements and leasing out the Union's own transport
during slack periods.
-    Working closely with the financial controller in the credit program
to village primary societies.
-    Staff training and occasional general training at the rural training
centers.
-    Reporting at least monthly to the Union's management and to the
Regional Development Director (RDD) on progress, problems and issues,
together with recommendations.
-    Initiating requests for procurement for the Union's supplies, spares
and equipment.
2.   Financial Controller and Deputy General Manager
-    Would be directly responsible to the General Manager of the regional
cooperative union.
Qualifications:
-    Qualified accountant (e.g., chartered accountant).
-    At least ten years' successful work experience partly in a developing
country of which three years would have been as financial controller
or equivalent Involving accounting, budgeting, credit management
and collection, cash and inventory management and financial reporting.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Personal Characteristics:
-    Same as for Operations Manager except that knowledge of Swahili less
imDortant.
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    Setting up and initially operating the Union's systems and procedures
for: bookkeeping and accounting; budgeting; financial and cash
forecasting; credit management and collections; cash and inventory
management; financial reporting; and internal auditing. The Financial
Controller would give great attention to staff training. During the
last six months of his assignment the Financial Controller would be
expected to be an advisor only, leaving actual operating to his deputy.
-    Liaising with villages, parastatals, TRDB, other banks and regional
government.
-    Working with the "Training Supervisor" in setting up
Village-level standardized accounts and control systems, super-
vising their implementation; and from time to time, participating
in training village bookkeepers and others.
-    Screening and recommending action on all requests for credit from
primary societies.
-    Procurement.
-    Reporting at least monthly to the Union management, the RDD, and, as
required, TRDB, on the Union's overall financial situation; together
with relevant projections and identification of problems or issues
and their recommended solution.
-    Reporting at least quarterly to IDA as required.
3.   Training Supervisor
General:
The project would involve supporting, through providing infrastructure
and loans, a large number of villages (estimated at 135 during the five year
disbursement period). To qualify for loans the villages would first have had
to become registered as "multipurpose primary cooperative societies" (ANNEX 14).
In addition, each village (primary cooperative society) is projected to become
a sizeable enterprise involved in handling members' crop sales and purchases
of inputs, storage of inventories, record-keeping, handling large amounts of
cash and other assets. Adequate business management and bookkeeping arrange-
,ments are therefore required. To qualify for loans a village requires a
fulltime hired bookkeeper, probably from a village in the region and trained



ANNEX 9
Page 4
in the region. Therefore, a training supervisor, a principal task
of *whom would be training and supervising village-level bookkeepers, is
essential. He would report directly to the Financial Controller.
Oualifications:
-    Bachelor's degree in commerce or eauivalent, or a recognized accounting
qualification.
-    Experience in developing and instituting simple accounting and control
systems, selecting successful candidates and supervising initial
working performance.
-    Experience in small enterprise management and organization:  goal
setting, simple personnel practices, commercial practice (e. g.,
contracts), planning and record-keeping and credit management.
-    Some experience witlL cooperatives and with agriculture useful.
-    Adequate experience in developing countries essential.
-    He should be an active man and be willing to spend considerable
amount of his time visiting villages.
Personal Characteristics:
-    Same as Operations Manager of Union.
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    Preparing a standard, simple bookkeeping and control system to be
followed by the Region's primary cooperative societies. In this, he
would liaise closely with the Regional Development Director's (RDD)
office and would examine similar systems prepared elsewhere in
Tanzania.
-    In close cooperation with the RDD's office, establishing and imple-
menting programs of classroom and on-the-job training to develop
village-level bookkeepers. Course candidates would have completed
Standard VII. Training might consist of two to four weeks' classroom
instruction on the workings of the village standard set of accounts,
followed perhaps by four months' on-the-job training under close
supervision. Initially, the training supervisor would have
to provide considerable on-the-job supervision; as the project developed
he would be assisted by the Union's Society Credit Officers (S00's)
and by previously trained village-level bookkeepers and secretaries.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
-    Assisting in initial training and continuing supervision of the work
of SCOs.
-    Providing general assistance on the Union's credit matters.
-    Acting as deputy to the Financial Controller, as required.
4.   Land Use Planning Officer
Qualifications: Formal training in agriculture, soil science or land
resource use, land surverying and photogrammetry. Previous experience
in land resource work and associated land and agricultural planning
would be essential.
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    Undertake a photo analysis of the project area and prepare land use
resource maps and inventory of the area.
-    Prepare land use resource maps of proposed village areas for incorp-
oration in Village Site Feasibility Reports (VSFR).
-    Advise on the location of roads and other infrastructure proposed for
ujamaa villages in VSFR.
-    Give general guidance on land resource use with particular reference
to soil and water conservation systems for ujamaa villages to the
Regional Development Director and his staff.
-    Concurrently with the above tasks, train Tanzanian staff in land
use and associated techniques.
The Land Use Planning Officer would be directly responsible to the Regional
Agricultural Functional Manager.
5.   Senior Training Officer
Qualifications: Formal training in general agriculture with particular
reference to small scale production of annual crops. Training experience
under Tanzanian conditions, fluency in Swahili and exposure to conditions in
Kigoma Region would be essential.
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    In consultation with training specialists in the Manpower Development
Derartment of Kilimo and the Regional Agricultural Manager to devise
and develop suitable curricula for "induction" courses to be given to
farmer contact extension personnel at the proposed Kigoma Region
Training and Trials Center.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
In consultation with the Regional Agricultural Manager and the Trials
Officer to devise and develop appropriate short courses for in-service
training of extension personnel, and for village leaders in crop
production and related subjects.
Operation of the training wing of the oroposed Training and Trials
Center including student selection, discipline, supervision of
subordinate staff and teaching of selected courses.
-    Liaison with the Trials Officer in utilization of joint facilities
at the proposed Training and Trials Center.
The Senior Training Officer would be directly responsible to the Regional
Agricultural Functional Manager.
6.   Trials Officer
Qualifications: Bachelor's degree in agriculture or related subject, with
at least three years subsequent experience in field trial techniques under
Tanzanian conditions utilizing simple statistical layouts.
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    In consultation with the Director of the Ukiriguru Research Center
and the Regional Agricultural Manager to formulate and carry out
programs of field investigations on the major crops of Kigoma Region
with particular reference to maize, cotton and groundnuts. To the
extent possible, field trials should be replicated at suitable locations
of the proposed Training and Trials Center and should be designed
to provide information which is readily applicable by farmers in
ujamaa villages.
-    In consultation as above to advise on the form and content of demon-
strations of improved practices to be carried out in ujamaa villages.
Such demonstrations would be designed to popularize cultural practices
of proven viability under farmer's conditions in Kigoma.
-    Multiplication of nucleus stocks of seed of maize and groundnut
varieties in consultation with the Regional Agricultural Manager.
The Trials Officer would be directly responsible to the Regional Agricultural
Manager in administration matters and to the Director of the Ukiriguru Research
Station on professional affairs.
7.   General Manager, Kigoma Regional Cooperative Union
Qualifications: A senior civil servant or equivalent position in the
private sector with at least 15 years experience in responsible posts and
several years in a senior executive position in a major public corporation
or private company.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
In previous employment he would have undertaken senior administrative
responsibility and would have a thorough understanding of business and/or
cooperative procedures.
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    Overall supervision of all operations of the regional cooperative
union.
-    Preparation and submission of draft policy statements and execution
of policy directives from the board of the regional cooperative
union.
-    Preparation and submission of progress reports to the board of the
regional cooperative union and such other agencies as may require
them, e.g., IDA, TRDB, NBC.
-    Supervision of Union relationships with primary cooperative societies.
The General Manager would be responsible to the Board of Management of the
regional cooperative union.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Planning, Project Preparation and Evaluation
Introduction
1.        Following the decentralization of government (Annex 4), development
of government's investment program will tend to depend more and more on the
regional capability to prepare a stream of investment proposals within a co-
herent regional framework or plan. While staff at the center retain powers
and functions relating to overall economic policies--including pricing, ex-
change, taxation and interest rate policies, the 18 regions have effectively
taken over responsibility for all but 'national' projects (as for example, the
relocation of the capital city). As detailed in Annex 4, relatively in-
experienced or newly promoted staff now occupy many of the posts that carry
major responsibility for plan and project preparation. Thus the need for
additional skills relating to regional planning, project identification and
preparation, while always urgent, has been accentuated as a consequence of
the new policy emphasis. Accordingly, support for an intensified technical
assistance effort for regional planning and project preparation, to include
responsibility for the evaluation and monitoring of experience in Kigoma,
would be included under the project.
2.        Most of the new regions are heavily rural and agricultural in
orientation, and the integrated rural development approach, based on ujamaa
villages, is to be the general model. Hence, in these special circumstances,
activities relating to rural development project preparation would emcompass
the major task of regional planning. 1/ A team of three or four appropriately
qualified and experienced personnel, to work in a region over a period of 6
to 8 months in association with regional staff, would be able to outline a
regional plan, involving the identification and preliminary preparation of
projects suitable for national or international financing. It is anticipated
that the association of high level regional staff in close working relation-
ship with technical assistance personnel would yield important training
benefits.
3.        A direct link between the technical assistance effort and the Kigoma
project would be envisaged through the involvement of the technical assistance
group with the early stage implementation in Kigoma region, including the
establishment of a suitable monitoring/evaluation system. The Kigoma project
is important to Tanzania as a first or pioneering effort paving the way for
subsequent programs that explore the potential for achieving substantially
increased incomes in cash and kind, among groups whose need for income can
1/   Particularly since shaping or influencing development through fiscal
means is ruled out by the limitations on regional authority.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
reasonably be described as very great by any standard.  The projects will
cover the second stage in the development cycle of an ujamaa village--that
stage where concern shifts from the process of resettlement and organizing
of the village community to the process of developing the newly established
community as a viable and self-reliant economic unit. There are great
uncertainties in moving into this second phase and the full range of problems
is likely to show up only as the program gets underway. Hence a flexible and
innovative management response will be needed, and this would be facilitated
by an organized system for documenting and monitoring the progress of the
project. Such a facility would also ensure that the experience and problems
in Kigoma are fully recorded for the benefit of Tanzania's programs more
generally.
Staffing and Organization
4.        Skills required in the preparation of such programs are those of an
economist, an agriculturalist/land use planner, and a water engineer (who
would be sufficiently broad-based to take responsibility for general engineer-
ing aspects of other physical structures). A specialist in cooperatives and
marketing, including training aspects, would also be very desirable; it is
anticipated that such a person would be supplied by the Tanzania Rural Develop-
ment Bank (TRDB) or through short term consultancies. Other specialist skills
required for short periods would cover education and training, sociological
matters, health, fisheries and forestry. In addition, provision has been
included for consultants to work primarily at national level, to contribute
to the development of national policies in respect of a number of problems
common to the regions such as: system of regional planning; training; the
provision of health care, water and education; and possible fiscal solutions
to the problems of financing the regional programs.
5.        The Project Preparation Team Coordinator would ideally be a Bank Staff
member of some years standing. He should have experience of procedures relating
to project preparation and implementation, and also be familiar with the analysis
of sectoral and national policy issues. Ilis duties would include:
(a) Assisting government with the recruitment of staff for the
technical assistance team, including consultants.
(b)  Providing overall direction and guidance to the team, including
specific work plans and schedules.
(c) Logistic support and, as necessary, liaison between central
government agencies and technical assistance staff in the field.
(d) Initial responsibility for the monitoring and evaluation of
the Kigoma project.
(e) General liaison between the Bank and the Tanzania government for
matters relating to the technical assistance program, based on
thorough knowledge of relevant practices and procedures of both
the Bank and government.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
It is anticipated that the coordinator would be subject to direction from
the Prime Minister's office. In regard to operational matters relating to
the Bank, he would liaise with the Bank's office in Nairobi.
6.        All members of the permanent team must have experience in project
preparation and/or implementation in rural areas in developing countries,
preferably in Africa. Staff would be sufficiently senior as to be able to
work closely with high level regional staff in the preparation of projects
and regional plans, and provide guidance and advice to them.
7.        The Economist should be experienced in practical economic planning,
including regional planning, and familiar with sources and uses of economic
data. He should also have experience of peasant farming systems, including
marketing and credit problems. He should be able to present arguments and
analyses cogently and lucidly, both in a verbal and written form. He would
take a leading role in developing a regional strategy or overall plan and
relating project preparation to such a plan. He would ensure that the
regional proposals were in conformity with national guidelines and objectives
for regional and rural development, and with local needs and sentiments. He
would work closely with regional staff in collecting and collating local
sources of data and in developing appropriate systems of economic intelligence
for the region.
8.        The Agriculturalist should have extensive experience of tropical
farming systems, preferably in Africa. He should be thoroughly familiar with
all aspects of advisory and extension services, including the application of
research findings under field conditions, and replication of improve practices.
A knowledge of Swahili would be a decided advantage. He should also be aware
of the economic implications of his recommendations for agricultural programs
and projects. He would take major responsibility for the identification and
preparation of investment programs to assist the development of small farmers,
including the establishment of appropriate regional organization, and local
systems of training. He would liase very closely with personnel dealing with
marketing of outputs and distribution of inputs to farmers.
9.        The Engineer should be thoroughly experienced with work 'in the bush',
involving flexibility and innovative ability in coping with adaption of local
materials and structures, understanding of labor-intensive construction methods,
and managing with uncertain supplies and periodic shortages. He would be
responsible for ensuring that the engineering features of any proposed projects
were basically sound and reasonable in relation to local needs and skills. He
would also be able to provide rough costings as a basis for financial and
economic assessment of the proposed investments.
10.       It is anticipated that the first step under this program would be
the appointment of the Coordinator, who would initially work closely with the
Tanzanian government and IDA in Washington and Nairobi, to (a) recruit
for the regional teams, (b) agree on a list of regions for the team to work
in, and (c) locate suitable specialist assistance for design of the monitoring/
evaluation of Kigoma project.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
11.       Finance would be included under the project for a two year program,
sufficient for the regional teams to service three regions. While much of
their work, and the work undertaken centrally, would be generally relevant to
the rural areas of Tanzania, a large number of regions could not obtain the
direct assistance of the team. Depending on experience with the technical
assistance effort proposed, and on experience with Kigoma project in general,
consideration could be given at a later stage to a more ambitious program of
technical assistance relating to rural development.
The Monitoring/Evaluation of Kigoma Project
12.       After consultation with central government agencies and the regional
administration, the detailed design and initial implementation of the system
would be undertaken in the region by the technical assistance team supplemented
with specialist assistance, at the beginning of the project. A consultant
analyst would take major responsibility for overall supervision, including
field work, arranging for local supporting services and liaison with local
researchers (if he were not himself a local researcher). It would be expected
that he would be available from time to time over at least a five year period
to supervise ongoing work and to take responsibility for the analysis of the
results. He should have some years of experience in undertaking empirical
research in rural areas in developing countries preferably in Africa. He would
probably have published work to his credit. He might hold a senior appointment
in an established university or research institute or recognized business
enterprise specialized in research work.
13.       Major inputs for the evaluation of the project are likely to take
the form of an initial base-line survey, to establish conditions at the point
of departure of the project, and a terminal survey, five years later. The
evaluation should attempt to explain developments under the project, examin-
ing technical, economic, managerial, sociological and anthropological factors.
The initial intensive phase of work would also provide the framework for an
ongoing recording system at a more modest level, to be undertaken under the
responsibility of the regional and district planning officers. At this level,
the effort should focus on the needs of management for a form of early warning
system, so that incipient problems can be rectified quickly or otherwise dealt
with at minimum disturbance and cost. It is expected that this work would
need to be supplemented from time to time with ad hoc special studies, dealing
with specific problems. The planning officer would be assisted from time to
time by the consultant analyst, some whose visits might well be timed to
coincide with supervision missions. These data, together with other material,
should enable a proper analysis and interpretation of experience under the
project, including success In terms of initial objectives and in the light of
problems subsequently encountered.
14.       It would be inappropriate at this stage to attempt a detailed
description of the proposed monitoring/evaluation activities. However, some
of the high priority issues for investigation would be the following:



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(a) Village development
Relating to a sample of villages (including some non-project
villages), covering the major ecological zones i.e., the highlands, the
intermediate zone, the miombo woodland (with tsetse infestation), and
lakeshore fishing:
i.   Progress in project relative to non-project villages, for
various years following settlement of the project villages,
having regard to - clearance and cultivation of the block
farms (total acreage and acreage per family), adoption of
improved techniques, use of fertilizers and other inputs,
cropping patterns; yields and yield variation per cultivator
and per village; use of credit, acquisition of infrastructure.
ii.   demographic characteristics of selected villages - sex and
age structure, composition of families, social or tribal
structure, types of family; stability of village population,
including mDvement into and out of the village area.
iii.   Work activity, to include level of activity, seasonal
variation, labor utilization per crop and cultivation
technique; by age group and sex; off farm activities;
availability of additional labor.
iv.   Income and consumption, per village and per farm family,
covering subsistence consumption and marketed surplus; off
farm income; disposal of cash income (cattle purchase, bride
price, consumer goods - effective of promixity of local
market centers, role of village shop and the STC); savings.
v.   Adequacy of nutrition - calorie, protein and vitamin deficiency;
possible upgrading through the introduction of a dagaa dietary
supplement. An ad hoc study of the spending patterns of the
village elite today - e.g. school teachers, agricultural
extension workers, village cooperative officers - might provide
useful insights as to what might happen after incomes begin
to rise under the project.
(b) Use of Village facilities
i.   Water supplies - to include costs of maintenance and operation
frequency of repair and periods in relative to periods out of
service, for the different types of system (with particular
reference to the dug well/hand pump vs the piped systems);
estimation of time savings relative to use.of traditional
water sources; social attitudes to dug wells and other
facilities; continuing use of traditional systems if any.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
ii.   Education - profile of village school teachers - social
and geographic orgin, length of experience, marital status;
relationship of these factors to stability in villages (also
to include reference to the availability of teachers' houses
in the villages); school attendance and non-attendance -
relationship to the availability of school places and village
size; effectiveness and intensity of use of the school
workship, longevity of tools and facilities.
iii.   Health Care:  Intensity of use of dispensary - relationship
to type of service provided (personnel available), and
location; ditto for the rural medical center; costs of
providing these services; development of and response to
the public health program - including excreta disposal schemes.
(c) Intensive studies of villages which turn out to be extremely success-
ful (say the best 1 or 2 of those at a particular stage of development) with
a view to identifying causal factors for replication elsewhere. Ditto for
extremely unsuccessful villages.
(d) Regional level studies
i.   Motor transport - costs and operating efficiency of trucking
operations, for use in determing the eventual needs and
costings of the regional union, including mileages operated,
length of daily runs, maintenance and repair costs, frequency
of breakdown records.
ii.   Performance of the local construction industry - availability
of local contractors, length of time taken to complete contracts,
use of skilled labor; construction costs of local materials
vs cement blocks.
iii.   Impact of village development on the region - activity of major
market centers; private transport to and from villages; use
of bus services; expansion of the banking system.



TANZANIA
KIGO4A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates Ut  Year)
(TSh 'OOOs)
I            II              III            IV_             V           Total          US$ 'OOOs
A. Villa-te Infrastructure
Water Supply (Table 2)                                             2,507          2,520          2,533          2,546           2,559         12,665           1,774
Health (Table 2)                                                     -              110            410             540            490          1,550             217
Education (Table 3)                                                3,595          3,225          2,898          2,894           2,822         15,434           2,162
Feeder Roads (Table 4)                                               -              202            252             252            252            958             134
Tsetse Clearing (Table 4)                                            214            160             160            160            148            842             118
6,316          6.217          6,253          6,392          6,271         31,449            4,405
B.  Loans to Villages
Seasonal Inputs Revolving Fund (Annex 15, Table 9)                   -              630           2R'l           2,i*67         2,658          7,70A            1.079
Med. -Term Credit for Prod. Infrast. (Table 5)                       -            1.059           1,396          1,426          1.593          5,474              767
Sub-Total                                                         -            1,689          3,247           3,993          4,251         13,180           T1 _
C.  Loans and luNlt   Contribution tf  ReSional                           967          1,431          1,052            811           1,437          5,698             798
Cooverative Vnion (Table 6)
D.  Regional Infrastructure
Rural Training Centers (Table 7)                                     670          1,050              48            -              _            1,768              248
Radio-Telephone Hookup                                                200            150            -              -              -               350              49
Livestock Pilot Project (Table 8)                )                   257            500             114             2                             873             123
Agric. Trials and Training Center (Table 8)
Vehicles  1/                                                          185            95             185             95            _               560              78
Demonstrations (Ain= 15, Table 10)                                    -              43              53             58             60            214               30
Aerial Photography  2/                                                400          1 200            200            -              -             1 800             252
Sub-Total                                                       1,712         .038               600            155             60          5,'5%5             780
E. Technical Assistance (Table 9)
Salaries & Related Fringe Benefits                                    230            850            715            625            325          2,745              384
Housing, Vehicles & Equipment                                         505            480            125            125             125          1,360              190
Training                                                              -              183            193            193             193            762             107
General Funds                                                         205            205            205            205             205          1,025             144
Sub-Total                                                          940          1,718          1,238          1,148            848           5,892              825
F.  Project Preparation and Evaluation (Table 10)                         475        2J615            2.100             409            335          Si925,02        -
TOTAL                                                          10,410          16,708         14,490         12,899         13,202          67,709           9,484
Contingencies ( Price 24,012  Physical 2,888)                                                                                               26,900            3,767
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                                                                          94,609           13,251
1/  For 2 lorries (@ TSh9O,400) and 8 four-wheel drive vehicles (@ TSh47,400) to supplement existing transport in meeting increased supervision and materials
movement by the regional administration during the project.
2,  lne region encompasses 37,000 km2, of which an estimated 2/3 (about 25,000 km2) would require aerial photography.  The cost for the photography,
3 sets of prints, simple viewing devices, 3nd Aho,nt ` weeks training in Kigonma for staff in interpreting photographs, is estimated it
TSh&O per ,T2  for a tmtal  f  I'Sh2 ,000,000(I.
iOnuary 3'  197'r



TANZANIA                          ANNEX 11
Table 2
KICOMA R-JRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT              Page 1
A. Water Supply
rI pica] PunmedSnLstemY                          (T  Sh  000's)
Preparatory Work                                      6.5
Pumrphouse Structure                                  8.8
Intake                                                1.0
Storage Tank                                         11.5
Transport                                            20.0
Plant Hire                                            6.5
Rising Main (100 m elev.; 2,000 m length)            25.8
Pum.p                                                28.5
Distribution System:
Pipe (2,470 m)                 36.9
Hydrants                        1.8                38.7
Sub-total                                         147.3
Supervision and Other Overheads                      58.0
Total                                               205.3
Source: Maji and mission estimates
V'pical Village Using Dugwells and Handpumps
i dugwell with handpump                             T  Sh  1,510
For total village (assumes 15 wells)                T  Sh 22,600
Phasing of Costs:
110 villages would require water systems during the project
period. It is expected that half would be by pumped systems and half
by dugwells with handpumps (Annex 6 ).
Per Year (years I through V)
11 villages with pumped systems (at T Sh  205,300)             T Sh  2,258,300
11 villages with dugwells and handpumps (at T Sh  22,600)   T Sh    248,600
Total                                                          T Sh  2,506,900



-2-                         ANNEXll
Table 2
Page 2
Privy Program
This would cover 10 percent of fanilies in project villages
over the five-year project period.
- Total families in project villages (135 villages at 350)        47,250
- 10 percent of families would be 4,730
- Each slab would cost an estimated T Sh 27.40 (Us$4.00)
Summary - Water Supply and Privy Program
Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year V   Total
(T Sh 000's)
Water Supplies -2,507    2,507      2,507       2,507     2,507    12,535
Privy Program              -- 13       26          39        52        130
Total         2,507    2,520      2,533       2,546     2,559    12,665
3.  Health
1. Dispensaries and rural health centers (RHC) are the identified
objects of expenditure. Dispensaries are estimated to cost T Sh 30,000/-,
rural health centers, T Sh 400,000/-.
2. While Kigoma Region is not below average in respect of these facilities
compared with other parts of Tanzania, the dispersion of population
associated with the settlement of new villages would justify some additional
health investments over the life of the project, as would improving
standards for rural health care for Tanzania as a whole.
3. It is proposed to include 10 dispensaries and 3 RHC, with expected
timing as follows:
Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year V   Totals
Dispensaries
Number          --        2          2          3         3
Cost            --     60,000    60,000      90,000    90,000   300,000
RHC                       50,000   350,000    450,000   400,000 1,200,000
110,000   410,000    540,000   490,000 1,500,000



ANNEX 3
Table 3
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Cost Estimates and Phasing
1. 60 Existing Ujamaa Villages
i.  Data for 73 of the Phase I and II ujamaa villages show primary
schools to be distributed as follows in 1973:
Grades                                    Percent of All Schools
I - VII                                           34.2
I - VI                                             8.2
I - V                                              4.1
I - IV                                             9.6
I - III                                           12.3
I - II)                                           31.5
The backlog of classes over appropriate facilities can be
calculated as:
Classrooms                                        83
Teachers' Houses                                 145
N.B.: -6 classrooms per I - VII complete school; with Grades I - II
sharing a classroom.
-7 teachers per 7-standard school; 5 until Grade VII is added.
-1 house per teacher.
ii.  Applied pro rata to 60 villages, the backlog is:
Classrooms                                        68
Teachers' Houses                                  85
The 60 villages will have received a share of the 1973/74 building
program for the Region of 112 classrooms ( @ 10,000) and 64
teachers' houses (   15,000).  Assume one-half of all classrooms
to be constructed in ujamaa villages and two-thirds of all
teachers' houses.
After application pro rata to 60 villages, the backlog in these
villages is reduced to 2h classrooms and 85 teachers' houses.



ANNEX .11
T-abIe 3
Page 2
Over the project period, teachers' houses would be provided
up to 5/6 of the level that would provide 1 house per teacher.
This allows for the joint use by bachelor teachers of a single
house. For 1974, the local need for housing equals the number
of teachers required, for 60 villagesequal to 229. Hence,
at proposed standard, 1/6 of 229 = 38 from ba log. Hence,
backlog of teachers' houses becomes85-38 * 47.
iii. For rehabilitation to existing schools in 60 villages, we assume
20 percent of existing (permanent) classrooms need replacement--
i.e. 25 in total in the 60 villages.
iv.  Hence, total replacement/additions at beginning of project period
in 60 villages would be:
Classrooms:        25 + 24 = 49
Teacherst Houses:             47
v. Phasing:
No.   Year I   Year II   Year III  Year IV   Year V
Teachers' Houses       47       20       20          7          -
15,000 each, cost   705,000  300,000  300,000   105,000         -
Classrooms              24      10       10          4          -          -
25       -        -         10         10          5
10,000 each, cost   490,000  100,000  100,000   140,000    100,000   50,000
N.B.: Phasing of rehabilitation in line with equalizing overall
building program.
vi. Extensions to 60 schools over the Project period:
All Grade II and above will be completed for a single stream
I - VII complete primary school. 1973/74 Grade I schools,
completed through Grade VI.
From data for existing schools, applied pro rata to the 60, total
additional classrooms will be: 137, and teachers' houses 163,
less 1/6, 136.



ANNEX 11
Table 3
Page 3
Phasing:
Total   Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year V
Teachers'
Houses         136       23       30         32         27         24
15,000 each  2,0o40,000  345,000  450,000   480,000    405,000   360,ooo
Classrooms       137       26       34         32          26        19
10,000 each  1,370,000  260,000  340,000   320,000    260,000   190,00D
N.B.: Phasing according to need.
vii.  Workshops and tools are to be provided as the school reaches
Grade VI. There may be a few workshop buildings in the 60
villages--we suppose--but tools are virtually non-existent.
Phasing:
No.    Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year V
Workshops         58       20       12          7          10         9
'; 15,000      870,000  300,000  180,000   105,000    150,000   135,000
Tools             60       22       12          7          10
k  30,000    1,800,000  660,000  360,000   210,000    300,000     . ,00(
viii.  Head teacher's offices and toilet blocks:
Rehabilitation is estimated for 23 offices and 35 toilet blocks:
Phasing:
Total   Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year_
Offices           23        8         8         7           -         -
9  3,000        69,000   24,000   24,000    21,000
Toilet blocks      50      30        20         -           -         -
k  2,400       120,000   72,000   48,ooo
ix.  Textbooks, desks and library:  see Section 3.



ANEX 11
Table 3
Page 4
2. Facilities in 75 New Villages
i.  Under Phases I and II, about one-third were newly started
schools, one-third completed schools and one-third partially
completed. The new program for 75 villages is assumed to
absorb 35 existing schools (from 104 existing, including 9
urban), and that 40 new schools will be started.
ii. Of new schools, we assume 8 will be started each year. Hence,
classroom and teacher house needs are projected as follows:
Total   Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year V
New
Schools      40         8         8         8          8           8
Teachers'
Houses       74         7         7        13         22         25
15,000  1,110,000  105,000  105,000   195,000    330,000   375,000
Classrooms      88        8         8        16         24          32
@  10,000    880,000   80,000   80,000   160,000    240,000   320,000
iii.  Extension to existing (35) schools:
We assume 20 are complete Grades I - VII: 10 are Grades I - VI;
and 5 are Grades I - V. We further assume that on coming under
the program, schools will be 30 percent deficient in classrooms
and 40 percent deficient in teachers' houses.
iv.  Hence,  for teachers' houses, total houses needed equals
35 X 7 = 245, minus 1/6 = 41, = 204;
Stock on hand, 20 X 7 X 0.6 = 84, plus 10 X 5 X o.6 = 30,
plus 5 X 4 X o.6 = 12; total 12. Hence, the housing deficit
is 78.
v.  For classrooms, we have a need for 35 X 6 - 210, and stock on
hand 20 X 6 X 0.7 = 84; plus 10 X 5 X 0.7; plus 5 X 4 X 0.7;
total 133. Hence, the deficiency is 77 plus, for classes in
need of rehabilitation, 20% of 133 = 7 , hence the total of
104 classrooms.



ANNE 11
Page 5
vi. Phasing:
Total   Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year V
Teachers'
Houses             78        18       18        16          13        13
4  15,000       1,170,000  270,000  270,000   240,000    195,000   195,0)0
Classrooms
4 10,000
Additions          77        16       16        17          14        14
Rehabilitation     27         5        5         5           6          I
104       21       21         22         20        2)
1,040,000  210,000  210,000   220,000    200,000   200.0(?Y
vii. Workshops and Tools:
Are supplied after Grade V
Phasing:
Total   Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year 1
Workshops           35         5        9         7           7
4  15,000         525,000    75,000  135,000   105,000    105,000   105,000
Tools            -----as above----
g  30,000       1,050,000   150,000  270,000   210,000    210,000   210,000
3. Other Elements
i.  Desks, textbooks and library:
Desks supplied to new classrooms at 20 per room; for all other
classrooms at one-third this rate for rehabilitation.
ii.  Textbooks, sets as necessary and per classroom.  Libraries to
all schools.



ANNEX 11
Table 3
Page 6
Phasing:
Total   Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV   Year V
Desks:
20 per new
classroom
9 120/-           5,48o       880    1,040      1,140      1,200      1,220
Rehabilitation    2,440       420      460        460        500        600
7,920    1,300    1,500      1,600      1,700      1,820
Costs           950,400  156,000  180,000   192,000    204,000   218,400
Textbooks:
s  Set 7,613/-: Grade I - VI 5,544/-; I - V 3,545/-; I - VI 2,100/-;
I - III 1,260/-: I - II 930/-; I 425.
Total   Year I   Year II   tear III   Year IV   Year V
For 60 villages:
51 complete,
9 Grade I-VI   440,400   266,000   37,600    50,60o       47,500    38,700
For 75 villages:
40 complete,
8 I-V,
8 I-X7, 8 I-III,
8 I-II, 8 I    342,050    52,500   604oo    699280        76,060    83,710
732,450   11,500   9d,00                 123,560- 
Library:
Total   Year I   Year II   Year III   Year IV  Year V
135     103        8         8          8           8
1,000        135,000   103,000    8,000       8,000      8,ooo       8,000



ANNEX 11
Table 3
Page 7
Education - Swmiay Costs and Phasing
(T. Sh.)
Year I     Year II     Year III      Year IV     Year V      Total
3,595,100  3,224,700     2,897,500   2,8941,200  2,822,400 15,433,900
Teachers'
Houses           1,020,000  1,125,000      1,020,000      930,000    930,000   5,025,000
-assrooms            650,000    730,000        840,00o      800,000    760,000   3,780,000
- ols                810,000    630,000        420,000     510,000    480,000   2,850,000
Workshops             375,000    315,000       210,000      255,000    240,000   1,395,000
Desks                156,000    180,000        192,000      204,000    218,400     950,400
Textbooks            318,500      98,100       U g9,900     123,600    1225400     782,500
Toilet
Block              105,600      81,600        33,600       33,600     33,600     288,000
Head Teacher's        57,000      57,000        54,000       30,000     30,000     228,000
Office
Library              103,000       8,ooo         8,000        8,000      8,000     135,000



Table 
TANZANIA
KIWRA RURA1 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads
An average of 4 km of road upgrading to connect the village to the
nearest road is provided for. The timing of the improvement would correspond
with villages generating marketable surpluses and becoming eligible for credit
under the project.
The work would be performed by gangs consisting of seven unskilled
men tli;s a leader. The unskilled labor would be on a modified self-help
basis, at T Sh. 5 per day, rather than the T Sh. 11.20 per day normal govern-
ment r-te. Unit cost would be T Sh. 2,527 per km.
Phasing and costs would be as follows:
----------Year -------------
I          II       III       IV          V     Total
Number of villages                        20        25        25        25       95
Kms of road                               80       100       100       100      380
Tost (T Sh.)                            202,000  252,000   252,000   252,000  958,ooo
3.  Tsetse Clearing
Assumplt-ions
'.  35C family villages being settled at the rate of 15 per Sear for
5 fears.
'.  clearing of two acres per family in years one and two of settlement for
1:!,-h payment required.
'.  'vor .ge labor input for tsetse clearing is 20-25 man days/acre.
-- .y-,ent range 1972/73 T Sh. 5-15 per acre (say T Sh. 15 per aare).
'. At r Sh. 30 per f_oily, cost per village = T Sh. 10,500
cost for 75 villages= T Sh.787,500
O.  .viJ cost of one additional tsetse clearance survey team
irnvolving the following equipment:
I    wheel drive vehicle         T Sh.   50,000
I',ntige                                      3,000
J,irvey equipment                             1 000
- ---------Years-----   Sh. -----------------------------
6'UtUtlarV  Tse-tse Cltarinz   I          II       III        IV        V     Total
J', oring                  160.0     1]60.0   160.0       160.0    147.5  787.5
Equipment                   54.o        -         -         -         -     54.o
214.0      16o.0   160.0       160.0    14?.5   841.5



TANZANIA
KIGOMA MTA%L NWPTPRPJIO
B. Estimated Msdium/Long Teom Credit Nee" by 'rear and Type
vr  ige produoTive infrastructure
-Project  -eur-- -------- --
2                 i         i        5         Total
Thrrber of Villages Rflcoiving Gredit                          20          45           70          95           95
- - - - - - - - -  -T   9b#      --   --  -----------  - - -- -
Haad  aisze Shdllers at T Sh. 3750 each  /                    75,000      93,750       93,750      93,750      356,250
(No. of Units)                                      (20)        (25)         (25)        (25)         (95)
Mzine Mill, 20 HP engine, building and
installation at T Sh. 22,800 installed                       228,000     342,000      342,000     456,000   1,368,000
(No. of Units)                                      (10)        (15)         (15)        (20)         (60)
Godowrn at T 3h. 36,800 each 2/                              736,000     920,000      920,000     920,000   3,496,000
(No. of Units)                                      (20)        (25)        (25)         (25)         (95)
Fishing Nets aud Other Gear  /                                20,000       40.000      70.000     1231000
Totals                                           M l^-a        a         1,425        1,592.750   5.4  .250
1/ Price of Treadle Maize Sheller delivered and installed.
2/ Each 350 family village is estimated to produce about five 7-ton lorry leads of marketed surplus (i.e., 60 bags of
maize, 60 bags beans or 300 bags cotton) per week in the period September 1 to November 15. Each godown would
be planned to hold 3 weeks' marketed surplus, equivalent to 15 lorry loads or about 115 tons (actual weight would
generally be less where cotton is stored, due to its lower density. The estimated cost includes T sh. 600 for a
simple portable platform scale and T sh. 150 for a simple strongbox, locked and cemented into the ground; together
with simple office facilities.
i  Twenty villages (about 50% of the region's fishing villages) are expected to qualify to borrow under the
fisheries credit fund. The amount of credit was estimated on the following basist
T ah.
Beach seine net units (10 villages getting 1 unit each at T sh. 9,000)              90,000                        Ca.
Drying units (10 villages at T sh. 3,000)                                           30,000
Pressure la.ps (10 villages receiving 30 lamps each @ T sh. 110)                    33,000
Improved local boats, with gear (10 villages X T sh. 10,000)                       100,000
253.000



TANZANI
KIGM  RMI.AL DKELVMPKUT PROJECT
Loand and Equity Ceitributian to [him  Cooperitie Uni
Project rer (T Sh)
I            II           III          IV           v            Ta*al
A. Loans
1. Larries 1/                                        158,200      429,400      361,600     610,200       1,559,400
P. Four-ubel drive vehicles 1/        189,600       142,200        47,400       94,800      914,800        568,800
3. Spare parts 1/                      147,400        80,750      124,850      114,100     181,900         549,000
4. Office and ofice equipuent          200,000                                                              200,000
5. Repair and maintence shop            80,000                                                               80,000
6. Godoms g/
a. Bigaa                          70,000        70,000                                                140,000
b. Kibondo (Section I)           150,000       550,000                                                700,000
c. Kibondo (Section II)                          -                       150,000-   550,000           700.000
sub-total                           737,000     1,001,150      601,65o      720,500   1,436,900        4,497,200
B. Equity Contribution                    230,000       !a0,0o      450,000        90,000       -           1.200.000
Total                               967,000     1,431,150    1,051,650      810,500   1,436,900        5,697,200
1/ The 7-ton lorries and lcng-wheel base four-wheel drive vehicles to be financed are estimated to cost
T Sh 90,400 and T Sh 47,400 respectively.  A provision for spare parts equal to 25% of the cost of
vehicles has been made.
2/ The Kigoma godown is 5alculated at 2,500 ma  in sie for a capacity of 2,000 tons.  The Kibondo gcdown is
calculated at 6,250 m1  in size for a capacity of 5,000 tons. Both assme unit costs of T Sh 280 per
ton capacity.  Further information is contained in Annex 14.                                                          _



ANEX J
Table 7
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPHNT PROJECT
Rural Training Centers
(TSh 000's)
1   New Center for Kigoma District:                             Total
Classrooms                                                  30
Workshops                                                  310
Stores and multipurpose area                                39
Kitchen                                                     33
Administration block                                        36
Dormitories                                                117
Toilets, showers, laundry                                   24
Staff housings
Staff Houses (3)                240
Supporting staff houses (3)      79                     319
TOTAL COST                                         908
2.  Rehabilitation and Expansion of Existing Centers at Kibondo and Kasulu:
Extensions (at each site):
Dormitories                                                117
Toilets, showers, laundry                                   24
Classroom                                                   60
Extension of mess                                           22
Recreation block                                            38
Water tank and tower                                        11
Teachers' houses                                            51
Tools, equipment and reference books                        72
Rehabilitation of existing facilities                       35
TOTAL, each                                        430
TOTAL, for two schools                             860
TOTAL of 1 & 2                                   1,768



TAZNWITA
KIGO(A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Cost of Training and Trials Center and Pilot Livestock Project
(Tah)
No. of   Net Area    Total Net   Total Gross   Coat Fer   Construction   Furnishing Cost   Total Furnishing
Construction                  Spaces   Per Space      Area          Area.         ft            Cost           Per Space             Cost           Total Cost
(ft. T 7     ?(ft.Z        (ft.2)
Classroom (25 students)                   1         500           500          550            60         33,000             5,000              5,000            38,000
Workshop and Laboratory                   2          -          1,000        1,200            56         67,200             5,000             10,000            77,200
Storage                                   3          -                  -             -             -              -                            -               83,000
Kitchen and Kitchen Store                 1          -            400         440             70         30,800              -                    700           31,500
Office                                    1          -            400          440            60        26,400               -                 5,000            31,400
Boarding Accommodation (25 students)   25            60         1,500       2,000             60        120,000               800             20,000           140,000
Ablutions                                 1         3D6           171          342            70         23,940              -                   -              23,940
Staff Housing   Grade A                   2          -            -                           -           -                  -                  -              160,000
Grade B                  4          _            _---0
Subtotal Construction                                                                                                                             745,040
Equipment
Tractor                                                                                                                                                         33,000
Plow                                                                                                                                                             4,000
Cultivator                                                                                                                                                       5,000
Trailer                                                                                                                                                         10,000
Vehicle                                                                                                                                                         28,000
Fencing                                                                                                                                                          9,000
Other Equipment                                                                                                                                                   3.000
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                                  92,000
Livestock
In calf Improved Boran Heifers (x 30)                                                                                                                            30,000
Improved Boran Breeding Bulls (x 6 over project)                                                                                                                  6.000
Subtotal Livestock                                                                                                                                  36,000
Total Capital                                                                                                                                         873,000



A)WX 11
Table 9
TANZAN IA
EIOOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT P9DJECT
Technical Assistance
(TSh 000's)
Unit
Costs
T Sh
000     Year I  Tear II  Year III  Year IV  Year V       Total
A. Salaries and related
rringe benefits
Financial Controller         180       30      180        180       150       50        590
Operations Manager           180       30       180       180       150       50        590
Credit and Training
Superv,ision               180       30      180        180      150        50        590
Land-use planner             180       30       180        45        45       45        345
Sr. Agr. Training Officer    45        45       45-        45        45       45        225
Trials and demonstrations
Officer                     45       45       45         45        45       45        225
Supporting staft (10)           3.6    20        40        4o        40       40        180
sub-total                   230       850       715       625       325     2,745
B.  Hou-sing. Veh _1_s and
msc      .
Housing:          ( 4)        150     300       300                                     600
(2)         80       80       80                                      160
(95)  /      5 1/            100        125      125       125        475
Vehicles          ( 2)        47.4    95                                                 95
Office and photo
mosaies equip.                       30                                                30
sub-total                   505       480       125       125       125      1 ,360
C. Training.Costs
Maintenance on trials
training center                               28         28        28       28        112
Maintenance of vehicles                          25        25        25       25        100
Student maintenance
(agr. field assist.)
Z/      TShl5/day           100        100       100      100        400
Student maintenance-
bookeeper                                      30        40        40       40        150
sub-total                             183       193       193       193        762
D. General                               205       205       205       205       205     1,025

TOTALS                      940    1,718       1,238    1,148       848     5,892
Footnotes
]    Materials for houses of agricultural field assistants at village level; actual
constrtiction assumed to be by self-help.
25 students per year for 250 days per year.
25  students per year for 100 days each.
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis indicate members of units.



ANNEX 11
Table 10
TANZANIA
KIGOMA.RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Preparation and Evaluation
Years - T. Sh.
Unit Salary   'I        II       III        IV         V
Program Coordinator        280,000     100,000  280,000   280,000   180,000       -
Field Chief                280,000      20,000  280,000   260,000       -         -
Agriculturalist            250,000               250,c00   250,000      -         -
Engineer                      -                  250,000   250,000      -         -
Consultants                 20,000      50,000 400,000   300,000    50,000        -
(month)
Evaluation Specialist         -          20,000   80,000    40,0    40,000    60,000
Transport
- International                          80,000  250,000   190,000    20,000   10,000
Field Operations
2 Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles           20,000  120,000   110,000       -
HQ Car + Driver                        1,000   30,000    30,000       -
Consultant Subsistence       6,000      35,000  185,000    60,000    10,000    15.,0oo
(month)
Housing Allowance           50,000       20,000  240,000   140,000      -         -
(.year)
HQ Office Rental,
Secretarial ass't.                      60,000  100,000    40,000       -
and supplies
Local Survey Costs                      50,000  150,000   150,000  100,000   250,000
475,000 2,615,000 2,100,000  4IK,OOO   335,000
Total             T. Sh. - 5,925,000    US$  830.000



ANNEX 12
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements 1/
End  of     Disbursed          Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year   Quarter   During Quarter   Amount Disbursed   Balance of Credit
--------------------(US$    00) --------
1974/75          1             -                                     10,000
2            -                                     10,000
3            -                 -                   10,000
4           340                 340                 9,660
1975/76          1            600                 940                 9,060
2           600               1,540                 8,460
3           600               2,140                 7,860
4           430               2,570                 7,430
1976/77          1            500               3,070                 6,930
2           500               3,570                 6,430
3           500               4,070                 5,930
4           510               4,580                 5,420
1977/78          1            510               5,090                 4,910
2           510               5,600                 4,400
3           500               6,100                 3,900
4           510               6,610                 3,390
1978/79          1            600               7,210                 2,790
2           600               7,810                 2,190
3           600               8,410                 1,590
4           590               9,000                 1,000
1979/80          1            280               9,280                   720
2           280               9,560                   440
3           280               9,840                   160
4           160              10,000
1/ Allows for expected delays between expenditure and IDA disbursement.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedures for Selection of Villages
A. Background
1..       In Kigoma region, the cycle of low productivity/poverty, low
productivity has been particularly difficult to break. Agriculture, the
mainstav of over 90% of the population' has been characterized by shifting
cultivation generally at or near subsi,tence level. Because farms were small,
scattered and periodically shifting (as fertility declined), providing im-
proved techniques was difficult and expensive. Moreover, communications
within the region have been poor, resulting in additional difficulties in
the provision of extension, inputs or marketing services. Similarly, because
the costs of providing social services to scattered and difficult to reach
families is high, the level of those services provided to the rural population
has remained low.
2.        The national policy of bringing people together in ujamaa villages
(cooperative arrangements stressing self-help and communal organization) is
a means of breaking the low productivity-poverty cycle associated with
traditional agriculture and simultaneously of improving the rural population's
access to social services. By bringing people together into villages,
Government hopes to be able to provide improved agricultural technology and
inputs and social services at acceptable costs per capita.
3.        Starting in July 1972, Government launched broad program "Operations"
in three regions, including Kigoma, to provide resettlement of much of the
rural population into ujamaa villages. By late 1973 "Operation Kigoma" had
resulted in the establishment of 76 ujamaa villages into which about 24,000
families-roughly 25°% of the rural population-had been settled.  Government
assisted in transporting villagers' belongings and building materials. During
the first season after settlement, the villagers built their own houses and
cleared and planted single acre house plots. In subsequent seasons villagers
cleared or will clear village block farms for crops such as maize, cotton,
groundnuts and beans, on the basis of one acre per household per block farm.
The village itself should graduate to a multi-purpose production cooperative,
with corporate status, which would have usufructuary rights to the land and be
the borrowinR-for-inputs vehicle.
4.        Parallel discussions concerning the siting and timing of villages
:o ie es tablished under Operation Kigoma are held throughout the regional
administration and Tanzania' s only political party the Tanganyika African
National Union (TANU). Decisions concerning which villages should be started
and which should receive particular investments culminate in the annual budget



Au4NEX 13
Page 2
process (Annex 4). In about February of each year the region's proposals
are forwarded to the Treasury in Dar es Salaam for consideration in the budget
for the fiscal year starting July. The decisions concerning particular sites
(to be started in a particular year) take into account the resolve of villagers
to form ujamaa villages and such specific technical factors as soils, available
water, existinR settlement and accessibility. Unfortunately, sufficient atten-
tion has not always been paid to these technical factors and poor, or at least
sub-optimal, siting resulted in some cases.
3.       Villaees started under Operation Kigoma vary in size from fewer than
100 families to almost 1,000; the average is between 300 and 500. At any
oiven site some factors xork toward favoring a larger village size while
others favor a smaller size. Generally, factors favoring a larger village
are economies of scale in water supply systems (especially pumped systems),
education (the possibility of eventually having a full primary school), dis-
pensarv and support personnel (generally the agricultural field assistant
and village bookkeeper).  Where dugwells are used for water there is little
advantage to a larger village size; for pumped systems, larger numbers of
families result in a lower per family cost (Annex 6).  The Tanzanian system
of having a separate teacher for each school standard (grade) favors having
a larger village in order to have enough children of school age to justify
a complete school of seven standards of 45 students each. A village of 350
families generally can suipport a full seven standard (i.e. 7 grades) primary
school. The collection and credit activities of the regional Cooperative
Union and TRDB are also facilitated by fewer larger villages rather than
a larger number of smaller ones.
6.        On the other hand, the limited management capability of village
leadership and the need for village cohesiveness (joint debt-burden and some
communal work) and possible transition difficulties, argue for smaller villages.
These factors, plus the fact that the economies of scale noted above become
much less significant when there are more than 400 families, imply that very
large villages (say, above 500 families) are probably questionable in most
cases.
7.        Under the project the process of site selection would be strengthened
by preparing, for each project village, whether already in existence or to be
started, a Village Site Feasibility Report (VSFR). Technical officers at the
district level, supported as necessary by regional officers, would be respons-
ible for preparing the VSFR. A study team would generally consist of special-
ists in agriculture, public works, land planning, water livestock and finance,
supported as necessary by specialists in education, forestry and health. A
pro-forma outline of a VSFR is attached as Appendix A. The preparation pro-
cedures and content of the VSFR are descrlbed in the following paragraphs.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
B. Selection Procedures for New Villages
8.        Examination of Aerial Photographs.  During the first few months of
the project implementation period, aerial phtographs would be taken of those
parts of the region where village development under the project might be
expected (report para 4.02). A complete set of prints (of scale 1:12,500)
would be kept in the regional Lands Office. In analyzing a proposed site the
evaluation team would first examine the relevant aerial photographs. The
land planner and his staff would take the lead in interpreting the photographs
and preparing sketch maps as necessary. This examination would provide:
(a) a reasonably accurate plotting of existing (if any) settlement,
infrastructure, roads, trails and fields;
(b) a preliminary indication of the location and extent of land
with soils and topography suitable for sustained cultivation
under the project;
(c) in cases where a water supply system has not been developed,
a preliminary indication of possible water sources and their
likely ease or difficulty of development; and,
(d) an indication of special features such as erosion hazards.
This step would enable the team to: (i) determine, with
little time investment, those proposed villages that are
obviously unsuitable; and (ii) for those sites meriting furtheT.
study, locate the site precisely and indicate matters that
are likely to be significant, thereby facilitating the field
examination.
9.        Field Examination.  A field visit by the study team would be an
integral part of the preparation of the V.SFR for each project village (whether
existing or new). The team would begin by assembling the data required to
complete the questionnaire on the existing features (Appendix A attached).
To assist in the analysis of the water supply component, the water engineer
in those areas where a system of previously tried surface wells do not exist,
would have arranged, where appropriate, for the prior sinking, at representative
locations in the proposed site, of at least two dug wells, each to a depth
of at least 5 meters. Also, to assist in analysis, a sketch map of the site
would be prepared showing existing roads, settlement, water sources, buildings
(godowns, etc.) and cultivated fields, and currently unclutivated areas having
fertility adequate for development under the project.
10.       Definition of Village Site or Sites.  For any proposed village
number of sites may be possible depending on terrain, existing settlement
and structures, the location and amount of fertile land and the type and
location of water supply. The team would not be restricted, at a particular
location, to considering only the original proposal it was requested to



ANNEX 13
Page i
examine. Where several different sites could be readily identified, each
would be sketched, its carrying capacity and costs calculated and its merits
compared with alternative sites. Different sites would result in greater or
lesser fertile land available for farming (depending on whether the house
plots are located on the scarce good arable land or on the less-favored
land). The sketch of each site would show the location of proposed house
plots, water supply, roads and infrasturcture.
11.       Carrying Capacity.  In general, subject to general considerations
listed in paras 5 and 6, the number of additional families that a particular
site could support would depend on how much good arable land existed within
easy walking distance of the village (usually within 3 km of the edge of the
proposed settlement, depending on village layout and topography). It is
expected that each family would generally cultivate 2.8 ha (7 acres) of good
arable land, in addition to his 0.4 ha (1 acre) house plot, built up over
several years. This would enable each family, at full development, in each
year to operate 1.6 ha (4 acres) and have 1.2 ha (3 acres) in fallow; each
0.4 ha (1 acre) of a family's holdings (excluding house plot) would be
cultivated 4 years out of 7 and lie fallow for the remainder (see Annex 3).
12.       Cost Estimates.  Cost estimates for investment costs and annual
recurrent costs for each scheme would be prepared by the relevant functional
specialists, taking into account recent experience and expected price changes.
For each plan the water engineer would prepare a preliminary least-cost water
system, taking into account the results of the dug-wells (par& 9 above).
13.       Evaluation of Alternative Schemes.  The several sites would have
different costs and, perhaps, carrying capacities. The team would compare
the alternatives on the basis of the present value of the initial investment
and annual recurrent costs of each. For each alternative, the present value
costs would be the sum of the original investment cost plus 7 times the annual
recurring costs. 1/ In general the plan having the lowest present value cost
per family at full development would be selected. 2/
14.       Recommendation.  The team would make a signed recommendation cover-
ing: (a) whether any further development was warranted at the proposed site;
(b) which site is preferable (generally the one having lowest present value
cost per family); and, (c) the maximum sustainable size of the village in
terms of supportable number of families.
I/   This is a short-cut approximation for a present-value calculation using
a 15% discount factor. It assumes that public investments in Kigoma
have an opportunity cost of 15%.
2/   The criterion of lowest present value cost per family may not give the
theoretically optimal solution in all cases. It does not, for example,
treat explicitly the tradeoff between reducing the cost of water supply
by locating the village closer to the water source, at the expense of
villagers having to walk farther to block farms. However, as long as
the distance to block farms is reasonable (say within 3 km) this criterion
should give reasonably good results plus having the important advantage
of simplicity.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
C. Selection Procedures for Existing Villages
15.       The purposes in carrying out a VSFR exercise for already-existing
villages for which investments or credits are proposed under the project are
(a) to ensure that these villages would be viable for existing and proposed
populations; and (b) to permit a detailed examination of the alternative
ways of carrying out the proposed investments (e.g., water supply).
16.       The same form of VSFR could be used for both new and existing
villages. In the pro-forma VSFR (Appendix-A attached), special care would
be required in the calculation of "carrying capacity" under C-2, to ensure
that existing families would have sufficient land at full development of
the village block farms (at 2.8 ha per family).



AaNNEX 13
APPENDIX A
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRO FOPMA VILLAGE SITE FEASIBILITY REPORT (VSFR)
General
'4ame of village
District
I-ocation
Distance by road from district headquarters
A.   Examination of Aerial Photographs
1.   Code number of relevant aerial photograph
2.   Sketch map of existing features.  This should be traced from
the aerial photograph and should outline all relevant existing
features including location of existing cultivated areas, areas
of good fertility (not currently cultivated), and, if any,
schools, dispensaries, settlement, roads, trails, godowns or
other important features. The sketch map becomes "Exhibit 1"
to the VSFR.
3.   (Preliminary) estimate of arable land (in hectares and acres)
not presently in cultivation and suitable for development under
the project.
Area within 3 km of edge of proposed village
Area within 5 km of edge of proposed village
4.   Description of existing or possible water sources:  type, location.
5.   Description of any special features or problems.
6.   1'reliminary conclusion (basedi on examination of aerial photographs).
I[ere indicate whether the proposed site is suitable for further
study and field visit. If the judgement is that the site is
obviously unsuitable (e.g. because of insufficient arable land)
state reasons.



ANNEX 13
APPENDIX A
Page 2
B.   Detailed Description of Existing Features at Site Proposed for Village
Investments under IDA-Supported Project (to be filled in at field visit
stage)
l.   Existing Settlement (if any)
a.   Number of families
b.   Principal crops currently grown
c.   Numbers of livestock (by types)
d.   Existing cooperative organization (if any):
- most recent balance sheet (or equivalent)
- bank balances or other savings
- value of transactions by year for 5 years
- principal activities
- names of officers, directors
C.   Names of village leaders, length of service.
2.   Existing Infrastructure (if any)
a.   Schools:
- number of classrooms
- number of students by standard
- number of teachers and teachers' houses
- location in relation to existing settlement
- qualitative assessment of condition of buildings,
furniture and textbooks
- adult education: numbers of classes, subjects,
students; average attendance
b.   Water Supply:
- nature of existing source (whether stream, well, spring, etc.)
- distance in meters from center of settlement
- difference in elevation from source to principal area of
village and to site of possible storage tank
- results of previous tests of water quality (if any)
- results of present tests of water quality
- results from dugwells (where applicable):
- depth at which water struck
- assessment of quantity, preferably in dry season
(draw-down and recovery time)
- assessment of quality



ANNEX 13
:APPENDIX A
Page 3
c.   Health Facilities:
- existing structure, equipment and stocks
- qualitative assessment of condition of establishment
- existing staff
- length of time established
- distance in meters from present settlement
- during past year:
- number of patients
- principal ailments
- numbers of lectures given
- other activities
d.   Marketing Facilities:
- location and nature of nearest buying point for crops
- distance from buying point in meters (or kilometers)
- location and nature of nearest source of agricultural inputs
- distance from input source in km
- location and nature of nearest source of consumer goods
- distance in bIn from nearest consumer goods source
e.   Roads:
- distance to nearest main road
- condition of access road; special features
- whether Passable during rainy season
f.   Surrounding Area:
- population within 10 km
- population within 25 km
3.   Agriculture
a.   Existing situation:
- topography
- soil type
- cropping sequence
- area under crops (if any), by crop during each of last three
seasons
- crop production (tons) by crop during each of last three
seasons (where available)
- quantity marketed during last three crop seasons (where
available)



ANNEX 13
APPENDIX A
Page 4
- quantity of fertilizers, insecticides and improved seed
used in each of last three years
- numbers of cattle, if any, with ownership pattern
- disease or pest problems
- area of forest; principal species
b.   Potential:
- area within 3 km of the proposed village having soils and
topography suitable for agricultural development under
the project.
C.   Definition of Village Site or Sites
1.   Village Plan or Plans
At a particular location, often several alternative sites can
be identified. Each will have a different development cost,
annual recurrent costs, and perhaps, carrying capacity,
dependinp, on length of roads, water-supply configurations,
location of household sites and block farms, etc. A separate
sketch plan will be prepared for each alternative site identified.
Each will be attached to the VSFR as Exhibit 2 (Scheme A,
Scheme B, etc.).
2.   Calculation of "Carrying Capacity" (for each identified site)
(1) Total area of suitably fertile land convenient to proposed
or existing village site (say 3 km)
ha
ha
(2) Less: area required for new godowns, roads, schools,
house-plots, etc.
(3) Less area required to allow 2.8 ha (7 acres) for each existing
family
(4) Net new accessible cultivable area
(5)  Area per family required for block farm (generally about-'
2.8 ha or 7 acres)



ANNEX 13
APPENDIX A
Page 5
Maximum number of additional families that site can sustain under this
particular site  (4) + (5)                  families.
Note:     In the case of some existing villages, the figure for (4)
mav be zero (indicating no further settlement is feasible) or negative
(indicating that the site already has more families than it can carry
an(d thought should be given to encouraging some families to move
elsewhere). In either case further investment in the site would
not be warranted.
3.   Cost Estimates (for each identified site)
(a)  Investment Costs
Land clearing (number of hectares )
Access roads (if any)
Schools:
Classrooms; number
Teachers' houses
Tools
Furniture
Textbooks
Rehabilitation
Codown
House for field assistant
Dispensary or other health facility
Water supply (according to type of system recommended,
taking into account lift and distance)
Other required public investnent (e.g. cattle dips,
erosion control, etc.)
Total cost.
(b)  Recurrent Costs (average, per year)          T Sh
Access road maintenance
Education
Teachers' salaries
Textbooks
Tools replacement
Maintenance on buildings
Other (specify)
Dispensary or other health facility
Salaries
Medicines and other supplies
Building maintenance



ANNIEX 13
APPENDIX A
Page 6
Water supply
Salaries
Fuel
Maintenance
Other
Other Staff - Salaries and other expenses
Agricultural field officer or assistant
Cooperative and ujamaa assistant
Village bookkeeper
Other (specify)
Total, Recurrent Costs
D.   Evaluation of Alternative Schemes             S C H E M E S
A   B   D   E   Etc.
l.   Estimated investment cost
2.   Estimated annual recurrent cost
3.   Present value of recurrent cost (five times number 2) 1/
4.   Total present value of costs (1 + 3)
5.   Number of families expected to settle during first two years
6. Present value of costs per family (4 * 5)
7. Numer of families at full development
8. Present value of costs per family at full development (4 + 7)
E.   Recommendation
1.   Does the team recommend the site as suitable for any further
development?  Yes                No
~.  Recommended scheme (from,D above):
3.   Maximum additional number of families site can sustain:
4.   Signed:
1/   Implicitly assumes opportunity cost of public funds of 15Z per year.






ANNEX 14
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trading and Lending Procedures
Introduction
1.        Under the project, the Kigoma Cooperative Union would be responsible
for provision of agricultural inputs and the marketing of surplus produce
generated by project villages. 1/ To complement these trading activities, it
would also serve as a lending channel to project villages, supplying credit
for the provision of agricultural inputs and cash advances for the purchase
of marketable surplus. In addition, it would act as the onlending agent to
provide credit for the economic infrastructure of its member villages.
2.        The proposed increase of the Union's operations, relative to exist-
ing activities, is enormous. At present, the Union provides no inputs and
handles negligible amounts of surplus outputs. It owns no storage or office
space and has only two lorries. Its staff is small and inexperienced. In
contrast, under the project total sales of marketable surplus are projected
to reach T Sh 27 million by Year 5 (PY5) and T Sh 40 million by Year 12 (PY12)
and even larger amounts of credit -- for seasonal inputs and crop purchases--
would also be required (see Table 1). Successful implementation of such
operations would require significant strengthening and expansion of the Union.
By the final year of the project (PYS) it would have to own and operate dis-
trict and regional godowns, valued at about T Sh 1.5 million, 17 lorries and
12 four-wheel drive vehicles and repair and maintenance facilities to service
them, together estimated at about T Sh 2.1 million, and new offices, expected
to cost some T Sh 200,000. Debt repayment on this capital investment in the
same year would amount to approximately T Sh 1 million. In addition, staff
numbers would increase to 81, including new posts of operations manager,
financial controller, and credit and training supervisor and personnel pro-
vided for the motor vehicle fleet.
3.        At the level of the primary society, the volume of inputs handled
would increase to T Sh 114,000 in Year 5 and T Sh 118,000 in Year 8, and the
sale of marketable surplus to T Sh 294,000 in Year 5 and T Sh 332,000 in Year
8 of village development (see Table 10). Credit needs would expand in a
similar manner. It is projected that a godown, valued at T Sh 36,800 would
be constructed to meet storage requirements of each creditworthy village.
A maize mill and maize sheller, estimated at T Sh 22,800 and T Sh 3,750 respec-
tively, would also be provided to each creditworthy village. In addition,
a bookeeper and godown attendant, as well as seasonal labor, would be employed
during the harvest season to oversee the primary society's transactions.
1/ All villages eligible for credit under the project would already have
been registered as multipurpose primary cooperative societies.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Chronology
4.        Procedures for the provision of credit for agricultural inputs
would begin in December, almost one year before the inputs would be applied
in the field. The Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB) would solicit
input requirements from the regions. Under the project, central responsibility
for the appraisal of primary societies would fall to the Union, whose society
cre4it officers (SCO) would each be responsible for the appraisal and super-
vision of about 12 societies and would be distributed in Union branch offices
throughout the three districts. In close cooperation with representatives
of KILIMO, the Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Division, and TRDB the
Union would evaluate the credit needs of its member primary societies and
submit a request by February, when TRDB would enter into formal loan agree-
ment with the Union for the amount of inputs indicated. In turn TRDB would
place orders with appropriate suppliers in March for all purchases for which
it is charged procurement, following preliminary tenders the previous
December. In practice, TRDB would combine its procurement needs for inputs
under the project with its procurement of similar items under other IDA
projects. The agricultural inputs to be provided would include fertilizers
(DAP, CAN, and SSP), pesticides (DDT, Endosulfan), and ULV sprayers and
accompanying batteries (see Table 2). The suppliers would then provide for
delivery of inputs to railhead Kigoma from August to September, according to
the terms of the contract signed with TRDB. A Union representative would
be at railhead to verify the receipt of goods. The Union would move the
inputs to its regional godown in Kigoma town, where they would be made into
village consignments and subsequently be delivered by Union transport to the
respective societies. Efforts would be made to coordinate the delivery or
inputs with the collection of outputs so as to minimize transport costs.
5.        Upon receipt of the agricultural inputs, a representative of the
primary society, normally the bookkeeper, would sign a document, which along
with the invoice and other documentation would represent a contractual loan
agreement between the society and the Union. The cost of the inputs to
the society, and ultimately to the individual farmer, would include the per
unit costs of insurance, handling, transport, interest charges and Union
margin estimated at the beginning of the season (see Table 4). 2/ The appro-
priate amounts of inputs, as previously calculated for each crop by the
village agricultural field assistant (APA) and agreed to by the village
development committee (or agriculture subcommittee), would then be distributed
to each farmer involved and the full cost of the inputs provided would be
debited to the farmer's account, as maintained by the society's bookkeeper.
Finally, the farmer would apply the inputs, following the advice of the A"A.
1/ See Chart I.
2/   Only interest charges on the Union's buying price of the inputs, not its
selling price, would be attributed to the society; any financing costs
represented by the margin between buying and selling prices would be
borne by the Union.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
6.        In general, starting in May, approximately one month before the
principal purchase period, the village committee and AFA would estimate the
yields by crop by month in order to submit a request through the society's
bookkeeper to the Union for regular cash advances for the purchase of crops
from farmers. The Union, drawing upon the same appraisal capabilities used
in evaluating agricultural input needs, would evaluate the estimates and
subsequently request a line of credit, at 6-1/2% interest, from the
National Bank of Commerce (NBC) 1/ for the aggregate amount, together with
other needs for working capital such as produce inventories. The Union
would assume the full costs of this interest charge, unless it could be
demonstrated that member societies had purposely withheld remaining cash
balances beyond the end of the calendar year, at which point such societies
would be charged all additional interest.
7.        The appropriate amount of cash would be advanced to the respective
societies about every three wieeks during the approximately six months of
harvest, at the time of the regular visit of the society credit officer (SCO).
The SCO would use the occasion to review the society's books and inspect
the godown. Cash would be disbursed for the following three weeks only
after the SCO had verified that all was in order and that the amount requested
was appropriate. The cash distributed by the SCOs would be transported
in secured four-wheel drive vehicles and would be kept in small safes in the
individual villages. The safe could be opened only with two keys, one held
by the bookkeeper and one by the village secretary, both of whom would have
to be present to open the safe at the beginning of the day and to close it at
the end. The cash contained in the safe would be counted on both occasions
and checked against the society's books. The operational costs incurred in
providing the services of the SCO (as high as T Sh 1,000 per visit) would be
covered by the UJnion's margin.
8.        At time of harvest, the farmer would deliver his marketable pro-
duce to the society godown, where it would be graded, weighed and bagged,
under the supervision of the godown attendant and bookkeeper. He would be
credited the amount of his produce at the Union's buying price, as recorded
by the bookkeeper. A portion of the value of the agricultural inputs provided
him at the beginning of the season, which included the costs of Union service
and interest charges, would be deducted and he would be paid on the spot the
balance owed him from the cash advanced by the Union. It is suggested that
a single system of repayment of input credit be introduced (e.g., that 50%
of the value of the farmer's produce be deducted from each delivery to repay
input credit until the full debt has been repaid, after which further deliveries
would be paid the full value) to assure full repayment of the society's debt
for seasonal inputs. Once delivered to the society godown, the produce would
become the property of the society. The society would have produce in its
godown whose value would be sufficient to repay the TRDB credit, for which
1/   Under Tanzanian practice TRDB lends for farm inputs and NBC for crop
purchases, thereby involving two institutions in the provision of short-
term credit.



AMUE 14
Page 4
the farmers would already have been assessed, and to repay the NBC cash
advance used in the purchase of the produce. The society would be responsible
for assuring security of storage, such that all produce for which the farmer
was paid remained intact in the village godown for collection by Union lorries.
9.        The Union would be responsible for the collection of the agricultural
produce from the society's godown and delivery to the Union's or parastatals'
godowns.  Ybre than four weeks' produce would not normally be allowed to
accumulate in the village godown, and in principle, collections would be
made several times a week at full village development. All produce would
normally be collected by the onset of the rains in mid-November. Although
the society would not receive a storage fee, the mounting interest charges
assumed by the Union on the NBC cash advance should be an incentive for the
Union to collect the produce promptly from the primary societies. In addition,
part of the contractual agreement signed when the inputs were supplied would
be an obligation by the Union to collect all marketable surplus before the
rainy season.
10.       At time of collection, a receipt for produce collected would be
given to the society's representative, and repayment of the input credit and
cash advance would be considered completed for an amount equivalent to that
of produce collected. The proportion of each kind of credit to be represented
by the produce would again be calculated by a simple formula requiring 50%
initial deductions to repay TRDB's input credit. Cash advances accordingly
would only have been supplied for the net value of crops plrchased (i.e., total
produce anticipated during the three-week period valued at producer prices
minus a specified percentage to repay input credits). Such a system-of cash
advances on a net rather than a gross basis (where repayment of input debt
would be made separately and afterwards) would (a) introduce less total cash
and, therefore, risk into the system, (b) provide for parallel rather than
subsequent repayment of TRDB's input credit, and (c) involve fewer physical
'-ransactions. Therefore, the sub-borrower's responsibility would end for
.X> equivalent of input credit and cash advance. It would then remain to
the'<-(on to repay its debts to TRDB and NBC.  A primary society levy, which
has be>-. applied traditionally to cover the societies' expenses (see Table
4), woula 'e imposed on the produce collected during the month.
11.       The produce would be delivered variously to either the Union's
district or regional godown, the godown of the National Milling Corporation
(NMC), or one of the ginneries of the Tanzanian Cotton Authority (TCA).  All
cotton, representing about 602 of the value of total marketable sur-
plus, would be transmitted directly to TCA custody. All beans, maize, and
groundnuts collected during the 15-week peak of harvest in Kibondo district
would be delivered to the Union's godown that is to be constructed in Kibondo.
The remaining beans and maize, and the groundnuts from Kasulu and Kigoma
districts would be delivered respectively to the NMC's and Union's godowns
in Kigoma town.  Inventories in the Union's Kigoma godown would be expected
to turn over at least three times during the harvest season. Once the rainy
season began and the Union's lorries were no longer required to collect
oroduce from the primary societies, the produce stored in the Union's Kibondo
godowns would be transferred to NMC's godown in Kigoma town.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
12.       The parastatal would be invoiced the value of any direct delivery,
at the Union's selling price which would include transport, storage, financial
and handling costs, as well as the Union's and society's levies (see Table 5).
Panment would be made directly to the Union's NBC account, where deduction
for NBC's cash advances would take place automatically. Likewise, the TRDB
loan would be repaid as the Union was paid by the parastatals for the produce
delivered with an automatic transfer of accounts being arranged by NBC and
TRDB. The groundnuts retained in Union godowns eventually would be sold either
to GAPEX (The General Agricultural Products Export Corporation) and delivered
to railhead or marketed by the Union in the region, following authorization
from GAPEX. It is roughly estimated that 25% of groundnuts handled
by the Union would be marketed within the region (see Table 3).
Transport and Storage
13.       Critical to the Union's trading activities is the transport and
storage system, currently non-existent in any form, which must be built up
under the project. The efficient handling of marketable surplus and agricul-
tural inputs is essential. Several considerations weigh heavily in the design
of an optimum system, with the foremost consideration the balance of storage
to transport capacity where, in the case of the project, the extremes would
range from no village godowns and a large fleet of vehicles for daily collec-
tions of produce to large village godowns with small transport capacity for
delivery to market. In striking a satisfactory combination, several factors
merit particular attention and require critical assumptions: (a) costs,
both capital and operating, particularly considering the life of the capital
good and vehicle fuel and maintenance operating costs, (b) benefits, parti-
cularly relating to off-season use, and (c) level of operations, particularly
the godown's rate of turnover and the lorry's rate of use. The capital
investment can provide various levels of service, depending on the assumptions
made on, e.g., the percentage of downtime and the hours in use for vehicles
(factors, in turn, affected by double shifting or more efficient handling)
or the turnover of inventory for godowns. The design of a transport/storage
system requires the critical review of these and other factors, including
different combinations of both godowns and lorries. Hence, the system pro-
posed within the project is merely indicative and makes no pretense to be an
optimum solution for a complex situation still some years into the future.
14.       One godown would be provided for each credit-worthy village under
the project financed by a TRDB loan channeled through the Union, to be
constructed in the second year of village development. It would be valued
at approximately T Sh 36,800, including T Sh 3,500 for a small safe and weighing
scale. The capacity has been calculated to accommodate one month's market-
able surplus in a village's fifth year of development, or about 115 tons.
Total turnover in PY 5 is estimated to be almost 6,000 bags for a typical
350 family village. The godown would include a storage building (144 m3)
'74t¢ t- corrugated iron siding and concrete floor, adjoining concrete platform,
security fencing and small office.



ANNEX 14
Page 6
15.       The Union is projected to have two godowns, one in Kibondo district
with a capacity of about 5,000 tons (6,250 m3) and costing approximately
T Sh 1,400,000 and one in Kigoma town of about 500 tons (650 m3) and costing
about T Sh 140,000. Total turnover for each is projected in PY 9 to be roughly
7,500 and 3,000 tons respectively. The district godown would be constructed
in two equal sections, during PY 1 and 2 and PY 4 and 5, and the regional
godown would be constructed during PY 1 and 2. In projecting these godown
requirements, it is assumed that TCA would construct its own godowns to
accommodate all cotton delivered directly from the village prior to ginning,
and that the 10,000 ton NKC godown currently under construction would accom-
modate all maize and beans delivered by the Union to Kigoma town.  Moreover,
it is assumed that all marketable surplus of beans, maize and groundnuts
produced in Kibondo during peak season would be stored in the Union district
godown until the beginning of the rainy season.
16.       The volume of goods to be stored and transported under the project
is estimated to involve considerable handling costs. Handling costs of market-
able surplus are roughly estimated to be T Sh 8.70 per ton at the society
level and T Sh 5.80 at the Union level. Because the volume of agricultural
inputs would be as little as 10% that of marketed outputs, and because many
of the inputs would hopefully be unloaded as outputs were loaded, the handling
costs of inputs would be relatively insignificant.
17.       Handling of marketable surplus, at the society level, involves
the weighing, bagging and stacking of produce when received, and weighing
and loading of bags when collected by Union lorries. In addition to the
bookkeeper hired on a regular basis, a godown attendant would be hired
full-time for five months to supervise the loading, unloading, weighing,
counting and bagging of agricultural inputs and produce to and from the
village godown. The attendant would be assisted by seasonal labor as
necessary (see Table 10).
18.       At both the Union's district and regional godowns, handling would
involve the unloading, weighing, stacking and loading of agricultural inputs.
In addition to the permanent storekeeper who would weigh or count the material
handled for each godown, wage labor would be required.
19.       The requirements for transport are expected to grow substantially
under the project. The number of lorry loads (seven-ton lorries) of market-
able surplus is expected to grow to 5,600 in project PY 5 and to 7,200 in
PY 12. Lorry requirements during the harvest season are estimated to be 40
vehicles in PY 5 and 57 vehicles in PY 12 (see Table 7a).
20.       Transport is expected to represent the most significant source of
income and of expenditure to the Union. The Union's fleet of lorries is
projected to grow to 17 by PY 5 and 26 by PY 12, and by PY 8 to require a
maintenance and repair shop manned by 3 mechanics and a total transport
staff of 46. Total running costs are estimated to be about T Sh .68 million



ANNEX 1 4
Page 7
in PY 5 and T Sh 1.04 million in PY 12. Total investment in the fleet of
lorries, including the repair aka maintenance shop, spares,-and replacements
every five.years,'is e'xpeeted.to'be T Sh 7.3-million over the t2-year period.
-Incoime derlvd from the Union lorries is txpedt6d to equal T 9h. 1.8 miiin
in PY.5 and..T Sh 2.? millo;n in PY 12 whieieud to,traffspolt agricultural
inputs and mAtketai,le surplus, baed on a rate ofg T-Sh-Lh35 per'revenue ton/
mile revenue (see Table 7b). The transport reveitue would be recovered in
the price the Union swells the produce it handles to the parastatals. Income
derived from the hire of Union Morries to the vGoverament- during: the off-season
is ?roJected to be apVr6!xbwte1ytT Sh-5OO00,O in PY,S andT- ShtOOO6eO in c:
PY 12,                                                          '
21.       Despite the relatively important part that the Union's fleet of
lorries would play in the overallioperations of,'the,Union,-substantiaa numbers
af' additional lorries would still have to be hired during',pba  h4rvest season.
I1nPY S end PY'12 respectively 28eand-31 vehicles would be4hi1in*&durivg peAk
havest season by the Union* either from Gowvernment or' prit#UC sources.
Lending Procedures
22.       Four kinds of credit are to be provided under the project:  (a)
credit for the provision of seasonal inputs to the primary-societies( (b)
-redit to the Union for working capital-including cash-advances'to sotieties
fot the purchese of marketable surplus; (c} credit for investment in village
economic infrastructureg (d) credit for investment in Untoun-.s,building and
equipment (see ,able 9).  The credit might be viewed alternatS&ely #s that
for on-lending to member village4 and as that for the Union's-own ac og-t.
Both NBC and TRDB would be sources of credit, the former for cash ad--nces
for crop purchases and the latter for the remainder, in accordance %42-La.
national policy. It is proposed; however, that TRDB would be responsible
f9r supervising the total Lending program to and through the Unaon in order
to assure integrated, eomprehensLve and continuous evaluation and oontrol
of. the-Union's financial statusa,
23.       Credit arrangements under the project would rely heavily on both
the Union and TRDB.  The Union would assume primary responsibility for all
trading and lending operations involving project villages. The reasons
that this central role be accorded the Union are several:
(1)  With three marketing boards, two lending institutions, and
approximately 100 widely dispersed and relatively inaccessible
primary societies involved, it is preferable tv conce,trate
all contacts at the village level in one body (The pWion), to
simplify logistics an4dminimize costs;
(2)  To undertake any of its assigned functions effectively, the
t1nion must be significaptly strengthened, including a network
of personnel operating-regularly at %he village level. and
the infrastructure to service member societies. This can
onlv be justified economically if the Union assumes respon-
sibility for the full range of credit and trading service-s
to be provided;



A?ls'EX 14
Page 8
(3) one institution intimately involved witlh the project Imst
assume full responsibility for all credit provided to project
villages and full responsibility for the financial viability
of such villages. Because NBC would provide approximately
75Z of working capital requirements from non-project sources,
and the volume of project-related TRDB credit is thus relatively
insignificant, only the Union is satisfactorily placed to
undertake such comprehensive responsibilities; and
(4) The proposed system uses existing institutions and procedures
and, in particular, supports the Government's efforts to
build up the country's cooperative structurea.
24.       Thus all loans to villages for crop inputs, cash advances, aiid
economic infrastructure would be channeled through the Union. The Union
would develop its own appraisal capability and would undertake independcent
evaluation of the creditworthiness of member societies. The Uhion would
assume responsibility, including full repayment obligations,,for &l' dGel;s
it incurred. It would pass on to its member societies interest chargas on
seasonal inputs and economic infrastructure but would pay itself interest
charges on cash advances for crop purchases (recoveriug credit costs of cash
advances from its margin on trading those items). The Union would assume
full responsibility for loan recovery from primary societies, and the HUcieties
idl turn would assume full responsibility for loans to their member farmers.
In both cases a fund to provide for bad debt, and ultimately supply working
capital requirements, should be established from income derived from trading
activities.
25.       TRDB, for its part, would have no means for direct appraisal of
individual primary societies, but rather would supervise and control closely
the credit appraisal and onlending activities of the Union. TRDB would
carefully monitor the Union's overall operations, including cash advances,
inventories and other borrowings, with which TRDB would not be directly
involved but which would be critical to the Union's ability to make timely
repayments to TRDB. Total cash advances to primary societies through the
Union for crop purchase would represent several times the value of total
credit for agricultural inputs. Nonetheless, the ability to withhold new
loans for inputs at the village level until outstanding crop loans had been
fully repaid, and at the Union level to withhold new loans for capital
investment or call prematurely old loans if the Union borrowed indiscriminately,
would allow TRDB to enforce proper credit discipline in the region. Such a
system would:
(a) Force a single financial itisitution (TRDB), actiug indirectly
as IDA's agent, to monitor continually the Union's total
financial activities (involving crop loans, cash advances and
inventories);



ANNEX 14
Page 9
(b) Force credit discipline by requiring TRDB in effect to
approve the crop loan requests of individual societies to
the Union; and
(c) Introduce a sense of financial accountability at all levels
of borrowing.
26.       Different appraisal procedures would be required for each type of
credit.  Credit appraisal for agricultural inputs would be the primary respon-
sibility of the Union, under the overall supervision of the regional staff
of TRDB.  Individual primary societies would be requested to submit preliminary
requests in about December for seasonal inputs to be provided almost one year
later. Each village, under the primary responsibility of its development
committee and with the active assistance of its agricultural field assistant
(AFA), would assess its needs and forward an application to the Union. The
Union's society credit officers (SCOs) would then appraise the individual
requests.
27.       The basic factors requiring review in each appraisal would be (a)
technical; (b) human; and (c) financial. Specific preconditions for the
first input credit would be the installation of a village bookkeeper and
agricultural field assistant and a satisfactory agricultural performance
during the previous season. In addition, the following types of questions
should be posed:
(a) Do the crop projections seem reasonable in light of past
experience either in the village itself or under similar
ecological conditions elsehwere? What are the projected
yields by acre and by unit of input? Are they sufficient
to induce the individual farmer to use the inputs, and to
use them efficiently, and to repay with a satisfactory
margin on initial investment?;
(b)  Are the Chairman and his committee honest men of integrity,
capable of strong and good leadership and receiving full
village support? Are the AFA and bookkeeper adequately
trained and competent to perform the services with which
they have been charged? Are the villagers fully satisfied
with the past performance and level of services of the
society? How stable is the village, and what is the
turnover of population? What percentage of past production
has been channelled through the Union, and what percentage
appears to be consumed locally or directed through non-
authorized channels?; and
(c)  Have all past debts been paid off, and have they been paid
off promptly? What is the current level of the society's
savings and what have been the uses of past savings? What



ANNEX 14
Page 10
are the society's assets and do they appear to be satisfac-
torily operated and maintained? What has been the overall
income of the entire village in past years?.
28.       Finally, on the basis of the appraisal by the SCO in close coopera-
tion with the appropriate Government authorities, and under the supervision
of TRDB's regional staff, the Union would fix the credit needs of its member
societies and subsequently submit a credit application to TRDB. Credit
appraisal for subsequent seasons would be based most heavily on the agricul-
tural performance and debt repayment of the previous season.
29.       The advancement of cash for village crop purchase would require
two stages of credit appraisal. First, a month before crop purchase, an
assessment would be made of the total credit requirements for the purchase
of crops during the full harvest season. Second, during the five months of
crop purchase and collection, independent and regular evaluations of each
society's position would be made each time additional cash was advanced to
the society.
30.       The appraisal of credit needs for cash advances would constitute an
updating of the appraisal for input credit conducted earlier. NBC, or
possibly TRDB on behalf of NBC, in close cooperation with KILIMO would survey
the standing crops of a sample of villages to estimate the extent to which
actual yields would meet the projections calculated at the time of appraisal
of input requirements. These estimates would form the basis for assessing
the total credit required for cash advances during the season. TRDB would
be informed and asked to evaluate the working capital arrangements, or other
forms of indebtedness, to be undertaken by the Union. Following agreement
of both lending institutions, and in consultation with the Government autho-
rities concerned, an appropriate line of credit would be opened.
31.       To advance cash during the harvest season, the SCO would begin,
before harvest time, by arranging with each member society a schedule of
disbursements. He would then visit each society every three weeks or so
to supply the cash required for crop purchases. Between each visit the
society bookkeeper would be expected to maintain weekly cash return forms,
indicating, inter alia, crop finance received and use of crop finance by
crop, grade and quantity. The SCO would review these returns, the society's
books, and cash on hand during his visit.  In addition, he would inspect
the quality and quantity of produce contained in the society's godowns.
He would pay particular attention to checking that the society"s cash on
hand and inventory of crops purchased minus collections by Union lorries
equalled total cash advances. He would also periodically check, inter alia,
the accuracy of the society's scale and the grading of produce. Only after
the SCO had verified that the previous cash advance had been properly disbursed,
that it corresponded with the produce in the godowns or collected by the Union
lorries, and that all was properly reflected in the society's books, would



ANNEX 14
Page t 1
the amount of the next cash advance be considered. Agreement would theni be
reached with the society authorities on whether the scheduled disbursement
was appropriate or whether modifications were required; thereafter, the cash
would be advanced accordingly. If irregularities were found in any of the
society's financial statements, rather than withold credit for crop purchase,
which in a monopolistic state-controlled marketing system would be politically;
impracticable and unpalatable, the Union or Government would temporarily
replace the village bookkeeper with one of its own staff.
32.       The SCOB would be required to submit weekly reports summarizing the
financial position of villages visited and total cash advances during the
week. On the basis of their reports, the Union's financial controllers would
prepare weekly aggregate statements on its working capital position, which
would include an indication of its total short-term borrowings, cash advances
to societies, inventories, and deliveries to and receipts from parastatals.
This statement would serve to guide Union's management on its on-lending
operations and to inform TRDB and NBC of the Union's weekly cash flow.
Specifically, it would provide TRDB the tool required to undertake the credit
supervisory and control functions to which it would be assigned. It would
enable TRDB to monitor several critical aspects of the Union's operations by:
(a) examining the difference between short-term borrowings
and cash advances, it could determine whether the Union
was accumulating excessive cash;
(b) comparing the Union's inventories and deliveries to para-
statals with cash advances to societies, it could assess the
efficiency of the Union's transport system and the timing of
collections; and
(c) comparing deliveries to and receipts from parastatals, it
could determine whether the Union is being repaid on schedule
in order to retire its debt.
Thus, the weekly statements would provide the indicators necessary to assure
that rapidly increasing Itnion indebtedness was matched by comparable increases
in Union inventories and/or accounts receivables from parastatals.  In
addition to the statement, TRDB would monitor a sample of villages, by re-
viewing the SCO's weekly reports and by undertaking periodic field visits.
33.       Credit for the economic infrastructure of member primary societies
,;ould also be channeleld through the Union. The credit appraisal techniques
would be similar to those used for agricultural inputs and cash advances.
Primary responsibility would again fall to the Union's SCOs because the TRDB
branch office would not have sufficient staff to appraise the several hundred
credit applications; but because the investments are relatively large and
long-term, TRDB's regional staff would play a more active and direct role.
Terms of the loans would be as follows:



ANNEX 14
Page 12
Interest         Repayment
Item                   Unit Cost (T Sh)          Charge           Period
Mize sheller                 3,750                7.5%           4 years
Maize mills                 22,800                7.5Z           5 years
Fishing gear               various                7.5%           2 years
Village godowns             36,800                7.5%          15 years
(including
2 years
grace period)
(See Table 9).
34.       It is expected that the economic lives of the sheller, mills, fishing
gear, and godowns would be 6, 8, 2 and 15 years respectively, and that the
shellers and mills would be replaced at the end of their economic lives, per-
haps by further borrowings. The project would finance only the initial invest-
ments through PY 5.
35.       The Union would receive credit for capital investment on its own
account, in addition to credit for on-lending to member societies. Total
capital investment would amount to about T Sh 1.4 million in PY 5. Any credit
appraisal would begin by assessing the general financial position of the Union,
both present and historical, including, inter alia, liquidity, debt-equity
ratio, total revenue and expenditure and earnings. In addition, the integrity,
experience, and competence of management would be reviewed. In particular,
throughput and margins that might be assumed for the period of the loan would
require examination. Revenue to service the indebtedness created by Union
investment would derive primarily from the margins obtained on the handling
of agricultural inputs and produce. Throughput would be a function of
projected area under cultivation the percentage of the region's marketable
surplus handled by the Union and projected yields, by crop. It would, in
effect, represent the aggregate of estimates made in appraising input credit
for individual villages (less subsistence requirements and any marketing by
primary societies outside official channels). The margins would be estimated
on the basis of existing margins. An assessment would first be made of the
revenue accruing to the Union from its margins in the past and of the adequacy
of the revenue to meet all operating expenses and to service all debt obliga-
tions. Where revenue appeared inadequate, modifications could be introduced
in light of the average margins assumed by cooperative unions elsewhere in
Tanzania or proposed increases under consideration by the Ujamaa and Coope-
rative Development Department. Following thorough appraisal, credit would
then be provided on the following basis:



ANNEX 14
Page 13
Items                Interest Charges          Repayment Period
Vehicles                     8.5%                 36 months
Buildings                    7.5%                 10 years (1 year
grace period)
(see Table 8).
36.       Vehicles would be considered to have three year economic lives,
after which they would be replaced under regular TRDB credit arrangements.
Only buildings and additional vehicles acquired through PY 5 would be financed
under the project.
37.       The marketable surplus anticipated and the procedures proposed under
the project would require the delivery of large amounts of cash to the villages.
The average village, for example, in its fifth year of development would receive
about T Sh 35,000 (US$5,000) in cash every 3 weeks. Attempts must be made during
project implementation, as experience is gained, to reduce this figure, and
thereby the attendant risk. The periodic visits to villages by the SCO's could
perhaps be increased in order to reduce the cash required per visit. Alter-
natively, some sort of savings scheme could be introduced to tap the accumula-
ting cash of individual farmers, resulting from sale of marketable surplus.
Or nossibly a mobile banking system (e.g., weekly visits to villages) could be
developed, replacing with notes and cheques the large amounts of cash r-errently
proposed to pay individual farmers.
38.       Attention must also be paid to consumption as well as production
needs during project implementation. As disposable income increases under the
project, the spending patterns and needs of villagers should be identified and
the appropriate goods and services should be made available. Othetwise,
v'llagers' incentive to meet the production levels anticipated under the
project would be undermined.
Pricing and Costing 1!
39.       The farm crops to be produced under the project require the involve-
ment of three marketing boards: The National Milling Corporation (NMC) for
maize and beans, the Tanzanian Cotton Atithority (TCA) for cotton, and the
General Agricultural Products Export Corporation (GAPEX) for groundnuts.
These marketing boards, together with KILIMO, the Prime Minister's Office,
and other Government Offices directly concerned, annually fix prices for
each crop for the subsequent season. Two sets of prices are of particular
significance to the regional cooperative unions: the producer price and
the into-store price. The producer price represents that price paid the
Xi   See Table 5.



ANNEX 14
Page 14
farmer and has been fixed for the 1973/74 season at a uniform level through-
out the country for maize, beans, and cotton, 1/ although it varies with the
regional cooperative unions' wholesaling costs for groundnuts. Following
certain assumptions on the quality of produce generated under the project,
producer prices per bag for maize, beans, cotton, and groundnuts are estimated
under the project to be T Sh 32, T Sh 76, T Sh 48.6, and T Sh 124 respectively.
The into-store price represents a theoretical price paid by the appropriate
marketing board when produce delivery is made to its stores in Dar es Salaam.
40.       To the producer price are added the intermediate costs of bagging,
shirinkage, cooperative levies and transport and financial charges. However,
the costs assumed by the cooperatives for handling, storage and marketing
are excluded and are instead reimbursed by the marketing boards through
separate accounts. Into-store prices have been fixed for the 1973/74 season
for maize, lint cotton, and groundnuts. Although an into-store price has
also been recommended for beans, the regional cooperative unions are free
to sell any beans they handle outside the authorized marketing board if
they can obtain a higher price. In summary, therefore, the cooperative
union is still permitted to fix, in accordance with its own costs, the producer
price of groundnuts and the into-store price of beans, if a more favorable
buying price can be found. For both maize and cotton, however, both the
producer into-store price are fixed by the appropriate parastatal, yielding
a standard margin for all regional cooperative unions which might or might
not be adequate to cover their individual costs. Both the National Milling
cooperation (NMC) and the Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA) are aware of this
problem. NMC is currently reviewing the cooperative unions' demand with the
intention to increase the into-store price for 1973/74 maize to reflect more
accurately the unions' actual costings. Likewise, TCA claims to reimburse
the unions for any costs not fully covered by the into-stores price if pro-
perly Justified and documented.
41.       The wholesaling costs per ton of the regional cooperative unions
are fixed at the beginning of the agricultural season. Certain costs, if
assumed by the union, are stipulated at specific rates by the appropriate
parastatals. These include handling, storage, insecticide treatment, and
marketing. The remaining costs are estimated by the unions' management in
light of the previous season's experience, subsequently recommended by the
annual meeting of the cooperative union, and ultimately approved by the
Regional Development Director in his capacity as Assistant Registrar of
Cooperatives. These costs include local transport, bags and twine, interest
charges, insurance, shrinkage, and society and union levies. The society
levy is designed to cover all costs assumed by the primary society, such as
overheads, storage, and handling charges, as well as a provision for bad
debt. The union levy, on the other hand, is intended to cover only overhead
and provision for bad debt.
1/ Some variation has been introduced for maize, where prices differ between
regions designated priority and non-priority.



2tA'WEX 14A
Page 15
42.       Recent efforts to standardize the cooperative margins by fixing
both producer and into-store prices nationwide arises from the substantial
cost variances that have existed heretofore among different regional coopera-
tive unions. Fcr examDle, society levies for maize are estimated to vary
as much as 400% shrinkage estimates for maize as much as 300%, cost of bags
and twine for maize as much as 66% I/ On the other hand, the effective
introduction of fixed margins does not allow for the differences in variable
costs that obviously exist among regions. For the time being, therefore,
the movement toward fixed prices, both producer and into-store, proceeds,
but with the growing realization that some flexibility will have to be
retained to reflect regional differences.
43.       Finally, Table 5 refers to the Union's sellingprice, which repre-
sents the actual value received from the appropriate marketing board for
produce delivered. It constitutes the aggregate of all costs incurred by the
union per ton of produce, from the purchase at the primary society through
the variet"r of wholesaling activities to the delivery to the parastatal.
The selling price also represents the total revenue accruing to the union
for any ton of produce. It is to be distinguished from the into-store price,
a theoretical value which does not reflect the full costs incurred by the
union, which includes extra-regional transport costs not incurred by the
Union, and which is used by the marketing boards for accounting purposes.
1/   An Appraisal of Marketing Costs for Crops Handled by NAPB for Use in
(nov'r-mer,t s 1973/74 P'ice Review, P.M. Newhouse, Dar es Salaam 1972,
pp. 6'-67.



TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KIGOMA Cooperative Union Trading and Lending Cycles
deliveries (AU
advanCeS                                           TRDB
Z>                                          UNION                                             .
\s    s o o    X           A      G      A~~~~~~~GPEXS
Pr      ~ons Cr0                                    NBCM
TCA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~:
WorldNBank-8728C,^8X
Q ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Wol ak82 



TASiZAS L-A
KIGSC%  RP,AL DEVEXLoPSEWr PROJECT
KIGONA COOPERATVE UNION
Annual Cash Plo,   1/
Project Years
TSh (000's)
I. Trading Activities
A.  Receipts                               7YI      PY2       PY3         PY4         PYs        PY6         PY7         FY8         PY9        PYIO       PYl1         FY12
1.  Sale of Crops   2/                           3,442       9,993      17,887     26,536      31,417      33,848      35,586      36,898      38,010     39,115      40,265
2.  Sale of Inputs  I/                             630       2,481       5,047       7,706      9,474      10,172      10,353      10,354      10,354     10.354      10,354
3.  Hiring out Vehicles  4/                         56          84         306         473        557         613         641         668         696         724         724
Total                 4,128      12,558     23,240      34,715      41,448      44,633     46,580      47,920      49,060      50,193    5,343
B.  Disbursements
1.  Purchase of Crops -t                         2,765       8,150      14,702      21,930     26,178      25,326      29,855      30,978      31,914     32,833      33,795
2.  Purchase of Inputs  61                          527      2,073       4,221       6,443       7,925      8 515       8,669       8,824       8.824       8,824      8,824
3.  Operating Costs   7/                   134     886       1,876       2,950       4,160      4,670       4,978       5,198       5,389       5,568       5,740      5,873
4.  Interest on Cash Advance _/                      22          58         99         145         170        185         199         209         218         228         237
5.  Interest on Seasonal Inputs  9/                  45         176        359         548         674        724         737         750         750         750         750
6.  Debt Service on Union Investment 101  99        283        576         784         987       1,155      1,299       1,232       1,062         923         785         646
7. All-.ce for Bad Debt. 11/                 -       26         104        211         322         396         426        433         441         441         441         441
11
Total           233   4,554      13,013     23,326      34,535      41,168     44,453      46,323      47,653      48,638      49,601      50,566
Surplus (Deficit)                  (233)   (426)       (455)       ( 86)       180         280         180         257        267         422         592         777
II.  On-Lending Activities  12/
A.  Advances to Villages
1.  Tf&redtitcrfor Village                        1,059      1,396       1,426       1,613         631        636         380         409         669         724         837
2.  TRDB Seasonal Credit                            630      2,481       5,047       7,706       9,474     10,173      10,353      10,534      10,534      10,534      10,534
3.  NBC Cash Advances for Crop Purchase           2,135      5,670       9,654      14,225      16,705     18,153      19,502      20,444      21,380      ZZ,300      Z3,262
Total                 3,824       9,547      16,127     23,544      26,810      28,962      30,235      31,387      32,583     33,558      34,633
B.  Union Debt Service Obligations
1.  TgDB Credit for Village Infra-
structure                                      118         314         559         870      1,098       1,207       1,185       1,154       1,159       1,145       1,180
2.  TRDB Seasonal Credit                            571      2,250       4,580       6,991       8,599       9,239      9,406        9,574       9,574      9,574       9,574
3.  NBC Cash Advances for Crop Purchase           2,158      5,728       9,753      14,370      16,876      18,339     19,702       20,654     21,599      22,528      23,500
Total                 2,847       8,292      14,892      22,231     26,573      28,785      30,293      31,382      32,332      33,247      34,254
1/   The following calculations include only disbursements and receipts relative to the project, although a relatively minor amount of the Union's operations will
continue independent of the project.
The project year is considered to be the Government's fiscal year, from July I to June 30.  Although the fiscal year of the Kigona Cooperative Union is Klay I
to April 30, in the interests of simplicity and consistency, all calculations are based on the Government's fiscal year.
2/  Source is Table 3.
3/  Source is Table 2.
4/ Source is Table 7.
5/  Source is Table 3                                                                                                                                                                 a X
6/  Source is Table 2.
7/ Source is Table b,
f,' flrleed frun Table 9.
9/ Derived from Tables 2 and 9.
10/  Source is Table 8.
11/  Esti-,ted at 5% of vredit advanced for  c-sa-onal i,puta.
i2s  able q    IoU  lhs  fii rrr.-e.                                          . 1



TANZ1AN
KIOIA SIALA V11,MlnlT PROJECT
KlOCClA cOorcATm UNION
trbsue ed 5Sale of Articulto-I Imp.ts
Protect Years
rT2                FY3                 nY4                 Pf5                 P76                 ?Y7                 nTa                PY9                  PlO 1YII                               PY12
A. ,t-bs.. of IPfoi                volt       cIne    Volu        Colt    Volv_       Cos      Volt      Cost    Volo.V      Coat    Vol.        Cast    VOI.      Cost    Volt_       Coit     Vol        Cost    V.1e        Cost     Vo.v       Coot
Unitt
Costs
IteA-       tlit      T 9h
1.  Du          Tot.   140d.02         115  161,900       449  632,200        933  1,313,700    1,416  1,993,750    1,774  2.497,850     1,949  2,744,250   2.010  2,830.100   2,071   2,916,000   2,071   2.916.000 M   071 2.916,000   2,071   2,916,O0O
2.  CAN         TOo    1118.99         115  128,700       449  502,450        933  1,044,000    1,416  1,54.3500    1,774  1,985,100     1,949  2,180,940   2,010  2,249,130   2,071   2,317.450   2,071   2,317.450    2071 2,317,650   2,071   2.317,450
3.  n1 DrT      ti..       1.98     21.000    41,600   56,000   110,900    91,000    180,200  126,000    249,5w    133,000    263,350  133,000    263,350 133.000    263.350 133 000     263.350 133.000     263,350  133,000   263.350 133,000     263,350
4. .ULV Spr-ys   ...h    133. 10       350   46,600    1,225   163,050      2,100    279.500    2.97S   395,950    31125    442,550      3 325   442,550  3.325   4421550   3.325        442.550   3.325     442,550    3.325  442. 550   3,325      442,550
5. oatteiy sets
of 16               23.70        350    8.300    1,575    37,350      3,325     78,800    5,075    120,3w     6.300    149,300     6.650    157,600   6.650    157.600   6,650      157.8w    6,650     157.600    6.650   127,600   6,650     157,600
6.  Endo-ulf-   Ittrs    13.28      10,50w   139,450   47,250   627,500    99,750  1,324,700  152,250  2,021,900   189.000  2,509.900   199,500  2,649.350 199,500  2,61;:,88 199,500   2.649,350 199,500   2,649,350  199,500 2,649,350 199.500   2,649,350
7.  SSP         Ton      772.12        -                                                          100-  -  too 1  77.200  100  77,200      100     77,230     100                too      77,200    100        77.200      100    77.200     100      77.200
Total                             526,550          2,073,450            4.220,900           6,443.100            7,925,250            8,515,200          8,669,300           8,823,500           8,823,500          9,823,500           8,823,500
8.  Sale of InouC
un0t
Co ts
0t_e       U0,1      T Sh
1.  WA?         Too.    1636.80        115  188,250       449   734.900       933  1.527,150    1,416  2,317,700     1,774  2.903,700     1,949  3.190,100   2.010  3,290.000   2,071   3,389,800   2.1    3.389.0       2.073 2.3898      2.071   3,369,800
2.  CAN         Too.    1322.09        115  152.050       449   593.600       933  1.233.500    1.416  1.072.100     1,774  2.345,400     0,949  2.576,750   2,010  2,657.400   2,071   2.738.030   2.071   2.738,030    2.071 2.739.050   2,071   2.738.050
3.  35 DDT      1g..       2.45     21,000    51,450   56,000   137,200    91,00     222,950  126,000    308,700   133,000    325,850   133,000    325,850 133,000    325,950 133,000     325,850 133,000     325.850  133,000   325,850 133,000     325,850
4.  ULV Sprayer Osoh     162.80        350    57,000    1,225   199,450     2,100    341,900    2,975    484.350     3,325    541,300     3,325    541,300   3.325    541,300   3,325     541,300   3,325     541,300    3.325   541,300   3,325      541,300
S.  Bettery sts of 16    28.88         350   10,100    1,575   45,500       3,325     96,050    5,075    146,550     6,300    181,950     6,650    192,050   6,650    192,050   6,650     192,050   6,650     19Z.050    6,650   192,050   6,650     192,050
6.  Eado-olf..   lit-r    16.30     10,500   171,150   47,250   770,200    99,750  1,625,900  152,250  2,481,700   189,000  3,080,700   199,200  3,251,850 199,500  3,251,850 199,500   3,251,850 199.500   3,251.850  199,500 3,221,950 199,5w    3,251 850
7.  301         Too.     946.25        -                       -                  -               100     94,600       100     94,600       100    94,600      100     94,600     100      94,600     100      94,600      100   94,600       100      94,600
Total                            630,000          2,480,850            5,047,450           7,705.700            9,473,500           10,172.500         10,353,050          10,533,500          10,332,500          10,533,300          L,533,500
DI Derld fro A.... 15, Table 9 nd frms Table 4 of this a.-x.
2/ unit co00s d-"fa  Oro. Table 4 o8 thIs  .ae..



elF__   "   t _g*s             7 
n2 n                9                   64                    Ffvrs        m         96                  67                     WI                      9                 nso                 ml                  ml
.a.    Valo         "s*      V.1.       SlW eg       ve *al_ WP         Volvo      le         Volvo   _ g           vol.6*      SW         WO1.       Iw        1.1..     SW       Vlao        lag       ",se     sag       Ylose
a   .ta                    16. 569   529.560   39.838   1,274.630   65,535   2.097.130   91.92,9 l,%1.740   9,147   3,172,703   106.965   3,356.200   11-.100  3,525.062  116,7     3.715,465  122,62   3,9"2.            t12.7M7  4.     5  132,241  6,21,920
b.  lac-                   11.479   872,44    25,484   1,           398.990   3,750   ,020,950   51,49    4.065,410   52,726   4,007,085    52,017   3,9f3.24C    51,297  32.89,570   50.70D  3,V59,335   50,65   3.0h9.630   51.0n 1  3 ,8,070  12.012  3,59)2.,7
,   Ctttoo                 20,4Al 13953,280  105,289   4,927,620  197,724   9,305,020  295,115  1,945,670  359,43  17,077,700   37,7e0  18,019.175   392,89   1,16.615   06,195 19,417,495 419,185 20,127,760  41.761 20,                0 44,715 21,5,
4.   r-Lta                           -           -                   Z,336     276,560  7,.5         977.225   15,6023   1920.63,    23,717   2,926.61    79,156   3,614.60   31,417  3,95,501   3Z,339  4,012.425   33.330 4,11*2.           36,130  4,2,153,5
Total                57.450 2,765,300  170,630   9,130.450  310,350  14,701.700  448,50) 21,130.350  526.900  726,176.300                                                                              3.0.400  2.325.600  613,300  29.855,150  605.15 30,077.0  62i.900 31,913.70   661.90  523,630  "63,=5.    21,793,Ze
Tos    VOl"e      2,.       Valr.       Te       V.1,        Too.     Val".       T-.        Yal,        7..       9.l         To.e      Vol"       Ie..     9.8.       Twe       V.1o.      T_       Vole       T_       9*e1
*   p,.lao              1,429   773,400    3.44    1,06t,250    s,662   3,064,250    7,943   4,290,750    5,5S6   4,635.00         9,062   4,904.930     9,517   5.190.401   O4,096  5,450.550   16."Sf  5,736,Gf0  81,919  5,971306  11,426  6,26*3,71
b.   R-                 1,012 1.036,9S0    2,266   2,316,400    1,So6   3,141,650    4,718   4,927,500    4,680   4.685.450        4,S9   4.,791.700     4,525   4,729,0"0    4,479  4,677,650    4,4,66  4,6644400    4,03  4,702,950   4,51   4,790,454
C. Cottan               1,07  1,611.200    3,28   5.74. 200    7,189  10,825,200   10,730  16.157.250   13,019  19.679,030    13,772  Z0.7377.90        14,256  21,5111.50  1,769 22,219.150   15,242 22.951.400 1C,69 21,639.550  161.70 24.30,400
d  C-ournd-t.             -                    -         -         206     33S.200       706   1,1521200    1.376   2.25.650       2,092   3.414,150     2,572   4,117,$00    2,771  4,522,29      2054  46.637,750    2,040  4.7",to00   3.028  4.941.700
T°tol           3.511 3.441,550    9,515   9 9939,840   16.I56  I1,"7.300   24.097  26,535,700   27,641  31.417,300          "r S1, 100    30.o  3s55                 1 32,105 36.6.      33,159 316,0 ,,55    314.II ,.110.96  35.211 4,8440.906
1/  5.6t td that .rk.tbl. p,du    of  t--1a,  otton, gOaaata, o4 bo   Int ba8t buha   .ltlet  fer M1M2, 68.6.76  7 124 p.  bag   a tttns                    d w1 i  to ael  rt rb. aeprtte netet-l  er  a.xtd  t  S  541.28. 1,5015 90. 1,632.00   _1d   0 a 47
par tCo  r-.pttlTly    1lffar..-  rap,nt. .11 1.elsalla o t.  ornt t7 the polary *otAtL- aM ..t e. Diff.tra-  to volum  r.efltt  prod-. Abriobag.  1l8r to Tblo 5 * f  to lotivo of et  Iltwg pvt..



ANN= 14
TANZANIA
XIGMiA l.URh DIVKLOPEIIEU  PROCT
KIlGI COOPhATIIVE UNIOSI
Unit Costs of IholesaliigAicultural InDuts
DA?          CAN         DDT       ULV          Batteries        hdosulf an       SSP
Sprorer
(tons)       (tns        (t        (each)       (Sets of 16)       (litrs)        (tons)
A. rost FOB [iguma        1,408.02     1,118.99     1.98      133-10          23.70            13.28         772.12
B. Wholesl    Cgsts
1. Transport Y           67.50        67.50      .01         .30            .02              .02          67.50
2. Insurance2/            1.60         1.30      .02         .16            .03              .02           1.C0)
3. Interest  3/ 119.68                95.11      .18       1.i44           2.05             1.13          656o3
4. Handling i            10.00        10.00      .01        1.50            .20              .25          10.00
5. Union Levy  /         30.00        30.00      .25       16.30           2.90             1.60          30.00
sub-total         228.78       203.91      .47       29.70           5.20             3.02         174.13
C. Cost to Society       1,636.80      1,322.90     2.45      162.80          28.90            16.30         946.25
1/   To calculate transport costs of agricultural inputs, several of which have no _eaningful weight
equivalent, a comn measure of a bag Of maize has been used.   Assumed that about 60 begs, or
approximately the equivalent of 5.5 tons, can be carried by a 7-ton lorry whose costs are TSh 1.35
per revenue ton dle.  Roughly estimated that 10 baga of SSP, DAP, and CAN equal 1 ton, and that
1 maism bag is equal to 90 kg of DDT, 4 ULV sprayers, 50 sets of 16 batteries, 60 liters of
endosafan.  Estimated that inputs must be transported, on the average, 50 miles, and although
soe of the lorris sWhuld be able to retrn with marketable onrplus, transport costs have asumed
responsibility for the full round-trip oosts.
2/  Cost of insuring input* dhile in the possession of the Union ie estimated to be TSh 2 per TSh 2,000
value insured at sell4ng price to society.
]/   Interest charges are estimated to be 8.5%1 and loan is expected to be outstanding for 1 year.
Wz  Handling charges derived fro handling charges of a mai;e bag, based on the equivalent volumse cited
in footnote 1.
0/   Union levy calculated to be Tab .03/kg for the fertilizers and 10% of the selling price for other
inputs.



ANNEX 14
TArWIA                                                                   Table 5
KIGOQA UBRAL DRKI IFIT PiCJET
Kisea Cooperative Union
Urnt Costs of Wlolesalin  Marketable Surelus  /
miie                        Cotton                      Oroundnut                       Sean3
Rate (5i/    Sb/ToY   Ba(Tsb)                TSb/Tor /  Bate (TSh)         lSh/Tor.  Rute (TShJ          TSh/Tor//
A. Producer Frice                       32 per bag        352.00     b8.6 per bag      1,336.50    124 per bag      1,346.00    76 per bag         836.00
a. Society  Lt   /                       .03 per kg        30.00     0.066 per kg.        66.oo    .03 per kg.          30.00    .03 per kg.         30.00
C. Cooperatives' Wholeseline Costs
1. Local tranaport                   1.35 0 50 mi.    67.50      1.35 0 50 id.        67.50    1.35 0 50 mi.        67.50    1.35 0 50 mi.      67._0
2. Bags and twie  4/ b.65 per bag                      51.00                                   4.65 per bag         51.00    b.65 per bag       5;.00
3.  Bank inteet S                    6.5% for 3 so.     5.70     6.5% for 5 weeks      9.biO    6.5% for 3 so.      21.80    6.5% for 3 mo.     13.5C
4.  Cash Insurance /                 2.0 per 2,000       .40     2.0 per 2,000         1.80    2.0 per 2,000         1.30    2.0 per 2,000        8.bO
5. Inventory insmrance W             3.0 per 2,0DO       .50     3.0 per 2,0O0         2.60    3.0 per 2,000         2.0ro    3.0 per 2,000      1.30
6. Handling charges  /                                   -                                          -               5.80         -
?.  Storage §                            -               -            -                 _      1.25/bag/week       56.10         -
S. Shrinkage 2/                     S%                 1.410          -                 -      2%                  26.90    2%                  16.70
9. Marketing 39/                         -               -            -                 -      1.00 per bag          3.60        -                -
10. Union levy  /                     .02 per kg        20.00     0.22 per kg.         22.00    .02 per kg.         20.00    .02 per kg.         20.OC
sub-total                                 159.20                         103.30                        256.00                       178.40
D. Union's Selling Price la/                              541.20                       1,505.80                      1,632.00                    1,044.40
E.  Trwnweort to Dur as Soa_m IV         750/ton           37.50                                   1250/ton             93.75    75.0/ton           37.50
F.  Total Into-Store Price W/                             578.70                                                     1,662.25                     1,081.90
3/   The rates are oelculatad on avere  annual voluse of marketable surplua handld by Union during first 3.2 years.   They do r.ot reflect
the actual unit coot of the previous yer, aa they should in practice, and therefore do not refleot decraing unit costs that would
normally oocur as wolim hadled increased.
3/ Iach ton of matis, ootton, grouTndute and beans calculated to have 11, 27.5,11 and 1 bags respectively.
3/ Costa incurred by tha primary society for handling, storage and shrinkage are not included under the separate categories and are only
compensated through the general socistJ levy.
W    Transport oosts based on estimate of Table 7 , pro rated per ton of produce.   Because denait3, or ,otton is les  thar that of maize,
beans or groundnts, both trport and handling charges wil be higher per ton.   Howver, because distne ootton is to be
transported is lose than that for other orope, no diffrentiation by crop is side.   Average distance calculated acording to
infomation containd in Table 7 .  All locl transport costs borne by Ouio.
/   Cost asms new  bag osts TSh 4.65 and ne usad for maie, beas and groundnuts are returned for the following seasoc while virtually
all used for cotton ar  rturnsd.   Costa of begs win be borne by Union for mAise, bena and groundnut., but costs of baga for cotton,
roughly estimated to be Tl  1.00/bag to account for wstap eand increasing number required, are taken up by TCA.
r/   Both bank interest and insurance for cash advance for crop purchase considered to be borne by Union, for an average 1 month for cotton,
3 montha tbr other crops.   Period firm receipt of fasmers' produce until papsAnt by appropriate parastatal expected to be 3 montbs for
mtses, beans and grouninute, and 1 sonth for cotton.  Although for 1/3 of this period produce is expected to remain in village godown, all
inventory insurance charges asumed to be borne by Union.
H/ Handling charges include only costs of Union at both of its godowns for unloading, weighing, rebagging of 10% of the turnover and
stacking when produce arrives end weighing and loading of produce to be delivered to the respective paratatal, based on PYS as typical
year.  Union assmes handling charges ony for goudnuts, as all other crops handled by relevant paraatals at their respective
godo s.
/   Rates as determined by the apropriat- parastal.   Because NHC regional godowns under
construction and storage facilities to be provided by TGl at local ginnery can be assumed to be used respectively for all mainze
beans  nd cotton, Union would be reaponsible only for storage of groundnutes for which it would be reimbursed by OA1.  Oroundnuta
are estimated to rm_dn in the  nion's reional godowne an average of lionth.   All storage costs borne by primary society are again
eVpected to be covered by societ levy.
2/ Full costa borne by Union.
32/  Marketing costs wben incurred by Union  re reimbursed by appropriate parastatal at preecribed rates.   Groundouts are only cocnodity
stored, nd therfore Marketed by the Union.  UOdon is assumed to market 25% of the groundnuts it handles.
/   Levies taken frm The Lint and Seed Marketing Board directives for 1972/73 for otton  nd fro. existing rates in Kigoma Region for
mgie and groodnute.   The existing rate of ShO.05/Ag for beans was considered unjustifld and calculated instead in line uitk the
maize and groundout rates.
3    The Union's selling price reprmenta the price paid the Union by the approPriate parastatal when ownership of the produce 76
transferred to the parstatal.
rS Cost of transport of produce frm Kigo, to Dar es Blsam is responsibility of appropriate parastatal.   Such transport costs are
included in calculation of into-store price, andre a adjusted here to refloet that an estimated 50% of maise and beana and 75% of
groundnute is expected to be transported outede the region.   The railroad rate of Sh7.50 per 100 kg  igma-Dar es Salem for maize
hae alec been used for bean, wherea  the transport rate for grwdmts is ShI2.5 per 100 kg.
3WUnion reimbursed for maiso and beans by WEC and for groundnutg by GAM  for any handlin,   storage, isciietetnn   n  aktn
cOtes cu Instplttb  tePrpi,epttV                                                    ^         oae  insecticide treatment and narketint
cot  nurred by the Union at rates stipulated by the aPPropriate parastatals.   None of these are included in the "into-store price',
which is a teoreticeL value that includes All other costs ast med by the Union plus the ligoma-Dr as Salae_ transport costs.  For
cotton, howver, no into-sftore price has bean Indicated, bcnse the procdure. proposed under te  prOjact - whereby TCA instead of
Union asninues responsiwiity for internediate handing , storage and gin-in  - do not conform to normal practicea.dieeyrne
the cocept of into-store price of little value.an  l-brd



, ~  ~ ~ C             9.4  fri  I- 1-  p_ -_ A_'.
t         Zo e-, a n*[¢<? --    oti  -0- r4 'NW  "       r4.CC.4'di   A >    "' ."  r                                a'i.
2      a3E      $Xv        '*i            tii         t f t1t11 0 Oh                       2        *  *        -   -.     ;
N,"    0    _3    >    3            *          33            Ca.                   n C,~              N       **             g  Ct~a, - 
r~~~~c _    i                                   E          ~           .~   g. .i . .'g                     -    '' iF     go§g§
, ~   ~    ~     - n:                                                           w a'. o~                       x    3s1.Ws    Wef_-
K  3          f  t*e og  *           .  o .  _1.                           "MW  .  a,,,X     *~   s    *-F  o
. 'I<0s               c" Kt              3                               aai            g                   4?2,.
th         O Bc      '   4 N-          W eo                        a.'                                    ,_     g__N8    1-
' ' ~'                                                      '' *                                     2          
* s                 a   '*_           Sco8S   S8 S                   S.g.. "8 a.'4U>o  
r.             -    _                      s   I                - .      
of   Lb O                                41 9- HI na      S8S888888888                       
.4           t X    r c _s                                            "                     
n          X:4 G              ft                                          r *        r        
'44 _  a * O    C           
4*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p1 _t.  30    0N -N oKr                                               "wr              -N >So
3.10 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S.  8~ 8a                   8 8                   8    8o     
3                     'a'C _A N                                 :3 ^t1    :                   
I~~~~~~                                                            ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ ;SA    g g            8o8oa8o8            8 
g 3:iY §.L 



TAN ZANI A
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KICOMA COOPERATIVE UNION
Buildup of Motor Vehicles
Categories                                                                            Project Years
A.      Lorry                 FYI       PY2         PY3          PT4         PY5         FY6         PY7         Ff8          PY9          FY10         PII         PY12
1.  Lorry loads of       1/
marketable produce -                720        1,945       3,375       4,910        5,630       6,010       6,290       6,535         6,750       6,960        7,170
2.  Lorries required V                     5           16          27          40          45          48           50          52           54           56          57
3.  Union lorries required
a.  Total fleet3/          2          3            7           11          17         20           22           23          24           25           26          26
-b.  Increental 4/          0          1             4           4           6          3             2           1           1             1           1           0
c. Replaced 5/             0          1            1           0            1           4           4           6            3            2            1           1
d. Total credit needa   0             2            5            4           7           7           6            7           4            3            2           1
4.  Non-Union lorries
required
a. Quantity                           2            9           16          23          25          26           27          28           29           30          31
b.  Coats (TSh) 6/              84,400       379,800       75,200    970,600  1,055,000  1,097,200  1,139,400  1,181,600   1,223,800  1,266,000  1,308,200
B.  Four-wheel drive  wt0sl
vehicle
a.  Total fleet            5          8             9          10          12          12           12          12          12            12          12           12
b.  Incremental            4          3             1           1           2           0            0           0           0             0           0            0
c. Replaced                0          0             0           1           0           4            3           1           2             2           4            3
d. Total credit needs   4             3             1           2           2           4            3           1           2             2           4            3
1/  Estimated that 60 bags of maize, beans, or groundnuts, or 120 bags of cotton can be carried in one lorry-load, yielding an average 5 tons/lerry load.
See Table 3 for the volume of marketable surplus requiring transport.
2/ Lorry requirements calculated on the basis of projected average lorry trips per week.
Average time for one-way trip estimated to be-
Kasulu:  village to regional godown                         3
village to Kasulu ginnery                         2
Kigoma:  village to regional godown                         1.5
or Kigoma ginnery                                1.5
Kibondo: village to district godown                         1.5
village to Kasulu ginnery                         3
2.5 average hours (@ 20MPH - 50 miles, average one-way trip).
3/  Calculated that Union will own slightly less than half the vehicles needed to meet its lorry requirements.
4/  Only vehicles incremental to total fleet through PY5 are to be financed by the project.  Incremental vehicles beyond PY5 and vehicles replaced will be
subject to TRDB credit on normal terms.
5/  Lorries and 4-wheel drive vehicles assumed to have respectively 3-year and 5-year ec,noominc lives, after whtch they, anid spare parts representing 2tY
of their original value, are replaced, under regular TBDB financing.  Lorries assumed to have residual value equalling 25% of original value.
6/  Cost of the hire of non-Union lorries asaured t., .e 3511 35 revenue ton mile - the Sane rate L  ;on attrihutte  te its  --, lor-e,, - an 'i
7-ton lorry hired for harvest season (Shl .35 /rcvenue i.n mille   S toiis x 50 mi I-  E           ninr1 4



KIGOa& RURAL D EfM   PROJKCT
KIOWA COOPDT IVE UNIW
Union' a Lorrv Account 6/
Pro1ect Years
PF2            pm3           P4i                           PY6            FY7             Ts            PY9           PYlO            FYI1         PY12
A. Revenue
1.  Union transport inome  1/
a.  Agricultural inputs   I             16,050          62,500       129,550        203,200        252,450       276,300        284,550        292,800         292,800        292,800        292,800
b.  Marketable surplus  3/             242,450         656,450    1,139,050       1,656,300      1,899,500     2,026,950      2,122,250      2,205,400       2,278,050      2,348,500      2,419,400
2.  Hiring out of Union lorries  4/         55,700          83,550       306,350        473,450        557,000        612,700        640,550        668,400        696,250        724,130        724,100
Total             314,200         802,500    1,574,950      2,332,950      2,708,950      2,915,950      3,047,350      3,166,600      3,267,100       3,365,400      3,436,300
B. Expeznditures
1.  Vehicle operating costs  5/            255,300         595,700       936,100      1,446,700      1,702,000      1,872,200      1,957,300      2,042,400      2,127,500      2,212,600      2,212,600
Net      M Income58,900                        206,800      638,850        886,250      1,006,950      1,043,750      1,090,050      1,124,200      1,139,600       1,152,800      1,223,700
Footnotes
1/ Rate of Sh67.50/ton allowed Union for transport of inputs and outputs in the ,mrgin between its buying and selling price.
2/ Derived from Tables 2 and 4.
3/ Derived from Tables 3 and 5.
4/ See Table 7, footnote 1.
5/ See Table 7, footnote 2.
6/  This is a "dummy" operating statemnt of Union's lorry operations, reflecting total income and expenditure accruing to Union lorries, and not cash-flow.
This table reflects full accounting of Union operations, including revenue for transport services included in produce selling prices and including debt
repayment. These calculations are not used as inputs for other tables.



TAMMIA
KIM^A  IUdML D0WUh98  Pp  J2CT
atlo Ceseretitv Ouiso
Capita1 Tave.tMn.t  nd Rpev-nt
7 re ecr e arrs
tet                                   PfYI           n2             7m              PY4            FfS           7Y6            PY7            pYs             PY9            PY10           PYIY W12
A. Recetipts
1. Lorries                                                158,200       429,400         361.600          610,200        542,400       452.008        497,200         293,600        226.0W0        1538,200       67,800
2. Four whel drive vehicles                189,600        142,200        47,400           94.800          94,600        189,600       142,200         47,400          94, 00         94, 00        189,600       142,200
3. Spare pert.                              47.400         60,750       124,650          114,100         181,900        205,600       171,150        170,050         114,100         915300         92.600        58,150
4.  Office  nd offi.e equitpmnt            200,000
5.  kpair  od aeinteae  hop                 80.000
6. Ki4_ Sodo-                               700.00         70,000
7.  Kibodo godoem  - Section 1              150.000       550,000
S.  Kibondo godos.  - Section 11                                                         150,000         550,000
Total                            737,000       1. OI 150      601.650          720,500       1,4366900        937,600       765.350         714,650        502,700        412.300         40.400       268,150
8. Disburasmets
1.  Lorries I/                                             61,950       230,100          371,700         548,650        592,850       628,250         564,050        486.750         398.250       265.500       177 000
2. Four sheet drive vehicles 1/             74,250        129.950       148.500          111.350          92.750        1486450       167,050         148,500        111,350          92,750       14U,450       167,050
3.  Spr  pe rts 11                          186550         50,1S 0       99,050          125,200         164,800        If,.400       218,700         214,100        178,300         147,150       116,800        94,850
4. Office  nd office equipsnt 2/             6,500         31,350         31,350          31,350          31.350         31,350        31,350          31,350         31t350          31,350
5. RepeSr nd meintenonce  hop 2/                            2,600        12,550           12,550          12,550         12.550        12,550          12,550         12,550          12,550        12.550
6. Kigsm  godown 2/                                         2.250         13.200          21,90            1,900         21,90 00,9O                   219900         21,900          21,900        21,900        10.950
7. Kibondo godo.m - Sectioc 1 2/                            4,050        41,350          109,750         109,750        109.750       109,750         109.750        109,750         109.750       109.750        86,250
8.  ibondo godorv  - Section 11 2/                                                                         4,850         41,350       109,750         109,750        109,750         109,750       109,750        109.750
Total                              99,300        283,100       576,100         763.800          9866.00      1154.600       1,299,300     1.231,950       1,061,700        923,450        784,700       645,650
1/ Cost of * 7-ton lorries celculted es Sh 90,400 *nd of 4-whel drive vehicles as Sh 47,400; econotmi lifes estimted to be 3 yeerr  for lorris and 5 ye.rs for 4-vheel 4rive vehiclo.; lorriss .seused Co have r-sidual value equal
to 25% of purchase price.  Repayment period celculated a. 3 years interest  hargeo  s 8.5% on lorries, 4-heel drive vehicles end spere parts.  Asumed that spare ports equsl to 25% of vehicle value  -re bought at time of vehicle
p.rchase. Only increeset.l vehicles during the first five years are financed by the project. See Table 7e for schedule of vehicle bWild p.
/ Godons, office, and oiotenance shop all calculated to have repayment period of 19 ye.s,. with one year grace period, and to h.e- interest O-rge of 7 5%.  I.nerst 1s paid during the Srtce period   ton-tuctio, nd therefore
disburse-nts, of e-ch are spread over 2 yers. Kign__ gododn calculttd at 650e  in  ite for capacitv oa  500  on..  The  ihondo godown calculated at 6750 n   o he built in 2  -ton    for capaclt*   f 5000 ton.   BoCh asse
unit co.t$ of TSh 280 per ton capacity.



TAIlZA2II
KG1A0 RURAL DEVEULOPsT PROJECT
P1G09A CODPVIATIVE 35108
"I           n72            )           P74            j           PY6          pYT           pyg          ?Te           Fy0 rno                      F2
A. Advances to llies I/
1. Vtl_z       t
iefratructur   2I
a Villep   R eadi mis.
sheller                                                               75,000        93,750        93,750       93,750                     75,000        93,730        3,o50      93,750                          75,000
b. VIllae - N      stIle                                                228,000       342,000      342,000       456,000      456,000       342,000                                228,000        342,000          342,000
Villap - Godown.                                                       736,000       920,000      910,000       970,000
d. Village - Fhing nt nd
ear                                                                   20,000        40,000        70,000      143,000       175,300      218,800       286.700      315,300     346,800        381.600          419,700
sub-total                                                          1,.09,000     1.345.750    1.4253750    1.612,750        631,300      635.800        380.450     409,050     668,s30        723.600          836,700
2. Credit for soaaonal .ts. 3/                                              630,000     2,480,850    5,047,450    7,705,700    9,471,500   10,172,500    10,353,050  10,533,500  10,533,500    10,533,500          10,533,500
3. CAmh_aYangL for cr55
pd tchse6 4                                                         2,t35,300     5,670,000    9.654,250   14,224,650   16.704,850   18,153,100    19,502.100 20,444,400   21,380,200   22.299,600            23)261,700
Total                                                            3,824,300       9,546,600   16,127,450  2,A43,100  26,809,650   28,961.400    30,235,600  31,386.950  32,882,250   33,556,700              34,631,900
8.   Uiota Dbt Slrvina Oblizatteoa
1. Village sconoi
intraatr,ats rs
a. Villa   - Rad Miss
sheltr                                                              22,400        50,400        78,400      106,400        84,000       78,400         78,400      780400       106,400       84,000           78,400
b.  Village   Mairs sills                                               56,400       140,900       225.400      338.100       450.800      478,900        394,400     309,900       253,600      225,400          225,400
c.  Villge - Codo-ns                                                    27,600        89,700       194,100      307,300       386.000      430,200        430,200     430;200       430,200       43u,2-I.t       433,200
d. Village - Fihlg -t and
gear                                                                11,150        33,450        61,300      118,650       177,300      219,500        281,550     335,300       368,750      405,650          446,250
sob-total                                                         117,550        314,450      559,200       870,450    1,098,1D0     1.207,000      1.184,550   1,153,800    1.158,950    1.145.250         1.180,250
2.  S*asonl Credit                                                         571,300      2,249,700    4,579,700    6,990,750    8,598,900    9,239,000       9,406,200   9,573,500    9,573,500    9.573,500          9,573,500
3.  Cash ancaso    r croP
purchases                                                          2,157,700      5,728,100     9,753,2f0   14,370,450   16,876,050   18,339,150    19,702,000  20,654,000   21,599,350   223528,150          23,500,150
Totfl                                                            2,946,530     9,292,250   14,892,100    22,231,650  26,573,050   28,785,150    30,292,750  31,381,300   32,330,NO0   33,246,900            34,253,900
1/ T-ble indicates total asah flow during esch year and not aer.ly at ye*r end, obey both credit for seasonal inputs and csh advances for crop purchase should have bhan repid.
On ledtig astivitis of Union rsquirs thot cash  rhsnge hands 4 times   (a) bank to Union, (b) Uion to village, (c) village to Unoc, sod (d) Ulon to Booh   For purpossa of this sash flow a.alveIs, only step
(b) end (e) have been shown, the first as a di.ebuvssnnt by the Union and tho second as a receIpt fron the cilags.  P-coipte fom, villfat  nill itcluds not coly cepeytnt of prinipol bhut alec irtor..t, cith the
soception of sash ad-asce.
EI tEtinted that averae  livas of nine  hellter, -sein  mill, godown, end fishing equ4ipoasnt re 5 years. A years, 15 yema and 3 years -esp-cti-ly, sod asaoed they are .11 r-placsd accordigly,. fieced by * r-gs1- credit frls
TIDB.  Only the origoal cosimc isfrastauetsre to be finsncd under the project   Although  s crsdit provision has bees  ads for replacsot  inv-t t in fishing equipnt tI expected to grow at 10% after PY5.
Unit costs of siss sheller, mine sll, and godewn   usad to bh  Sh3750, 22900, and 36800 rspetvely   Coat of fishiog squtpaect astisatad at Sh9000 for b..ch esiee u.it., Sh3000 foe dryiog urit., ShlO fur
pr s..re laqss, and 81,O1O  fer iLqproed local boat.
Iterest CharmI                                    Rtepar_st Paritd
leais  ehellsr                            7,52                                                4 years
Naio sill                                 7.52                                                 5 years
village godpw                             7.5%                                                15 years (iIcluding 2 yesar  gran.  period)
3/ Credit for seasonal tpots provided on FOR value, railhed Kigos  and interest charges assesed accordingly.  Table 2 indic-tis  uno             *n and valu  of ipuis at ligos  rallhed open which istareat charges are assessed.
Estiasted th.t a11 titere-t chagre on seso.al ipurt are re--ponibility of recipiL-t vIllae and eount to no sore ths 1 year at 8.57 per wr, aIthough actual repaysast of both Jeterest aod priocipl sill  ost
likely set be code until following fiscal year.
4/Cash advecc, provided th-ough Uiion by NbC for parchase of crops, i-volces interest cherge of 6. 5  to be borne by U.i,on  Ctush sd--oes e7stised to be ont-a-dinig for, 3 cooks for corcon and 3 cynths te or er                                               r
crops (verage iotareat rats of .01025).  Cash advance is equal to csop purchased ciou-  tho credit Ior seasocel inputs.



AkSNEX 14
Table 10
T~ANZANI
KIUGA EUSAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Czu?0rh,Lw of Prima  society
(tlodel350-feiily villege)
2          3           4           5      Villete Years    7            8           9          10
A. Heceipts                      2/ 49
1. Bwrewings for inp.t ptzrhases  14,900    77,850     113,700     113,700     117,900     117,900      117,900     117,900     117,900
2. BDrtwin* farcp purchae.s 3l 88,350    156,850       155,200     180,500     193, Bo     204, 9t!    214,0'(      223,000      233,300
3. Society levy k'               7,360      12,380      13,750      14,500      15,220      15,790       16,290      16,790      17,290
Total                  145,610    2147,080    282,650      308,700     326,920     338,590     348,190      357,690     368,490
B. Disbursements
1. Crop purchases 5/           138,250    234,700      268,900     294,200     311,700      322,800     331,900     340,900     351,200
2. Salaries and wages             2,850      3,200       4,000       4,150       4,200       4,250        4,280       4,300       h,320
3. Audit and supervision           220         370         410         440         460          470         490        5S0          520
Godown debt repayent  /       1,380       2,760       4,530       4,530       4,530        4,530       4,530       4,530       4,530
5. Maintenance and repair 9/                  100          100         150         150          200         200         250         250
Total               142,700    241,130      277,940     303,470     321,040     332,250     341,400      350,480     360,820
Surplu                       2,910      5,950        4,710       5,230       5,880       6,340       6,790        7,210       7,670)
Cusmmulative                             8,860      13,570      18,800      24,680      31,020       37,810      45,020      52,690
1/   Investment in and income from a maise sheiler and maize mill to be purchased by each village in Years 2-3 have not been includec here,
as they are assumed to be self-liquidating.
2/  Cost of sasonal inputs to village includes margin and services provided by Union (see Table 5).  Although TRDB is assumed to provide
credit only on the FOR Kigoma price, it is expected that Union, rather than village, will bear any credit costs that might be incurred
on the difference of its buying and selling price of irnuts until the village's marketable surplus is purchased.
Note that seasonal inputs here include only those provided on credit, not aTnr that might be provided by Ooverrment on subsidy.
Village input requirements are derived from Annex 3, Table 9.
j/   Cash advance represents the difference between the crops sold and seasonal inputs received by the society.   Intereat charges an.
insurance costs are borne by Union, unless the society retains balances after harvest it should return.
W Village levy was calculated on the following basis:
Years of Village Development
1      2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9          10
a. Cotton
1. volume (bags)                1,472       3,424      3,766      3,928      4,074      4,229       4,356      4,486      4,621
ii. levy (TSh 2.4/bag)          3,533       8,21B      9,038      9,427      9,778     10,150      10,454     10,766     11,090
b. Maize, beans, nuts
l. volume (bags)                1,401       1,524      1,724      1,859      1,990      2,065       2,138      2,205      2,271
ii. levy (TSh 2.73/bag)         3,825      4,161       4,707      5,075      5,438      5,637       5,837      6,020      6,200
Total levy (TSh)             7,358     12,379      13,745     14,502     f5,216     15,787     16,291      16,786     17,290
Volume of marketable surplus is derived frcm Annex 3, Table 7  nd the levy rates from Table 5:
/ Derived frm Annex 3, Table 7
W Salariea and wages are calculated on the following basis:
Category                                           Years of Village DevelopMent
( TSh)
1          2          3          h4         5           6          7          8          9           10
a. Bookkeeper                        1,400       1,400      2,100      2,100      2,100       2,100      2,100      2,100      2,100
b. Godown attendant                  1,000       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
c. Seasonal labor                      450         850        950      1,050      1,100      1,150       1,180      1,200      1,220
Total                      2,850      3,250       4,050      4,150      4,200      4,250       4,280      4,300      4,320
Bookkeeper's salary is expected to increase from Sh 200h/o. to Sh 300/mo. once he has completed his apprenticeship with the UCDA.  The
UCDA, while in the village during years 1-3, is expected to be on the ooverrsient's, not the village's, budget. The salary of the
godown attendant in Sh 200h/o. for 5 months.  Secretary, as an elected official, is considered to be unpaid.  Seasonal labor
calculated on following basis:  in year 4, assumed to be roughly 60 lorry loads per vilage, which would take 6 men, working at
Sh 0.75/hour, 1.3 hours ech to unload and load, reeulting in a total of Sh 350/year.  In addition, to assist in the bagging of
marketable produce, a task insolving Spproximataly 50 bags per day during harvest of year 4, seasonal labor to be hired for the 5
months ot harvest at Sb 5.00/day,      totalling Sh 600.  Total seaonal labor in yer 4 is therefore Sh 950.  Seasonal labor for the
remaining years of village developoent is calculated similarly on the basis of produce handled.
j   Audit and supervision costa repreaset 3% of income derived from society levy.
§/  Terms of the TRDB credit for godowns are asmmed to be 15 year repayment with 2 years grace and 7.5% interest charges. Godown's
original cost is TSh 36,8D0, including storage building with currugated iron siding and concrete floor, adjoining concrete platform,
security fencing and  al.l office, as wel as Sh 3,000 for a mall safe and weighing scales.
2/   Repair and maintenance is on godown invsetst.



ANNEX 15
TANZANIA
KIGr(KA RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Crops Budgets and Production Models



TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVEI0PMENT PROJECT
Maize Acre Budgets
Actual                            Incremental
Traditional  stage I  Stage II  Stage III  Stage I  Stage II  Stage III
Yield in lb shelled grain/ac/-                       535         675      1,020     1,700        140       345       68o
Gross Return/ac at Tsh 0.16/lb/2                       85.60     108.00    163.20    272.00       22.40    55.20    108.80
Cost of Inputs
A. Materials
Seed at 12 lb/ac traditional & Stage I,
20 lb/ac for Stages II & III /3                   2.88        3.36      5.60       5.60       0.48      2.24
T 5% dust at 4kg & Tsh 4.90/ac/4                   -.-         -.-        4.90      4.90       -.-       4.90
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate at 56 lb7-c 15            -                       -       33.05                 -.-      33.05
Di Ammonium Fhosphate at 56 lb/ac /5               -.-         -.      -           40.92       -.-       -.-      40.92
Tools, including shelling charge /Z7                3.70       4.85       6.75     10.68        1        1.90      3.93
Sub-total Materials                          6.5         8,21     17.25      95.15       1.63     9.04      77.90
B. Labor (nan-day) /7
Land preparation                                  25          27         30        30          2         3          -
Planting                                           1           1          2         2          -         1          -
Thinnirg & weedinC                                12          14         15         17         2         1          2
Dusting                                             -          -          3          3         -         3          -
Fertilizer application                              -          -          -          2         -         -   -      2
Harvesting                                          6          7          8         10         1         1          2
Shelling /8                                         1          1          2          2          -        1          -
Sub-total Labor                                         50         60        ;r                   10
lNet Return excluding Labor (Tsh)                      79.02      99.79    145.95    176.85        20.77    46.16      30.90
.Return to Labor (Tsh/nan-day)                          1.76        2.00      2.43       2.63       4.15      4.62      5,15
/1  Iission estimates.
77  Based on 1973 official farmgate price.
73 Traditional based on local variety at Tsh 0.24/lb, Stages I, II and III based on Ukirigura Composite A at Tsh 0.2X/lb.
7   Recommended application rate at farmgate price incorporating transport, insurance, handling and 10% Union lev<y.
7   Calciur. Ammonium Nitrate (CAN) at farmgate price of Tsh 1,322.09/ton; Di Ajiwonioin Phosphate (DAP) at farrgate pr-ce of
Tsh l,636.80/ton. Both prices include transport, insurance, handling and 10% Union le-vy.
/6 Notional charge for tools constant at Tsh 0.50/ac.  Charge for machine shelling at Tsh 1.20/200 lb bag rounded, includes
attendant at Tsh 10.00/day.
/7  Joint mission and 1linistry of Agriculture estilates.
75  Includes transport to village sheller and assistance in iLacilnv shelliig.
'iote:  Despite nat±onal adopt½on of toe   +,r e systen, actual usage Tn the i-.on .s stll iitl, acres, p'ouei3s and feet.
Accordingly, the calculations in this annex have used these unts.
F' H-
e  ;



TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEViLOPXENT PROJECT
Bean Acre Budgets /1
Actual                   Incremental
Traditionalt. Stage D'3 Stage IYt  Stage II   Stage III
Yield in lb/ac /2 /3 A                                  250         500       600         250        100
Gross Return in Tsh/lb /5                                95.00      190.00    228.00       95.00      38.00
(official price of TshO0.38/lb; Tsh 76.00/200 lb bag)
Cost of Inputs
A. Materials
Seed /6                                               7.60       13.30     13.30        5.70
Tools 7notional)                                      0.50        0.50      0.50        -.-        -.-
Sub-total Materials                             8.10       13.80     1.70         5.70
B.  Labor (man-day/ac) /7
nd preparation and ridging                           12.         20        20           8           -
Planting                                              2           4         4           2           -
Weedirg                                               6          12        16           6           4
Harvesting                                            4           9        10           5           1
Sub-total Labor                                           liF-
Net Return excluding Labor (Tsh/ac)                       86.90     176.20    214.20       89.30       38.00
Rleturn to Labor (Tsh/ man-day)                            3.62       3.92       4.28       4.25        7.60
/1 Assuming one crop/ac/year.
72  Assuming intercropping with maize, early planted.
73 Assuming sole cropping planted MgIarch/April but no firtilizer on maize, i.e0 Stages I & II of ma4ze.
7C As for /3 but with residual fertilizer effect from Stage III maize.
7   Assuming local yellow seeded variety.
7   Traditional seed rate 20 lb/ac; Intermediat.! and Advanced at 35 lb/ac.  Seed cost Tsh 0.38/lb.
7T  IIinistry of Agriculture and Mission estimates.
i.ote:  Despite national adoption of the metric system, actual usage in the region is still with acres, pounds
and feet.  Accordingly, the calculations in this annex have used these units.                                       ro



TANZANIA
KIGOHA RURAL DEVILCPNKIr PROJECT
Cotton Acre Budgets
Actual
Traditional       Advnced         Inc remental
Tield in lb seed cotton/ac (UK 64) A                                 350             1,000              650
Groee Return (Tsh) /2
Grade AR at Tth T.50/kg (Tah 0.679/lb)                           130.71         543.20
Grade BR at Tah 0.65/kg (Tsh 0.298/lb)                            46.31           58.80
Total (Tah/ac)           1               6Q0                 298
Cost of Inuts
A. NaterilsX
Insecticide (Adosulfan at 6 liters/ac) /                           -.-            97.80              97.80
ULV sprayer set: 1 per 5 ac, replaced each 2 years A               -.-            16.28              16.28
Batteries at 16/sprayer per year                                   -.-             5.78                5.78
Tools and cleaning materials /6                                    0.50            2.00 /6             1.50
Fertilizer: a) CNN at 90 lb/ac and Tsh 1,322.09/ton /7              -             53.12               53.12
b) DAP at 90 lb/ac and Tsh 1,636.90/ton /               -             676                67.76
Sub-total Jlterials        0.50                              242.24
B. Labor (man-days)
UW=preparation and ridging                                         28             34                   6
Planting                                                            2              2                   -
Fertilizer application                                              -              2                   2
Thinning and weeding                                               17             20                   3
Insecticide application                                             -              2                   2
Harveeting                                                         12             20                   8
Uprooting and burning stalks                                                                           -
Sub-total Labor                                               21
Net Return Excludinz Labor (Tsh)                                      176.52         359.26              l82.74
Return to Labor (Tsh/man-day)                                           2.85            4.33               8.71
7 Based on Ministry of Agriculture surveys and mission judgments.
2/ Official producer prices with traditional cotton in the proportion of 55% AR to 45% BR and Advanced cotton
in the prqportion 80% AR to 20% BR.
Endosulfan at Tsh 16.30/liter at one liter/ac in each of 6 applications.
ULV sprayer, mask and gloves at Tsh 162.80 per set.
5/tU2 batteries at one set per 5 acres per season.
6/Tsh 1.50 for paraffin to cleen 'JLV sprayer.
7/ Fertilizers charged at delivered price plus union service charge of 10%.
Note: Despite national adoption of the metric system, actual ussge in the region is still with acres, pounds
and teet.  Accordingly, the calculations in this armex -h,ave used these units.



TA:<A:&.
Groundnut Acre budgets
Actual
Traditional      Advancei       Incremental
Yield (lb shelled nuts/ac)                                         350             700             350
Gross Returns (Tsh) /1                                             198.30          432.70          234.40
Cost of Inputs
A.  Materials (Tsb/ac)
Seed /2                                                         25.65           44.80           19.15
Fertilizer (SSP at 112 lb/ac) /3                                 -.-            47.31           47.31
Hand tools (national)                                            0.50            0.50            -.-
Sub-total Materials                                       26.15           92.bl           6.46
B. Iabor (man-days) /4
Land preparation and ridging                                    12              20               8
Planting                                                         2                4              2
:.Ieeding                                                        8               16              8
Fertilizer application                                           -                2              4
-arvesting                                                      20               25              5
Shelling                                                        12               20               6
Sub-total Labor                                                                           33
Net Return excluding Labor (Tsh/ac)                                172.15           340.09          167.94
Return to labor (Tsh/inan-day)                                       3.19             3.91            5.0c9
/1  1973/74 official "into store" price is Tsh 1,715/ton for Grade I confectionery nuts and Tsh 1,515/ton for
Grade II crushing grade nuts. In the absence of an official farmgate price this has been calculated taking
account of freight, handling, insurance, shrinkage  interest on buying advances and Union levy.  This approx-
imates 846  of the "into store" price or Tsh 1,14,o.60 and Tsh 1,272.60/ton for Grades I and II, respectively.
Traditional nuts are predoninantly of the Mwitunde variety wlhich is largely Grade II.  Advanced nuts would be
of the improved Bukene variety which could be expected to yield 67' Grade I and 33% Grade II nuts. *                    a
/2  Traditionally groundnuts would be planted at a seed rate of 45 lb/ac, Advanced at 70 lb/ac, at pr,ces approxi-
mating ffic2al purchase prices for Grades II and I respectively, i.e. Tsh 0.57 and Tsh 0.64/lb.                          X
/3  single Superphosphate (SP)l at Tsh 946.24/ton at farrngate.
77  irnistry or Agricuitre a:cd  ;ission estInates.
11ote:  Desp2te :vational atloptiorn 4 the -etwr -c st .   } -c'ai usaie  an the reli)n is s,,ill wi:t!    re,  'iid53
a, rlsc  r  Ao>r -r.l'nEy, t   Cvi1C.L'i   ;:   4>  is  teN ;,.V2 -se d t"r se .'i t 5



A1NIKEX
'Table
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RAIJL DEVEWRIL-WPR }¶OJECT
50 ftmi  V       e Production Model at Full Develo  ent
House Ploti  ladi ti to
1. Acreage of Cp                                                           -            '
Mixed                 350             -          -         -                      -
Maize                    -            -         18       166      166             3,5
ikeans                   _            _         18       166      166             30Ci
['utton1                -            55          -         -      295             3- 
1;roundnuts              -           75         -                 J 100            i
Production (lb.) /6
Mixed                     --                        -        -
Mlaize             105,000             -      12,150  169,320    282,200        568,6 7
Beans               70,000             -        9,000   83,000     99,600       261,60-
Seed Cotton               -       19,250            -        -    2952000       3 14,22
3roundnuts                _       26,250            -        -     70,000        96,25:-
;ubsistence (lb/yr) /8
li)xed:  assorted house plot crops, unquantified
Naize:  at 200 lb/head x 5 = 1,000 lb/faxrily + 20 lb for seed               357,000
Beans: at. 80 lb/head x 5 = 400 lb/family * 35 lb for seed                   152,250
2roeundnut.s: at 20 lb/head x 5 = 100 lb/amily + 30 lb for seed               45L,500
srre t3'; ' e Surp    (lb) i.e. 2 - 3
Raize i7.34 tons)                                                            211,670
5eans:  h 1.50 t3Tns)                                                        109,350
Seed :. )ott n:  k125 tons)                                                  268,750
.rour1flv.r.:sI  (226 VatQ")                                                  50'750
U'ashi VIalu of M4arketab.le Surplus (Tsh) /9
;iMe: (!. Tsh) 0.1/Lb                                                         33,867
deans: at, Tsh 0.38/lb                                                        41,553
:c,r,d ,ot,ttojs at Tsh 4681.6o/acre                                         168,560
:)Lnfld?uL:;:  at official market prices assuming sale of best nuts          31,4j65
(Tslh 0.62/1b)
Totald  ash Value, (Tsh)      275 ,445
Fertilizer  insecticide  Sprayer  Tools, etc.  To ,al
L    esona IiLut /10
,'in! ze                       12,279         1,627           -     2,981    16,887
Z'a s                                                                 1.75      175
t.rounruits                    35,660        28,851      6,508        618    71,637
total                     4i,731             -          -         88    J419,
Average Liross Cash Income/Family (5 ; 350) (Tsh)                               7P7
Ave.age '  Cash Income Per Family (5 - 6 s 350) (Tsh)                            520



Tzable
Page 2
iootnotea for table:
/1 House Plot cropped under traditional practices witli unaizo, beans, cassava,
bananas, sorghuvi, groundnuts and assorted vegetables cuch as okra.
/2  Troditional ixiplies local seed, cultural practices and. no fertillz',v.
/3  Stage I irlplie3 iciproved naize -eed grown as sole crop but incorpo±at."L-,
lew other rcco:=lended practiceo. Beans would be late planted with this
crop (April/';:a) ,atvzring in trio dry season.
/x StPtCe II inmplles use of itmproved seed of naize and cotton, inproveci
ad:-oromic pracUices aiid insecticide as appropriate.  Beans would  e3
g,'otn in aasociation with iala;Za as described above.
4/c Siage III Impplies use of fertilizer in addition to othler im!iprov-e
practices descr'bed above where recommendations ex.st.
/6 Toduction `i,:ires derived froin acre budgets.
/7  See footnote A   yield estinatocs can ronly be mnenin6fi.:lly Iiade fo. .,iae
a    td 0t.ans, at 30 and 210 lb, raspectively per acre.
/.  M ss-i on estimatet.
'9 At rrices used in acre budgets, i.e. farmgate.
1.0 Cost of seasonal imputs derived from acre budgets. Seed costs deducted
.under subsistence section as income foregone.
Note:  Despite national adcption of the i,ietric systen, actual usage Iin the reg&o-
is still wit!: acres, pounds and feet.  Accordingly, the calculati.cns ½.r
this araiox hn;'e used these units.



TANZANIA
KIGOGI URUAL, DVELONaNT PROJECT
c-e. ..ad Production  uIld Up by C-ops and 'ea-
Aer.ge B.350 Po.ily OiltIg.
Vill.g.  Y.-e  2    Vtllage  Year 3~ Vill.g.  Year 4    vollae  Y-a  S    Villas.  Y-ea  6    Vill.os   Year 7    Villa..  Year                       '(illa.   Y-a  9   VIll.ge  Y(Ca  10   OtIlag    Year 11   Vlae oa-1~2
Acres       lb       Arre         lb       Acres       lb       Arres        lb       Acre!        lb       Acr*s       lb       Acres        lb       Acres        lb      Acres        lb      Acrez        lb       Acres        lb
H-us  Plot  /I                                350      105,000    350        105,000      350      105,000    350       105,000      350      103.000    350       103,000      330       105,000     350      103 000    350)      /3          3501                  350)
stage 1                                        87.5    59,063        39       26.325       25       16,875      18        12,050      is       12,150       18       12,150      19        12,150      10       12.150      10)                  18)                   10)
stage 11                                      175      170,S00    195        198.900      175      178.500    168       169,320      129      131,380      92        93,840       55       56.100      19       19,300      19)                  19)                   19)
stage ITT                                      87.3   148.5         118t     197.200      130      2500        168       8,0         203      345.100    240       40,0         277      470.900      313      532,100      LI)    ____         313)    ____          313)      ___
Tt1Total                                          991,313    700       527.425      700      555.375    709        568.670      700     593.830    700        818,990      700      644,150      700      864,630             6881,609              709,350               730,630
H...e Plot  /I                                350       70,000    350         70,000      330       70.000    350         70.000     330       70.000    350         70,000     350        70.000     350       70.000    350)      /3          350)                  350)
Stage I                            ~~~~~ ~~~~~87.3    43,730  39  19,500       25       12,300      18         9,000      1s        9.000       is        9.00'0     19         9,000      18         9,000    10)                   10)                   10)
Stage 11                          ~~~~      ~~~~~1)5  87,300    195  97,3000  175       87.300    166         83.000     129       46,000       92       46,000       53       21,500       19        9.0       1)1)1)
Stage 111                          ~~~~~~~~~87.5   52i.500    116  6960       150       90.000     166        99,60      20)      121i500    240        1400        2 7 7     16,0        31       187.800    313)    ____          33        ___         313)      ___
Tona                                     700      203.750    700       256,600      700      260.000    700        261,600      700     265.300    700        269,000      700      277,700      700      276,300             204.589               293,127               301,920
SEE  COTTOO
()Traditi-Ia  /2                             87.5    30.625    117         40,950       75       28.250      50        19.250      37       12.950       10        8,300       18)     /3            18)                 10)                   181                   18)
(8    dnaurd                                87.5        .250    233       233.000    2375      275.000      295      295.00       313      313.000     332      332.000      337)    _____         332)    _____        337                  3321    _____         332)    ____
Tota                                     175      117,765    350       273.950      350      301.250      350      314,250      339      325,950     350      338,300      350)    340,449           350) 38,902   330)    369.670         350)    380,760       350)    392,182
(a)  Tr-ditjo...l  /2                                      -                        -    157.5    55.125        75        26,250r     35       12.250       35)    /3             35)                   35)                 35)                   35)                   33,
(b3  Ad--cod                                                  --                           17.5   J.2L250    100          70.000     140      9!,00        14-0)    ___         140)     ____         1401       ___       140)    _____        140)    _____         140)       -
Tot.1-                                                                              175       67,373      175       96.250      175      110,250              113.558               11,2410.472                                 2406127,810                               1161
/1  Mi..d  -rppiog Tcoe  cr  house plot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
/2  Bl1ok fare -Iti-ati oc
/3  Fr-d-tr- .-as-md to gro  at TY p-r  -m.at,no)rfn',m, d                        -.ptitrdcduder tie pro Jeti  -rr_pl.ed.
Source: '(able 
Nate   Sa-pite natiol1 adopct-  of tIe  yerr syte-. o,,aI,s                  I  the region Ic still with a-e., pouds and f-, Scr.p',tecl,la)n   n1, c...e.  or  -ud                                            - sruits






T': ..   ....                                                                                                                                                                                                       t~~~~~~8
T':                                                                                          !2UM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41 20 ,808 8.0 8 924 
A,88.88 330 289223252108812~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.
011.8   022   4O7j...j,,,,,,,,,,,,                    11.2  5.o                          061.   ..3                               62885.s                            5208..87                                22885808.....085                                                                                            ...*...2..11...........o.o2
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                           0/                                                                                                                                                      8/                                                                          2/
......L88252                                1.8118    2841301.s8.so-od,O.    ,sl.3,..78...o6828                                                              188286008l3001 ....02.881278020802,    19109                                                     -402583188628.0-80228    4o8                                  o.28o.P.s02,S,28                      42800288o38    .858 S.S128..885to    858
7o(o/1                             2,241112.832.0                                    2.01101                 2650         35.7         0,8332                    2.00185                  3,11        9.9         8,9          3,2         6880       2088          302j6010                 28,2          0,0          2,21    8,2             2382         68883    883,338,32330                                          2803712                  5,8
T,,   71 ., ..1..........0                                                                       02.3880                   0,2        3,3            710          007       0.83          0.0           801        310         3,80         0.3          023           2030.00                2,2            2,806028,0                           828        21.9          0808,0                     1.33 38 0 00 01 2912,3






0   0  00  00.noO.0000000.o0100009090   0''0~no'.000.0000000nOnOOOonOoOoOOOOnA.06000.06..6n                                              10...06.0.16.
~0On0 000  ~   0000  no  nnoooono0000~0 06000090000 'o 000000O~0/i0n
. . 0 .  .  .   .....  ..o ............00016T60066000000000n0 0
......    ......  ... ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       oo000n000n00000
......  ......  ~               ~              nond0nnooo    dnoooon                           0o0                    0         OooonnOO,0,o    000010006000n/q.
'noon  000000   069000                             'non;                             600000                            000.066                           0,0061~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   ..
ooo'6  000'O  0000  0009                       000'!                             0,0'0                             6060                               6000                              00,0                              0600                                         0/0600006~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7M
0000 0000 000  mon 000;  010         oOo        000         000          li!       Ono        0000        000!      010         0010          60o      000        gon          000000               000          OOO        90on       009         OOo       00'0         0SO--                                        --                
non; 'nn, onos non      oooo          oo        soo        00,1       6000         oq'o      0000        0016        0o69       009n       060           oOo   ,.0'oo         060         000       0000   7900              066 6I,               oV0 0-0               6660       no..-...-                                                       
0660 0060- 6600  6000 on00     0000                    oo'oOOOnO                         0000    0'00                       000!      nOnn-                    60,    6600-                     0060    0000         -             Ooo       0000'9000    6090                            -0909                  0009        -Lon,000






014299  69C91,99099 910410
25  -         -       20,626       611,950       19,4CC~~~~~~~~~~~Mn  01.0    4C0          9,5            9,59        9665          0,         60,409        9009         9904,975      9295        ,0617             5.9       1,0619,900       14,9       1,091,90        36,994      4,199,..       09096        9,91
25  -  -  -       -            -             -        20.C6C       611 690       20 600        014140        091       631 95C       26.456        946 605       29 245       904.47s         09.092  ~~~~~~~            31.750      1.016.19-4 5     -1-009.309                220.426T    0 060.000
95         1,59         Si3O            9491.9169                  559        ,0419            1,2       421,424,4                   912,9          149        ,662031,90992,45                         16,1         305,9           1219         ,2921          2,00       4.9,66          19129        ,9120         ,2942         199,9
25  -  .       4,941       ,000,50        14,29      1,07,290         1,040      1060,00         10,16      1.099,19         19.     1,090505         15495      1.921050        15.952     1,010.30-19,2913996951                       19921      1,21,959         15,919      1,999,90       11005-        10496.41
95            -                          -        4,99      1090550          14.69       ,26,90         1,09        1.60.11          3,4     1,00,25          9,90       4090599         19,99       .12.40          1,29        1,10,50.3,19                 96,9169,59I4096914                        92.14       0,56,91
291   -             -            -             -             -             -       14 349      1 090 999      21 119  16         90       14 01   06.0           .,jI& 66      2.009129-       _951       10095            1 45        10190           2  0       12010            1  I          9  95         0          ____
99         1146         9940           2,9         ,5,9            970       50090           5!9          4!4o           O,9         ,0,95           43       32520           5.97       3,-9,500        5790        C,599                             M'3       51959       o: ~       ~3o3 1,95,90                   4-990,146     931,0
25                       99.901    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.0410 9,1     ,2,0             401       Cll99           9.9         .9,5            4         ,04,90        95,19      5,001,950        10917910    522,C           111,199     5 1949,49      015,523      5.546,05        119,9        ,1,0           7.9 46,709.21
25                                                                                            24                                               4.-~~~~~~-  ,90 94,95 60  9,615  ,2  9245     ,6        1.911.90          0,406     0,941,90         2,95      1.9,05             ,11      12900            5,9          ,9,0
-              .W         M,2956       20.59           ,55         90,2          15,603     j1,990,00        91.1    2,526,965         -0415      0,14,90         5041       3,704,9          9155        ,91,1           30,930     4.102,955       -4, 330_2,154,75            -4.28119.1
9.0 224.99 9~~~~0 609 9991 9109992999..  9191,2 1969991 6919. 2991 0911991.479161 99 3OC 10, 211: 9649.91919144  290 14.1:1"61                                                                                                                                                    :~I:'
9199~1  2,91916. 92929990 .29964191 99 90. 91.9919.9.0-, 2199910 09191291 IC 90, 9919199 1~ 910111911221091,, 99907.919D 09919.
41119102991y, tC91 ,.2611.9190. IC 40C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 499919199109 9.912 92919,91 991962.o::4 ~                                                                                ,~'~:  .                                                                                             :'






TANZANIA
KIGCNA RURAL DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Input Needs by Volume and Cost  L
INPUT                                                Unit Cost              Village Year 2          Village Year 3          Village Year 4          Village Year 5       Total Village Needs
Unit     Tah                 Volume      Cost Tab   Volume      Cost Tah   Volume       Cost Tsh   Volume    Cost Tsh   Volume    Cost Tsh
Diamsonium Phosphate (DAP)                    tons   1,636.80
(a) on Maize                                   44      72,019        132      216,057        264      432,115        396    648,172         836  1,368,363
(b) on Cotton                                  71     116.213        317      518,866    (  669   1,095.019        1,020  1.b69.536       2,07/  3 399 634
Sub-Total DAP                                                     115      188,232        449      734,923        933   1,527,134       1,416  2,317,708       2,913  4,767,997
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (CAN)                tons   1,322.09
(a)  on Maize                                  44      58,172         132     174,516         264     349,032        396    523,548         836  1,105,268
(b)  on Cotton                                 71       93,868        317     419.102         669     884.478       1,020  1,348,532      2077  2745.980
Sub-Total CAN                                                     115      152,040        449      593,618        933   1,233,510       1,416  1,872,080       2,913  3,851,248
DDT 57 Dust                                   kg          2.45             21,000       51,450    56,000       137,200    91,000       222,950   126,000    308,700   294,000    720,300
ULV Sprav Sets                                No.       162.80                350       56,980      1,225      199,430      2,100      341,880      2,975    484,330       6,650  1,082,620
Battery Sets                                  No.        28.88                350       10,108      1,575       45,486      3,325       96,026      5,075    146,566    10,325    298,186
Endosulfan                                    liter      16.30             10,500      171,150    47,250       770,175    99,750   1,625,925   152,250  2,481,675   309,750  5,048,925
Single Superphosphate                         tons      946.24                   -            -         -             -         -            -        100      94,624        100      94,624
Credit Needs by Year                                                                   629,960               2,480,832               5,047,425              7,705,683
Incremental Credit Requirement                                                         629,960               1,850,872               2,566,593               2,658,258
/1 Derived from Tables 1 through 5.
V-






rANZANIA
KItOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Volume and Cost of Input Needs for Demonstrationsi/
Total
Village Year 2    Villaje Year 3   Village Year 4   Village Year 5  Demonstrations
Item         n=      Unit Cost     Vol.    C=        y Vol.    Cost     Vol.    Cost      Vol.    Cost      Vol.    c Q
(Tsh)               (Tsh)             (Tsh)             (Tsh)      -       (Tsh)             (TCh
DAP             ton    1,636.80         5    8,184        7   11,458        7   11,458         7   11,458       26   42,558
CAN            ton    1,322.09          5    6,610        7    9,255        7    9,255         7    9,255       26   34,375
5% DDT          kg         2.45       400      980      500    1,225      500    1,225      500    1,225   1,900    4,655
ULV Sprayer    ea.       162.80        50    8,140       60    9,768       60    9,768       60    9,768       230   37,4"
Battery Sets   ea.        28.88        50    1,444       60    1,733       60    1,733       60    1,733       230    6,613
Endosulfan    liter       16.30    1,080   17,604   1,200   19,560   1,200   19,560   1,200   19,560   4,680   76,284
SSP            ton       946.24       -       -         -        -          5    4,731         7    6,624       12   11,355
Total                                   42,962            52,999             57,730            59,623           2T11
1/ Assumes an overall coverage of five acres of demonstrations of recommended practices for each
project crop per village.
C g
(D (
om



ANNEX 16
Page 1
TANZANIA
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Project
Introduction
1.        Conceptually, the ujamaa village may be thought of as a system
through which "inputs" -- most clearly in the form of technical knowledge,
accounting and management systems on one side, and physical inputs like
human labor, fertilizer and insecticide on the other -- are, together with
credit, combined to produce additional output, accruing largely in the form
of cash income for villagers.
2.        The project covers the investment requirements of 135 ujamaa villages
at different stages of development. Hence the investment needed in particular
villages during the disbursement period varies from social infrastructure and
set-up costs in villages just becoming established, to mainly agricultural
credit and services for already settled villages. For villages at the begin-
ning stage, the rate of return to project investment would depend critically
on government willingness to complete the program and provide the necessary
services beyond the disbursement period.
3.        Under these conditions, the assessment of the viability of the
proposed project has been based on a model of the costs and benefits associated
with investments in a typical or representative village, beginning from the
establishment of the village and taking a horizon for estimation purposes of
15 years. The analysis is based on a village of 350 families which for simpli-
city is assumed to remain constant in size over the 15 year horizon. In
addition to the economic rate of return, measuring the worth of the project
to Tanzania as a whole, there is considerable interest in the impact on the
Kigoma villagers who are the direct beneficiaries. The analysis begins from
an assessment of the latter, economy-wide considerations being dealt with
thereafter.
The Impact on Village Income and Employment
4.         Incremental production benefits to villages under the project are
calculated from the farm budgets (Annex 15), including additional production
for subsistence as well as marketed surplus. Benefits are net of recurrent
input costs, in the form of fertilizer, insecticides sprayers and interest
on seasonal credit. The traditional or previllage farm is assumed to account
for the same cultivated area per family as under the project (3.5 acres), of
which 2.4 acres would be required for subsistence needs. The remaining
1.1 t acres is valued on the basis of the traditional maize/bean intercropping
(see Annex 15). It is assumed that without the project, production per
family would have remained at the same level over the project horizon.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
5.        Faml1y agricultural income would increase from an estimated T Sh
580 under traditional settlement and farming patterns to T Sh 1,130 per
family during the eighth year following settlement of the ujamaa village.
Total agricultural income would thus increase by 95Z, while cash income
(income surplus to subsistence needs) would increase more than threefold.
A sall allowance for off-farm productive activities (casual wage labor,
beekeeping, charcoal-burning, etc.) should be made in arriving at total family
income. It is unlikely that such an allowance would raise income to more than
the equivalent of US$20 per capita under existing (pre-project) circwnstances.
Agricultural benefits under the project would therefore increase per capita
incomes from US$20 per capita to US$35 per capita.
6.        Any direct benefits from social services provided in the village --
i.e., education, water supply and health care facilities-would be additional
to expected income from agriculture. Valuation of these benefits is however
difficult. There does appear to be a strong demand for these services, and
it is argued elsewhere that without the early prospect of such services
becoming available, it is doubtful that villagers could be attracted into
village settlements, or would remain through the initial period of settlement
and land clearance, particularly in the tsetse fly areas. But the apparently
strong demand for services on the part of villagers is not unaffected by the
consideration that under present financing arrangements the benefit-cost
ratio to them is practically infinite, since capital and recurrent costs are
entirely borne by government.
7.        The services are expensive to provide:  capital costs are approx-
imately T Sh 350,000 per village, and annual recurrent costs, approximately
T Sh 80,000 (including an allowance for overhead supervision and management);
allowing for capital recovery over a 15 year period and interest at 10%, the
full annual capital and recurrent cost is T Sh 130,000, i.e., T Sh 370 per
family or T Sh 75 per capita. The full cost of providing these services in
relation to village income from production would thus be 29%. If direct benefits
were equal to full costs, "income" from social services would account for 23% of
total income, If direct benefits were only equal to recurrent operating costs,
"income" from social services would be 15% of total income. On the basis of
this assumption, the project would double total village income to US$45. 1/
8.        On the traditional farm, labor input per family per annum is calcu-
lated at about 240 days; by Year 8 under the project, this would increase
(because of the greater labor intensity per acre under improved husbandry)
to about 300 days per annum (see Annex 3). But in contrast to the traditional
farming cycle, heavily biased towards a maize/bean inter-cropping, labor
demands under the project are spread more evenly over the calendar year
(see Annex 3, Table 2). Thus despite higher overall usage of labor, labor
1/   Allowing a small margin in the pre-project situation for limited access
to health and education facilities.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
usage in the peak months of activity is very likely to be about the same
under the project as for the traditional farm of equivalent size. This is
an important consideration, since it is often the case under traditional
cropping patterns and husbandry, that scarcity of family labor during the
season of peak activity effectively checks overall expansion that would
otherwise be possible given plentiful labor during the slack season.
9.        Another influence on the cost benefit analysis and income/employment
impact at village level concerns the cropping mix over the life of the project.
The assumption that the cropping mix remains constant over the horizon of the
project is conservative, since it denies to the village benefits that may be
obtainable by modifying the cropping pattern. For example, on the basis of
the structure of prices and costs assumed for the project, it could be
expected, as a village gains in confidence and sophistication of operations,
that a switch towards cotton would occur in respect of marketed outputs.
Such a switch could increase net family income by over T Sh 100 at full develop-
ment without increasing labor input.
Market Prospects for Project Outputs
10.       Important considerations affecting future market prospects are:
Mi) trends in world and domestic markets; (ii) government protection and
promotion policies; and (iii) trends in costs of collection, marketing and
distribution of inputs and outputs. But because a substantial share of
village production is not marketed beyond the village, the effects of market
prospects are less than would be the case otherwise. At full development,
over 60% of production of beans and maize is not marketed, and over 40% of
production of groundnuts.
11.       Prospects for cotton are by far the most important market considera-
tion since cotton sales would account for more than 60% of projected agricul-
tural cash income at full development. About 85% of the crop is exported; the
1973 export prices after accounting for prices to producers, distribution and
marketing costs, were enough to provide for a substantial surplus (partly
taken by government in the form of a 10% ad valorem export tax).
12.       DDmestic production of maize averaged 710,000 tons per annum over
the 5 year period 1968-72. Only about one quarter of the crop is marketed,
but commercial sales appear to be growing quite rapidly, possibly at 5% or
10,000 tons per annum. The cash market is supplied through unofficial
channels as well as by the authorized parastatal agency and sales through
the parastatal probably account for only about one half of the total. Imports,
also controlled by the parastatal, have become increasingly important totalling
200,000 tons over the four years ending 1972 (including 135,000 tons in 1972).
These were partly offset by marginal export sales totalling 78,000 tons over
the same period. It seems likely that the parastatal agency would need to
sell an additional 150,000 tons of domestically produced maize in ten years'
time, to displace marginal imports and accomdate the growing cash market.
Under the project, by Year 10, 15,000 tons of maize should be marketed or
about 10% of this requirement.



ANNEX 16
Page 4
13.       At T Sh 1,100 per ton in 1973 for imports, the comparison with the
Kigoma supply price of about T Sh 650 per ton is very favorable. But on the
basis of self-sufficiency, other regions in Tanzania may be able to supply
additional maize to the major Dar es Salaam market at costs marginally below
those for Kigoma. This is difficult to assess because full costs are not
properly accounted for by the various unions and societies; however, high
transport charges within Kigoma region, added to rail freight of T Sh 75 per
ton Kigoma-Dar es Salaam, tends to favor some other regions. By the same
token of geographical isolation however, Kigoma producers have a decided
advantage with respect to prospective additional sales within the region.
The (small) urban population is growing quite rapidly, and with the secondary
expansion of regional income created by the project itself, additional sales
within the region might account for a third of the marketable surplus of
maize produced under the project by Year 10. To the extent that marginal
supplies for other markets are at a cost disadvantage relative to supplies
from other regions, there is a case for switching production to other crops;
however, it is probably premature to assume that additional supplies from
other regions will be fact materialize.
14.       Supplies of groundnuts and beans are at the present time almost
entirely absorbed by the domestic market, despite reasonably favorable export
prospects. Growth of the domestic market may absorb 80,000 tons in the
case of pulses over the next ten years and 20,000 tons in the case of ground-
nuts.  Incremental marketed production by Year 10 of-the project would be
6,000 tons of beans and 4,000 tons of groundnuts--a relatively small proportion
of the projected incremental requirements of the Tanzanian market.  As in
the case of maize, a large share of marketed produce is now sold outside the
official marketing channel and this seems likely to continue.
15.       With marketing and dis'ribution costs already high, ranging over
80% of the producer price in thS case of low unit value maize, a potentially
serious problem would arise if further substantial increases in internal
marketing and distribution costs occur. Within the region, where the bulk of
these costs are incurred, provision has been included under the project for
a reorganization of the Regional Union, accompanied by provision of technical
assistance, equipment and other facilities to ensure cost-effective operations.
However, the major non-regional cost for marketed crops is rail freight and
some increase from current low levels may be expected within the horizon of
the project.
16.       The likely behavior of internal prices and costs generally are
in part determined by overall prospects for the Tanzanian economy.  So far
as can be predicted at this point in time, the most important longer term
consideration here would appear to be Tanzania's extremely weak energy y
position and lack of mineral resources. Given a balance of payments already
fairly heavily buttressed with licensing restrictions on the import side,
the likelihood is for greater incentives to be provided by government,
favoring the production of traded commodities (exports or import substitutes)
such as maize and cotton to be produced under the project.



ANNEX 16
Page 5
Economic Rate of Return Estimates
17.       Prices for inputs and outputs reflect the situation as at January
1974, with adjustment for expected trends on the basis of commodity pri ce
forecasts relating to 1980 and 1985; a shadow rate of exchange of T Sh 10
Lo US$1:00 in respect of foreign exchange receipts and outlays was used;
and domestic costs are calculated net of indirect taxes and subsidies. On
the basis of these assumptions, the economic rate of return to the project
would be 22%.
18.       There are indications that social service expenditures should be
treated as a cost of production, necessarily incurred because the benefits
of additional income through improved technical practices and marketing
facilities in agriculture cannot be achieved except where people live in
villages. There are great difficulties in reaching scattered homesteads,
as is testified by the dismal developmental record of Kigoma region during
the long scattered homestead period. Two possible assumptions would seem to
be: (a) that social services just 'repay' their full operating and maintenance
costs through direct benefits to villagers (i.e., repay recurrent and capital
cost at zero interest); and (b) that direct benefits should bear some plausible
relationship to other forms of income. Under assumption (a) the overall rate
of return would be 18%. If direct benefits just repay recurrent costs incurred
in providing social services they would amount to 15% of total village income
at full development (see para 7); on this assumption, the overall rate of return
would be 12%. Neither of these assumptions is very satisfactory; on the other
hand, nor is an assumption that production benefits would be unaffected by the
provision of these services.
19.       For the rate of return, the least favorable type of outcome would
be where all inputs, social and economic, were supplied on schedule, but
yields are less than predicted. If gross yields are, on average, 10% lower
than expected the rate of return would be 17% rather than 22%; with a 20%
loss, the return would be 5%, and if a 25% loss occurs the project becomes
economically worthless. A second, and not unlikely, type of failure would
be where certain villages fail entirely and fall apart, while others perform
according to expectations. This type of failure is, however, likely to be
much less expensive than the first type (because some inputs are saved in the
process) though it could be more disruptive socially. Thus, if 30% of
project villages fail, the rate of return to the project could still be as
hiigh as 15%.
Government Recurrent Expenditures and their Recovery
20.       Recurrent expenses of government in project villages at full
development would be about T Sh 80,000 per annum. This includes the operation
*1 ~!iiatenance of a primary school (at T Sh 50,000 per annum), a village
water supply (T Sh 6,500 per annum) and a share of rural medical facilities
(T Sli 10,000 per annum), together with the salary of a village agricultural
assistant and other minor items. Supervision and overhead staff servicing



ANNEX 16
Page 6
for these facilities at district and regional level might add an additional
20% to 25% to the in-village costs, bringing the total to about T Sh 100,000
per annum.  The 135 villages included under the project therefore, commit
government to expenditures of about T Sh 13.5 million per annum in the region.
The total recurrent fbudget for Kigoma region for 1973/74 was about T Sh
26 million.
21.       It is difficult to estimate the recurrent costs of servicing other
ujamaa village development schemes, but it is unlikely that these would be
below those estimated for Kigoma region. Government policy is for Tanzania's
entire rural population of about 13 million people to become resident in
ujamaa villages and to enjoy free water, primary education and basic health
services. Numbers reportedly living in ujamaa villages might now number some
2 million and are increasing rapidly. Some of those in ujamaa villages now
nave schools, water supplies and health services, as do some resident in more
developed areas not in villages. For a majority, however, perhaps 10 of the
13 million total, the situation would not be unlike that of Kigoma region,
calling for extensive social and economic investments likely to generate
substantial demands on the recurrent budget. At Kigoma levels of cost,
supplying a population of 10 million with currently prescribed levels of
services would generate a recurrent cost outlay of roughly T Sh 570 million
per annum, or more than US$80 million. Total government recurrent expenditures
for 1973/74 would probably be less than US$300 million of which less than
one half would be for social and economic services.
22.       The increase in current expenditure required for the provision of
social services associated with the ujamaa program is therefore a large one.
Perhaps more significant, assuming that the program goes ahead rapidly, a
correspondingly large increase in tax revenues (government savings being
already very small) would be required, which revenues already approach 20%
of domestic product and include relatively heavy taxation of the small modern
industrial and urban sector.
23.       To a limited extent, development of village agriculture may provide
additional tax revenue to government directly, so partly offsetting the re-
current costs. In Kigoma region, for example, a major crop would be cotton
which currently attracts an export tax of 10% ad valorem, and roughly T Sh
30,000 per annum might be recovered through this and other tax proceeds.
The amount of tax generated through this route, however, depends on the crops
grown since some crops (non-food exports) are much more easily taxed than
others. Assuming that the program will go ahead at a rapid pace, it is hard
to avoid the conclusion that some form of additional taxation of villages, to
support the services being provided to them is ultimately required. The
issue of cost recovery would be an important subject of study for the proposed
technical assistance team (Annex 10).






KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OVERALL GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
TEE PREIDENT                                                                 _
MINISTRY OF           [LM                              OF
|DEVELOPMENT             TREASURY          LI |  PRYOF
FP LANRIN               M                            NL
MINISTER OF    MINISTRY OF           MINISTRY OF        MINISTRY OF           minuto, of State lot                          IITRO               IITYO             MINISTRY OF
OF                                                              IN STER            MINISTRY OF~MIISTY O
AGRICULTURE    COMMERCE AND          NAiNAsEAT   NDCNSRCTO                                                                  AT"ER ANDLN                           NATURAL RESOUR-
m ent Authoriv  1(  =y
REGIO AL NoLticAl A t _MN                                                                         REG   ON Y OF
DUERVEL OPMENT IAL                                                                              COMRS SIONER U
|   PLANNING    j              M FINANCE  ENDEELLE
I                     INUSR              I          3    EI3                          I                                         j< DEEOMN                REORE
Development Manage-
ment Authority
DISTRICT                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Political AuthorityAE
DEVELOPENT                                                                                      co MssoF.rP
DIRECTOR    J?
AGRICULTURE         COMMERCE AND           EDUCATION             HEALTH              CONSTRUCTION             WATER                LAND               RERIONAL
INDUSTRY     Jo                                                                I   I                      IrDEVELOPMENT           CO SSIONRES
De.elopm.t Ma..ge-  I  s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Wfy an-5E






IBRD 10941
',,<' '    ake                                                    5.0 --.i 03 r    --0'r<.yfS¢rlE¢S                                 32°
V'ctoroa                                                         O!,       -;                                            MARCH 1974
AWASJ4tA 
r k  < . - K < N Y A,         . -- t ,j                                     to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,
PROJECT
Kigoma2r
AREA
3 aee        TANZANIA
Tong,,         e'ka
\ eAop                                             =               I                                      oTbr
"'''~~~~~~a es \Salaam\
,.K; ::.:.  ,\ ZA NI
La'ke
.;4E.  - -      <: \< <                                          ~~~~~~Kigoma Rural Development Project
,.-,,,  .   -,_t,.,,>,,   !                     -                           ~PROJECT  AREA
-~ ~~~ *                                                                                           03'u      roject area- Kigomo Region
- . /eyq  ?,.;'-  >3q-t-\                                           ---R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~egional boundaries  
z;~~~~~ .                                                                                  D ...\.......;.......Dstrict boundaries
- i-tL   t        *              \     <      \   A                                             District headquarters
/                                                                              MMain roads6°
Kigoma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rvr
,,7.,     !              __ International  oundaories
-2                         - < \>X= )                             = Fly front, 1973
-- 5>.                                           - .1 \   i < < <                  -      Tsetse infested area
....... Sleingtsict ondressedmcaa
.  - ..> t-t/. ' -d';.,, ,/'"'',     ,-/0                                     20    40       60    80          100
'.' <  <   ,. .         ~        ~~\ .        /                                                      K ILO  ER
\-                                                    0 ,i,r,                  40 ,q60
/                                                              M0;32






______________________________________                                                                         ~~~~~~~~IBRD   10942
Victoria  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 'ro~b f~MARCH 1974
PR'OJECT-
AREA
TANZAN I A                1
Lake 
TO KolhaMa
take
7,A&  AB  I A.,         Nyasa
41                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
*  Mohyovu-
/  ~6
Tanganfly'4a
K'g:j   o mtly Rnin able     Developm Riers      Pojc
__  I.                                                                 Popu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Latonehr  Rest'  --    negnional boundaries
Miom~Uban populatidn
100             20e40le
300,                                                            MILES                     3270CD  rb n     op laio



