FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1453-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
KIGOMA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 23, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility. for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURUCMr wUIVALXNM
USED INI TIS REPORT
Tanzania &Sh 1.0   '   US$ 0.14
US$ 1.00           r    TSh 7.14
TANZANIA FISCAL EAR
July 1st - June 30th



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent
of US$10.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Rural Devel-
opment Project. Some $2.0 million of the credit would be relent to the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) for 25 years, including a five-
year grace period with interest at h percent per annum. TRDB would
onlend these funds to cooperative societies at 8-.½ percent per annum
for short term and 7-- percent per annum for medium or long term loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.   The last full Economic Report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed
to the EBecutive Directors on May 22 and June 22, 1972. This was followed
by an Economic Updating Report (30-TA) which was distributed on December 11,
1972 and which was especially prepared for the East African Consultative
Group meeting on Tanzania of January 1973. An agriculture rural devel-
opment sector mission visited Tanzania during September/October 1973;
its report is expected to be issued by September. A mission to study
the industrial and mining sectors is scheduled to visit Tanzania in
August 1974.
3.   Tanzania celebrated its first decade of independence in December
1971. In the past 11 years gross national product increased in real
terms by some 65 percent to the present level of about $1.5 billion.
During the same period, life expectancy at birth increased from 35 to
41 years, infant mortality declined from 250 to 160 per thousand live
births, maternal mortality declined from 4.7 to 2.7 per thousand deliv-
eries, and the primary school enrollment rate increased from about 28
to 37 percent of the relevant age group. While this sample of economic
and social indicators shows that significant progress has been made,
it also gives some idea of the magnitude and difficulty of the develop-
ment task facing the country. For example, while GNP grew at 4.7 percent
per annum in real terms during these years, these gains were to a large
extent offset by the growth of population, with the result that per
capita income increased at only 2.2 percent per annum. Tanzania is one
of the 25 least developed countries.
4.   Tanzania has a one-party system which is embodied in the con-
stitution. The party, TANU, is a well-organized mass party and is
actively engaged at the grass roots in the promotion of popular in-



- 2 -
volvement in the national development effort, and within the party demo-
cratic principlea are being strictly adhered to. In economic policy
making., the long-term objective of social equality prevails over economic
interests of minority groups; some progress towards rGducing inequality
of income dietribution within the category of employed workers has been
made, but large gaps continue to exist between urban and rural standards
of living.
Economic Performance and Resource Mobilization
5.   Tanzalna's economit, performance in recent years has been characterizad
by high marginal savings, relatively low returs on investment, and
rapid institutional change. The growth of production, however, has
been modest in most sectors, especially in agriculture. The combination
of moderate production growth rates and a very ambitious investment
program has Ile to severe pressure on resources. This pressure has been
partly alleviated by steadily increasing external capital inflows and,
until recently,, b7 an improvement in the country's terms of trade.
Although favorable world market prices for several of Tanzania' s principal
exports and the gro   g contribution for local project costs by foreign
donors, had helped to build up external reserves equivalent to about
three mouths' imports at the begiAning of 1974, the recent rise in oil
prices has drastically changed the situation. It is estimated that the
foreign exchange cost of the oil price increase is in the region of $58
miUlion per year. This compares with a net resource transfer from the
World Bank Group of about $15 million per annum and a total net resource trans-
fer    of around $90 minilion per annum. The scope for cutting back on
domestic oil consumption without reducing production is very limited.
The combined effect of the oil price rise, the expected large food import
requirements, partially due to the drought in the north of the country.,
for the current year and other relative price changes is expected to
cause a significant drop in reserves during 1974.
6.   It seems likely that special capital assistance will be required
to prevent an acute foreign exchange crisis in 1975. At the invitation
o!; the Governmant, a Bank mission has recently participated in a Presidential
task force which assessed the effects of the oil crisis or. Tanzania's
balance ow uayments and which recomwnded an action program including a
shift in investment priorities to more directly productive projects in
agr-1> cUt'e .and industry. Several bilateral donors, including Sweden,
,?-kd&, the ?etderal Republic of Germay and Yugoslavia have already
responded by increasing their aid commienta to Tanzania but this may
not be enough to meet the axpected crisis during the next few years.
So far, Tanzania has not dram on any of the :fl credit facilities but
this may soon become necessary. on June 27, 1974 the Goverzment approached
the Bank Group for a program loan to assist in the financing of a program
of structural economic adiustaents forming part of the Government's
medium and longer term reesponse to the oil crisis and several other
significant reeant relative price shifts. We are presently considering
this aoplication; an appraisal mission is due to leave shortly.



-3-
7. Until the recent completion of the Tanzanian portion of the Tan-Zam
railway financed by the People's Republic of China, this country had been
for a number of years, Tanzania's principal source of foreign aid disburse-
ments. A new $75 million bilateral aid agreement with China for the develop-
ment of a Tanzanian iron and steel industry was signed earlier this year but
it is likely to take some years before this major new commitment will begin
to be disbursed as the iron and steel project is understood to be still in an
early stage of preparation. Yeanwhile, Sweden has become Tanzania's princi-
pal source of aid disbursements. After a pause of several years, the UTnited
Kingdom has recently resumed capital aid to Tanzania with an initial grant
and a credit (together about $24 million) for rural 'development. In terms
of outstanding commitments, the Bank Group is Tanzania's largest creditor
followed by Sweden, Norway, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the
Federal Republic of Germany. Including a notional one-third share of the
debt of the East African Community Corporation, the IBRD is presently holding
14 percent of Tanzania's outstanding external debt and IDA 16 percent; the
IBRD share is expected to rise to about 20 percent in the next five years,
and the IDA share to remain about the same. The share of debt service pay-
ments to the Bank is at present about 10 percent of total debt service
payments; the corresponding share for IDA is about 2 percent. These two
figures are projected to rise to about 20 percent and 3 percent, respectively,
by 1980. Most capital aid to Tanzania is made available on very favorable
terms, and a declining share of the total is tied to procurement in the
donor country. Supplier's credits have been kept to the minimum. In addi-
tion to seeking as favorable a blend as possible and the minimum of tying,
the Government has attempted to secure donors' agreement to simplifying the
procedures associated with the use of committed aid. For example, Swedish
assistance is now given within the terms of frame agreement, which allows
the Government to set its own priorities in the use of SIDA funds and allows
considerable flexibility in the switching of such finance between the various
projects and programs. The overall debt service ratio has declined in
recent years owing to buoyant export earnings; it is currently about five
or six percent and is not expected to rise significantly in the medium-
term. In view of this low debt service ratio there is scope for a modest
amount of lending to Tanzania on conventional terms, particularly if such
lending is for export promoting or import substituting activities.
8. Tanzania's high rate of investment during the last five years has not
been reflected in high growth in production -- at least not as yet -- partly
because there was a heavy bias towards social and economic infrastructure
with long gestation periods. A substantial proportion of total investment
has been undertaken to provide a viable alternative outlet to the sea to
neighboring landlocked Zambia after Southern Rhodesia's Unilateral Delcara-
tion of Independence of 1965. Though basically designed to carry Zambian
transit traffic, this railway will also help to stimulate agricultural and
industrial development in southern and western Tanzania. The budgetary
position which has been adversely affected by sluggish economic growth
in recent years coupled with high levels of development and recurrent
expenditure, remains tight. In view of the already high marginal savings
rate, the scope for additional taxation is limited. Even with a decline in
the rate of investment, in the face of escalating fuel prices, Tanzania will
still require a continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange
component of high priority projects if it is to achieve its development
targets. Financing of some local expenditures will therefore be justified.



9.   Financial discipline in the regions, Central Goverrment Ministries,
and many state corporations remains a problem, probably because scarce
accounting and auditing skills are now even more thinly spread. There
is a general serious shortage of many professional skills. The situation
has been aggravated by the departure of many Asians and the Government's
reluctance to recruit abroad. However, this reluctance is now diminishing
as part of an effort to accelerate Iroject preparation and implementation.
10. President Nyerere announced in October 1973 that following a reviev,
the Government has decided to move the capital of Tanzania from Dar ea Salaam
to Dodoma. By moving the capital city to the center of the country and
so closer to the bulk of the rural population, it is the expectation that
the Goverment will become more responsive to the needs of the rural
sector. The Government presently plans to make the move over a ten-year
period. No accurate estimates of the total costs involved are yet
available but in view of the scarcity of investment resources in Tanzania,
it is likely that the transfer of the capital will take much longer than
planned; in addition, the number of Government offices moved may be
fewer than is prssently envisaged.
11. The aduinistrative structure and many of the functions of Government
were decentralized to the regiono in July 1972. This was done to make
the Goverment more responsive to the needs of rural development. It
is still far too early to asse8as the success or otherwise of the
decentralization of Government in Tanzania. As expected, problems
of coordination between the center and the regions have occurred; and
the transfer of high-ranking officials from Dar es Salaam to the rural
areas has had its inevitable, but one hopes only short-term, effect
on the smooth functioning of Central Government. Some dislocation
in project implemeitation has also been experienced. In some regions
the new Government structure is already showing its potential to be
more responsive and relevant to the needs of the rural sector. It has
become apparent that the severe shortage of regional technical expertiEe
will inhibit the ability of the new decentralized authorities to plan
and execute rural projects; progress in regional development will, therefore,
inevitably be patchy, reflecting the local availability of the required
expertise.
PART II - BAWK GROUP LENDIf3 TO TANZANIA
12. Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA, and IFC in 1962. Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 16 credits and four Bank loans amounting to
$206.6 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania
has been a beneficiary of nine loans, totalling $229.8 million which
have been e-tended for the development of commor services operated on a
regional basis by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in
the East African Community. The only IFC investments in Tanania to
date, totalling $4.4 siillion, were made in the Kilombero Sugar Company in



-5-
1960 and 1964. In 1969 IFC and other investors sold their intereBt in
the Company to the Government. Annex II containB suimary statements
of Bank Loans and IDA Credits in Tanzania and the E-st African Community
Organizations as of June 30, 1974 and notes on the execution of ongoing
proj ects.
13. Our lending program, reflecting the emphasis the Tmnzanian Government
attaches to agricultural development is increasingly focusing on directly
productive activitie,, in the rural sector. Up to the end of FY72, 10
out of 14 loans and credits had been made for infrastructure. All but
one of the loans to the East African Comunity Organization, of which
Tanzania is a beneficiary and co-guarantor, had been extended for
improvements in transportation and communications. However, the approval
by the Executive Directors of the Flue-Cured Tobacco Project (Credit
No. 217 TA) in October 1970 opened a new phase in our lending for such
directly productive activities. The Smallholder Tea Development Project
(Credit No. 287 TA) was approved in March 1972. A Second Livestock Project
(Credit No. 382 TA) was approved early in April 1973. The Geita Cotton
Project (Credit No. 454 TA) approved in January 1974 and the Cashewnut
Project (Credit No. 1014 TA) approved in May 1974, constitute the
beginning of a major effort to expand cotton production and cashew nut
processing. A sugar project was appraised in December 1973 and preparations
for a proposed dairy project and a second rural development project are
under way.
14. Our Regional Mission in Eastern Africa was involved in the preparation
of six of the above projects. Our capacity to provide such assistance
has proved to be particularly valuable in a country where project
preparation capacity is, and for some time will be, limited. Tanzania
is developing an institutional structure, stressing greater regionalization
and development of ujamaa villages, designed to promote and respond to
development initiatives. These institutions are still in their formative
stages, and related organizational and staffing difficulties have sometimes
resulted in the project delays referred to in Annex II. In recent months
Bank Group staff have held intensive discussions with the Government on
ways in which these implementation bottlenecks can be alleviated. As
part of this exercise, a procurement and disbursement workshop was organized
in Dar es Salaam in late August 1973 for the relevant Tanzanian staff
engaged in Bank Group projects. In addition, the Government has recently
instituted a high level monthly review for all externally aided projects.
As a result of these efforts, it is expected that project implementation
should now improve.
15. Tanzania's education and training programs are expected to solve
the manpower problem in the longer run, but meanwhile there will continue
to be a need for technical assistance in planning and implementation
if the difficulties in executing projects are to be overcome. We are
exploring with the Government how assistance of this kind can be strengthened
and best fitted to Tanzania. Through participation in their projects
we have supported Tanzania's now development institutions at an early



- 6 -
stage. Our supervision of the projects has resulted in bringing to
light, earlier than might have happened otherwise, that some of these
institutions are facing significant difficulty in executing all the
projects they have undertaken. Because of our involvement we have been
able to help the Government in its consideration of how to  overcome this
problem whose solution is fundamental to rapid development.
16. A Credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (Credit No. 460 TA) was
approved in February 1974 and a National Sites and Services Project
approved in July 1974. The other project outside the agricultural sector
which is ready for consideration is a highway maintenance project.
17. Although no projects are planned in the near future for the Common
Services Organization of the East African Community, the Bank, through
its supervision of ongoing operations, is continually reviewing possible
further assistance to the Community Corporations for the further develop-
ment of common services. Recently, howewer, three of the Community
Corporations have been delinquent in making debt service payments to
the Bank. The East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC) has not met
payments amounting to $459,215 due on June 15 under Loan No. 638 EA,
the East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC) payments
amounting to $371,250 due on June 15 under Loan No. 675 EL and $260,130
due on July 15 under Loan 914 EL, the     East African Railways Corpora-
tion (EARC) payment amounting to $1,037, 059 due on July 15 under Loan
No. 110 EA. The Railways have for some time now been facing financial
and operational problems which include an inadequate tariff structure,
inefficient use of rolling stock and differences between the Partner
States on how the railways should be managed. In the case of EAPTC
and EAHC, the recent delinquency is primarily due to problems between
the Partner States which had prevented the two Corporations from
transferring surplus funds earned in one country to the corporate
headquarters located in another country. Except for this difficulty,
both Corporations are financially sound and do not lack the domestic
resources to meet their debt service obligations to the Bank.
18. The Bank has pressed all three Corporations and the Partner States
for payment of their obligations. The Partner States are very much
alive to t,hese problems and the Finance Ministers of the three Partner
%".ates met on July 19, 1974 to discuss these matters. The Bank has
been informed by the Minister of Finance of Kenya that decisions were
taken to allow immediate payment of debt service dues under Loans
638 EA, 675 EA and 914 EA, as well as to provide funds to meet the
cash requirements of the Railways including its debt service payments.
In addition, a high level meeting to be attended by the Miaister of
Finance and Communication of the Partner States and the Community ana
by senior representatives of the Bank will be held in Nairobi in
July 29, 1974. At this meeting, it is proposed to discuss the long
term problems of the Railways and the other Community Corporations and
to agree on measures to resolve them.



- 7 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
19. Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived
from the sector of which 50 percent constitutes subsistence production.
Agricultural exports, which account for 80 percent of total exports,
include mainly sisal, cotton, cashew and coffee. About 94 percent of
the population live in rural areas, usually in small isolated communities
and 90 percent of the economically active people are engaged in agriculture.
20. Most production is from smallholdings cultivated by hand using family
labor. Large-scale agriculture is represented by a small number of private
estates and some state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea and wheat,
and state farms, mainly producing wheat, rice, sisal and livestock.
Estate production has diminished in importance particularly as sisal
has declined and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's national
herd, the second largest in Pfrica, is grazed extensively over the 40
percent of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It
is largely managed along traditional lines. In a year of normal rainfall
Tanzania is largely self-sufficient in staples. However, sugar, dairy
products and wneat normally have to be imported to supplement domestic
supplies. Subnormal rainfall in 1972 and 1973 in some parts of the country
has necessitated unusually large food imports including maize and rice.
Agricultural Development Strategy
21. The Government recognizes that agriculture will continue to be the
main source of employment for a long time and has been trying to devise
a strategy which will bring about improvement in output, incomes, and the
living    conditions of the agricultural population.  The policy for
agricultural and rural development which has thus emerged has been
adopted as a central part of Tanzania s second Five-Year Plan.
22. The major aim of the Plan is to make significant progress towards
socialist organization of rural activity, based on ujamaa cooperatives
and maximization of the use of labor. Although state farms fill a need



- 8 
for larger scale production units, the approach to Mechanization is
cautious and in general based on proven viability. Agricultural production
is to be increased within a framework of crop priorities based on
production possibilities, market prospects9 and a desire for increased
self-sufficiency. High priority iB given to the expansion of selected
export activities including cotton, livestock, flue-cured tobacco and
cashew nuts, all of which are already being assisted by IDA credits.
A vigorous policy for the development of vertically integrated single
crop authorities, dealing with all aspects of production, processing
and marketing, is being pursued with cooperatives playing a central role.
In addition, several other types of farming and commodities also have
scope for expansion. These include dairying, horticultural production,
sugar, pyrethrum, oilseeds and forestry products. Projects designed to
develop these are in various stagea of preparation.
23. Tanzania has had some success in formulating and implementing the
single crop development programs mentioned in paragraph 22. However,
they have typically involved relatively high cost per farmer, and have
affected only a small proportion of the rural population, even when
developed along labor intensive lines. Tanzania has recognized these
shortcomings and in addition to the single crop development strategy
has begun to place increasing emphasis on broader-based rural and
agricultural development projects, which attempt, through a comprehensive
and integrated plan, to approach the development of a particular region
of the country. The project under consideration uses this approach
towards the development of Iigoma, one of the most backward regions of
Tanzania.
Regionalization and Rural Develoment
24. The Government's policy of an integrated approach to rural development
is reflected in the two related measures of decentralization of Government
functions from Dar es Salaam and the program for formation of ujamaa
villages. The policy of regionalization, referred to earlier in paragraph
11, has reorganized and strengthened regional and district administrations
to promote rural development programs more effectively. The Regional
Commissioners, the chief political officers in the region, have been given
Cabinet rank and the Regional Development Director (RDD), the head of
the regional civil services have been made equivalent to the Principal
Secretary of a Central Government Ministry. One of the most important
aspects of this change is that all civil servants working ir. the regional
and district administrations will now be directly responsible to the
regional and district authorities and not to the Central Goverment
Ministries in Dar es Salaam. The philosophy behind the decentralization
has been that cr e effective rural development would be promoted if
decisions taken at the local level were to reflect more closely the
needs, capabilities and views of the local people. The docentralization
policy is also reflected in the reorganization of the structure of the
cooperative movement towards multi-purpose cooperatives with a regional
coverage instead of specialist cooperatives with a multi-regional coverage.



- 9 -
The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) has also decided to increase
and strengthen its branches in the regions.
25. Ujamaa in Swahili literally means"familyhood". The policy of making
ujamaa the basis of Tanzanian rural development means, in the words of
President Nyerere, "rural economic and social communities where people
live and work together for the good of all, and which are interlocked
so that all of the different communities also work together in cooperation
for the common good of the nation as a whole". More practically,
ujamaa based rural development means the establishment of cooperative
farm units as opposed to individual peasant holdings. The ujamaa village
is also seen as a means of providing economies of scale in the delivery
of lmproved agricultural techniques and inputs and social services thereby
inproving tne lives and productivity of rural people. The exact pattern
of development within each ujamaa village is deliberately left to the
villagers and eventually in its final stage of development the village
would become a registered multi-purpose cooperative society with powers
to borrow and own land. The extent of collective activity varies among
villages as the precise workings of ujamaa are still evolving. In the
ujamaa villages of Kigoma region, instead of communal farming, a system
of individual plots in contiguous blocks under a particular crop have
been introduced. Since the movement towards ujamaazation started in
1966-67 some two million persons or about 15 percent of the rural
population have become members of 5,600 ujamaa villages throughout
Tanzania. In Kigoma region some 76 ujamaa villages had been established
by November 1973 containing about 24,oo00 families -- about one-quarter of
the region's rural population.
Kigoma Region
26. Kigoma, the region in which the first integrated rural project
to be financed by the Bank Group in Tanzania is to be started, is the most
westerly region (map attached) of Tanzania covering an area of 37,000 km2 with a
population of about one-half million people. The regional headquarters
is in the town of Kigoma on Lake Trnganyika, the terminus of the central
railway line from Dar es Salaam. Most of the region has an annual rainfall
between 600 and 1,600 mm and the annual mean maximum and minimum terperatures
range from 280C to 120C. Precipitation is reliable and allows a wide
range of crops to be grown with some double planting of short season crops.
Cotton is the most important cash crop and a range of other food crops
such as maize and beans are also grown. Along the shores of Lake
Tanganyika fishing is the most important source of food and cash incomes.
27. Until recently, Kigoma region has provided a large seasonal migrant
work force for the cotton and tobacco areas of other regions. This
seasonal migration is a direct result of the poverty of the region and
the lack of opportunities to earn cash incomes locally. The per capita
income of most of the rural population in the region is estimated at
US $20 per year, as compared to per capita income of US $85 to $110 for



-10 -
Tanzania as a Whole; in 1967 the percentage of labor in paid employment was
2.6 percent, the lowest in the country. Of all the 20 regions but one,
Kigoma has the lowest literacy level. Eighty percent of the adult
population have had no schooling. The lack of industry and backwardness
of agriculture are to a great extent related to the isolation of the
region.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
General
28. An Appraisal Report entitled rTanzania - Kigoma Rural Development
Project" dated July 15, 1974 is being circulated separately. A Credit
and Project Summary is provided as Annex III to this Report.
29. The project, prepared with the help of the Regional Mission in
Eastern Africa, was appraised in the field by a mission in October and
November 1973. Negotiations for tVi proposed credit were held in Wasiington
in June 1974. The Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. S.L. Saguti,
Principal Secretary in the Prime Minister's Office.
Objectives
30. The project would aim to improve the production, incomes and 'Living
stanadards of' some 250,00O people, about one-half of the rural population
of Kigoma region.  Its objectives would be to lift the annual per capita income
(cash and subsistence) of villagers under the project from the present level
ef about US$20 to about U$ 40 through simple improvements in agricultural
practices and the provision of inputs and credit to about 135 newly
established and existing ujamaa villages. Maize, beans, cotton and ground-
nuts would be the main crops farmed in the villages on 'block" farms in
-hich each family would be responsible for a particular plot. The
protect would also develop a marketing and credit system, strengthen
village-level extension and introduce a program of adaptive agricultural
research. In addition, the level of social services would be improved
through the provision of education, health facilities and village
water supplies.
Project Description
31. The proposed project will be executed over a five-year period
(1975-79) and will consist of the following:
(i)  Village Infrastructure,  Investments in villages for water
supple~s, education and health facilities, tsetse fly
bush clearance and feeder roads.
(ii)  Agricultural Credit.  (a) Loans to village primary
cooperatie soci-rTees for crop inputs and productive



- 11 -
infrastructure such as godowns, maize mills, and simple
fish-catching and processing equipment and (b) loans to
the regional cooperative union for godowns and vehicles.
(iii)  Regional Supporting Services.  Investments in: (a) a small
regional radio-telephone system; (c) a livestock pilot
project; (d) aerial photography of areas to be developed;
and (e) a regional agricultural trials and training center.
(iv) Technical Assistance to include (a) a financial controller,
an operations manager and a training supervisor
for the regional cooperative union, a land-use planner
for the region and trials and training officers for the
agricultural trials and training center; (b) a small general
fund for use by project management to hire experts for
specific problem solving.
(v) Monitoring and Project Preparation. Monitoring and evalua-
tion of the project and preparation of similar projects
in other regions.
32. The project would constitute a major part of the regional govern-
ment's development activities and would be implemented through depart-
ments of the regional administration. The Regional Development Dhrector
would be responsible for overall project planning and implementation.
Village Infrastructure
33.  Selection of Village Sites and Planning.   The regional Government
would coordinate planning for the number and location of new villages
started in a particular year. To be eligible for financing under the
project, a Village Site Feasibility Report (VSFR) would have to be
prepared by the region for each village demonstrating that it is suitably
sited in relation to agricultural land, water and economic feasibility.
To assist in the preparation of the VSFRs, the project would provide
for aerial photography of about two-thirds of the region. The Govern-
ment will prepare a VSFR for each village included in the project and
based on these studies will make available to IDA, by March each year,
for its agreement, an annual development plan for village investments
to be financed under the project. The Government will also supply to
IDA for information and comment its annual development plans covering
aIl villages in the region (Section 3.10(a) and (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
34. Water Supply Systems.   Water supply is the most important component
in the village infrastructure and will be critical to the initial success
of village settlements. Water supply systems under the project would
bring drinking water all year round to public points within short walking
distance of most villagers. At present Government policy in Tanzania is



- 12 -
to provide domestic water free of charge, except if the supply is attached
to a house connection. Funds for operation and maintenance of all
systems both urban and rural cane from the national treasury through
an annmal budget for recurrent expenditures. For FY74 recurrent expenditures
were budgeted at TSh 77 million (US $10 million) and as projects in
operation in rural areas increase, the recurrent expenditures will
increase proportionately and could lead to an undue burden on the
national exchequer. It is planned to discuss the whole question of the
financing of the water supply sector under a proposed future national
water supply project. Meanwhile, however, two measures are incorporated
in this project to enable the problem to be reduced to manageable pro-
portions in Kigoma region. First, through the VSFR all alternative
forms of water supply systems such as dug wells, hand pumps, gravity flow,
or a diesel poered system would be explored and the Government has agreed
(Section 3.0o of the Development Credit Agreement) that the system accepted
for each village would be the one costing least. Secondly, the Government
has agreed (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement) to carry
out a study on the fiscal implication of providing the water supply
systems included in the project and the methods and procedures for
allocating the financing of such s.ervices. The Governrment has also agreed
to discuss with the Association the findings and recommendations of the
study and the steps it proposes to take to implement these recommendations.
The team of experts provided under the project for the preparation of
rural development projects in other regions of Tanzania and for evaluaEting
and monitoring the proposed project would undertake this study.
35. Educatim, Health and Roads. For each village, besides the provision
of a public water supply system, it is proposed to finance under the
project education and health facilities, feeder roads and tsetse fly
bush clearance. In a new village a single classroom would be built in.
the first year and additional classrooms in subsequent years until the
full primary stage of seven standards is completed. In order to provide
education that is more relevant to the needs of the rural population
of the region, the authorities plan to give more attention to teaching
practical subjects such as farming, carpentry, masonry and smithery.
On the health side, rural health centers and single dispensaries would
be provided. Where a village is located in a tsetse fly area, the
project would support tsetse clearing of bush in and around the village
site. This will remove a constant hazard to human and livestock health
as the tsetse fly cannot breed and survive without bush cover. Village
feeder roads consisting of simple tracks for wheeled transport would
connect protect villages to the existing road system.
Agricultural Credit
36. Tanzania Rural Develo pment Bank. The Tanzania Rural Development
Bank (TRDfg), the lending channel for a number of earlier IDA projects,
would be the channel for lending to the Kigoma Cooperative Union (the
Union) and the village primary societies. TRDB would lend direct to
the Union for agricultural inputs and productive infrastructure which the
Union would then on-land to its member village cooperative societies



- 13 -
or use for its own needs of transport and equipment. TRLB would peri-
odically appraise the Union's loan requests and this appraisal would
include examining the individual loan requests of villages to the Union.
TRDB has had since 1972 an office in Kigoma and plans to increase the
number of its staff as the volume of work increases.
37.  The Kigoma Cooperative Union.    Under the project, the Kigoma Coopera-
tive Union has a pivotal role as all loans to the cooperative village
made for productive infrastructure and production inputs,would be from
the Union. The Union would also buy and collect village crops. To
successfully undertake its enhanced role under the project, the Union
would be strengthened by the hiring of three key personnel; an operations
manager, a financial controller and a credit and training supervisor.
The operations manager would set up and initially operate the Union's
distribution, collection, transport, quality control and physical
planning activities. The financial controller would set up operating
and financial systems and screen loan requests. Training of Union
staff would be a major responsibility of both experts. The credit and
training supervisor's principal responsibility would be the establish-
ment of a simple village level bookkeeping control system and training
of village level bookkeepers and business managers. In order to place
the Union on a firmer financial footing, the Government will carry out
a financial reorganization of the Union.     This reorganization
would include a capital contribution by the Government sufficient to
cover projected losses during the first three years of the project which
are estimated at about TSh 1.2 million (US$170,000). The Government
has agreed (Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement) that these
conditions would be met within six months of the effectiveness of the
Agreement.
Training Institutions
38. To achieve the increased agricultural production estimated under
the project and to assist in the growth and strengthening of the primary
cooperative societies, it is proposed that each project village would.
have an agricultural field assistant stationed permanently in the village
for at least one season before it could qualify for borrowing. It is
estimated that in the third season of development a project village
would have reached a stage at which it would be able to utilize purchased
inputs. To be eligible for inputs, the village would have to become
registered as a multi-purpose cooperative society and have hired a
bookkeeper. For the training of these village level and other super-
visory staff, it is proposed to finance the construction of a new rural
training center in Kigoma district and the improvement and expansion of
centers in Kasulu and Kibondo districts. It is proposed to establish
a regional agricultural trials and training center for the training of
agricultural field assistants. This center would also conduct field



- l4 -
trials to test the suitability of seeds and agricultural practices uder
local conditions. Adjacent to the center would be located a livestock
pilot project. The Government has agreed (Section 3.05(a) and (b)
of the Development Credit Agreemnt) to a timetable for the selection
of the site and the completion of construction of the center.
ProJect Costs
39. Total project Co0ts are estimated at US ;13.3 miflion of which US
8 million (60 percent) is estimated as the foreign exchange component.
The proposed IDA credit of UIS $10 million mould finance the foreign
exchange cost and some local costs and would amout to about 75 percent
of the total project cost. The breakdown of project costs is given in
Annex III.
United Nations Capital Develropmt Fund Participation
4L0. The Vnited Nations Capital Development Fund (tNCDF) has agreed
to participate in the financing of this project. This would be the first
UNCDF participation in a Bank Group financed project. The UNCDF have
agreed to provide $1.5 million on a grant basis to the Government
for financing the water supply and health components of the project
estimated to cost about $2 million. These components will form an integral
part of the project. Since UNCDF does not at present have the requisite
staff, it has been agreed in Sections 1 and 2 of the Administration Letter
between the Association and UNCDF that the Association would supervise,
on behalf of UNCDF, those elements of the project including the review of
procurement arrangements and disbursement applications and the approval of
village site feasibility studies required under the project.
Onlending
i1. An estimated US $2.6 million would be required for the different
types of agricultural credit by the regional cooperative union and village
primary societies. The IDA portion of this, amounting to about US
$2 million, would be onlent to TRDB by the Government at four percent
per annum for 25 years, including a five year grace period. The conclusion
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and TRDB would be
a condition of credit effectiveness. TRDB would lend to the union
for its own facilities and for onlending to villages at an interest rate
of 8-1/2 percent per annum for seasonal inputs and 7-1/2 percent per annum for
economic infrastructure. The union would onlend these funds to the villages at
the same rates of interest and would cover its costs of so doing through levies
on handling village inputs and produce.
Technical Assistance
42. The two institutions which are critical to the succeas of the project
are the Kigoma regional Government and the Kigom Cooperative Union.
The regional Government with the Regional Development Directors, upported
by the District Development Directors and the managers of the different



- 15 -
technical departments, is now adeqaately staffed with experienced personnel
to undertake the program of village development under this project.
In particular the office of the Water Eagineer, which has enhanced
responsibilities under the project has recently been strengthened by
the addition of water supply engineers under bilateral aid programs.
Under the project it is proposed to finance six experts who will directly
assist the region in project planning and implementation. These w11l
consist of a land-use planner who will assist the RDD in the identification
and layout of villages on the basis of aerial photography and ground
surveys, three experts for the Kigoma Cooperative Union and a training
officer and a trials officer for the agricultural training and trials
center.  In addition to these experts, a team of three experts, under
a coordinator, would be provided under the project to assist in the
preparation of rural development projects in other regions of Tanzania.
The team would also be responsible for implementing a system of monitoring
and evaluation of the Kigoma project. In a project of this type a
number of problems could arise which cannot be precisely identified in
advance, for this purpose an amount of $150,000 as a general fund
has been included in the project for use at the discretion of the Regional
Development Director for consulting services or technical assistance
in solving specific problem  of project impleentation.
Agricultural Production and Project Benefits
43. It is estimated that with the introduction of improved agricultural
practices and seasonal inputs at full development the yields of food
crops (maize and beans) can be increased by between 100 to 140 percent
from present yields of 600 kg per ha for maize and 280 kg per ha for beans
to about 1,460 kg and 600 kg respectively. The largest increase is
expected in the yields of cotton of more than 150 percent from the 390 kg
per ha to 990 kg per ha. The marketable surplus from the project is
expected to increase from a value of about TSh 2.8 million (US $400,000)
in year two to TSh 29.9 million (us $4.2 million) in year eight. Total
per capita incomes of farmers, currently estimated at TSh 140 (US $20)
are expected to double to TSh 290 (us $40) over a 12 year period.
Economic Justification
44. The calculation of the economic rate of return was based on the
full costs incurred in providing project villages with productive
investments including an allocation of the technical assistance and other
investments at regional level. On this basis the economic return of the
project is expected to be 22 percent. The rate of return is relatively
high, but so is the risk in a project of this nature largely in view
of the experimental nature of the whole concept of ujamaa settlements
and the question of Whether they will be the best vehicle for
agricultural development. The major risk is that agricultural yields may
not respond to the provision of all the economic and social inputs.
Should yields be 20 percent below those projected, a return of only five
percent can be expected. Another type of failure would arise if



- 16 -
some villages fail while others perform as expected. In such a situation
with a 30 percent failure rate, a rate of return of 15 percent can still
be expected. The project as formulated attempts to take these risks
into consideration and every effort bas been made to design the project
so as to minimize and reduce these risks. Investment costs per villge
would be equivalent to US $75,000 or about US $210 per farm family,
including investments In social infrastructure.
Impact and cSRIiicance of Project
45. As the first integrated, multi-sectoral rural development project
financed by the Bank Group in Tanzania, the project supports a key element
of govermental policy, nneuly resettlement of the rural population
into ujama villages. It is expected to have a significant impact on
the incomes, amenities, and level of living of an extremely poor and long-
neglected group of fana families. While a risky project, there is the
expectation of a significant benefit to Tanzania as a whole, in the form
of additional food supplies and exports. It is also an experiment of
great significance and interest, both for Tanzania and for the Bank's
future rural development efforts. If saccessful, the project will reach
large numbers (250,000 direct ber-'!.ciaries), at low-cost (equivalent to
US $50 per capita), with sustainable economic benefits. While total
duplication is unlikely to be possible, elements of the approach could
be replicated elsewhere, particularly in Tanzania itself, but also perhaps
in other similar environments in 9st Africa. For Tmzania, the particular
importance oif the project rests with the attempt to develop the second
phase of ujamaa settlement, when attention shifts from getting people
into ujamaa settlmets, to developing the economic framework of essential
services that wil enable the ujamaa commnity to develop on the basis
of a sustainable economic self-reliance. The establishment of ujamaa
villages is proven; however, their ultimate success -- potentially dramatic
in regions like Kigoma -- depends on the efficient organization of input
supplies, competent extension staff, credit and marketing arrangements.
The success of the system embodied in the proposed project will have
considerable influence in the design of the now phase of ujamaa development
for Tanzania as a whole.
Procurment and Disbursements
46. Contracts for fertilizers, pesticides, ultra low volume pums for
spraying pesticides, aerial photography and radio equipment totalling
about us $1.4 million would be let after interational competitive bidding
in accordance with BankIDA procurement guidelines. Local manfacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent or the exdsting
rate of import duties,, hichaver is lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing imports. Construction of classrooms, houses, water supply
systems, godowns, dispensaries and other buildings totalling Us $4z.3
million, would be carried out by contractors after local competitive
bidding. International competitive bidding is not considered appropriate
for these items since they are mall, varied in design and widely dispersed



- 17 -
and hence would not be attractive to international bidders. However, if
foreign bidders participate in bidding, local civil works contractors will
be allowed a 7-l/2 percent preference over bids of foreign contractors. If
for certain works, contractors are not available such works will be carried
out by force account. Contracts for vehicles will be awarded in accordance
with the Government's usual procurement procedures as they will be required
at different stages of project implementation and their procurement will be
staggered. It is estimated that an amount of $485,000 will be required
for the purchase of vehicles.
47. A schedule of eatimated disbrseiments is included in Annex III.
The Association would finance 100 percent of expenditures of agricultural
inputs, vehicles, aerial surveying and cormunication equipment, if
such goods are procured outside of Tanzania and 90 percent of evenditures
if procured locally; foreign costs of eaatriates and 90 percent of the
total expenditure of all other items would be covered.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTIHRITY
48. The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
49. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Associaticn.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50. I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 23, 1974






Page 1 of 3 pases
cODimwR DAN - TANZAN11
ARiA                                                    ?OPIJ?T09J                                        MNSITY
9t,5,6817                                                   13.6iTr milion (etd-1971)                            14     Per hatz
1lIag Per kiwlof arable land
SOCTAL WRD!CAIVRS
Reference Countries
Tanzania                                         a       UK
0GRP PER CAPITA U3$ (ATLAS aA3m      5                                   .            100                150           120          2,270
OL4NGRAPHIIC
Crude birth rats (per thousand)                                       46   /.a.4     47                4,8            50             16
Crude dkeath rats (par thousand)                                       2   Z.J   ~   2                  o              41
nfant mortality cats (Pa, th1abead live births)                      225         160-165/c.                      150-175             19  5d
Lifa expectancy at birth (years)                                      38  4a3i4                                       3-7            72
Gr0ass rnprcduction rate 12.                                                          3.2                3.             3.3           1.3
Population growth rats n                                                2.2           2.7,               33            2.5            0.6
PcPulatioe growth rats - urban                                        ..7                                6  LsJ f                     0.5
Age atructurs (parcant)
15-64                                                               56   7         53                151            53             63
65 ancs over                                                                  1     3                  2             2             13
D,enndancy ratio A                                                     0.87?          1.lL-J             1.2/h         1.2            0.8
lrchen population as percent of total                                                 6   /c             9   /df{      23            78
Pamsly planning,     N. of acceptors corrulutive (thous.).....
No. of useers CS of marcisi wreren)                ...2.2
C?WYIODNT
rotal lbor force (thousands)..                                                    580,00                    /62,00                520
Percentage emplsyad in agriculture                                  5..            91               53060    /d 400            3524
P.ecrotange uceepioyed                                               .9.                              go. .          .              3.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percent of national incomr. recteied by highes9t 5%                    .              .. 
Percent of national income raesised by highest 20%                     . 
Perccant of national inicome received by lowart 20%                    .
Peccant of natier.e,  income received by lowast 1,0% 
AISTRIBUTl20N OiF UhoD .AWNh,riFIp
% ownsd by top 1O2     Y3rr
I  wnod by srvall-a    9o    owners
HEALTH AND NDTRIT1iN
~~~~LSSW~~~~rpysvcie:.                           20,000   A~~~~~~~~((   21,5i0  lb  12,350  /d   21,0 30  /i       860   /c
P?cjrulatinn per nurstric perer                                         .          ,d,7               ,00   7 2, 530       t        290
Pa~~~erletiao per hasp; to] cod ~~~~~~~~~530              I        780                oo 307      1,8 '0           105  /6
Per capitai caloricoPP upI: as 9 af rrqui-emets /b 5                       lb        69                 9Cr            90           120
!r capit'a prolsir' nuPppt   6oo    gas     e       l                 62  7;       143                 68            59             88
Of  Hlh, anOint end] pc'le                                         22  7;k       23                 29    -         c58
E-oth seta 1-b years /7                                                ...                               ...                           .
EDUG ATION
A41unted /8 prinury scnion] enrollnent ratio                           20Ish                                4          3a            95   /
Ad,-ust.d   seco     r   oclenruollment ratio22£4                                                                                     i7
Years of  anealing  rovided, firs,t and seodlevel                 13            13                 13            IL,            ii 
Vorutitoal enrollment i3 % of sac, school ecrollmact                   22             6                  2             10  /1         5/c
idlit litterac, sate~ %                                                                                 30   /           -           97  77
Average Re. of parsuns per roon (urban)                                 I.2a          .                  ..-                          0.6/n
Percen-t ol occupied units aitcoat piped weater ,                                    20   /m
Access ito electricity (as % Of total poPulation)                      .               3                 ..5
Perccant of rural POPUlation concer,ted to electricity                 ...
lONSt2LWI:0N
MM    -r i-eT.par 1000 popalation                                   2                      1148          /d        23           324   /6
Passenger lers per 1000 population.-                                                   2  'b d            9             1.2         215 
Eleoctric Puaer consumptioan (kwh p.c.)                                lb   /b        29   1            45             19  /d     a,291   /d
Neasfprint bonsoeption p.c. kg per year                                 0.037o         0.1.7              0.4           0.1           28  -
No-tcr   Fig-re.; refer either to the latest periods or ~to                account of eneiroreental. teiaeatare, body veigrts, and
the latest year,s.   Latest Periods rsfar ii, prineiple t-o                distribution by age and seat of niatiera.l populations.
the yeare 1956-60 or 196,6-~     the. latest yeara in prin-            /6  Protein standarda (requiramenta) for all nountriae as estab-
nipfle tc 1960 aed 1970.     nl  significantly different                   lishedl by UBLA   Economic Resa"rch Service provide fer a mrinimum
Periods or years arm footnotan ssaractly.                                  allowance of 60 grams of total, protein per day, andi 20 grams of
5 The Per Caitta    RiNP eetisatea for years othar than 19p60            animal and pulse protein, of which 1.0 grame should be animqal
is at market princes, calculated by tbs sues conversion                protein.   These standards are somwhat lower than those of 75
teshocqis Ca the 1972 trld Sank Atlas.                                 griams of total protein and 23 grass of animal protein as an
12  Average norheor of daughters per woocal or raeprodiotive               average for the world, proposed by 7A0 in the Third torld Food
age.                                                                   Survey.
5 Population growth rates are fbr the decades ending in              5    oSme studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
1960 and 1970.                                                         ages 1 through 4 nay be used as a first approxination index of
Ak   Ratic of aider 15 asH 65 and over age branckets to                    malnatritlon.
those in la,bor force bracket of age. 15 through 64.              Li. Percentage enrolled of acrseasponading population of achool age
PAOEl  reference standards repreasent physiclogical re-                  as defined for each country.
quirementa for normal aictivity and health, taking
/u 1C       '    T-egucyihe  '0);          I %       /d   IP6 9;    1 a  %K2 491     Ir   Over 2,000 population;      I5   Ratio of
porulurnon, snior 15jonf and 65     ,nt1~  -o totl, lube)r force;  _/h  Lanor force in aLge br-acket 15-59;      A1  Ratio of
p.cuirunder 15 -od 65 and cu-     ugo nrao-ot   to those IO W446) ag/rakt                 196B;     Ik   1977~3;      /I _   t
c-us- 0017, 9 cit of 12 states;       /n      -   >l;     /n16          ubt age buracke;       198       a             ,-r   ny  /p  - lData
*1c;nan  puotures.uu.r6;                             /0   16ura       anrua;           a18,       anT   roly           Ecudg
R2 December 4, 1913



Page 2 of 3 Pages
ECONOMIC DEVEWPMENT DATA
(Amounts in million8 of' U.S. dollarFs)
Actual                      jF)ro ctOLI             1964-   1965 -    1.967 -   1973 
1970     1971      1972-       1974     1975     1-976     1969     1970     1972      1976     1970     1971     1972
5-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices, & Lcag        ae        Average Annual Grow-th Rates        As Percent of GDY
--s-Pomc,StIr Pecoluct       1214.1   1775.4    1342.7      1494.7   1S.0    16 3 .        6.1      6.8      4.9       4.3   100       101      101
Iro. Tran of' Trado  ,      - 0.2   -10.8     -15.4      -12.3      __I    -2 3 0
rosDom,stic Income           1213.9    1 2(7 46  1 3 27.3   14,77.4  1516.9   1599.1       5.0      6.6       4.5      4.1L   100      100      100
' r.UiICI. NFS)               366. 6   39 5. 1   389.3     3158. 1    lri2.   3 71 .6      6. 7    1 1. 0    6.8       2 .6    30. 2    3 1 .2   29. 3
.-I .... s   (import capac ity)  32,,      310.6    311.6       32 3 .3  334.2    34 7 .5      2.1     6.?       2.6      3.8     25.0      24
C--re  ap                     63.1     84.5      77.7        34.8     i17 .7   74.1                                           -5.2     -6.7     -5.9
C,:: m  ,rFIr,nditures     1022.8   1061.6   1098.9      1188.9    127.7.  12942.3       5.8     6.6       4.8      4.2     84.3      84.0    82.8
.e- t      1.(in,l. stocks)    254 . 2   87.6     306.1       323.3    3.1KO    331.0       9.1     14.0      8.4       2.1     20.9     2 2 .7   23.1
*   tc  , . cn~,               191.1     203.1    228.4       288.5    299. 2   306.8        1.4     6.5       2.7      3.9     15.7      16.1    17.2
iv ogs           ~~~~~~   ~~198.0  206.8  228.0  286.6   2~16.3   305.9       3.1      9.0      3.4       4.0     16.3      16.4    17.2
l*,AN-- 1'- .  ;.AirF                   A-nnual Data at Current PriceAvrgAnalGotRtes                                           As Percent of' Total
1966-72           1973-76
91/. 2   1 17. 0   9 7 .3      8 7. 6   97.1    107.2             13.5                -         29.6     30. 7    24 .9
.ii  "r -orci CEDfue1s) 10 I. 7   1 32. 1   136.0      1 73. 7   19 2.4  2 12. 5           13.5               11.5       31.9      34.6     34.8
*-1.cl nri related mnaterials    27. 0    3 5. 8    39. 8      79.4      8 7 .9  96.4             16. 3             17. 0        8. 5      9.4     10. 2
V*ijli Petroleum        127.0)   135. 8)   (39. 8)     (79.4)   (8 7.9)  (96.4)          (16. 3)            (17. 0)      (8. 5)   (9. 4)  (10.2)
ItsSp .00 goods             2L.       2f      112-1       2-L.j     ijia    ljJ.               1.0               3.8        3fl..n    .2.5 I   Q
'ri?  Merch. Thrpi-rtn (cif)   3168.4    381 .5   390. 3      5 7 9.3  561. 4   6 10. 2            8T.7              7.8       100.0     100.0   100.0
0rL-siy  idtses1.ues           131      19 3. 1   196. 5     326. 7    217. 1  337. 9             0. 6              7. 6       7 7. 4    7 5. 4   70. 2
-ois i  cIl good, ( ncI.
p-sr ri  poYst)          53.4     5)se .    42.7        28. 0     311. 6  33.4            314.5                -        322.6     324.6    14.5
ill iii ii coods-       3 ____   1   ~    ~~~ 40.7     53.2      5,. 6   66.5            312.8                         3 _       31.
1 -leer h. Exoorts (fob)  2)~~6.5  2429  300       4067.9   417.3     13 7.8           -3.7              -7 .4      100.0     100.13  1300.0
Tc..rism and Porder  Tradle       n.a.     n.a.      na..       na.       r.      na
Mrchrivudli.- Tradoe indices                  Average 1967-69    100
E.1-I.rt i!rice Index           1.)25.6  1132.0    112.6       174.2    177).1  171.0
'.poirt Pric,- Index             99.0    103.5     129.9      187.8     1951. 2  196.5
eres-c Trace index           131. 6    98.5      86.7       92.7      85.9    87.0r
Ex-porr.o Volume Index          1 24.0   127.0     132.0      135.3     147.0   149.8
"AlI AA:D1.SETR1u                         Daaa      96     PrcsadEacag           ae             Average Annual. Growth Bates       As Percent of Total
1964-69   1965-70  1966-71   1967-72
A~~~~ri sii] loire  446.5  442.7  171.2                             3.3       4.4       1.4      2.6      40.0     38.1    38.5~~~~~~~~~~33  44  14  26  4.0  8.1 38.
inlitryn wid M-ining         1 79 .2   198.0    202.7                                   9.3       8.3       7 .2     5.0      16.0     17.0    16.5
491.1     522.0    55 1 .3                                 7.1       7.6       7.0      6.1      44.0   .._4 .9   4.
T,: '..I               Ft ~~11. 8  716-2.7  1225. 3                                5.7       6.3      4.7       4.5     100.0    100.0   100.0
7GFI,/iC FTNANCE                   AnnuIal D.te at C.rrent PrIces                                          1967-72                   As Percent of GDP
(Ce,,t ral l~overraenit
Rers  oceipts               2235 .6  260.3     3(56.3                                                 14.0                  19.2     20.6     23.0
(7irrcnt Expenditures          21,8 .4   249.3    306.6                                                  15.4                   13.6     19.7    23.0
itrdAetary Savings                2. 2    11.0      -0.3                                                                         0.6      0.9       -
~tier ISTibli  Sector           39.0      57.0      75.0                                                 25.0                    3.2      4.5     5.6
Tpublic Si-ctor Irivestment     163.0    233.0     233.0                                                  2t.0                  13.3     18.4     17.5
CURRENT £'PFNDITISSE DETIOILS                 Actual
Totol 0rrrc,nt Exed)1971                      1972
Fju---tiorl.                      21.3     17.5
- 'thr, Sc: l berVices I
Agri cul t- ci                          31.5     2 7 .3
On  r . inin Servic,s
i.en,t,t,  and Def'ense,          30.5    3,7.0
r__                                   16.9    23.2
surn   xpensiiures         100.0    100.0
-VDI i1 -FD ICATORS                                       1965-     1970-   1973-
Pcitdfrom 5-Year averaged data)                       1970     1975     1976
imTport Flasticit,..                                          1.1      1.4      0.6
llrrgtmal Domestic Savings Rate                               0-2      0.3      0.2
Marginal National Savirngs Bate                              .s(       0.25     0.25
1AT33Fi ,FOPCI AND                             TotalI Labor Force                                Value Added Peirs Worker (iAn Crrent Prices,
(O-rTi'JT PER WORKE))            in Millions         %k of Total                           In U.S.Dollars       Pecent     Ave rage
1971               1971                                    1971                   1971
hgi.ArussIltu r                             5.3                 91                                      98                     43
i,s(Iustry                                  0.1                  2                                    1590                   694
oven-iCe                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.4   7                                    2170                   9L48
Totall;ivi.ropo                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           ~~5.8  liSO  229  100
:sot applicable       - nil or negligible
n ot available         -  less than half the
smalIlest unit shown
SI-1relides all re-exPa:ts, unclassified dom-tic~ e,port and adjustments for time. value, and onverage.



_j- 7         r i-oo_.  f . oZrl r 
O                        O  O  _  AD 4:0 e O N b =\ , N X 0- g O
¢un-  I,otl''  °X4  zf'       
:z  oje         U'   q Z' 
0e<  oo     oO ~WI 
1, I                        ag^eEM 
1~~~~~ ~  ~ 61- z              §va4g       oggags 
J 0g n o O O}Cl ~~ O C > p O P g 9 g * s 3 C ; V E fiP 3 d < ^1 c e ^ a~6
n°o3co--oo 
C  0  |~D|  H  ° 3| °( i° 0 ° ° °A
rs r k ° °-|^| - e ° ° p < _ r O t' >( Om O n Gk b $ V E sI 
-ebi-  e  en|v|  _D  zrCh   0  0N   0n  Oc   0  a  VH e 






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
A.   STATEMN   OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
June 30, 1974
(U$ million)
Amount less  cancellations
No.       Year    Borrower    Purpose                      Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and six credits fully disbursed                     5.2     43.0
586-TA     1969    Tanzania    Roads                         7.0                2.6
149-TA     1969    Tanzania    Education                              5.0       1.8
217-TA     1970    Tanzania    Tobacco                                9.0       7.7
715-TA     1970    TANESCO     Power                        30.0                1.8
715-2TA    1974    TANESCO     Power                         5.0                5.0
232-TA     1971    Tanzania    Education                              3.3       3.1
265-TA     1972    Tanzania    Roads                                  6.5       6.3
287-TA     1972    Tanzania    Smallholder Tea                       10.8       8.8
371-TA     1973    Tanzania    Education                             10.3      10.3
382-TA     1973    Tanzania    Livestock                             18.5      18.5
454-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cotton                                17.5      17.5
460-TA     1974    Tanzania    Tanzania Investment Bank               6.o       6.0
Total                                            47.2    129.91/    89.4
of which has been repaid                        0.6      0.1
Total now outstanding                            46.6    129.8
Amount sold:                   .1
of which has been repaid     .1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   46.6    129.8
Total undisbursed                                 9.4     80.0      89.4
- Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT JUNE 30, 1974
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.      Year    Borrower     Purpose               Bank          Undisburse4d
Three loans fully disbursed                          75.0
638-EA    1969    EAHC         Harbors               35.0                9.4
674-EA    1970    EARC         Railways              42.4               20.0
675-EA    1970    EAPTC        Telecommunications    10.4                0.6
843-EA.   1972    EADB         De- -inance            8.0                8.0
865-EA    1972    EAHC         Harbors               26.5               22.2
914-EA    1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications    32.5               27.3
Total                                     229.8              87.5
of which has been repaid                 25.7
Total now outstanding                     204.1
Amount sold:                   24.4
of which has been repaid     23.4         1.0
Total now held by Bank                    203.1
Total undisbursed                          87.5
== %U=



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTITOTI
(As of June 30, 1974T
There are currently 11 projects under execution.
AGRICULTUhX L SEC T.Of
Credit lio. 217 TA  Tobacco Project: $9.0 Million Credit of October
9, 1970; Closing Date - September 30, 1976 '
Although this Project continues to exoerience difficulties, its
prospects appear to be improving. Farmer recruitment has improved
now that more farmers can cultivate tobacco on an indiridual as well
as a collective basis; however, there is still a shortfall of the
revised planting targets. The village water supply situation which
has caused severe recruitment problems in the past has greatly imnroved.
The financial managemant of the Project remains weak and arrangements
are being made to recruit a suitably qualified and e.perienced financial
controller for the Tobacco Authority.
Credit No. 287 TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8 Million Credit of
March 3, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
This Project has experienced a number of delays. Although problems
relating to farmer recruitment have eased as the Government's col-
lectivization policy has become more flexible, the Project has experienced
a number of implementation difficulties reflecting shortcomings in
Project management. The Government and the Tea Authority are now
considering ways of strengthening management to assist the
Authority in solving those difficulties.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered, and the actions
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense,
and with the understanding that they do not purport to present
a balanced evaluation oI' strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANITEX II
Page 4 of 6
Credit No. 332 TA - Second Livestock Development Project: $18.5 Million
Credit of May- 23, 1973; Closing Data - December 31, 1979
The Credit was declared effective on September 28, 1973. The
Government is recruiting the necessary staff to implement this Project.
Plans for the first phase of procurement have been finalised.
Credit flo. 4h1 TA - G.eita Cotton Project: ,17.5 ':Iillion Credit of
Januar-. 17, 197k; Closin.g Dat - t ecember 31, 1982
This credit was declared effective on April 5, 1974. The Govern-
ment arid Cotton Authority are proceeding with recruitment.
POWTER SEC TOR
Loan Wo. 715 TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0 Million Loan
of December, 14, 1970; Closing Date - June 3Q, _19,75
This Project has er          major cost overruns.  The latest
cost estimates exceed the x.. .:,al (US $'9.0 million) by about one-
half. The two main factors responsible for the overruns were (i)
the unexpectedly high cost escalations inside and outside Tanzania
since appraisal in April 1970 and (ii) the unexpected bad rock cond-
itions encountered during escalation of the underground facilities
which make up the major part of the main civil engineering works.
CIDA of Canada has provided Can$13.0 million to cover a large portion
of the overruns. A supplementary loan of $5 million-was approved by
the Executive Directors on June 6, 1974 and Sweden has approved a grant
of SKr 20 maillion ($4.5) to cover the remaining foreign cost overruns.
INDISTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project: $6.0 Million
Credit of February 13. 1974. Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Tiis Credit was declared effective on April 18, 1974.



A_X II
Page 5 of 6
TRANSPORTATION SECTCR
Loan No. 586-TA - Second Highway Project: $7.0 Million Loan of February 24,
1969; Original Closing Date - December 31, 1972: Revised Closing Date -
September 30, 1974
Construction works were satisfactorily completed late in 1972.
Until recently, and after protracted negotiations with the contractors, the
Government agreed to pay them US$1.2 million in resr3ct of their US$1.8
million claims for extra work in addition to the US~.0.l million it paid
previously, and is prepared to submit the remaining claim for arbitration.
The latest revised closing date of the loan is September 30, 1974 by whidh
date the Government will be able to withdraw from the loan account the
amount paid to the contractors. At the request of the Government the
undisbursed amount, about Us$0o. million, in the Loan account will be
cancelled once the withdrawal has been made.
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 Million Credit of
AuEust 6, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1974
After long delays by Government in completing tender arrangements,
an award of contract for the improvement of the Mtwara-Masasi Road has been
made. However, owing to the increase in world prices for civil works since
the appraisal in 1970, the bid price for improving this Road is now more
than double the appraisal estimate. Work by two betterment units on the
improvement of about 475 km of agricultural feeder roads in the Geita district
and Mara region has commenced. Consultants for the proinvestment studies
to be funded under the project have been selected and contracts are being
negotiated.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0 Million Credit of
May 29, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
Progress has improved recently. All civil works contracts have
now been awarded and although it is not expected that lost time can be
made up, all elements of the project should be completed in good order
within a 24 month extension of the Closing Date.
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 Million Credit of
February 5, 1971; Closing Date - June 30, 1975
Bids for the construction of all 13 project institutions were
received in May 1973 resulting in the contract award for four institutions
but due to high quotations and poor response, the remaining nine were
retendered. Although the new tenders were still higher than anticipated,
all civil works contracts have now been awarded. Although the lost time
cannot be made up, project progress has now improved.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Bliucation Project: $10.3 Million Credit
of April 13, '973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Credit was declared effective July 2, 1973. The
Project Ccordinator has been appointed and after some delays,
technical assistance specialists to assist- in Project imrpl ementation,
provided by the Danish lEnterr ational Development Agency, have
been appointed.



ANNEX III
ia-gie      3 pages
TANZANIA
Credit and Project Suimary
Borrowers             United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:               US $10.0 million equivalent.
Termst                Standard IDA terms.
Project Descriptiont  Kigoma Rural Development Project.  The provision
over a five year disbursement period, of agricultural
inputs and social and economic infrastructure for
about 135 newly established ujamaa villages in
Kigoma region. The project)s objectives would be
(a) to lift the snnual per capita income of villagers
from present levels of US $20.0 to about US $40.0,
(b) to develop or strengthen marketing, credit,
extension and adaptive research systems in the
region and (c) to improve the levels of social
services in rural areas.
Cost of Project:
Component:                              Local       Foreig        Total
UWSM
A. Village Infrastructure
Water Suppl-y                       869           905       1,774
Health                              122            96         218
Edication                           9914        1,167       2,161
Feeder Roads                        107            27         134
Tsetse Clearing                     100            18         118
SUB-TOTAL                    2L192         2,213       4,4o5
B. Loans to Villagers
Seasonal Inputs                     216           863       1,079
Medium- and Long-Tero Credit for
Production Infrastructure         330           437         767
SUB-TOTAL                      546         1,300       1,846
C. Loans to Regional Cooperative Union    295           503         798
D. Regional Infrastructure
Rural Training Centers              139           109         248
Radio-Telephone Hookup               22            27          49
Agric. Trial/Training Center and
Livestock Pilot Project            70            53         123



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Local       Foreign        Total
US$ '000
Vehicles                               20             58          78
Demonstration Plots                     6             24          30
Aerial Photography                     25            227         252
SUB-TOTAL                        282           428          780
E.  Technical Assistance                    248            577         825
F.  Pro,ject Preparation and Evaluation     208            622         830
G.  Contingency Allowances                1,495          2,272       3,767
Total Project Cost                    5,266          7,985      13,251
=====      ~== ===      =- =
Financing Plan:         The financing plan is expected to be as follows:
Component:                      L LhAGovernment                     Total
us Tooo   %         us$ ooo   A        us Booo
Village Infrastructure        3,308   75          1,097   25         4,4o05
Loans to Villagers            1,385   75            461   25         1,846
Loans to Regional Coopera-
tive Union                    495   62            303   38           798
Regional Infrastructure         641   82            139   18           780
Technical Assistance            619   75            206   25           825
Project Preparation and
Evaluation                    623   75            207   25           830
Contingencies                 2929    75            838   25         3.767
Total                   10,000   75         3,251    25        13,251
helending Terms:        The following are the proposed relending terms:
Government to Tanzania Rural               4%           25 years including
Development Bank (TRDB)                                 5 years grace
TRD to Kigoma Cooperative Union
and Village Primary Societies
(i)  Short term                   8-½%          12 months
(ii)  Medium & Long term           7-m%           2 years for fishing
gear
5 years for maize
mills and
15 years (including
2 years grace) for
godowns



AhTNX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated Disburse-                                 Fiscal Year
ments:                                          (US$ Millions)
1975    1976    1977    19Th    1979    15'80
0.)     .2     2.0     ?I.0.
Procurement Arrange-
ments:               Interfational competitive bidding for fertilizers,
pesticides, ULV pUwps, radio-telephone
equipment and aerial photography where contracts
exceed $30,000; local manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent or
the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is the lcwer, over the c.i.f. price of imports.
Contracts for vehicles will be awarded in
accordance with the Government's usual procure-
ment procedures as amount involved is about
US$485,0oo and the vehicles will be required at
different stages of project implementation. Local
competitive bidding or force account for construction
of civil works, village water supply and access
r'oads. Local civil works contractors will be
allowed a 7-4 percent preference.
Rate of Return:        22 percent.
Appraisal Report:      Report No.  453a-TA dated July 15, 1974.
Map:                   A map of the proposed project area is attached.






IBRD 1094?
N"    ~~~b oundaries  iM't                                          32a,  Iw
Lak t7e  ?N     -. - in      i"'ozon' 7h s2? r6 1tll l<.   ,, he/,,.              2
,RWANDA  aVN      .               idvZS fbbud  dlh ,dzfJ M                          MARCH  1974
__r 7_ > s ~~~~K     E N  Y A FiS
BURU,N 6 d
AEA
Ne       TANZANIA
REP                 Oar es Sa°aoa
OF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Z A M B I A  A  '                         \S          °             ' 
ZAMBIA  Lake~~ MB
MALAWI   _ r7. .bnc-                              - 
30-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
t 4                                                                                        4-A  !
Z a%e
4 t ~~KigomaI  0tn,
In \:.n                            To Tabora
Ta n g a n  Ik, k/t
iii<i~~ \  n\<TANZANIA
LLJ     (;tc  t       \a     S      g C                Kigoma Rural Development Project
U-1     4     !           '    't           'PROJECT AREA
<                        -                                 1  Project area- Kigoma Region
NJ                   C9\          \        y         ---Regional boundaries
-,.       \     (          *-----------District boundaries
U-                           - -\       9                      District headquarters
-6°            /                  O !                            Ma n roads                6-
----Railway
_  ..-' -..--_ Rivers
*- . -. International boundaries
00             9              \     %                         t /  Tsetse infested area
Seeping sickness endemic area
N ,            -/                       0    20   40   60   80   tOo
&   \   o / <                       K IjLOC M E K TERS
/ \  oz  \                  0       20-     40      60
/                                       MMILES
30                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32'



IBRD 10942
.,>|3.  .el -. s  \  ---International  T,hf bouldarLies sbow7ltdilhe  .odk  sho-  32-
nRWAND)A  Victoria  '\  o   boundaries  pro-d-w-rt ,  hY<I.,  ,,                     MARCH 1974
^._r,          \  ~~~~~~K E N Y A t>o
RU 
PROJECT
Kgoma
AREA
TAN ZA NIA
Lak e0
<Tanae,ka,ia     Dar es   ~     ~ SalaaOgO                                          1
A \ XCf °> TAZAIEA
s~~~~~~~~~-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    -
Z  .s A M<' B: :::: A                        /       .s Lnoksoe-Rginlbudrs
BURUNDI
_4.          4.y
Q                       <'7000 \ -            700   ranp>uat'
9A 7'M/gri  *rsdote16 Cnu                        0    8    o
00~~~~
2                            .....................
,                                            M I:::\~4  Kigoma Rural Development Project
POPULATION DENSITY AND
....                   ~~~~MAJOR ECOLOGICAL ZONES
NJ                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ecological zones:
....                ~~~~~~Lakeshore  -  - Regional boundaries
Highlands     ......District boundaries
/  . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Intermediate          ®District headquarters
Miombo             Main roads
Mostly uninhabitedRily
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Rivers
\...-             Population density~  international boundaries
)         *  ~~~~~Each dot represents
(  ~ ~ ~~OOO~00 people
D  ~ ~    \.     \)7,000 Urban population
LU                                                     * 8ased on the 1967 Census
09~~~~~~                  /0                         20   40  6080100
KILOMETERS
30/i / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~020                 40      60



