CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 508 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kigoma Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 21, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 508 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kigoma Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 21, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 1974, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Project will be carried out in part by the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (hereinafter called TRDB) as a financial intermediary and
procurement specialist with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to TRDB a portion of the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(C)  The Borrower has requested the United Nations Capital Development
Fund (hereinafter called UNCDF) to assist in financing the water supply systems
and health facilities included in Part A(1) of the Project;
(D)  The UNCDF, by an agreement (hereinafter called UNCDF Agreement)
between the UNCDF and the Borrower of even date herewith, has agreed to provide
a grant in the amount of $1,500,000 for such purpose; and
(E)  The Association is willing to m-ake the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and TRDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth -nd the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and TRDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TRDB pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "KRA" means the regional administration of Kigoma Region;
(d)   "KCU" means the cooperative union of Kigoma Region, established
under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1968, and any successor or successors thereto;
(e)   "ATTC" means the agricultural trials and training center to be
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and any
successor or successors thereto;
(f)   "VSFR" means the village site feasibility report which shall be prepared
by KRA for each proposed Project Village pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.03 of this Agreement;
(g)   "Project Special Fund" means the fund to be established by KRA
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(h)   "Project Village" means a village in Kigoma Region which, based upon
the VSFR, is selected to receive assistance under the Project;
(i)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be rnade by TRDB
to KCU or to a Project Village, either through KCU or directly;
(j)   "RDD" means the Regional Development Director of Kigoma Region;
and
(k)   "EAPTC" means the East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation, a corporation provided for under Chapter XIX of the Treaty for East
African Cooperation dated June 6, 1967 and established under the East African
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act, 1967.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purch?se of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1984 and ending March 15, 2024, each installment
to and including the installment payable on March 15, 1994 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, D, E and F of the
Project, and cause TRDB to carry out Parts B and C of the Project, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, educational, financial, public health and technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
therefor.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause TRDB to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable TRDB to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Credit
available to TRDB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and TRDB under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Within six months after the Effective Date, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Association and the Borrower, in order to carry
out Parts E and F of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   employ or cause to be employed, experts with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, as follows:
(i)         KCU shall employ competent and experienced persons to serve
in the positions of Operations Manager and Financial Controller;
and


﻿7
(ii)       the Porrower shall employ competent and experienced persons
to assist in carrying out Part F of the Project; and
(b)   employ, or cause to be employed, competent and experienced persons
as follows:
(i)        KCU shall employ a competent and experienced person to serve
in the position of Training Supervisor;
(ii)       the Borrower shall employ competent and experienced persons
to serve in the positions of Trial Officers and Training Officers;
and
(iii)      the Borrower shall employ a competent and experienced person
to serve in the position of Land Use Planner.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause KRA to prepare a village site
feasibility report (VSFR) for each proposed Project Village pursuant to the
procedures set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause KRA to ensure that each water supply
system provided under Part A(i)(a) of the Project to a Project Village is designed
as the least-cost water supply system for that Project Village.
Section 3.05. (a) Within six months of the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall cause KRA to select a suitable site for the establishment of an
agricultural trials and training center (ATTC), such selection to be based upon
a detailed soil and topographic survey to be made available to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause KRA to start construction of ATTC buildings within six months of the
Effective Date and shall cause KRA to complete such construction within twelve
months of the start thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause KRA to establish a project special fund under the management of the
RDD for the purpose of assisting in solving specific problems of Project
implementation, such as financing the services of consultants or training.


﻿8
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall from time to time exchange views with
the Association on the buying and selling prices of agricultural commodities, taking
into account inter alia the financial viability of Project Villages and KCU and the
establishment of a.ltquate production incentives for Project Villages.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes, within six months of the Effective
Date or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, to make a financial reorganization of KCU and, from time to time,
to take sluch other measures as shall be necessary to ensure that, in accordance
with sound financial practices, KCU is in a position to service debts incurred prior
to the date of this Agreement as well as those incurred during the execution of
the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of KRA and KCU to: (i)
maintain separate records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause each of KRA and KCU to enable the
Association's representatives to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of KRA and KCU, respectively, relating to the Project
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause KRA to furnish to the Association
for discussion and agreement by the Association not later than March I in each
year the proposed annual development plan for Project Villages for the coming
fiscal year.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause KRA to furnish to the Association for
comment not later than March 1 in each year the proposed annual development
plan for all villages in Kigoma Region for the coming fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of KRA and KCU to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿9
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of KRA and the
operations and financial statements of KCU.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause KRA to: (i) have its accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its accounts for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, or such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts of KRA and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) of KCU
and Project Villages receiving Sub-loans under the Project for each fiscal year to
be audited by the Borrower's Registrar of Cooperatives not later than six months
after the close of each such fiscal year and to this end, the Borrower shall appoint
within the Kigoma Region prior to any lending to KCU or Project Villages, auditors
*       reporting to the Registrar of Cooperatives.
Section 4.02. (a) In carrying out Part F(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall
conduct a study on: (i) the fiscal implication of providing the water supply services
included in the Project; and (ii) the appropriate methods and procedures for
allocating and financing the cost of such services.
(b)   The Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on the findings
and recommendations of the study referred to in sub-Section (a) hereof and the
implementation thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   TRDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TRDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;


﻿(c)  the organization, powers and responsibilities of TRDB shall have been
altered in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the execution of the
Project or the efficient operation of TRDB; and
(d)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the UNCDF
Agreement shall have been suspended in whole or in part.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in
Sections 5.01(a), (c) and (d) of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
TRDB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and TRDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TRDB, and constitutes a legally binding
obligation of TRDB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TRDB,
respectively, and constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower and TRDB
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 19, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿11
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determi-ae on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %0/ of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                     2,700,0            90%
(other than
water supply
systems, health
facilities and
KCU collection
and marketing
facilities)
(2)   Incremental cost                1,00,00            100% of foreign
of seasonal inputs                                 expenditures or
including fertil-                                  90% of local
izers, pesticides                                  expenditures
and sprayers
(3)   Aerial photography,              400,000           100% of foreign
radio-telephone                                    expenditures or
system, vehicles                                   90% of local
and spare parts                                    expenditures
(other than for
KCU), equipment
and seasonal inputs
for ATTC, and equip-
ment for schools,
rural training
centers and pilot
livestock program
(4)   Sub-loans to KCU for             600,000           90% of amounts
equipment, vehicles                                disbursed
and spare parts and
civil works for col-
lection and market-
ing facilities


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)   Sub-loans to                    700,000          90% of amounts
Project Villages                                  disbursed
for productive
infrastructure
(6)   Consultants'                   1,100,000          100% of foreign
services                                          expenditures and
and related                                       90% of local ex-
equipment                                         penditures
(7)   Project Special                   30,000          100% of foreign
Fund for tech-                                    expenditures and
nical assist-                                     90% of local ex-
ance and training                                 penditures
(8)   Unallocated                    3,470,000
TOTAL         10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
and
(c)   the term "incremental cost of seasonal inputs" means such portion
of the expenditures for such inputs included in Part B of the Project and to be
financed hereunder as the Association shall reasonably determine from time to
time to be required by TRDB to finance the purchase of such inputs, over and
above any amounts previously disbursed from the Credit Account for such purpose.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on


﻿A
15
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(i)         expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(ii)        Category 4 until KCU    shall have employed an operations
manager and a financial controller pursuant to the provisions
of Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement and until KCU shall have
made its financial reorganization pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.08 of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
*        disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to support village development
in its Kigoma Region by improving infrastructure and social services and by
providing agricultural credit, training and technical assistance. It consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:     Project Village Infrastructure
(to be carried out by KRA)
(1)   The construction in Project Villages of:
(a)   water supply systems, such as wells with handpumps,
gravity delivery systems or diesel-powered pump systems;
(b)   education    facilities,  including  classrooms,  practical
workshops, staff housing, textbooks, desks and tools; and
(c)   rural health centers and dispensaries, including a pilot pit
privy program.
(2)   The clearing of bush near Project Villages affected by tsetse flies.
(3)   The construction of feeder roads to join Project Villages to the
existing road system in the Kigoma Region.
Part B:      Credit to Project Villages
(1)   (to be provided by TRDB directly or through KCU)
Sub-loans to Project Villages for production infrastructure, such
as godowns, maize mills, beach seine nets and fish processing
equipment.
(2)   (to be provided by TRDB through KCU)
Sub-loans to Project Villages for seasonal inputs, such as
fertilizers, pesticides and sprayers and related spare parts.


﻿17
Part C.     Credit to KCU
(to be provided by TRDB)
Sub-loans to KCU for the improvement and expansion of its
collection and marketing facilities, including the purchase and
utilization of lorries, spare parts and related service facilities.
Part D:    KRA Supporting Services
(to be carried out by KRA)
(1)   The construction and equipping of a rural training center in
Kigoma District and the improvement and expansion of the rural
training centers at Kasulu and Kibondo.
(2)   The purchase and installation by KRA     or EAPTC    of a
radio-telephone communications system for Kigoma Region.
(3)   The construction and equipping of ATTC, including land
preparation, classrooms, staff housing and the purchase and
utilization of related equipment.
(4)   The establishment and maintenance of a pilot livestock program
near ATTC to demonstrate livestock management and to assist
in upgrading local breeding stock.
(5)   The purchase and utilization of lorries and other vehicles by
KRA.
(6)   Training of staff for ATTC and the rural training centers referred
to in paragraphs (1) and (3) of this Part.
Part E:     Technical Assistance
(to be provided to KCU and KRA)
(1)   The strengthening of KCU by the employment of an operations
manager, financial controller and a credit and training supervisor.


﻿18
(2)   The employment by KRA of a land-use planner.
(3)   The employment by ATTC of a training officer and a trials
officer.
(4)   The establishment of the Project Special Fund to assist in Project
implementation.
(5)   The construction of staff housing and the purchase and
utilization of vehicles for the persons referred to in paragraphs
(1) and (2) of this Part.
Part F:     Project Evaluation and Preparation
(to be carried out by the Borrower)
(1)   The monitoring and evaluation of Parts A to E of the Project.
(2)   The preparation of future rural development projects of the
Borrower and regional development plans.
(3)   The provision of staff housing for the persons carrying out
paragraph (2) of this Part.
*           *          * P
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Ex-,ept as provided in Part A(3) hereof, contracts shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    (i)          Bidders will not be prequalified, except as stated in Part D(l)(a)
of this Schedule.
(ii)        TRDB shall procure fertilizers, pesticides and sprayers and spare
parts.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions set forth or referred to in Parts A(1) and
(2) of this Schedule:
(i)         building and road construction works and the construction of
water supply systems shall be carried out either:
(a)   under contracts awarded in accordance with the Borrower's usual
procurement procedures, or
(b)   by force account;
(ii)        contracts for lorries and other vehicles and equipment shall be
awarded in accordance with the Borrower's usual procurement
procedures; and
(iii)       pumps and diesel engines for water supply systems shall be
purchased from the Borrower's stock for all Regions.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured


﻿20
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tanzania if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Tanzania.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group


﻿21
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Preference for Domestic Civil Works Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Categories 1
and 2 of the table set forth in Schedule I to this Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors, as
determined by the Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. Applicants for qualification applying also for such
preference shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification,
such information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statment
of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic
preference under this Part, and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:


﻿22
(i)         bids offered by domestic contrators eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
(d)   After bids have been evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for aerial photography, radio-telephone
equipment, fertilizers, pesticides and sprayers estimated to cost the equivalent of
$30,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of


﻿23
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
*       to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Preparation of Village Site
Feasibility Reports (VSFR)
Procedures for Selecting Project Villages from New Villages
1.    Examination of Aerial Photographs. During the first few months of the
Project, aerial photographs shall be taken of those parts of Kigoma Region where
village development under the Project might be expected. A complete set of prints
of an appropriate scale shall be kept in the Lands Office of Kigoma Region. In
analyzing a proposed site, a KRA study team consisting of relevant specialists shall
first examine the relevant aerial photographs. The land planner and his staff shall
interpret the photographs and prepare sketch maps, as necessary. The KRA study
team examination shall provide:
(a)   reasonably   accurate   plotting  of  existing  (if  any)  settlement,
infrastructure, roads, trails and fields;
(b)   preliminary indication of the location and extent of land with soils
and topography suitable for sustained cultivation under the Project;
(c)   in cases where a water supply system        has not been developed,
preliminary indication of possible water sources and their likely ease
or difficulty of development; and
(d) indication of special features such as erosion hazards.
The examination shall enable the KRA study team to: (i) determine those proposed
villages that are obviously unsuitable and (ii) for those sites meriting further study,
locate the site precisely and indicate matters that are likely to be significant, thereby
facilitating the field examination.
2.    Field Examination. A field visit by the KRA study team shall be an integral
part of the preparation of the VSFR for each Project Village (whether existing
or new). The KRA study team shall begin by assembling the data required to
complete the questionnaire on the existing features. To assist in the analysis of
possible water supply systems, KRA's water engineer in those areas where a system
or previously tried surface wells do not exist shall arrange, where necessary, for
the prior sinking, at representative locations in the proposed site, of at least two
dug wells, each to a depth of at least 5 meters. Also, to assist in analysis, a sketch
map of the site shall be prepared showing existing roads, settlement, water sources,


﻿25
buildings and cultivated fields, and currently uncultivated areas having fertility
adequate for development under the Project.
3.    Definition of Village Site or Sites. The KRA study team shall for each
proposed Project Village identify a possible site or sites and for each site shall
prepare a sketch, calculate its carrying capacity (as outlined in paragraph 4 below)
and costs and compare its merits with alternative sites. The sketch of each site
shall show the location of proposed house plots, water supply, roads and
infrastructure.
4.    Carrying Capacity. The KRA     study team  shall calculate the number of
additional families that a particular site can support, taking into account the amount
of arable land within easy walking distance of the proposed site (usually within
3 km of the edge of the proposed settlement, depending on village layout and
topography). This calculation shall take into account the amount of agricultural
land required for each family including the need for land periodically to lie fallow.
5.    Cost Estimates. The KRA      study team  shall prepare cost estimates for
investment costs and annual recurrent costs for each scheme, taking into account
recent experience and expected price changes. For each plan KRA's water engineer
shall prepare a preliminary least-cost water supply system, taking into account the
results of the dug-wells.
6.    Evaluation of Alternative Schemes. The KRA study team would compare
on an annual basis the initial investment and annual recurrent costs of each
alternative. In calculating such annual costs, the KRA study team shall use an
estimated opportunity cost of capital that reflects the alternative return to public
investments in Tanzania.
7.    Recommendation.     The   KRA    study   team   shall prepare   a  signed
recommendation stating: (a) whether any further development was warranted at
the proposed site; (b) which site is preferable (generally the one having lowest
annual cost per family); and (c) the maximum sustainable size of the village in
terms of supportable number of families.
Procedures for Selecting Project Villages from Existing Villages
1.    The purposes in carrying out a VSFR exercise for existing villages for which
investments or credits are proposed under the Project are (a) to ensure that these
villages would be viable for existing and proposed populations; and (b) to permit
a detailed examination of the alternative ways of carrying out the proposed
investments.


﻿26
2.    The same form of VSFR shall be used for both new and existing villages.
In the VSFR, special care shall be required in the calculation of carrying capacity
to ensure that existing families would have sufficient agricultural land.


