CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 508 TA
Project Agreement
(Kigoma Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED AUGUST 21, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 508 TA
Project Agreement
(Kigoma Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED AUGUST 21, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called TRDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that TRDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and TRDB, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to TRDB on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TRDB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TRDB shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
engineering and financial practices.


﻿4
(b)   In carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, TRDB shall follow the
operating policies and procedures set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by agreement
between TRDB and the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03
of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) TRDB undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by TRDB to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, TRDB shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Cretit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) TRDB shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   TRDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out 6f the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   TRDB shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of TRDB relating to
Parts B and C of the Project and any relevant records and documents.


﻿5
Section 2.05. TRDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TRDB shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) TRDB shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)       furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   TRDB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TRDB of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. TRDB shall staff its office in Kigoma Region with adequate
numbers of competent and experienced persons to ensure the effective
implementation of Parts B and C of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. TRDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. TRDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts


﻿6
and financial statements of TRDB and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of TRDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify TRDB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For TRDB:
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
P.O. Box 268
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
MTAJI
Dar es Salaam
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of TRDB may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person
or persons as the General Manager shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. TRDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of TRDB, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by TRDB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿8
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies
and Procedures
1.    On-lending Terms
(A) Subsidiary Loan (from the Borrower to TRDB):
Repayment period of 25 years, including 5 years of grace, 4% per
annum rate of interest, the Borrower to bear the exchange risk.
(B)   Sub-loans to KCU (from TRDB to KCU):
(i)         For purchase of vehicles: maximum repayment period of
3 years, including up to 1 year of grace, 8-1/2% per annum
rate of interest.
(ii)        For construction of godowns and buildings: maximum
repayment period of 10 years, including up to I year of
grace, 7-1/2% per annum rate of interest.
(iii)       For on-lending to Project Villages, for seasonal inputs and
productive infrastructure, same terms as are provided
hereinafter for Sub-loans to Project Villages.
(C)   Sub-loans to Project Villages:
(i)        (From KCU to Project Villages):
For purchase of seasonal inputs: maximum repayment
period of I year, 8-1/2% per annum rate of interest.
(ii)       (From   either TRDB    directly or through KCU    to Project
Villages):
For purchase of productive infrastructure, as follows:
(a)   Godowns: maximum      repayment period of 15 years,
including up to 2 years of grace, 7-1/2% per annum rate
of interest.


﻿10
(b)   Maize mills: maximum   repayment period of 5 years,
including up to I year of grace, 7-1/2% per annum rate
of interest.
(c)   Maize shellers: maximum  repayment period of 4 years,
including up to I year of grace, 7-1/2% per annum rate
of interest.
(d)   Fishing gear: maximum  repayment period of 2 years,
including up to I year of grace, 7-1/2%X, per annum rate
of interest.
2.   Procedures
(A)   General:
(1)   TRDB shall provide credit to KCU only after the following initial
steps have been taken:
(a)   KCU shall have made its financial reorganization pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.08 of the Development
Credit Agreement;
(b) KCU's 1972/1973 financial statements shall have been
aud ited; and
(c)   KCU shall have employed an operations manager and a
financial controller pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.02(a) of the Development Credit Agreement.
(2)   TRDB shall continue to review the creditworthiness of KCU
from time to time, taking into account inter al/a the following
organizational and procedural changes which TRDB shall require
KCU to make:
(a)   KCU shall employ a general manager, a credit and training
supervisor and an adequate number of society credit
officers (at least one society credit officer for 15 Project
Villages);
(b)   KCU shall have adopted new procedures for obtaining cash
advances for crop purchases from the National Bank of
Commerce; and


﻿*                                  11
(c)   KCU shall introduce similar lending terms and procedures
for all affiliated primary societies which receive credit
from KCU.
(B)   Project Villages:
TRDB shall provide credit under the Project, through KCU to Project
Villages for the purchase of seasonal inputs and, either directly or
through KCU, for investment in village infrastructure. To be eligible
for Sub-loans, Project Villages shall be required to: (i) be fully
registered as multi-purpose primary cooperative societies, (ii) have a
qualified bookkeeper and agricultural field assistant working full-time
within the Project Village, and (iii) have demonstrated satisfactory
agricultural performance and, if applicable, prompt debt repayment
during the previous crop season. Credit shall be made available to
Project Villages only after TRDB verifies that the Project Village has
shown acceptable past agricultural performance and debt repayment,
and only in amounts consistent with expected crop projections for
the subsequent season.
(C)   KCU:
TRDB shall provide credit under the Project to KCU for its own capital
investment. Before providing such credit, TRDB's credit appraisal shall
include: (i) a review of KCU's general financial position, both present
and historical including, inter alia, liquidity, debt-equity ratio, total
outstanding debt, total revenues and expenditures, and earnings; (ii)
an evaluation of KCU's management; and (iii) an examination of KCU's
expected trading volume and margins and KCU's expected working
capital, investment and debt service requirements for the period during
which Sub-loans may be made to KCU.


