Document of
'                    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A,  c3>7/^-e'5
Report No. 7590-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
APRIL 25, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Tbis document has a  stricted distribudon and my be used by reripins only In the performae of
twdi officRa duties. 1b contents may not odherwise be dicosed wthout World Dank auhodzadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1988)
Currency Unit                        Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE    1.00                           US$0.435
US$   1.00                           LE 2.30
LE    1.00               =           100 Piastres (PT)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Egyptian and/or Metric Unit            EnRlish/US Unit
1 feddan (fd)            =           1.038   acres (ac)
1 feddan (fd)            =           0.420   hectares (ha)
1 hectare (ha)                       2.380   feddan (fd)
1 kilometer (km)         =           0.621   mile (mi)
I meter (m)              =           3.281   feet (ft)
1 metric ton (mt)        5           0.984   long ton (ton)
1 kilogram (kg)          =           2.205   pounds (lbs)
1 liter (1)              =           1.057   quarts (qt)
1 gram (g)               =           0.035   ounce (oz)
ardab                    5           Egyptian unit of volume
ec                       =          degrees centigrade
Mt                       =           million tons
m2                       =           square meters
m3                       =           cubic meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APCP     Agricultural Production and Credit Project
ARC      Agricultural Research Center
BDAC     (Governorate) Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
EC       European Community
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
GMP      Guaranteed Minimum Price
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOE      Government of Egypt
HAD      High Aswan Dam
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
MIS      Management Information System
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MOS      Ministry of Supply
MSBA     Mills, Silos and Bakeries Authority
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PBDAC    Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PC       Project Coordinator
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PSC      Project Steering Committee
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
T&V      Training and Visit System
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
Government of Arab Republic of Egypt: July 1 - June 30
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit: July I - June 30
3170C PO



ARAE' REPIUE'IIC OF EGYPT            FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
AGRICU'l.TIFRAL. cTORAGE PROECT
STAFF APPRAIAI. REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                           Page No.
JTAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i-i
I.   INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
A.  Resource Base . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
B.  Role in the Economy and Sectoral Performance  . . . .   3
C.  Major Agricultural Constraints  . . . . . . . . . . .   4
D.  IDA/Bank Involvement in the Sector  . . . . . . . . .   6
III.   DISTRIBUTION OF AGRICULTURAL INPUTS AND PRODUCT MARKETING    8
A.  Structure and Participation . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
B.  Privatization of Agricultural Inputs Distribution . .  10
C.  Public Sector Handling and Storage Infrastructure . .  11
D.  Bank Involvement in Agricultural Storage  . . . . . .  14
E.  Other Donor Support to Agricultural Storage . . . . .  14
IV.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   15
A.  Project Rationale and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . .  15
B.  Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
C.  Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
A.  Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
B.  Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
C.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
D.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
VI.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . .  30
A.  PBDAC - Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
B.  PBDAC - Financial Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
C.  Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
D.  Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
E.  Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
F.  Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . .  36
G.  Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Egypt
in November 1988, comprising Amar Jit S. Sodhi, Senior Agricultural Economist
(Mission Leader), Francesco Scaduto-Mendola, Senior Financial Analyst and
Colin Bruce (Young Professional, Economist) (World Bank), Henry G. Lembeck,
Storage Engineer and Cornelius Hugo, Agricultural Economist (coasultants).
3 170C
Thmi document has a resttdcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Chapter                                                          Page No.
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS, PROJECT RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT   38
A.  Beneficiaries and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
B.  Economic Analysis ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  39
C.  Sensitivity Analysis  ....  .  .   ..............      .  40
D.  Environmental Impact  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... .  41
E.  Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
VIII.   ASSURANCES OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . .  42
A.  Assurances  ....  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .. .42
B.  Recommendations . . . . .                      .  .   45
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1  Agricultural Sector Developments, Some Key Indicators  . .   6
3.1  Average Annual Throughput of Commodities Through Shounas .  12
3.2  Estimated Magnitude of Storage Losses  . . . . . . . . . .  13
4.1  Additional Covered Storage Requirements of PBDAC . . . . .  18
5.1  Project Costs  .  .......  . . . . . .       .    ... .  .  .   .   25
5.2  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
5.3  Procurement Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
5.4  Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . . .   29
5.5  Disbursements Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
6.1  PBDAC's Operating Results  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   33
7.1  Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .   39
7.2  Sensitivity Analysis of Rates of Return of Net Streams
of Total Project  ....  .    . . . . . . . . . . .  .   .   41
ANNEXS
1.   PBDAC:  Organizational Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
2.   Capacity and Location Analysis:
Table 1. Capacity Analysis for a Typical Governorate
(Beheira) For Agricultural Inputs  . . . . . . .  47
Table 2. Existing and Proposed New Capacities
by Governorate ....  .  .  .  .  .   ....... .  50
3.   Warehouse Designs:
Figure 3.1:  Agricultural Inputs Warehouse Design . .  51
Figure 3.2:  Grains and Feed Warehouse Design . . . .  52
Figure 3.3:  Imported Corn Bulkhead Design:
Site General Arrangement. . . . . . . . . . . .  53
Figure 3.4:  Imported Corn Bulkhead Design:
Flow  Design    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ........  .  54



Table of Contents (continued)                                        Page No.
ANNEXES (continued)
4.   Operating Cost Comparison:  Existing Shouna vs. Proposed
Warehouse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  55
5.   Terms of Reference for Imported Feed Grains
Handling, Transportation and Storage Study  . .   . . . 56
6.   Training Program . .. .......  . . . . .  61
7.   Detailed Cost Tables:
Table 1.  Breakdown of Summary Accounts . . . . . . .  62
Table 2.  Project Component by Year . . . . . . . . .  63
Table 3.  Project Components by Year:
Including Contingencies  . . . . . . . .     64
Table 4.  Summary Account by Project Component. . . .  65
Table 5.  Summary Accounts Cost Summary . . . . . . .  66
8.   Project Procurement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . - . . . .  67
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IBRD Loan  . . . . .  68
10.   Project Organization Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
11.   PBDAC Financial Analysis (Including BDACs):
Table 1.  PBDAC:  Statement of Income and Expenditure   70
Table 2.  PBDAC:  Breakdown of Gross Income:  Operating
Profit as Percent of Gross Income  . . . . . 72
Table 3.  PBDAC:  Balance Sheets (Including BDACs)  .  73
Table 4.  PBDAC:  Financial Ratios (Including BDACs).   74
Table 5.  PBDAC:  Sources and Application of Funds
for the Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  75
12.    Summary of Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . .   76
13.    Project Economic Analysis:
Table 1.  Results of Economic Analysis by Governorate   77
Table 2.  Results of Economic Analysis for Agricultural
Input and Feed and Grain Warehouses  . . .   75
Table 3.  Results of Economic Analysis for Fertilizer
Warehouse Rehabilitation and Bulkhead for
Imported Corn . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  79
Table 4.  Results of Overall Economic Analysis  . . .  80
14.    Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  81
MAP
IBRD 21442-Egypt: Storage Capacities and Locations by Governorates
31 70C



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURYT STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AMD PROJECr SUMMARY
Brrower                 : Government of Arab Republic of Egypt.
Amoumt                  : US$40.0 Million equivalent.
Terms                   : Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
mplementiMt MAeney    : The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit.
Prolect Obiectives
and Des#rktiid         The project objective would be to strengthen and expand
agricultural storage infrastructure and improve storage
handling methods in order to (i) reduce physical losses
currently estimated at over US$33 million per annum;
(ii) minimize quality deterioration in the products
handled; (iii) improve efficiency in the transportation
of fertilizers and feedgrains; and (iv) reduce product
handling and storage costs. The project would provide
for the construction, over a five-year period, of
nearly 0.9 million tons of covered warehouse capacity;
repair and rehabilitation of existing warehouses;
construction of a temporary 60,000 ton bulk handling
and storage facility near a port for imported corn;
procurement of equipment needed for efficient handling
of various commodities (principally, fertilizers,
animal feed, and grains); engineering and other
consulting services; training of management and
operational staff; and a study to develop an investment
proposal for imported feed grains.
Benefit and RNk8        The main economic benefits under the proposed prvject
would be improved storage efficiency resulting in
annual savings of about US$22 million, out of e:stimated
storage losses of US$33 million, in 1988 constant
dollars. A favorable environmental impact would arise
from reduced rodent and insect infestation and minimal
spillage of fertilizers and other toxic material on
bare ground. The risks are minimal because the
warehouse design has already been successfully used
within the country.  The design is particularly
suitable for the eventual transfer of these facilities
to the private sector.



- ii -
The implementation arrangements are consistenc with the
capability of the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit; and the costs and benefits have
been conservatively estimated on the basis of past
experience.
Estimated Proiect Costs: 1/
Total
Local       Foreign      Total      Base
-_--   -_(US$ '000)             -   Cost
A.  Fertilizer Warehouses                32,367.5    18,496.1    50,863.5       66
B.  Grain & Feed Warehouses             12,480.7      8,646.8    21,127.5       27
C. Bulkhead for
Imported Corn                       1,174.4      2,078.3      3,252.7      4
D. Project Organization
and Implementation                  1,546.4        946.5      2,492.9       3
Total Baseline Costs                    47,569.0    30,167.7    77,736.6    100
Physical Contingencies              4,994.3      3,221.3      8,215.6      11
Price Contingencies                10,589.7      6,554.1    17,143.9       22
Total Project Costs                     63,153.0    39,943.1   i03,096.1    133
1/ Minor differences due to rounding.
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreian            Total
…     _--(U-S$ Million)---
IBRD                                            40.0              40.0
PBDAC                         63.1               -                63.1
Total                         63.1              40.0             103.1
_           =              ,~=
Estimated Completion Date:         December 31, 1994
Estimated Disbursements:                      Bank Fiscal Year
FY      1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
- -      (US$ million)
Annual                            0.6      6.1     9.8      9.6     9.7       4.2
Cumulative                        0.6      6.7    16.5    26.1    35.8       40.0
Economic Rate of Return:              222



ARM  EPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
L JnTRODUCTION
1.01     Egypt has the largest population and, after Saudi Arabia, the second
largest economy in the Middle East. About 96% of its one million (M) square
kilometers (Km') is desert. With 51 million people crowded into the Nile
Delta and Valley (which occupy about 42 of the area), its average population
density of 1,300 per Km2 is higher than that of Bangladesh or Indonesia.
Its limited arable lands are, aowever, exceptionally productive, enjoying
virtually 100% of irrigation, congenial weather and the potential for three
crops per year. Agriculture remains an important economic sector of the
Egyptian economy.
1.02     Nevertheless, during the last three decades, Egypt has moved from a
net exporter to a significant importer of agricultural commodities. The
volume and value of agricultural commodity imports (excluding produiction
inputs) have consistently increased since 1960; the value of these imports
accelerated in the 1980s reaching US$2.01 billion in 1987. The agriculture
trade deficit (excluding production inputs and capital goods) exceeded US$1.5
billion in 1987. This deficit became an important factor in the country's
deteriorating foreign exchange situation.
1.03     Improving efficiency is a major concern in the Egyptian agricultural
sector. Even though Egyptian crop yields are high by developing country
standards, they are much below the country's known potential. Similarly,
fertilizer use is high by developing country standards but low in terms of
irrigated area and cropping intensity. There is considerable scope for the
more efficient use of land, water and fertilizer and for sectoral policies
which promote overall agricultural efficiency while stimulating external
trade. Accordingly, the Government of Egypt (GOE), in collaboration with the
Bank and some bilateral agencies, has initiated several policy and
institutional reforms to facilitate a move in this direction.
1.04     Agricultural storage is one area where improvements in efficiency
will generate several benefits. First, better storage would save the country
excessive product handling and storage losses (currently estimated at about
US$33 million per annum). Second, it would save the country considerable
foreign exchange which is currently expended to replace commodity losses.
Third, it would provide the farmer with a better quality product by reducing
the deterioration in quality that fertilizers and other agricultural products
undergo during storage and handling. Fourth, the construction of storage
infrastructure would provide the essential underpinnings of a modern
agricultural marketing system. Therefore, GOE has accorded a high priority to
the building of agricultural storage infrastructure and to the training of
storage technical and managerial staff. Toward this end, GOE has requested
assistance from the Bank.



1.05     The proposed project is in response to this request.  This project
was identified/prepared by a Bank mission in June-July 1988 and was appraised
in November 1988.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Resource Base
2.01     Egypt has a population estimated at about 51 million (mid-1987
estimate) which is increasing at an annual rate of 2.72. About 552 of the
population is rural, its proportion having steadily declined from 621 in
1960. Average per capita income is US$710 per annum (1987).
2.02     The land base suitable for agricultural production consists of some
6.4 M feddans (fd), or only 0.13 fd per capita--one of the lowest levels in
the world. Of this amount, 5.4 M fd are "old" lands and about 1.0 M fd are
reclaimed lands--the so-called "old-new" lands. The old lands include all of
the more fertile areas in the Nile Valley and Delta, where about 972 of
Egypt's total agricult .al production is generated.  The old-new lands were
reclaimed from the  a.,ce 1950s through the early 1970s, primarily on t}
marginal sandy soils along the western edge of the Delta. The reclamation
process has had only limited success; about one-third of the reclaimed land
has not been fully productive (para. 2.07). Some additional land is being
reclaimed annually and equipped with irrigation and drainage infrastructure
for sale to farmers in lots of 5 fd. At the same time, some agricultural land
is always being transferred to resider'tial and other nonagricultural use,
particularly near urban centers. Estimates of the rate of loss vary, but at
least 20,000 fd is probably lost to agriculture annually. The land base can
be increased through additional land reclamation, but, with higher pumping
lifts and lower quality soils, the per unit cost of reclamation and of
agricultural production would progressively increase. This implies that more
efficient use of the existing land (through higher productivity per unit of
land) should continue to be a major area of focus, along with GOE's
longer-term land reclamation programs.
2.03     Farm sizes are generally very small, averaging two to three feddans.
Under the agrarian reform laws of the 1950s and 1960s, about 1 M fd were
redistributed to those having little or no land, and farm sizes were limited
to a maximum of 50 fd per individual, or 100 fd per fami'y. Leasing is
common: almost half the land is farmed under some form of leasehold, allowing
partial consolidation of fragmented holdings.
2.04     The Nile River accounts for more than 95% of Egypt's water
resources. The problem of reliable, year-round water was resolved with the
commissioning of the High Aswan Dam (HAD) in 1968, which provides on an
average 55.5 billion cubic meters (m3) of water a year to Egypt.  The live
storage capacity of HAD is 130 billion m3, which exceeds the Nile River mean
year flow and thus provides a reliable water supply for irrigation and other
uses. The Nile system has sufficient water to meet current water requirements
and, with proper conservation and management, water is not likely to be a
major constraint to agricultural development in the near future, provided
there is not a recurrence of the exceptional drought conditions experienced in
the region during the 1980s, which caused heavy drawdown on water stored in
Lake Nasser. However, the negative impact of the Dam is that the rich silt
deposited by floods in the farmers' fields is no longer available, thereby
increasing farmers' dependence on organic and chemical fertilizers.
3 1 6 9C



2.05     The climate in Egypt is characterized by a mild winter and a hot
summer. The normal mean monthly temperatures are high in Upper Egypt, ranging
from 16.80C to 34.2°C at Aswan, and gradually decreasing northwards to a range
of 13.7°C to 26.6°C on the Mediterranean coast. Annual rainfall averages
about 120 millimeters (mm) at the northern periphery of the Delta and
decreases sharply moving southward to only 26 mm in Cairo   Upper Egypt is
virtually rainless. With the exception of a small land area in the northwest
part of the Delta, all farm lands are dependent on irrigation for the
year-round cultivation of a wide variety of summer and winter crops.
B. Role in The Economy and Sectoral Performance
2.06     Historically, the agricultural sector has been a major contributor to
the Egyptian economy. It has provided the main source of employment and
output and has been crucial to Government revenue and foreign exchange
earnings. During the 1950s and 1960s, agricultural production grew at an
annual rate of 3X-4X; it accounted for 85%-9O0 of export earnings, 55h-60b of
employment and about 30% of GDP. Due to the accelerated growth in other
sectors of the economy, the relative importance of agriculture in the Egyptian
economy has declined significantly since the 1960s; however, it still accounts
for about 20% of GDP, 40% of total civilian employment and 12% of merchandise
export earnings.
2.07     In the late 1970s, agricultural growth declined to around 2% per
annum, after the impact of the HAD on agriculture reached its peak, due to the
leveling of crop yields in old lands and a lower than expected output from
reclaimed lands (para. 2.02). Other factors in this decline were the
imposition of area allotments and delivery quotas; the lower-than-horder
equivalent prices; and official price increases which were insufficient to
compensate for increases in the cost of production. The slowdown in
agricultural growth was also exacerbated by (i) a population growth rate of
2.7T per year; (ii) rapid increases in per capita income due to the oil boom,
an increase in tourism and in workers' remittances from the Arab countries,
Suez Canal profits, and foreign aid; and (iii) heavily subsidized consumer
prices for food items, which compounded the expansionary effect of the first
two factors on demand. Indeed, these developments led to increases in per
capita consumption over the period 1974-1980. Annual rates of increase for
some major agricultural commodities were wheat 4.8%, sugar 7.82, white meat
7.6%, edible oils 13%, and fish 8.3X.  As a consequence, exports of several
agricultural commodities declined or stagnated, while the imports of wheat,
maize, edible oils, meats and sugar rose precipitously.
2.08     In addition to area allotments, delivery quotas and subsidized prices
for some consumer goods during this period, there were total and partial
public monopolies of agricultural inputs and product marketing; mandated
government price controls for inputs and products characterized the
agricultural sector. These policies led to a serious misallocation of
production resources and prevented the agricultural sector from reaching
higher productivity levels.
2.09     In ths early 1980s, GOE, in response to a continuing policy reform
dialogue with the Bank and some other donors, began to formulate and, by the
mid-1980s, to introduce a series of macro- and sectoral-policy reforms to
foster sustainable economic growth and gradually restore macroeconomic balance
to the country's economy. The effect of the policy reforms initiated in the
agricultural sector (paras. 2.11-2.13) is just beginning to be felt.
3 1 6 9C



C. Major Alpieultumal Constraints
2.10     The major constraints which eroded the agricultural sector's
pre-eminent position over the last two decades included (i) the cumulative
effect of GOE's interventionist policies in the agricultural sector which
distorted the cropping patterns, eroded production and marketing incentives
and reduced the overall efficiency of the sector (paras. 2.07 and 2.08);
(ii) instit tional deficiencies in applied agricultural research, extension
and marketing; (iii) physical constraints in the shape of severely limited
arable land and less than anticipated returns from the large public
investments designed to significantly increase the productive land base
(para. 2.02); and (iv) technical constraints arising mainly out of water
loggin!- and soil salinity problems.  On a lesser scale, but nevertheless
impoizant, are the inefficiencies in the agricultural storage system which
continue to result in heavy physical and quality losses in the handling and
storage of fertilizers, animal feed and grains.
2.11     In order to restore buoyancy to the agricultural sector by
alleviating policy induced constraints (para. 2.10(i)), GOE has instituted, or
plans to institute, the following reforms:
(i)    In October 1986, the Government removed crop area allotments and
delivery quotas for all major crops with the exception of
cotton, sugarcane and rice. The partial purchase monopoly (50%
quota delivery) in rice is scheduled to be phased out over the
next three years.
(ii)    The Government continues to purchase some key crops like wheat,
maize and soybean but now does so on a voluntary basis and at
competitive market prices. This provides farmers with an
alternative market and with a "floor" rather than a "ceiling"
price for their commodities.
(iii)    The private sector processing and marketing of agricul;.ural
products has been encouraged. Restrictions on rice processing
by the private sector and those on intergovernorate
transportation of milled rice have been liberalized and (in
conjunction with the elimina-ion of the delivery quota) will be
removed over the next three years. Restrictions on the
intergovernorate transportation of wheat have already been
lifted. The Government no longer intervenes in the marketing of
sesame.
(iv)    Import/export constraints have been reduced and the foreign
trade of most agricultural goods has shifted to the free foreign
exchange market. The Government monopoly on citrus exports 'as
been abolished.
(v)    Substantial progress has been made in liberalizing agricultural
producer prices. Except for cotton, sugarcane and rice, there
is no control on the price of agricultural crops. As a next
step, GOE has indicated a willingness to gradually increase
cotton prices so that they equal world market prices by 1992.
(vi)    Livestock feed subsidies have been drastically reduced and
poultry feed subsidies have been completely phased out.  The
3169C



- 5 -
pricing of unified large animal feed is now done on the basis of
world prices for corn; this was achieved through a series of
price increases from LE 120 per ton in 1986 to LE 360 per ton in
November of 1988 (the subsidy or, maize constituted 467 of total
agricultural subsidies in 1985/86). Subsidies on other feed
ingredients, particularly cotton seed cake, have been reduced
through a price increase from LE 82 per ton to LE 120 per ton in
the fall of 1988.
%vii)    GOE plans to eliminate all subsidies on fertilizers in four
years. Toward this end, average fertilizer prices were
increased by 192 in February 1988, and again by about 497 in
August 1988.
(viii)    Private sector participation in the production and delivery of
agricultural inputs has been encouraged. Except for fertilizers
and large animal feed produced by public sector plants, the
production, distribution and storage of other inputs (like
pesticides, seeds, and poultry feed) are no longer the monopoly
of the public sector. For example, production and marketing of
hybrid corn seed is now completely in the private sector.
Presently, there are five private sector seed companies
operating in Egypt. Ia seed processing, 25X of the planned
future capacity is reserved for the private sector; in addition,
private seed growers can now, for a fee, process their product
at public sector seed processing plants.  Over 80% of the
pro,duction of poultry feed is alroady in the hands of private
sector entrepreneurs, and the public sector production of
poultry meat is scheduled to be reduced from over 202 to less
than 6b by the year 2000.
2.12     GOE, assisted by bilateral and multilateral agencies, has taken a
number of steps to address the other constraints mentioned in para. 2.10. A
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP), funded by the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), is seeking to restructure and
revitalize the Egyptian agriculture research system by focusing on specific
regional problems and by reorienting research away from specific crops towards
farming systems; this would considerably enhance the relevance of research for
extension. The agricultural extension service, which was previously designed
to support a system of centralized planning and control by assigning crop
production and delivery targets to individual farmers, is now being separated
from the regulatory and input distribution functions of the department and is
being reorganized on the lines of Training and Visits (T&V) system under the
umbrella of the national Agricultural Research Center (ARC). This T&V
approach is based upon the experience of the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) funded Minya Agricultural Development Project
(IFAD 114-EG) and the Fayoum Agricultural Development Project (IFAD 157-EG),
both appraised and being supervised by the Bank (para. 2.15). The Bank's
Second Agricultural Development Project (Li. 2561-EGT) and the USAID-funded
Small Farmer Production Project and its successor, the Agricultural
Production and Credit Project (APCP) also support the same approach to
agricultural extension (para. 3.01). With assistance from the Bank,
significant efforts have also been made to address physical constraints
includ4.ng the technical problems of drainage and soil salinity (para. 2.14).
In addition, GOE is now keen to address the efficiency of the agricultural
storage system. Some progress has already been made in improving the system
3 169C



- 6 -
with donor assi ,tance (para. 3.29) and investment proposals to be funded under
the current Five-Year Plan are being prepared (para. 3.28).
2.13     Very early indications are that the net effect of these changes is
likely to be favorable (Table 2.1). It appears that the deteriorating trends
in /i) the share of agriculture in value added; (ii) agricultural exports as
percentage of total exports; and (iii) agricultural trade balance have been
arrested and possibly reversed. It would, however, take more time to asses
the impact of the changes on the self-sufficiency rates for major agricultural
products.
Table 2.1: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENTS
SOME KEY INDICATORS
1960    1974    1983    1987
Share of agriculture in value added (%)              28       30      19       20
Agricultural exports as X of total exports           33       47       9       12
Agricultural trade balance (US$M, current prices) 255   -188  -1,920  -1,545 ^'
Self-sufficiency (X) in major products:
Wheat                                             70      37       34       28k'
Rice                                             144     111      101      102
Sugar                                            114      96       50      50
Lentils                                           92      81       11 Do   78
Cotton                                           400     232      170     151 's
Meat                                              95      99       63       67 '
Milk                                              94      93       62       91 '
Potatoes                                         179     116      115     108
Oranges                                          109     125      113     113 d'
a/   1986.
b/   Abnormal year.
c/   'ilf-sufficiency is actually higher since the export of cotton has
shifted fLom raw cotton to intermediate goods (yarn and fabric).
d/   1985.
D. IDA/Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.14     Bank Group Operations.  Past operations in the sector have sought to
address major elements in the development strategy. The Bank has financed a
series of five drainage projects ' to help prevent a decline in land
productivity resulting from rising water tables and increased salinity (para.
2.12). These projects cover about 2.6 M fd of irrigated land and, in terms of
the number of
1/   Credit 181-UAR (1970), Credit 393-UAR (1974), Credit 637/Loan 1285-EGT
(1976), Credit 719/Loan 1439-1440-EGT (1977) and Loan 2562-EGT (1985).
'2I 6Or



- 7-
projects and resources committed, they comprise a major c'mponent of Bank
lending. The latest, Drainage V Project (Ln. 2562-EGT), d6sists in the
remodeling of open drains on about 280,000 fd; the installation of tile drains
in some 460,000 fd; and institutional strengthening. The Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1162-EGT) was designed to help GOE develop an institutional
capacity to undertake planning and feasibility studies for agricultural
projects; as a result, suitably equipped project preparation units have been
established in the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MOA). The ongoing Irrigation
Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2270-EGT) is the first phase of a
national program to prevent crop losses due to irrigation/drainage pump
failures. A Channel Maintenance Project (Ln. 2732-EGT) was signed in March
1988 to assist in the introduction of modern maintenance practices and in the
strengthening of institutions responsible for the maintenance of canals and
open drains. The Bank also serves as the executing agency for two UNDP-funded
projects: Water Master Plan (EGY/84/007) which helps plan water development
and water use; and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (EGY/85/012) to help
prepare a scheme to improve the irrigation infrastructure and efficiency in
the use of irrigation and drainage water. The First Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 830-EGT) sought, as a pilot project, to raise crop productivity
in two governorates, Sohag and Menufia, by improving farm mechanization and
strengthening agricultural credit, cooperativea and extension services. This
was followed by a Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-EGT) which
(after initial delays and subsequent restructuring) is currently under
implementation. This project seeks to improve farm productivity through the
introduction of integrated farming packages in seven rice-growing
governorates, involving about 50% of Egypt's cultivated land.
2.15     In the Minya and Fayoum Agricultural Development Projects, for which
the Bank acts as executing agency for IFAD, emphasis is placed on research and
extension services (para. 2.12). Other agricultural projects financed by
IDA/Bank include Agroindustries I and II Projects (Cr. 988-EGT and
Ln. 2243-EGT, respectively) and the Fish Farming Project (Cr. llll-EGT). The
New Lands Development Project-West Nubariya (Cr. 1083-EGT)-involves the
reclamation of 24,000 fd of desert land and the settlement of 4,000 small
holders. The New Lands and the Agroindustries projects are progressing
satisfactorily, but the Fish Farming Project has been facing implementation
delays and technical problems.
2.16     Lessons Learned.  Of the completed projects, Project Performance
Audit Reports have been issued only for the first four drainage projects
(Cr. 181-UAR, 393-UAR, Ln. 1285-EGT/Cr. 637-EGT and Ln. 1439-1440/Cr.719-EGT),
and the First Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 830-EGT). A Project
Completion Report has been issued for the Fruit and Vegetable Project
(Ln. 1276-EGT). Some lessons have been learned from these and the ongoing
projects about the problems of the agricultural sector. The Bank's long
association with, and substantial support to, GOE's program to improve the
production efficiency of the sector has highlighted the following important
lessons: (i) the most effective projects are simple and preferably involve
only one implementing Ministry; (ii) the project implementation period should
take into account factors that usually cause delays, viz., procurement
problems, shortage of staff, and inadequate budgetary allocations; (iii) the
Government's commitment to the project must be clear; and (iv) the
strengthening of the management capability of agencies responsible for project
implementation must receive priority. These lessons have been incorporated
into the design of the proposed project.



- 8 -
m. DlSTRIBUTION OF AGRICULTURAL INPUTS AND PRODUCT MARKETING
A. Structure and Participation
The Public Sector
3.01     Primary Agency:  The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit (PBDAC) is the main agency responsible for the storage and distribution
of fertilizer, large animal feed and domestically procured grains and pulses
under GOE's guaranteed minimum price scheme. PBDAC also stores and sells, in
competition with private trade, pesticides, seeds and some agricultural
machinery. In addition, PBDAC imports (on behalf of public and private sector
feed mills) yellow corn and distributes it throughout the country. PBDAC is a
government-owned institution which has combined banking, developmental and
commercial functions under one umbrella and has provided strong support to
Egyptian agriculture. It is the chief source of agricultural credit to the
country's some three million farmers and has maintained a very good track
record of loan recovery (nearly 95% in 1987). PBDAC is also instrumental in
promoting agricultural development by acting as an executing agency for a
number of internationally financed agricultural projects. Typical examples
are (i) the USAID-funded Small Farmer Production Project and its recent
successor, AlMP (para. 2.12); and (ii) the Bank-assisted Second Agricultural
Development Project (paras. 2.12 and 2.14). Additionally, PBDAC performs a
key commercial function described above, which provides more than 50% of its
profits. (PBDAC's organizational chart is shown in Annex 1.)
3.02     The combination of developmental, comimercial and banking activities
within PBDAC is permitted under Law No. 117 of 1976. This Law provides that
PBDAC shall undertake the central planning of agricultural credit; finance
this credit; "make available all production inputs either through importation
or from local production"; and "arrange their distribution on cash or
credit." PBDAC shall also "promote the institutions serving agriculture and
cooperative societies."
3.03     PBDAC performs its commercial functions for a fee which covers its
actual expenses and a commission.  For instance, for fertilizers, it receives
a 16.5b commission on the retail price, which covers all variable and fixed
costs, and a commission charge.  Similar commissions are charged for the
handling and distribution of animal feed, grains and pulses, and imported
yellow corn.
3.04     Other Agencies:  The Ministry of Supply (MOS) is responsible for
(i) assessing the annual national requirement of grains and pulses;
(ii) estimating the expected deficit or surplus by commodity;
(iii) determining the required import or export levels in conjunction with
MOA; (iv) upgrading national wheat and rice milling facilities; and
(v) procuring, internationally, grains and wheat flour on most competitive
prices, and arranging for their delivery to Egyptian ports. The actual
unloading of vessels, storing and distributing of imported wheat and flour to
mills, bakeries, sweets and macaroni producers is done by the Mills, Silos and
Bakeries Authority (MSBA), an establishment under MOS. MSBA also produces
flour and flour products, and distributes them to retailers. MSBA does not
handle or store domestic grains and imported corn which fall within the
purview of PBDAC.



-9-
The Private Sector
3.05     The private sector is active at all levels of the national
market--governorate, district and village-for grain and pulses. Merchants
are dependent on a complex, dual marketing system designed to satisfy the
needs of local markets (local network system) and those of the urban areas of
the country (regional assembly system). Traders under both systems get
information on supply and demand conditions through their forward and backward
linkages, and they adjust their pricing (linked to unofficial quality
standards) and market initiatives suitably. Both systems operate without the
benefit of official standards, weights and measures, or other public
regulatory and facilitating functions, such as the dissemination of
information on prices, volumes and credit. In such a context, the system is
less than fully competitive, and depends heavily on mutual trust built up over
the years between farmers and traders.
3.06     The handling and storage infrastructure for grains and pulses in the
private sector is inadequate and substandard. The commodities are kept in
sacks and storage facilities consist of rooms in the farmer's or merchant's
home, in the open air, or in owned or rented all-purpose warehouses. These
rooms and warehouses are not rodent- or bird-proof, and the open air storage
is subject to the vagaries of the weather. Clearly, the losses are high, but
probably not as at PBDAC because the quantities handled are smaller, the
storage periods shorter and personal care is taken by the merchants to clean
and sack the grains properly, stack them neatly and recover as much spillage
as possible. However, at present, private merchants do not appear to be
inclined to invest ir storage, which they view as yielding benefits in the
distant future. On the contrary, they would rather take advantage of the
progressive relaxation of trade restrictions by GOE (like intergovernorate
movement of some grains) and quota delivery systems for crops; trade offers
quick returns and better control over limited capital.
3.07     With a few exceptions in the major cities, the private sector does
not have the means to scientifically control stored product pests such as
insects, rodents and birds. At present, the traders in towns depend upon
PBDAC's services (which they receive at a reasonable fee) for fumigation of
stared grains. However, tee benefits from such control measures are
suboptimal due to the substandard nature of most storage facilities.
3.08     A small percentage of the private grain trade uses storage under a
bonded warehouse system.  This nascent marketing service is offered by some
commercial banks to large traders who wish to import grains or need to buy
large quantities of local grains, using bank credit. Traders keep the
merchandise in a bonded warehouse, owned or rented by the bank, and retrieve
it upon meeting their repayment oUligations.
3.09     While there are no legal restrictions on private sector engagement in
the importation of grains (wheat, corn, sorghum) or in the manufacture and
distribution of arnimal feed (para. 3.11), little private sector activity is
currently taking place due to constraints related to: (i) organizational
requirements and logistics of grain importation; (ii) foreign exchange
availability; (iii) economies of scale; and (iv) preference given to public
sector animal feed manufacturers in the allocation of some feed ingredients.
However, as the private sector gains experience and strength in a conducive
and continuing policy environment, it is likely to increasingly involve itself
in these activities.



- 10 -
B.Privatization of Agricultural Inputs Distribution
3.10     Private sector handling of agricultural inputs is limited to seeds,
pesticides and agricultural machinery; it does not extend to the major
iaput-namely, fertilizers. Even though the overall quantity of seeds,
pesticides and agricultural machinery traded is smaller when compared to
fertilizers, progressive liberalization and involvement of the private sector
in the marketing of these commodities would improve the system's efficiency.
About 3.5 Mt of fertilizero are marketed annually, and PBDAC is still the sole
agent for importation, domestic procurement and distribution in the country.
Legally, however, fertilizer may be imported and distributed by the private
trade, but no such initiatives have yet emerged mainly because fertilizer
distribution by the public sector is subsidized by GOE.
3.11     At present, there is also little private manufacturing and trading of
animal feed, even though these activities are permitted under the new policies
(para. 3.09). Therefore, animal feed marketing continues to be the virtual
monopoly of PBDAC.
3.12     However, GOE is seriously considering reducing (or eliminating) the
involvement of PBDAC in the procurement and distribution of fertilizers,
animal feed and other agricultural inputs. The Government is currently
seeking an approach which would ensure a reasonably smooth transition to a
private competitive system. GOE is cautious in its approach because:
ii) fertilizers are a key input in sustaining agricultural productivity in
Egypt; (ii) uninterrupted fertilizer availability is a politically sensitive
subject; (iii) PrDAC is already doing a reasonably good job of delivering
fertilizer to the country's three million farmers on time and at a reasonable
cost; and (iv) there is a lack of appropriate storage infrastructure within
the public and the private sector.
3.13     To ensure a successful changeover, GOE has, with the active support
of USAID, contracted with the Center for Privatization in Washington, DC, to
study and recommend alternative options for divesting and privatizing the
input distribution functions (including animal feed) of PBDAC. It is the
intention of GOE to consider the recommendations of the Center and to draw up
a phased plan of action. Timely availability of storage facilities (of the
right type at the right location) would be critical, especially when
privatizdtion etforts reach the retail distribution level, because the major
shortcoming of the existinb system is the substandard quality and weight of
the fertilizer bags delivered to farmers. This shortcoming cannot be
rectified without proper storage facilities in the country. The construction
of these facilities must start as early as possible given (i) the acute dearth
of storage infrastructure; (ii) the lead time required to build new warehouses
of appropriate design and capacity; (iii) the current (understandable)
reluctance of the private sector to invest in this activity; and (iv) the size
of the annual throughput of the commodities handled by PBDAC (over six million
tons). In order to support the evolving policy, the design of the facilities
would permit their operation by private traders. Assurances have been
obtained that GOE shall furnish to the Bank the findings of the currently
ongoing Study and exchange views with the Bank as to the measures and the
time-frame for implementation of the selected option. The project would also
provide for a midterm review of the loan in the third project year to adjust
the design and scope of the project, if necessary [paras. 7.12 and 8.01(i),
and paras. 6.28 and 8.01(xvi)].



- 11 -
C. Public Sector Hgdl4injR and StorageInfrastucture
Desmription
3.14     PBDAC operates an extensive handling and storage infrastructure
consisting of shounas (mostly open-air storage sites), warehouses, and
mandubias (retail outlets).
3.15     Shounas, the focal point of the Egyptian agricultural storafe system
at the wholesale level, are open spaces ranging in size from 2,000 m to
over 20,000 M2. The 541 shounas operated by PBDAC have a combined area of
4.1 million m2; 59X (by area) are owned by PBDAC. A shouna is usually
enclosed by a simple wire fence and generally includes a small office, and a
shed consisting of a floor and roof but no walls (the shed is generally used
for storing gunny bags). Some shounas also have warehouses of different
sizes. Truck scales and paving are rare, and mechanized materials handling
systems nonexistent. In addition to size, there is wide variation in
transport access and in the level of maintenance at different shounas.
3.16     The principal purpose of the shouna is to provide storage facilities
for various agricultural commodities, but the range of items handled and the
scale of operations vary from shouna to shouna. Shounas also serve as
procurement and, subsequently, storage points for domestically produced grains
and pulses; as wholesale outlets for agricultural inputs; as retail outlets
for animal feed; and as inland terminals for imported corn.
3.17     Of the 326 warehouses, PBDAC owns 86X of the existing capacity; the
rest is rented. PBDAC warehouses are covered structures of masonry with walls
and usually have a surface area of about 1,000 m2. The design and materials
used in their construction differ, as does their age and state of
maintenance. Existing warehouse capacity is sufficient to store about 500,000
metric tons and is used exclusively for fertilizers and pesticides. Some of
the warehouses are located outside the shounas. These free-standing
warehouses are generally used as wholesale distribution terminals for
agricultural inputs, particularly pesticides.
3.18     Mandubias are village level retail outlets for agricultural
production inputs; they number about 4,300. They are usually less than
400 m2 each and sell agricultural inputs to farmers on cash or credit. Most
mandubias are in rented buildings.
3.19     The average annual throughput of these commodities through the shouna
system is about 6.6 Mt. Since covered warehousing capacity is for only about
500,000 metric tons, warehouses are mainly used for storing pesticides and
some fertilizers. The remaining fertilizers, animal feed and all grains are
stored in the open area of the shounas. The range and volume of commodities
annually handled by PBDAC shounas are shown in Table 3.1.



- 12 -
Table 3.1: AVERAGE ANNUAL THROUGHPUT OF COMMODITIES
THROUGH SHOUNAS
Annual
Product                          Throughput
('000 metric tons)
Fertilizer                           3,500
Pesticides                              30
Seeds                                  150
Giains                                 350
Animal feed                          1,300
Imported yellow corn                 1.300
TOTAL                          iLQ
Strengths and Weaknesses of the System
3.20     The strengths of the current PBDAC system for distribution of inputs
and the marketing of farm products include (i) familiarity to and acceptance
by farmers-shounas and mandubias are well-dispersed and well-lo-ated;
(ii) inputs are usually readily available to Egypt's three million farmers;
and (iii) grains brought up for sale by farmers (earlier under compulsory
quota system, now under guaranteed minimum prices (GMP) scheme) are purchased
at the shounas wituout delay or noticeable inconvenience.
3.21     The current infrastructure for handling and storing agricultural
production inputs and products has three major weaknesses: (i) the paucity of
covered sto-age space; (ii) the absence of handling equipment; and (iii) the
lack of trained staff to deal with handling and storage in an efficient and
effective manner. As a result, considerable storage and handling losses are
incurred by PBDAC (para. 3.24).
Handling and Storage Losses
3.22     There is a dearth of systematic and scientific investigation into the
extent, distribution and cause of agricultural commodity losses in Egypt.
However, a recent study of post-harvest losses by the United Nations Economic
Commission for West Asia (1985) estimated overall losses in manually harvested
wheat to be 23.8X, with the storage losses estimated at 7.5S. A recent case
study on fertilizers1' prepared for FAO indicated that 471 of farmers
complained of damaged sacks, and 49% complained of hardening of fertilizer
(caking). Another set of farmers estimated the losses to be about 102.
3.23     Major losses during the handling and storage of production inputs,
animal feed, grains and pulses can be traced to the following:
1/   Egyptian Case Study on Agricultural Infrastructural Improvement (Measures
for the Improvement of Infrastructure for Fertilizer Distribution)
prepared for FAO by Mansour, Nassar and Shara (February 1988).



- 13 -
(i)    Fertilizers:  Storage in the open and direct exposure to
sunlight, leading to bursting and decomposition of polyethylene
bags; spillage on bare ground; use of hooks and inadequate (or
no) dunnage below fertilizer stacks to protect against ground
moisture, high temperatures and humidity which cause the
caking/compaction of fertilizer material.
(ii)    Animal Feed:  Storage in the open; scanty dunnage; damage by
rodents and birds; direct exposure to heat and humidity; use of
old gunny sacks; inadequate closure of sacks at the factories;
use of hooks; and pilferage.
(iii)    Grains and Pulses:  Open air storage with direct exposure to
heat, humidity, insects, bird and rodent damage; scanty dunnage;
and absence of adequate stored product pest management
practices; use of hooks and spillage during rebagging of grains
after quality inspection.
(iv)    Imported Corn:  Open air storage with direct exposure to heat,
humidity, insects, bird and rodent damage; changing from bulk
(at shipside) to sack (for inland transport) and to bulk (at
some feed mills); use of hooks; scanty dunnage; and excessive
handling.
3.24     Magnitude of Losses.  Losses incurred in shounas cannot be gauged
from PBDAC's records since inventory control is exercised by the counting of
bags without regard to quality and quantity changes in their contents. In
fact, losses are invariably passed on to recipients of these commodities in
the form of damaged and underweight bags and substandard material. However,
available data, interviews with knowledgeable persons and field observations
tend to confirm that the net annual storage loss of the various commodities
stored in the open is substantiai (para. 3.21) and roughly of the order
indicated in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: ESTIMATED MAGNITUDE OF STORAGE LOSSES
Average     Economic          Value
Through-      Price             of
Commodity                 Loss       put         (11/88)          Losses
('000 t)      (LE/ton)         (LE Mil)
Fertilizers                5.52      3,500          346             38.068/
Animal feed                3.02       1,300         329             12.83
Grains                     4.0%         350         644              9.02
Imported corn              3.02      1,300          383             14.94
Total                                                      74.85
or         US$32.54 M
a/   Value of losses is calculated for the estimated 2.0 Mt of fertilizers
stored in the open; the balance of 1.5 Mt is assumed to be stored in the
existing warehouses.



- 14 -
3.25     An unbalanced development strategy has led to a severe lack of
adequate storage facilities and, combined with ineffective handling practices,
has resulted, over the years, in significant losses of agricultural inputs,
animal feed and grains. The need to recoup these losses adds to the foreign
exchange burden of the country. The Bank, apart from a continuous policy
reform dialogue (paras. 2.09 and 2.11), is assisting GOE to overcome such
problems by participating in a core program of economically viable projects.
The proposed investment in agricultural storage falls into this category of
projects.
D. Bank Involvement in Agricultural Storage
3.26     The Bank's involvement in and support of the agricultural sector has
been limited to operations designed to increase the productive efficiency of
existing farming activities. This has involved increasingly diversified
investments in production, the strengthening of public institutions involved
in assisting agricultural production, and the expansion of the arable land
base (paras. 2.14-2.15).
3.27     The strengthening of investment to expand production has led to
higher demand for production inputs and farm products. However, the input
delivery and product marketing systems have received no equivalent support.
They continue to be plagued by inefficiencies and increasingly high losses.
3.28     GOE, increasingly aware of these inefficiencies and losses, has made
the improvement of PBDAC agricultural storage systems a priority in its
current Five-Year Development Plan. The actual expenditure so far is
negligible, but PBDAC is preparing some investment proposals (para. 2.12).
The Government is also seeking formal donor assistance to address these
development imbalances.
E. Other Donor Support to Agricultural Storage
3.29     Other externally supported programs and projects in the agricultural
storage subsector (para. 2.12) include:
(i)    The European Community (EC) has funded and recently completed
warehouses for fertilizer and grains in the Dakhalia Governorate
(30,000 metric tons); in addition EC has an ongoing program to
finance projects in Cairo (19,200 metric tons) and Alexandria
(13,200 metric tons).
(ii)    IFAD is currently funding the construction of 18,750 metric tons
of warehouse eapacity for fertilizer, agrochemicals and grains
in El Minya.
(iii)    The USAID-funded Small Farmer Production Proiect included a
storage component for the construction of some village banks,
shounas and retails stores in the governorates of Assiyut,
Qalubia and Sharkiya.
3.30     These donor-supported investments in the input delivery and product
marketing systems have been very small and limited to specific governorates;
they have touched only the fringes of Egypt's agricultural storage problem.



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
Project Rationale
4.Cl     Egypt annually imports the bulk of its food and feed grain
requirements (para. 2.13) and sizeable quantities of fertilizers and
pesticides. This causes a mounting pressure on the country's foreign exchange
resources. At the same time, its ability to properly store these commodities
(except for imported wheat) is grossly deficient.  Heavy losses, estUiated
around US$33 million (para. 3.24), are annually incurred in the storage and
handling of food, feed grains and inputs by PBDAC--the principal agency
responsible for procurement and distribution.  While the Bank has supported a
number of projects in Egypt which focused on increasing the country's
agricultural production, it has not yet financed any infrastructure project to
reduce wastage irn storage and handling of agricultural commodities. GOE has
accorded a high priority to improved agricultural storage in the current
Five-Year Plan (1987-1992) and has accepted some donor assistance (para. 3.29)
to construct rural stores in a few governorates. But the overall scale of
activities has remained small. This country-wide project would provide the
much needed modern agricultural storage and thus strengthen, in a substantial
way, a weak link in Egypt's agricultural marketing chain. The proposed
project would help the country modernize its agricultural storage system,
reduce losses and environmental pollution, and provide farmers with
agricultural inputs in bags of proper weight and quality. Furthermore, in the
last few years, the Bank has been involved in a dialogue with GOE on the need
for a wide-ranging policy and institutional reform. In the agricultural
sector, GOE's response to this dialogue has been encouraging (para. 2.11).
Included in GOE's liberalization program is the introduction of competition in
the marketing of agricultural inputs and other commodities. The proposed
project would indirectly support GOE's efforts in this direction by creating
an infrastructure which is a necessary prerequisite for an efficient marketing
system.
Project Objectives
4.02     The main objectives of the project are:  (i) to assist the country
modernize and expand the agricultural storage infrastructure; and (ii) to
improve the handling of agricultural inputs, grains and animal feed through
appropriate mechanization and the training of storage personnel. This would
help GOE to (i) reduce physical losses; (ii) minimize the deterioration in the
quality of products handled; (iii) reduce produ... handling and storage costs;
and (iv) improve the efficiency in transport of fertilizers and animal feeds.
The savings through averted losses would help Egypt conserve the foreign
exchange needed to finance fertilizer and grain imports. In addition, the
project would also assist GOE plan appropriate infrastructure for the bulk
storage and distribution of imported feedgrains-' at selected port and
inland locations.
1/   Currently estimated at about 1.5 million tons per annum.



- 16 -
B. Project Description
4.03     The project would provide the following:
(i)    the construction of nearly 0.9 million tons (Mt) of covered flat
storage space for agricultural products/commodities currently
handled by PBDAC; these include agricultural inputs, animal
feed, domestic foodgrains and imported feedgrains;
(ii)    the repair and rehabilitation of existing fertilizer and
pesticide warehouses (about 500,000 tons of flat storage
capacity);
(iii)    the construction of a temporary bulk handling and storage
facility for 60,000 tons of imported yellow corn at a port
location;
(iv)    the procurement of handling and other equipment needed at the
storage facilities constructed and rehabilitated under the
project;
(v)    the hiring of engineering consultants to (a) plan and supervise
the construction of 896 warehouses at over 200 sites in 22
governorates; (b) assist in the procurement of equipment and
machinery required under the project; and (c) plan and supervise
the installation of a temporary bulk handling and storage
facility for imported yellow corn;
(vi)    the hiring of consultants to assist PBDAC in project management
and the establishment of an appropriate Management Information
System (MIS) for storage and transport operations, including the
development of, and training in, a methodology (preferably a
computerized model) to minimize transportation costs by
rationalizing the year-round movement of fertilizers from
domestic plants and ports to consumption areas;
(vii)    the upgrading of technical and management skills of the staff
responsible for these operations through training ari study
tours; and
(viii)    a detailed study of the importation, handling, storage and
distribution of imported feedgrains (mostly yellow corn), with a
view to developing an investment proposal.
Proiect Area
4.04     The project area would cover the entire country.  However, proposals
for investment in each governorate are based on a detailed analysis of that
governorate's existing capacity taking into account: (i) the existing built
up capacity; (ii) the capacity contracted for construction under GOE's
Five-Year Plan and bilateral donor assistance; and (iii) the estimated future
requirements (para. 4.05). Since some governorates have no requirement for
additional warehouses, no new capacity has been recommended for them. These
governorates would be covered, however, for the repair, rehabilitation and
mechanization of existing warehouses, as well as for the training of
managerial and operational staff.



- 17 -
C. Detaied Features
Storage Capacity
4.05     An estimated 0.9 Mt of additional covered space is required:  0.6 Mt
for agricultural inputs, viz., seeds, fertilizers and pesticides; nearly
0.3 Mt for animal feed and grains; and a 60,000 ton bulkhead facility for
imported corn. The required additional capacity for each governorate has been
calculated on the basis of the highest net present value derived from
discounted caah flow analysis.  (A typical analysis is shown in Annex 2,
Table 1.).
4.06     The capacity analysis is based on three years' (1984-85 to 1986-87)
monthly storage data by governorate and conuodity (fertilizer, seeds,
agrochemicals, wheat, corn, soybean, beans, lentils, sesame, imported corn and
animal feed) to establish an average monthly pattern for beginning
inventories, inflows, outflows and ending inventories for each governorate.
This pattern was not altered signifreantly by the irnclusion of 1987-88 data,
and it is assumed to hold into the i-ture, given the stability of Egyptian
irrigated agriculture. Existing capacities were assessed on the basis of a
countrywide one-year shouna survey to establish location, physical
characteristics, covered storage capacity and throughput of various
commodities and the inventory levels for each shouna.-' The newly built
capacity not yet handed over for utilization, and the capacity contracted for
construction, was added to the actual available capacity, but sheds and very
small stores were excluded. The future storage requirements were calculated
by projecting a 2.5X rate of growth for agricultural inputs and 1.752 for
gr4ins and animal feed until the year 2000; thereafter the rate of growth was
assumed to be zero. These projections are considered highly conservative but
safe.-2  On this basis, the future maximum and average monthly capacity
deficits were worked out with reference to available covered storage space.
Further, in order to establish the net storage requirements on the basis of
proper analysis, design prototypes for input and feed and grain warehouses
were established, and their construction, operation and maintenance costs were
estimated. Also, an estimate was made of the probable savings in product
losses due to new storage (3% for fertilizers and 1.752 for grains and feed);
in calculating the benefit stream, border prices (with appropriate adjustments
to cover inland transportation, storage and marketing costs) were used. A
similar apnroach was used to determine the economic costs for investment,
replacement, operations, and maintenance. Discounted cash flow analysis was
used to determine the highest net present value, and correspondingly, the
optimal capacity for (i) agricultural inputs, and (ii) animal feed and grains,
respectively (Table 4.1). (A more detailed explanation is available in the
working papers.) Annex 2, Table 2 summarizes the capacity recommended for
each governorate.
1/   Provision has been made in the project for the repair and renovation of
existing covered storage capacity.
2/   During 1971-1986, fertilizer consumption increased at an annual rate of
5.8X for Nitrogen and 10.61 for Phosphorous.
316 9C



- 18 -
Table 4.1: ADDITIONAL COVERED STORAGE REQUIREMENTS OF PBDAC
(in metric tons)
Total         Net Capacity
Existir.g     Capacity            to be
Product                      Capacil.y      Required        Constructed
Ag. Inputs            bagged      548,900     1,154,900              606,000
Animal Feed and
Grains             bagged          --        290,000             290,000
Total                        548,900      1,444,900             896,000
4.07     The optimal capacity was found to be close to the average monthly
additional storage requirements: construction of larger facilities to handle
inventory during peak periods would lower the net present value. Indeed, the
capacities recommended would mostly catch up with the past serious shortfalls
and would leave room for the construction of additional capacity a few years
after project implementation.
Storage Design
4.08     After extensive exploration, the choice of storage design for various
commodities to be handled unde- the project was limited to covered bagged
storage (except for the temporary bulk storage facilities for imported corn).
Bulk storage of fertilizer an;: animal feed at, and bulk movement from, the
domestic manufacturers and/or the ports to shounas was ruled out in the medium
term as (i) the required infrastructure is nonexistent and is not likely to be
built in the foreseeable future, and (ii) the size of operations at most of
the inland sites is not large enough to permit efficient bulk handling. At
this stage, even the palletization of fertilizer bags at the factories and
their transport and storage on pallets was not considered practical by the
fertilizer manufacturers. The grains handled at each shouna are too small in
quantity to lend themselves to bulk storage. Similarly, another
alternative-continuing with open-air storage but with improved management and
tarpaulin-type covers over stacks-was rejected because of a low loss
reduction potential.
4.09     The principal issues addressed in the design of the proposed storage
facilities included: (i) present, and possible future materials, handling and
stacking systems; (ii) prodLct protection from moisture, heat, sunlight,
rodents, birds, insects and pilferage; (iii) inventory management; (iv) the
initial investment and subsequent operation and maintenance cost of new
storage facilities; (v) the local availability of building materials and the
possibility of importing them without undue delay; and (vi) the possibility
that these structures will eventually be owned and operated by private
business enterprises (para. 3.13).
4.10     A number of conventional designs were considered for the bagged
storage warehouses. The new structures, as well as the older ones, were
observed, and several options, yet untried in Egypt, were considered; these
included some designs successfully adopted in other countries. The design



- 19 -
finally selected for the proposed typical module (with a capacity to handle
about 1,000 t of material) was based on the reasonableness of the
per-unit-cost of construction, operation and maintenance; field observations
regarding local suitability; discussions with PBDAC storage and engineering
departments; and the inherent soundness and versatility of the design.
Assurances have been obtained that the detailed designs of the agricultural
inputs and feed and grains warehouses would be finalized in consultation with
the Bank [paras. 4.23 and 8.0l(ii)1.
4 11     There are three principal reasons for recommending standard warehouse
modules for inputs and grains/feed storage. First, the construction of the
0.9 Mt of storage facilities is to take place at over 200 different sites
throughout the country. It would be very time consuming and expensive to
specifically design a storage warehouse for each proposed site. Second, it is
possible to design a standard module of 1,000 ton capacity which can be
replicated throughout the country with minimum adaptation to specific site
conditions. Third, a module of the proposed capacity would easily adapt
itself to likely changes in the ownership pattern of storage facilities. In
the event of progressive liberalization of the agricultural input distribution
system in Egypt, these facilities would be small enough to be owned/leased by
small private businesses. On the other hand, it is recognized that any defect
in the design of the standard module would be replicated at all or most
sites. Therefore, an experienced and competent consulting engineer would be
contracted to prepare the standard design, with adequate attention to detail.
The appropriateness of adapting the design to suit specific sites would also
be thoroughly investigated.
4.12     Agricultural Input Warehouses.  Although fertilizer, agrochemicals
and finished seeds are very different commodities, the buildings required to
protect them are similar.-I  In cases where there are multiple warehouses on
one site, or where operations result in the centralization of chemical and
seed warehousing, complete warehouses may be set aside for specific usage. In
cases where only one or two warehouses are situated on a site, interior walls
to separate the commodities should suffice.
4.13     The proposed agricultural inputs warehouse building design is a
standardized module with a nominal storage capacity of 1,000 metric toas of
finished product. The general arrangement and the type of structure proposed
is shown in Annex 3, Figure 3.1. The building has a steel frame and steel
deck roof system, with sand brick walls supported on shallow powered concrete
spread footings, with poured concrete walls to the underside of the floor.
The poured concrete floor would be above grade level to assure proper
drainage. Each module is a single enclosed space with no interior columns or
piers. However, each module could be split into two submodules of 500 metric
tons each by constructing partition walls. Loading and unloading would be
through four doors located two on each long-sided wall. This would minimize
the distance to the farthest storage point. This arrangement will not
preclude the use of pallet and fork lift systems in the future. In addition,
the modules could be arranged end to end to minimize site space requirements.
The estimated cost of the building is US$58,000. In addition, a provision of
US$2,000 per building is proposed for site improvement.
1/   Some differences are in the need to keep seeds in rodent-proof rooms and
th_ necessity of increased ventilation in the storage of chemicals.
3 1 69C



- 20 -
4.14     Grain and Animal Feed Warehouses.  The proposed warehouse building
module has a nominal storage capacity of 1,000 t of feed and/or grains. The
typical unit could be divided into two separate subunits to facilitate
fumigation and to provide smaller modules for eventual privatization. The
floor of the building would be located sufficiently above grade level and
would be of appropriate design to provide protection against rodents. Loading
and unloading of the module would be through four doors located two on each
long-sided wall. The general arrangement of the proposed unit is shown in
Annex 3, Figure 3.2.
4.15     The bagged grain/animal feed warehouse is also estimated to cost
US$58,000. The cost of the grain warehouse is approximately the same as for
the agricultural input warehouse because the higher cost of the elevated floor
and center wall is offset by the lesser building area. Each shouna on which
one or more bagged grain warehouses would be constructed would require some
improvements, such as site grading, modification of fences, new entrances or
minor paving. A provision of US$1,000 per building has been proposed for site
improvements.
Storage Locations
4.16     Within each governorate, storage locations are determined by
pragmatic considerations. Given the severe land constraint in Egypt and the
di.fficulty in arranging new storage sites quickly and at a reasonable cost,
the additional capacity is generally recommended for sites which (i) are owned
or could be quickly acquired by PBDAC; (ii) have been surveyed for soil test
and general suitability; (iii) are accessible; (iv) are suitably located
within the designated service area. New capacities at each site have been
proposed (Annex 2, Table 2) on the basis of historical throughput adjusted in
consultation with BDAC officials in the light of any new information. In a
preliminary exercise, BDACs have already identified sites to cover 80% of the
capacity. However, their recommendations would be reviewed by PBDAC and
marginally adjusted to make them consistent with the capacities proposed in
this project for each governorate. (A summary of BDACs nominated capacities
and enumeration of site locations is available in the working document
entitled Engineering Report, Amnex 14.) Some adjustment in these proposals
may become necessary as a result of phys .cal surveys and the engineering
layout of each site. A small percentage (about 202) of the new capacity
remains to be sited. These sites can be established during the first year of
the project and will not cause delays. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that PBDAC would finalize all locations on the basis of the
criteria set out above (para. 8.01(v)] and that at least 80 of the 203 sites
would be finalized by PBDAC before loan effectiveness; the remaining sites
would be finalized before the close of the first year of the project
[paras. 6.23 and 8.02(i)(a)].
4.17     Operation Cost and Savings in the Proposed Modular Design.  Operation
costs related to loading, unloading and administration for the proposed
improved warehouses would be marginally lower than for existing shounas. The
major changes in the operating costs of the facilities would be the increased
cost to maintain the warehouse buildings and conveyors and the savings
resulting from a reduction in losses. A breakdown of the operation costs of a
typical domestic grain shouna facility before and after the construction of
the proposed warehouses is shown in Annex 4. Overall, the operation costs
would come down by LE 2.62 per metric ton of throughput for grains and animal
feed. Similar savings would be available in the case of fertilizer warehouses.
21 69r



- 21 -
Repair and Rehabilitation of Existing Warehouses
4.18     The existing facilities used for fertilizer and agrochemicals storage
need repair/replacement of worn out/damaged floors, doors, walls and
ventilators. PBDAC has made a survey of the repairs and improvements needed;
these vary from the comprehensive reconstruction of structures suffering major
structural deterioration to relatively minor repairs. It has been estimated
that 69 buildings (out of about 500) would need major structural improvements
requiring the services of engineering consultants. The remaining building
repairs would be handled directly by PBDAC's Engineering Department.
Shouna-Warehouse Mechanization
4.19     Different levels and types of mechanization for handling fertilizer
and bagged grain/feed loading, unloading and storage at the shouna level have
been considered by the Bank in consultation with PBDAC. Portable belt
conveyors were considered the best choice since their introduction would
result in: (i) decreased turn around time for trucks due to faster loading
and unloading; (ii) reduced spillage of fertilizer/feed/grains both in
warehouses and in surrounding work areas; (iii) less damage to bags caused by
hooks and other mishandling; and (iv) reduced human drudgery. The project
would, therefore, provide mobile belt conveyors at each storage location; two
conveyors could handle all the bagged material. The use of fork lifts was not
considered feasible at this stage, since the pallet system for fertilizer
storage may not be introduced for some years. Provision of 44 truck scales to
be located at shounas with larger throughput is included to improve inventory
control. Provision of dunnage for all existing and new fertilizer warehouses
has also been made to prevent deterioration in product quality due to contact
of bags with bare floor during storage. The maintenance and continued use of
these machinery items would receive the special attention of PBDAC
management. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PBDAC shall
establish procedures designed to ensure efficient utilization and maintenance
of (i) the storage facilities to be constructed or rehabilitated under the
Project; and (ii) the equipment to be provided under the Project
(para. 8.01(iii)).
Handling and Storage of Inported Corn Feasibility Study and
Temporary Bulk Storage Facility
4.20     PBDAC faces serious problems in handling about 1.5 Mt of yellow corn,
which it imports annually on behalf of public and private sector animal and
poultry feed millers. It needs to build up adequate infrastructure at inland
locations and possibly some supplemental infrastructure at receiving ports.
However, investment decisions of such a magnitude must be based on feasibility
studies which take into consideration (i) the best possible port sites;
(ii) available inland transportation systems; (iii) the regional demand
patterns for yellow corn (or feed grains); and (iv) any likely changes in the
overall requirements, available storage, and possible ownership patterns of
projected infrastructure. PBDAC would commission such a study for which the
suggested Terms of Reference are at Annex 5.  PBDAC would recruit suitably
qualified consultants for this study on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank and in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981). Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations
(para. 8.01(iv)). The recommendations of the study would be reviewed with the
Bank for further appropriate action.



- 22 -
4.21     In the meantime, to relieve the most congested link in the imported
corn handling chain, the project would provide for the construction of a
temporary bulk facility at Port Said where most of the yellow corn is
currently offloaded from ships. The main rationale for the construction of
this facility is that, at present, there is a mismatch between the surge
storage capacity and the vessel unloading capacity for corn in Egypt; this
results in longer unloading time, increased demurrage costs and stretched
delivery periods to final users. Surge storage capacity at or near the port
would provide PBDAC with the ability to optimize the vessel offloading rate 24
hours per day, while the bagging and inland dispatch could be accomplished at
a slower rate during normal working hours. This would result in
(i) considerable savings in ocean freight because larger capacity vessels
(50,000-80,000 t) could be unloaded more quickly using existing port
facilities; aid (ii) savings in handling and storage losses. Therefore, as a
temporary measure to relieve the constraints in handling imported corn at the
port of unloading, the construction of a high-capacity bulk handling facility
is proposed. This facility would support the existing port facilities by
providing the surge storage capacity to assure that maximum vessel offloading
rates could be maintained. Bulk trucks with 25 metric ton capacity each would
be loaded at shipside and would proceed directly to the new facility. The
trucks would be offloaded and corn stockpil,d in the four open bulkheads at a
rate of 350 metric tons per hour; each bulkhead would store grains up to
15,000 metric ton. The same bulk loading equipment would reclaim the corn
from the bulkheads and load the bulk trucks, which would deliver the corn to
the bagging units. These units would bag corn at the rate of 2,000 metric
tons per day. Inventory control would be by means of a truck scale. The
conceptual designs for this facility are shown in Annex 3, Figure 3.3 (site -
general arrangement) and Figure 3.4 (flow design).
4.22     Grain damage in open bulkheads would not be high.  Losses to birds
and rodents would be minimal, since the residence time in storage would be
very short and the site would be active at most times. The losses from
increased moisture (rainfall is only 1.2 inches per year at Port Said and even
less farther away from the coast line) wovtld be minimal. Experience elsewhere
has shown that grain in a pile tends to shed water; if proper drainage is
provided, as is proposed for the facility, the water should drain away from
the pile. As a result, only a small percentage of moisture would be absorbed
by the stored grains. The action of sun, wind, movement to the bagging
station and transfer into jute bags would tend to dry the corn back to a lower
moisture level.
4.23     The design and specifications of the facility, machinery and
equipment would be prepared by an internationally recruited firm of consulting
engineers and would be finalized in consultation with the Bank. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations [paras. 4.10 and 8.01(ii)].
4.24     The exact site for the proposed facility has not yet been identified,
but it is tentatively proposed to be located in Port Said. However, most
ports are suitable for a high-capacity bulk handling facility. PBDAC wou-ld
coordinate the site selection with the appropriate port and governorate
authority to expedite matters and finalize the site in consultation with the
Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations
(para. 8.01(v)].



- 23 -
4.25     It is recognized that, in order to draw optimum advantage from the
proposed investments, the managerial and technicalocapabilitiesnoflstorageted
personnel within PBDAC and BDACs must be improved. Therefore, training of
storage personnel would constituteian importantpcomponentaofdthe project.
4.26     PBDAC has a fairly strongnin-houseetrainingvcapability. yIts Training
Department consists of six sections: planning; operations; financial affairs;
control (follow-up); computer applications (through a contractor); and
printing (teaching materials). The Operations Section consists of 12 training
specialists, as well as 5 otherispecialists who are responsible for planning
and coordinating training programs throughout Egypt. The services of two
expatriate consultants are also available to the Training Department under the
USAID-financed APCP. Until now the focus of training has been mostly on
credit; only a few storage courses have been conducted by the Department.
PBDAC would, however, strengthen the Training Department and handle the
additional work of training storage personnel. The Department would take the
advice of consultants in designing the training programs so that the courses
would be relevant to the emerging needs of storage personnel. Six man-months
of consultancy has been provided for this purpose. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that PBDAC would arrange appropriate training for its
operational and managerial staff, and towards this end, would regularly review
with the Bank the progress in carrying out the training activities in the
Project [para. 8.02(vi)].
4.27     Considering the fact that storage locations would exceed 200, with
over 4,000 retailers in 22 governorates, training would be imparted to about
6,000 persons during the project life: 40 would be trained overseas, about
1200 at PBDAC's training facility in Cairo and at BDAC headquarters; and about
5,000 in the field (Annex 6). Foreign training would include: (i) study
tours for top management to gain familiarization with appropriate technology
in agricultural storage and management skills in other countries; and
(ii) intensive short courses to strengthen the managerial, financial,
marketing and transport/logistics skills of senior managers. In-country short
courses, at PBDAC, BDACs and in the field, would be carried out. BDAC, branch
bank, village bank, shouna, warehouse, and mandubia personnel, as well as
private sector agricultural input distributors, would be trained in handling
and storage, marketing management, financial and inventory control,
environmental safety and relevant local laws concerning agribusiness. In
addition, training would be provided to selected staff of the Agricultural
Inputs Department in the management and application of a new transportation
planning and logistic system. An outline cf the training program is at
Annex 6.
Engineering Consultants
4.28     PBDAC would hire two engineering consulting firms:  one to assist
PBDAC in all the civil works connected with warehouse construction and
rehabilitation, as well as shouna-warehouse mechanization; and another to
assist PBDAC to install and commission a 60,000-ton capacity bulkhead facility
at a port location. The principal tasks of the consulting firm selected to
assist in civil works and mechanization would include preparation of designs,
detailed drawings and specifications of the proposed structures for input,
feed and grain warehouses and ancillary structures, preparation of bidding
documents, and assistance through the entire procurement process including bid



- 24 -
evaluation and contract award, and (most importantly) providing the manpower
and systems for on-site supervision of the construction, over the project
life, of nearly 900 warehouses at about 200 locations. The same consulting
firm would also develop the specifications for various items of machinery and
equipment required in the warehouses, prepare bidding documents and assist
PBDAC through the ertire procurement process, as well as the installation of
these machines and equipment, and the training of the operational staff.
PBDAC needs the services of such a consulting firm because the strength of its
own Engineering Department (which is fully familiar with the proposed
warehouse construction activity) is too inadequate to handle the size and
spread of the construction and mechanization program according to :he proposed
implementation schedule (para. 6.24). Furthermor , it would be uneconomical
to employ large numbers of new staff to cope with a temporary surge in
construction activity. The principal tasks of the second firm proposed to be
internationally hired to install and commission a bulkhead facility-an
activity in which PBDAC has no previous experience--would include preparation
of design and spccifications for the civil works, equipment and machinery
required for the facility, preparation of bidding documents and completion of
the procurement process, installation of the machines and equipment, training
of essential staff and commissioning of the facility. The duration of this
consultancy assistance is likely to be approximately two years. Selection of
engineering consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist PBDAC in the
tasks for warehouse construction and its mechanization would be a condition of
loan effectiveness [para. 8.01(i)(b)].
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01     The estimated project cost, including physical and price
contingencies, is US$103.1 million, of which US$40.0 million, or 392, would be
in foreign exchange. The cost estimates include US$2.1 million in duties and
taxes.  Details of cost estimates are summarized in the table 5.1 below and
shown in greater detail in Annex 7, Tables 1-5. The rate of exchange used is
the November 1988 exchange rate of US$1 = LE 2.30.  Base costs are estimated
as of November 1988. The following physical contingency rates have beea
applied to the base costs: 102 for civil works, machinery and equipment,
engineering, technical assistance and studies; 152 for the civil works for the
bulkhead, vehicles, office and training equipment, and recurrent costs; 20%
for the rehabilitation of existing warehouses. Price contingency estimates
assume an increase in local currency costs of 302 in 1989, 17% in 1990, 15% in
1991, and 12% in 1992 and thereafter. For imported items, the estimated
annual international price escalation is 5.32 in 1989 and 1990, and 4.12 in
1991 and thereafter. Project cost has been converted into US dollars
equivalent at the constant purchasing parity exchange rate.



- 25 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT COSTS
(EErTIAN POW  '000)                            RXI '000)
: Total                                  2 Total
Z roreiSn Base                           X Fureig, Base
Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange  Custs   Local  Fureisin  Tutal   Ecchfl,"  Casts
A. FERTILIZER MAREOlMSES                740445.4 42P340.7 116,986.1     36     65 32MU6M,5 IM,496.8 50,963.5     36      65
P.  AIN I FEED ARUSES                   28|705.6 19,817.6 48,593.2      41    27 12P480.7 9*646.8 21,127.5       41    27
C. PULKIEAD FOR IMWRTED CORN            2Y701.1  4,790.2  7481.3        64      4  1.174.4 2.078.3  3.252,7      64       4
D. PROJECT OGNIZATION I IHPLEEATATION    34556.7  ^177.0  573.7         38      3  1546.4   94.   2,492.9        3E      3
Total BASELINE COSTS                    109.408.8 69.315,5 1730794.3     39    100 47,569.0 30,167.6 7.7376.7      39    100
Fhssical Coritingencies                11,486.8  7,409,0  1C,9958.     39     11  4,994.3 3P221*3  C,215.6      39      11
fCiK Contin9eies                     .115,t431 j 7t,24.3 1l6.rr,.4     38    104 10,589.7 .6454.1 U1143.9       31      22
Total FROJECT COSTS                     2736,03.7 148,01C.8 3849062.5    39    715 63,153.0 39,943.1 103,096,1     39    133
--------- ------------ - 2--_- 2D--- S2-- 222 -2 22:2 ::-- S    D_ =S 2DDD           SD   :2     :_-:
April 10, 1989 1S:18
B. Financingt Plan
5.02         The proposed loan of US$40.0 million would finance about 39% of total
project cost. The Arab Republic of Egypt, the borrower, would retrocede the
loan to PBDAC through a subsidiary loan agreement, the signing of which would
be a condition of loan effectiveness [para. 8.02(ii)J. The Bank loan would be
for 20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the standard variable
interest rate linked to the borrowing costs of the Bank.  In accordance with
PBDAC's existing arrangement with the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, PBDAC
would bear the foreign exchange risk between the Egyptian pound and the
currencies owed to the Bank only on the amounts used for the direct import of
goods and services; GOE would bear the foreign exchange risk for the remainder
of the Bank loan.  The balance of the required finar.cing, US$63.1 million in
local currency, would be supplied by PBDAC's own resources. The proposed
financing plan is as follows (Table 5.2):



- 26 -
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
Proiect Element                            IBRD            PBDAC       Total
Foreign           Local
-------------…(US$ Million)-----
1. Fertilizer Warehouses
Civil Works                             19.3          32.2          51.5
Machinery & Equipment                    5.3           8.3          13.6
Engineering                             0.0            2.5           2.5
Subtotal                                24.6          43.0          67.6
2. Feed and Grain Warehouses
Civil Works                              8.8          14.5          23.3
Machinery & Equipment                    2.7           1.0           3.7
Engineering                             0.0            1.1           1.1
Subtotal                                11.5          16.6          28.1
5.  Bulkhead for Imported Corn
Civil Works                              0.6           1.0           1.6
Machinery and Equipment                  1.8           0.4           2.2
Engineering                              0.3           0.0           0.3
Operating Expenses                       0.0           0.1           0.1
Subtotal                                 2.7           1.5           4.2
5. Project Organization
and Implementation
Vehicles & Office
and Training Equipment                0.4            0.2           0.6
Technical Assistance                     0.4           0.0           0.4
Training                                 0.4           0.9           1.3
Operating Expenses                       0.0           0.9           0.9
Subtotal                                 1.2           2.0           3.2
Total Project Cost                      40.0          63.1         103.1
C. Procurement
5.03     Procurement of the components to be financed by the proposed Bank
loan of US$40.0 million would be carried out in accordance with the procedures
outlined in SAR and as per the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement (May
1985). Domestic preference equivalent up to 15% or actual customs duty to
nonexempt importers, whichever is less, would apply to goods manufactured
locally. The Bank-financed consultants would be recruited according to the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). Assurances to
these effects were obtained during negotiations [para. 8.01(vii)].
5.04     To the extent practicable, contracts for warehouses, machinery and
equipment and vehicles, with an estimated aggregate value of US$93 million
including contingencies, would be grouped to permit bulk procurement of at
least US$1 million equivalent per contract. Items, other than civil works,



- 27 -
which cannot be grouped into econ,mical packages of at least US$100,000 (in
the aggregate not to exceed US$2 million) would be procured through prudent
shopping, after obtaining at least three price quotations. The Bank's prior
approval would be required for individual contracts exceeding US$1 million;
other contracts would be subject to selective post-award reviews.
Bank-financed contracts and procurement arrangements are shown in Table 5.3
below, which provides a procurement plan for all the proposed project's
elements (figures include physical and price contingencies). Project
Procurement Schedule is shown in Annex 8.
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT PLAN
Project Element                   Procurement Method
ICB             LCB         Other         Total Cost
…------…(US$ Million) …-------
Civil Works
New Warehouses               64.8 (24.5)    6.8  (2.6)                    71.6 (27.1)
Bulkhead Storage
Facilities                 1.6  (0.6)                                   1.6  (0.6)
Rehabilitation
Existing Warehouses                                       3.1  (1.0)    3.1  (1.0)
Total Civil Works       66.4 (25.1)    6.8  (2.6)    3.1  (1.0)   76.3 (28.7)
Machinery & Equipment        14.1  (9.8)    5.5                           19.6  (9.8)
Vehicles                                     0.1                           0.1
Office & Training Equip.                                    0.5  (0.4)    0.5  (0.4)
Engineering                                                 3.9  (0.3)    3.9  (0.3)
Technical Assistance                                        0.4  (0.4)    0.4  (0.4)
Training                                                    1.3  (0.4)    1.3  (0.4)
Operating Costs                                             1.0            1.0
TOTAL                  80.5 (34.9)   12.4  (2.6)   10.2  (2.5)  103.1 (40.0)
Note:  Figures presented in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by
IBRD. Costs include contingencies.
5.05     Civil Works.  The construction of new facilities would be procured
mostly through ICB. The new facilities would include fertilizer warehouses
(US$48.4 million) and feed/grain warehouses (US$23.2 million).   Civil works
contracts for 896 warehouses on 203 building sites would be grouped into 9
packages, with a total value of US$64.8 million (Bank financing: US$24.5 M),
for procurement through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
Another 9 packages, with a total value of US$6.8 million (Bank financing:
US$2.6 M), would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures. The ICB packages would range in estimated value from US$4.2
million to US$9.8 million: 4 of the packages would meet the requirements of 2
governorates each; the balance would meet the needs of 5 individual
governorates. The LCB packages, ranging in value from US$0.2 million to
US$1.9 million, would cover the needs of 9 governorates, where convenient
packaging is not possible, as either the value of work done would be too
. .



- 28 -
small, or the warehouses to be constructed too widely dispersed, to attract
international firms. The construction of the bulkhead for imported corn
(US$1.6 million in civil works) would be procured through ICB. The
rehabilitation of existing warehouses, total value US$3.1 million, would be
procured through Force Account procedures: the rehabilitation program of the
existing warehouses would consist of small repair works on a large number of
facilities scattered throughout the country and is not likely to interest
foreign bidders.
5.06     Goods: Machinery and equipment (US$ 11.8 million) for the
mechanization of the warehouses would be grouped into a few large contracts,
and procured through ICB, with two likely deliveries during the construction
of the warehouses.  Bulkhead  machinery, equipment and heavy vehicles (US$2.2
million) would be procured through ICB.  Dunnage (US$5.5 million) would be
procured through LCB.  Office and training equipment (US$0.5 million) would be
procured either through LCB or Shopping procedures (para. 5.04).  The five
vehicles estimated to cost about US$100,000, which would be required by the
PBDAC staff soon after the project starts, would be procured through prudent
shopping (para. 5.04).
5.07     Technical Assistance, Engineering, and Studies:  IBRD/IDA share in
financing the project component relating to engineering, technical assistance,
and studies, would be of the total value of US$1.2 million of which US$0.5
million would be financed from an ongoing Technical Assistance Credit.
Consultants for technical assistance (US$0.4 M) would be internationally
recruited (about 25 man-months), following Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. These consultants would design training programs; develop
fertilizer distribution models; set u:: an MIS system for the agricultural
inputs, feed and grains handled by PPJAC; and advise on project management. A
feasibility study for imported feed grains would be commissioned to
internationally recruited consultants in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants, at an estimated cost of US$0.5 million, for a
total of 34 man-months (para. 4.20). The Study would however be funded out of
the ongoing Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1162-EGT). The engineering
consultants for the bulkhead estimated to cost US$0.3 million would be
recruited in accordance with procedures outlined in the World Banks Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants. The GOE would fund the engineering consultants
required for the design and construction supervision of warehouses as well as
Shouna-warehouse mechanization (para. 4.28) estimated to cost US$3.6 million
from its own resources. However, the experience and qualifications of these
consultants would be satisfactory to IBRD. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations [para. 8.01(vii)].
5.08     At appraisal, PBDAC's LCB procedures were reviewed and found
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution
of the Project. However, there are a few procedures which are inconsistent
with the Bank's Guidelines.   In order to make its procedures acceptable to
the Bank, PBDAC has agreed to the following: (i) to allow representatives of
foreign bidders to bid; (ii) to treat all bidders equally in terms of the
requirement to furnish bid or performance bonds; and (iii) not to consider
bids received after the bid closing date. This agreement was reconfirmed
during negotiations [para. 8.01(viii)].



- 29 -
D. 3ibursements
5.09     The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million would be disbursed in five
years in accordance with IBRD Guidelines for Withdrawal of Loans (November
1985) as follows:
Table 5.4 DISBURSEMENTS
Loan Allocation      % of Expenditures
Category                                 (US$ Million)       to be Financed
1.  Civil Works                           26.8             38% of expenditures
2.  Machinery and Equipment                9.9             100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures,
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items produced
locally
3.  Engineering Services for Bulkhead    0.1               100% of expenditures
4. Technical Assistance,
and Training                         0.7             100% of expenditures
5.  Unallocated                            2.5
Total
5.10     Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
for eligible expenditures under contracts valued at US$200,000 equivalent or
less. Supporting documentation for these would be retained by PBDAC and made
available for review by the Bank staff during supervision missions. The
annual audits of the project would include a separate opinion on the
disbursements made under the SOE procedure. All other disbursements would be
made against normal documentation submitted to the Bank.
5.11     Specia Account.  In order to expedite project execution, a Special
Account in US dollars would be opened by PBDAC in any commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of US$3,000,000 for
funding the items to be financed by IBRD (paia 5.02). Replenishment
applications to the Bank would be fully documented; these would also include
bank statements of the Special Account.
5.12     The estimated schedule of IBRD disbursements is given below (Table
5.5), and detailed in Annex 9:



- 30 -
Table 5.5: DISBURSEMENTS SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year
Disbursements             1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995
-- -----(US$ million)-----                         -
Annual                     0.6      6.1       9.8       9.6      9.7      4.2
Cumulative                 0.6      6.7      16.5      26.1     35.8     40.0
The disbursement proposed above is faster than the country profile (which is
eight years) because the project involves the construction of relatively
simple structures and the importation of standardized machinery. Adequate
engineering assistance through consultants has been provided through all
stages of project implementation (paras. 4.28 and 6.24). The Loan Closing
Date would be December 31, 1995. Estimated Project Completion Date would be
December 31, 1994.
VI. ORGANIZATION. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC) - Organization
6.01     PRDAC would be the implementing agency for this project.  Its
organizational and management structure is summarized below (PBDAC's
organizational chart is at Annex 1). PBDAC has been handling the storage of
agricultural commodities for the past several years and has a working
organization and infrastructure. PBDAC has successfully completed with some
consultant assistance similar, but much smaller, storage construction projects.
6.02     PBDAC-Organization and Management.  PBDAC is essentially a holding
company for 17 individual governorate banks (Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit tBDACs]); it also directly operates six large branches in
major urban centers. Though wholly owned by GOE, PBDAC (and its affiliated
banks) enjoy some administrative autonomy. Law No. 117 of 1976 enjoins PBDAC
to "follow the systems and methods of management applied by the banking and
commercial firms without adhering to the administrative and financial systems
and rules as stipulated by the laws and regulations applicable by the
Government and public sector."
6.03     PBDAC is managed by a nominated Board of Directors whose decisions
are final unless vetoed by the Minister of Agriculture and Land Reclamation.
The Board members are nominated by the Minister of Agriculture and are drawn
from the concerned ministries, the Central Bank, the State Council and the
Central Agricultural Cooperative Union. The Board also includes three
agricultural experts and eight heads of governorate banks. Hence, PBDAC is
essentially a financial and executive instrument for implementing government
policies. However, unlike most public sector undertakings, it enjoys a large
measure of autonomy in its day-to-day operations.
6.04     PBDAC has a well-laid out, though over-staffed, management structure
to handle agricultural storage and distribution from the national to the
village level. The lines of communication and areas of responsibility are



- 31 -
clear. Basically, PBDAC's activities are divided into two components, viz.,
(i) financial, credit and administrative affairs; and (ii) commercial
production, storage and branches. Each component is managed by a vice
chairman. The vice-chairman handling commercial production, storage and
branches is rcsponsible for the storage infrastructure, procurement and
disposal of agricultural inputs, animal feeds, anl other agribusiness.
6.05     At the governorate level, each BDAC has a chairman and a general
manager to whom three line managers, viz., administration and accounting,
credit and development, and commercial operations, report. Even though BDACs
are independent legal bodies, with their own by-laws, they do have to follow
PBDAC's directives and guidelines. BDACs, assisted by district level
branches, manage the shounas and exercise administrative, financial and
inventory control.
6.06     In the governorates, the BDACs operate a network of 140 district
level branches which act principally as administrative units for the 760
village banks and over 500 shounas. The organization of district level and
village banks is the same as for BDACs: three departments (accounting, credit
and commercial) reporting to the local manager. The village banks operate a
network of about 4,300 mandubias (retail outlets) which sell agricultural
inputs to the farmers on cash or credit.
6.07     Typically, a mandubia has 3 to 4 employees, a village bank 15-25, and
a district bank about 40. All the BDACs together support a staff of about
32,000 persons; PBDAC has about 3,200 employees.
Project Implementation
6.08     PBDAC, assisted by consultants, would implement the project through
its existing departments for engineering, storage and supplies, production
inputs, training, financial accounts and external financing. PBDAC's
procurement committee would process all procurement matters. Close
interaction would be necessary between these departments during pxoject
implementation. For instance, while the overall design and constructiun would
be the main responsibility of the Engineering Department, the Storage and
Supplies Department and the Production Inputs Department would be Involved in
capacity and locational decisions, as weil as in the specific design features
of different facilities. The Engineering, Procurement, Accounts and Legal
Departments would be involved in the preparation of bid requests and contract
awards. The Training Department would be responsible for the training of
management and operational staff. PBDAC would also work with BDAC managements
in the governorates where new facilities are to be constructed. PBDAC would
consult with BDACs on locational decisions. It would also entrust day-to-day
construction supervision responsibility to BDACs, who would designate adequate
technical staff for this purpose.
6.09     The overall coordination and supervision of the project would be
carried out by the Chairman of PBDAC, as the Director of the Project. He
would be assisted by a full-time Project Coordinator (PC), who would be
located in his office. The Project Coordinator's responsibility would be to:
(i) ensure timely and coordinated implementation of various project
components; (ii) monitor progress; (iii) resolve any implementation
bottlenecks; (iv) facilitate and expedite procureimAnt; and (v) provide a
secretariate for correspondence with the Bank. The project coordination unit
would have, in addition to the Project Coordinator, at least three staff
3 1 6 9C



- 32 -
assistants. A project organization chart is at Annex 10. Appointment of a
full-time Project Coordinator would be a condition of effectiveness of Bank
Loan [para. 8.02(i)(c)].
6.10     A Project Steering Committee (PSC), under the chairmanship of the
Chairman of PBDAC, would oversee, guide and coordinate project implementation
and resolve any inter- or intra-institutional matters concerning project
progress. The membership of this committee would be drawn from the Ministries
of Agriculture and International Cooperation, as well as from the PBDAC
departments concerned with project implementation, namely, engineering,
storage and supplies, production inputs, training, financial a.nd
administrative affairs and finance. Appointment of the Project Steering
Committee would be a condition for effectiveness of the Bank Loan
[para. 8.02(i)(d)].
6.11     Warehouse construction (about 900 buildings at over 200 dispersed
locations) and warehouse mechanization would require detailed technical
supervision at the construction sites to ensure timely progress, adherence to
technical standards and specifications and the payment of contractors for the
completed portion of their works. The engineering wing of PBDAC would provide
the overall leadership and field supervision. For assisting this wing, PBDAC
would hire the services of a consulting firm (para. 4.28) to prepare detailed
engineering designs for the warehouses and provide the requisite manpower and
technical skills for on-site supervision during construction. Furthermore, in
order to ensure close supervision, each BDAC would be made responsible for
processing the invoices of contractors and for exercising general supervision
over the construction program in their respective jurisdictions. PBDAC would
review the engineering and accounting staff of various BDACs and, in the light
of the estimated work program, would arrange to strengthen this staff,
wherever necessary. Assurances were obtained during negotiations to this
effect [para. 8.01(ix)].
6.12     PBDAC would also be assisted by consultants in developing and
adopting modern management tools to carry out the monthly and annual
transportation planning and distribution of fertilizers and animal feed. The
consultants would design and implement a transport planning and logistics
system based on linear trausportation program and analysis; they would train
PBDAC officials in the management and application of this new system. PBDAC
would also establish procedures to ensure that facilities constructed or
renovated under the project are properly maintained and efficiently utilized.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations [para. 8.01(x)].
Short-term consultants would be hired to develop management information
systems and design training programs for the PBDAC/BDAC staff. The proposed
study of the ieasibility of an investment project to handle, transport and
store imported feed grains would be entrusted to a consulting firm (para 4.20).
B. PBDAC - Financial Situation
6.13     The income statements, balance sheets and financial ratios for PBDAC
and its subsidiary governorate banks for the years 1981-1987 are shown in
Annex 11, Tables 1-5). During the last five-year period, PBDAC and its
subsidiaries have experienced a rapid growth in operations, as shown in
Table 6.1:



- 33 -
Table 6.1: PBDAC'S OPERATING RESULTS
(LE million)
'983     1984      1985     1986      1987
Total Income (Including
Other Revenues)                243       296       314       392      489
Total Expenditure                145       188       201       266      345
Profit Before Tax                 98       108       113       126      144
Income Tax                        33        54        53        63       79
Net Profit                        65        54        60        63       65
Annual Growth in Profit
Before Tax  (2)                221       10        5%       121      14%
Pretax Return on Equity (X)      891       85%       78%       74b      77%
Source: PBDAC's audited financial statements.
6.14     As shown in the above table, PBDAC's total income has doubled during
the period, increasing from LE 243 million in 1983 to LE 489 million in 1987.
However, total expenditures have increased at a somewhat faster pace than
total income. Consequently, profits before taxes increased at a slower pace
(profits were up only 471, compared to total income growth of 101% between
1983 and 1987). As a result, the pretax return on equity return has declined
gradually, from 891 in 1983 to 771 in 1987. It is still, however, a. a very
satisfactory level. On the whole, the organizational and financial
performance of PBDAC has been satisfactory.
6.15     PBDAC's total assets increased by 172% during 1983-87, from LE 1,207
million to LE 3,277 million in 1987 (Annex 11, Table 3). There has been a
significant increase in the loans portfolio, which has grown by 2551, from
LE 606 million in 1983 to LE 2,151 million in 1987, indicating the Bank's
rapidly expanding activity. The quality of PBDAC's portfolio appears to be
sound, given PBDAC's statement in its 1987 Annual Report that loan collections
were 94.81 and also given the general environment, where parastatals are a
drain on the economy. PBDAC, in addition to paying taxes, also shares its
profits with the Ministry of Finance. During 1987, PBDAC paid GOE LE 37
million as dividend, equivalent to 57% of its net profits. If PBDAC were not
obliged to share its dividends with GOE, these funds would be capitalized and
used to fund new development projects.
6.16     PBDAC's share capital has increased threefold, from LE 19 million in
1983, to LE 56 million in 1987. The total equity increase, however, has not
kept pace with the growth in operations. Hence, the ratio of total
liabilities to equity worsened, from 10.1 in 1983 to 16.6 in 1987: a ratio of
8 would be more normal for this type of institution. PBDAC operates under
tight liquidity, since its current ratio has declined from 1.3 in 1983 to 0.8
in 1987: a ratio of 1 should be the minimum acceptable level. Furthermore,
3 1 6 SC



- 34 -
PBDAC did not revalue the foreign borrowings provided by IBRD and other
development lending institutions to reflect the current foreign exchange
rates. Foreign borrowings, however, amounted to only about LE 45 million at
the end of fiscal year 1987, and a revaluation of these loans would not have a
major impact on PBDAC's financial structure. There appears to be, therefore,
a need to further increase PBDAC's share capital, particularly in light of the
substantial investment program to be undertaken for the proposed project. A
USAID-financed project under implementation includes a grant of US$100 million
to increase PBDAC's capital: US$35 million was paid to PBDAC in 1988 and the
remaining US$65 m.llion will be paid over the next two years.  The funds from
the USAID-financed capital increase will be utilized primarily for seasonal
loans to farmers. With such a capital increase, PBDACs financial statements
for FY 1987 would have shown an acceptable total liabilities to equity ratio
of 7.4 and a current ratio of 0.9.
6.17     Annex 11, Table 2 shows PBDAC's profitability on its various
commercial and banking activities. In 1987, PBDAC derived about 732 of its
gross income from banking operations, compared to 60Z in 1983; the balance of
the gross income came from the distribution of agricultural inputs and
grains. Most of PBDAC's operations were profitable during 1983-87: overall
profit before tax as percent of gross income was 37% in 1983 and declined to
27Z in 1987. Only a marginal activity, plant protection and fumigation
services (crop maintenance), accounting for less than 1% of PBDAC's gross
income, showed a loss in 1987.
6.28     The future financial situation of PBDAC will be largely determined by
the Government's policy to gradually remove the subsidies from all the
products handled by PBDAC. PBDAC's profits would increase substantially if it
were allowed to apply its present commission rates to the higher selling
prices once subsidies are removed. It is quite likely, however, that the
Government will renegotiate the commission rate. with PBDAC. Projections have
been made Jf the future profitability of PBDAC's distribution of agricultural
inputs and grains on the assumption that the commissions, in real terms and in
absolute amounts, would not be reduced. These projections are discussed in
the Cost Recovery section (paras. 6.30 and 6.31). Assurances were obtained
from GOE that PBDAC will be able to at least maintain its present level of
commissions, in real terme f-aras. 6.31 and 8.01(xvii)].
C. Accounts and Audit
6.19     PBDAC's accounting system is manual and detailed:  village banks send
accounting data daily to the district branch bank, listing all cash and volume
transactions, cash balances and in-kind loans. This data is consolidated and
a weekly report is sent to the governorate head office. On the basis of these
reports, monthly reports are submitted by BDACs to PBDAC. Computerization of
the system could help in rapid analysis of each unit as a separate cost/profit
center.
6.20     To assure adequate financial control of operations, a separate
project account would be established at PBDAC headquarters and at each
governorate bank. The account would be consolidated at headquarters and
reviewed by PSC. The accounting principles and basic procedures used by PBDAC
conform closely to standard accounting systems. A majori,y of entries
processed through PBDAC's accounting system come from BDACs which follow
uniform recording procedures. PBDAC'S accounting records are generally
current.



- 35 -
6.21     PBDAC's internal audit and control systems are comprehensive.  Two
auditors are located in each district bank and they spend about 20 days a
month auditing village banks. Audit staff of the governorate banks perform
their own independent, but concurrent, audit of the village banks; they also
have the responsibility of auditing district banks. PBDAC, in turn,
undertakes regular audits of the governorate banks.
6.22     PBDAC is audited annually by the state-owned, but independent,
Central Agency for Auditing. IBRD has received PBDAC's audited reports for
other Bank-financed projects and found them acceptable. Under the project,
PBDAC -nuld be required to submit to the Bank its audited statements, and an
audit ot project accounts and SOEs within six months after the end of each
financial year. The auditor's report would include, inter alia, a statement
that the funds advanced by the Bank for the Special Account and against SOEs
were used for the purpose for which they were provided. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations [para. 8.01(xi)].
D. Status of Proiect Preparation
6.23     The project is in an advanced stage of preparation.  Conceptual
designs for input warehouses, grains and feed warehouses, and for the bulk
unloading and storage facility for imported corn have been finalized. Fairly
reliable cost estimates, based on July 1988 tenders for similar stores in
Egypt, have been updated, including adjustment for subsequent increases in
steel prices. Land is available with PBDAC for construction of warehouses at
sites which satisfy the criteria laid out in para. 4.16; in fact, BDAC has
already identified sites for about 80% of the capacity to be built. For the
remaining 201, much of the land is available; in only a few marginal cases
some land may need to be purchased or leased. Land acquisition would not be
required in any case. PBDAC would review the recommendations of BDACs and
finalize the locations and capacities after any necessary field verification.
Final selection of at least 80 sites, i.e., 40X of the total number of sites,
would be a condition of effectiveness [paras. 4.16 and 8.02(i)(a)]. The
Project Coordinator has been appointed. Draft bidding documents for civil
works have been prepared, discussed and broadly agreed with the Borrower.
Further, terms of reference for (i) engineering consultants for warehouses,
(ii) consultants for installing temporary bulkhead facility; and (iii) the
study to develop an investment proposal for imported feed grains have been
prepared and discussed during negotiations [para. 8.01(xii)].
E. Implementation Schedule
6.24     The average implementation period for IBRD-financed projects in Egypt
is eight years. The implementation period for this project is estimated at
five years (para 5.12), based on a detailed analysis of the required steps for
project implementation; these are shown in Annex 12. This project would be
implemented by a single agency which has staff trained in ICB procurement
procedures. Further, the engineering consultants would be hired by PBDAC
(para. 4.28) to assist in the timely implementation of the project through all
phases from design to completion. PBDAC's management is convinced that it can
implement the proposed project in five years: the proposed timetable appears
achievable, provided PBDAC quickly undertakes a number of preparatory steps.
These steps include: (i) the selection of engineering consultants; (ii) the
prequalification of civil works contractors; (iii) the selection of at least
80 sites in consultation with the Bank prior to loan effectiveness; and (iv)
site/soil survey of selected sites before finalization of site specific



- 36 -
detailed designs. PBDAC has agreed to quickly take the necessary preparatory
action to achieve the proposed implementation timetable. Assurances in this
regard were reconfirmed during negotiations [paras. 8.0l(xiii)|, 8.02(i)(b)
and 8.02(i)(a)I.
F. Project Monitoring Evaluation and Reporeing
6.25     Project monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), in the Chairman's office. This Unit would
develop a management information system for the project, as well as improve
PBDAC's existing information system for agricultural inputs and grains. An
internationally recruited management consultant will assist the Unit in this
task. This Unit would also develop and maintain quarterly reports on the
project's physical progress and use of funds. The reports would be prepared
for PSC and would be sent to the Bank no later than two months after the end
of each quarter. The quarterly report would cover: (i) progress, by
governorate, in the construction of the warehouses and of the bulkhead for
imported feedgrains (measured against defined targets); (ii) progress, by
governorate, in the rehabilitation of the existing storage facilities
(vis-a-vis targets); (iii) progress in the procurement of machinery and
equipment for new and rehabilitated warehouses; (iv) progress in expenditure,
during the quarter and cumulative, and projections for the remainder of the
fiscal year; (v) constraints (physical, financial, manpower) which (if any)
are impeding project progress and actions taken, or proposed to be taken, to
remedy these conutraints; (vi) progress in the training programs; (vii) work
program for the uext six months; and (vii) progress in the rationalization of
the fertilizer transport system. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations [para. 8.0l(xiv)1.
6.26     The Project Coordinator would be supplied with a short monthly
progress report on the project by each of the governorate banks. Staff from
PCU would make occasional field visits to monitor the overall progress of the
project; a provision has been made in the project cost for PBDAC's field
trips.
6.27     During project implementation, there could be about 16 contracts for
the construction of warehouses in various stages of execution. Under these
contracts, construction could take place at about 60 to 80 different sites on
about 300 buildings. Since the contractors are likely to submit a monthly
invoice for each building under construction, as is the current practice,
PBDAC and the BDACs would he-e to process about 300 monthly invoices. In
order to minimize manpower i quirements and processing delays, PBDAC would
develop, with the assistance of the engineering consultants, a standardized
billing system, whereby the contractors would submit standardized invoices per
contract, rather than per building. The invoicing system could be
computerized and the data used for the preparation of progress reports. (An
illustration of a standardized invoice showing details per building, per site
and per total contract is included in the Project File). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that PBDAC would, with the assistance of the
engineering firm selected for the design and construction supervision of the
warehouses, develop a standardized invoicing system and would establish an
efficient (preferably computerized) record of the invoices to facilitate
monitoring of warehouse construction and progressive payments [para. 8.01(xv)].
6.28     During the second year of the project's implementation period, PBDAC
would carry out a baseline survey which would include information on: the



- 37 -
storage and distribution system of agricultural inputs, feeds and grains; the
quality and physical losses of these products at different stages of
distribution; storage, handling, and management practices; and transport
costs. The information gathered by PBDAC and from the improved MIS system
would be used to eval"ate the impact of the project on these variables.
Furthermore, PBDAC would carry out by December 31, 1992, a midterm review in
accordance with a methodology agreeable to IBRD and PBDAC, to assess the
progress in the achievement of project objectives, and propose any necessary
changes in project scope and design to IBRD. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations [para. 8.01(xvi)].
6.29     Within six months of the Loan closing date, PC would prepare and
submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report: the report would analyze the
implementation of the project and assess its impact in relation to the
project's stated objectives. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations [para.8.01 (xiv)].
G. Cost Recovery
6.30     Presently, PBDAC recovers a substantial portion of its product loss
by charging the full price for a bag of product, even if the bag's weight has
decreased from spillage during storage and handling. As result of the
proposed project, there would be a reduction in product loss. To be able to
make the necessary investments and service the debt of the loans for the
proposed project, PBDAC would have to increase the sales price per bag, since
it would be providing the customer the correct quantity of product.
6.31     To provide PBDAC with an adequate debt service ceverage and an
acceptable financial rate of return of 15%, the Government would permit PBDAC
to set aside not less than 12 of the total sales value of agricultural inputs
and feeds and grains handled by PBDAC, starting July 1, 1991. During
negotiations assurances were obtained to this effect [para. 8.01(xvii)]. This
additional income would provide PBDAC with a satisfactory debt service
coverage ratio (at least 2.2) for the IBRD loan, even after the assumed
changes in value of the Egyptian pound, and a rate of return on PBDAC's
invested funds of about 18%. (Annex 11, Table 5 shows the forecast sources and
the uses of funds for the project; detailed cost recovery calculations are
available in the Project File, Annex 14). The required price increase is
quite low and is not likely to cause any consumer resistance. In fact, as
subsidies on agricultural inputs are expected to be eliminated by 1993,
substantial price increases would be inevitable and a 1% increase in price to
recover the storage cost can easily be absorbed. Alternatively, in lieu of
the 1% price increase, PBDAC's existing marketing margins could absorb the
price increase. If the existing subsidies on fertilizers and feed are not
phased out, the set aside would have to be no less than 1.4% instead of 12 of
the total sales value (1.71 for agricultural inputs and 1.12 for feeds and
grains). The following graph shows that PBDAC's future commercial profits
would be more than adequate to cover the the cost recovery, if PBDAC is
allowed to maintain its present marketing margins in real terms.



- 38 -
PBDAC'S PROFITS AND COST RECOVERY
ISO                 e In Cet I9"a LE Mlltr
140 
130" -    - -         -.           .  _ _       -  - 7
…20 -                                      - ._ .
00-         - _      - _          -' _ / _                -    7=C          F   
40 7.I _ f
go.-     --         -     -     -      --M k   -'  P    9    P -
30'- _      f                _-7      r75 5_,f2
28'-   - - _      -   t ]]4>,-R1   
la l0, lx, 1, -   -I-O, 1X, I   1
1969 199I0PA9I1 1992I IAI               I P1I   FOA1 P1'
M I960      t9f I    *92 1995  9  996 19" 194 197 1G 19" 2000
=J Pr.fft         M  Ca* teakcmy
VYL ECONOMIC BENEFITS, PROJECT RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A. Beneficiaries and Benefits
7.01     The direct beneficiaries of the project would be:  (i) PBDAC, through
improved operational efficiency; (ii) private farmers, through access to
agricultural inputs and animal feed of higher quality and quantity;
(iii) flour and feed mills, through better quality grains; and (iv) GOE,
through foreign exchange savings, increased revenues from taxation, and
increased share of PBDAC's profits.
7.02     The principal economic benefits of the project would stem from
reduced storage and handling losses on agricultural inputs, animal feed and
grains.  These benefits would accrue because (i) more of these commodities
would be stored in covered warehouses which would provide protection from
direct exposure to sunlight, heat, moisture, rnAtents, birds and insects;
(ii) mechanical handling of bags (conveyor belts) by trained staff would save
on manual handling losses; (iii) stacking would be more efficiently done;
(iv) storage on concrete floors would permit substantial recovery of spilled
products; (v) storage and inventory management would be improved; and
(vi) rationalized transportation would minimize distances traveled by
agricultural inputs and grains.
7.03     The annual physical savings in losses resulting from covered storage
are expected to be about 60,000 tons of fertilizer, 17,000 tons of animal feed
and 22,000 tons of domestic grains by the year 1995. In terms of 1938
constant dollars, the economic value of these savings would be about US$22 M.



- 39 -
B. Economic Alysis
7.04     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the proj ect is
estimated at 222 (Annex 13, Tables 1-4).  Table 7.1 below shows an ERR of 222
for new input w.,rehousess 21% for rehabilitated warehouses, 20% feed and grain
warehouses, and 302 for the bulkhead facility for imported corn. The rates
for new warehouses by governorate vary from 162 in Beni Suef and Gharbia to
402 in Qena. No calculations have been done for Cairo, Kafr El Sheikh,
Dakhalia, Aswan, El Arish, Suez and El Vadi, where no additional facilities
for agricultural inputs are needed. ERRs for feed and grain warehouses by
governorate range from 152 in El Vadi, where the turnover ot these commodities
is small, to 27% in Cairo, where the turnover is large. (Details are shown in
Annex 13, Table 1.)
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
2 of         Switching Value
ERR      Eco. Proj.   Benefits        Costs
M(X)       Cost           (X)         (Z)
Input Warehouses (new)               22            64         -38            61
Input Warehouses (Rehabilitation)  21               4         -40            66
Feed and Grain Warehouses            20            28         -35            53
Bulkhead Facility                    30             4         -12            13
Global Result                        22           100         -33            49
7.05     Ii the economic analysis, the following assumption and parameters are
used:
(i)    The life of a warehouse is 20 years from the time of project
completion; allowances for replacement investment in 2005 and
annual maintenance are included. Since the bulkhead is
temporary, its life is considered to be only six years.
(ii)    Benefits are primarily a function of the quantifiable loss
reduction arising from the project. Present losses of
fertilizers are estimated at 5.5%, while losses on feed and
grains have been put at 3% and 42 respectively.  The project is
expected to save 32 of inputs in new warehouses, 1.257
(incremental) in rehabilitated warehouses, and 1.752 in feed and
grain warehouses."' The temporary bulk storage facility is
1/   An important reason for cifferential savings is that fertilizer received
in bags from domestic plants or ports would be stored as such, whereas
the grains delivered by farmers at the shounas are unbagged for quality
assessment and chemical treatment and then rebagged. Some losses in this
process are inevitable. Furthermore, modest savings on animal feed have
been estimated because, traditionally, animal feed is bagged in old jute
sacks which have already been used four or five times; the current bag
stitching methods are also less than satisfactory; rectification of these
3169Cdefects would be a gradual process.



- 40 -
expected to save 0.752 of imported corn, transported from the
temporary facility in bags, and 0.5Z of the imported corn
transported from the facility in bulk.
(iii)    Benefits are also a function of economic prices.  Border prices,
uniformly adjusted to reflect inland costs, are applied to the
annual throughput.L' Forecasts made by the Bank's
International Comodity Markets Division are used to estimate
the real changes in international prices.
(iv)    Incremental benefits are assumed to begin one year after a
warehouse is rehabilitated or constructed and one year after the
temporary bulkhead storage facility is completed.
(v)    Where  reasonably precise quantification of benefits was not
possible, it was excluded in the calculation of ERR. These
benefits include those arising from the minimization of product
quality deterioration during storage; improvements in the MIS of
PBDAC; reduction in the environmental contamination from
spillage of inputs (including pesticides); and improvements in
the efficiency of the input transportation system.
(vi)    The prices used to determine inwestment costs are based on
tenders submitted in June/July 1988 for the construction of
similar storage structures in Egypt under a grant frem EC.
These have been suitably updated. The cost of machinery, office
equipment and training is based on inquiries made
internationally about prices net of taxes and customs duties.
All prices are net of taxes and other transfers while all costs
bear a physical contingency (para. j.0l).
(vii)    The without-project situation is deemed to be equivalent to the
present situation which includes all existing capacity and that
contracted for construction. Although some repair/maintenance
might have occurred without the project, it is assumed that
their cost and impact would be negligible. The incremental
operating costs-additional staff and equipment--have been
estimated on the basis of PBDAC's experience and information.
C. Sensitivity Ajlysis
7.06     Table 7.1 indicates that the project is amenable to changes in
project costs and benefits.  Its switching values-' are a 492 increase in
1/   Annual throughput is determined by the additional capacity used and
historical turnover ratio. However, in cases where historical ratios
exceeded 8 for animal feed and grains, a conservative turnover ratio of 8
was assumed.
2/   The switching value is the percentage change in costs or benefits which
reduces the ERR to the opportunity cost of capital assumed at 127.
'a I - e-



4 41 -
total costs and a 33% decrease in total incremental benefits. Furthermore,
Table 7.2 shows that if the use of completed warehouses is delayed by two
years the ERR would fall to 15%; by three years, to 132.
Table 7.2: SENSlTIVITY ANALYSIS OF RATES OF RETURN OF
NET STREANS OF TOTAL PROJECT
(2)
Total Project   Up    Down    Lag 1   Lag 2   Lag 3
Benefits     202   20%      Year    Years   Years
Total Project Cost           21.8         27.8   15.9    17.4    14.7    12.8
Up 202                       16.9         21.8   11.9    13.9    11.9    10.4
Down 20%                     29.4         37.3   21.8    22.4    18.5    15.9
Lag 1 Year                                 -      -       21.8    17.1    14.7
Lag 2 Years                   -            -      -        -      21.8    17.4
Lag 3 Years                                -      -        -       -       21.8
7.07     Generally, ir.dividual project components are equally sound.  The
switching values for the new input warehouses are a 61% increase in total
costs and a 38% reduction in incremental benefits; corresponding figures for
rehabilitated warehouses are a 66% rise and a 402 fall. For feed and grain
warehouses, the switching values are a 53% increase in costs and a 35% decline
in incremental benefits.  However, the switching values for the imp-rted corn
bulkhead facility are a 132 increase in costs and a 12% drop in project
benefits. The values for the bulkhead are low because (i) the bulk facility
is temporary and is considered to have a life of only six years; and
(ii) salvage value is excluded from the analysis of benefits as a conservative
measure. In any case, this component comprises only about 4% of project costs.
D. Environmental Impact
7.08     The project would have no adverse environmental impact.  On the
contrary, it would significantly reduce environmental pollution which is
currently caused by the sizable spillage of fertilizer on bare earth in the
shounas and the unsatisfactory handling and storage of chemical pesticides.
The warehouses are not likely to have any dust emission or explosion hazards,
as the entire storage is in bags in non-mechanical flat stores.  The temporary
bulk facility is an open bulkhead with little dust emission and no dust
accumulation; therefore, there is no risk of grain dust explosion or
environmental pollution.
7.09     Assurances were obtained during negotiations to the effect that
(i) pesticides would not be stored alongside foodgrains or feed; (ii) the
pesticide stores to be constructed would be adequately ventilated;
(iii) access to a water supply source will be provided; (iv) safe procedures
would be adopted for dealing with the disposal of pesticide containers and
accidental spilling of toxic chemicals; (v) staff would be trained
appropriately to deal with emergencies and to fumigate foodgrain and feed
stocks; (vi) staff dealing with pesticide storage would be provided with



- 42 -
suitable protective equipment and clothing; and (vii) pesticides stores would
be appropriately labeled and emergency procedures to handle worker exposure
and/or spillage would be posted in each store. Furthermore, the use of
pesticides for stored grains, seeds and feed would be consistent with sound
pest management policies and accompanied by safeguards to protect the users
and the environment.  The list of fumigants and other pesticides to be used by
the storage project staff would also be reviewed with the Bank
[para. 8.01(xviii)].
7.10     The Loan will not finance the procurement of pesticides which are to
be stored in PBDAC warehouses or the fumigants to be used for the protection
of the stored grains and feed.
E. Project Risks
7.11     The proposed project has no major risks.  There would be no adverse
environmental impact. The usual risk of delays has been minimized through the
provision of engineering consultants who would assist PBDAC to (i) prepare
detailed designs and specifications; (ii) complete ICB procedures and award
contracts; (iii) supervise each construction site; and (iv) operate an
appropriate invoicing and payment system. Technical assistance would also be
available to PBDAC to design and operate an MIS. Further, the usual delays
due to the government budgetary process are not expected to arise because
PBDAC would be providing the counterpart funds. No delays from land
acquisition are anticipated as nearly all the construction sites are already
available to PBDAC. Significant shifts in the demand for agricultural inputs,
grains, pulses and animal feed, and derivatively for storage, are unlikely.
Project design is based on historical data and trends which are stable and
especially reliable since agricultural production in Egypt is not dependent on
the vagaries of the weather.
7.12     In light of the sectoral reforms currently under way, the commercial
role of PBDAC may, in due course, undergo a change and require (in the context
of the national shortage of storage infrastructure) transfer of its storage
facilities to successor institutions. This is, however, not a major risk
because (i) the project design is neutral to ownership and is flexible enough
to permit the eventual transfer of these facilities to the private sector;
(ii) the project provides for a midterm review in the third project year to
examine if, in the light of the evolving situation, any changes in the design
and scope of the project are necessary; and (iii) assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that GOE shall furnish to the Bank the findings
of the study which is currently being undertaken by PBDAC to develop options
for enhancing private participation in the distribution of agricultural
inputs, and would exchange views with the Bank as to the measures and the time
frame for implementation of the selected options [paras. 3.13 and 8.01(i)].
VIIL ASSURANCES OBTAINTED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Assurances
8.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOE/PBDAC that:
(i)    GOE would share with IBRD the currently on-going study by PBDAC
to develop options for enhancing private participation in the
.



- 43 -
distribution of inputs, and would also review with IBRD the
measures and timetable for the implementation of the selected
option (paras. 3.13 and 7.12);
(ii)    The detailed design of the warehouses and the bulkhead facility
would be finalized in consultation with the Bank (paras. 4.10
and 4.23).
(iii)    Appropriate procedures shall be established to ensure efficient
utilization and maintenance of the storage facilities and
equipment to be provided under the Project (para. 4.19).
(iv)    PBDAC would recruit qualified consultants for the Imported Corn
Feasibility Study on conditions and schedules acceptable to the
Bank and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants, August 1981; (para. 4.20).
(v)    All warehouse locations would be finalized by PBDAC on the basis
of criteria set out in para. 4.16. The location of the
temporary bulkhead for imported corn would also be finalized
with Bank approval (para. 4.24).
(vi)    PBDAC would arrange appropriate training for its operational and
managerial staff and, towards this end, would regularly review
with the Bank the progress in carrying out the training
activities in the Project (para. 4.26).
(vii)    The procurement of all items under the project would be done in
accordance with procedures outlined in SAR and as per the World
Bark's Guidelines for Procurement, May 1985. The Bank-financed
consultants would also be recruited according to Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants, August 1981 (paras. 5.03 and 5.04).
The experience and qualifications of engineering consultants for
warehouse design and construction as well as shouna-warehouse
mechanization to be funded locally by GOE would be satisfactory
to IBRD (para. 5.07).
(viii)    In particular, to make LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank,
PBDAC would (a) allow representatives of foreign bidders to bid;
(b) treat all bidders equally in terms of the requirements of
furnishing bid or performance bonds; and (c) not consider bids
received after the bid closing date (para. 5.08).
(ix)    PBDAC would review the engineering and accounting staff
availability in each BDAC and, in light of the estimated work
program, would arrange to strengthen the staff as necessary
(para. 6.11).
(x)    Procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be established by
PBDAC to ensure that the facilities constructed/rehabilitated
under the project are properly maintained and efficiently
utilized (para. 6.12).



- 44 -
(xi)    Separate financial accounts would be prepar_d and maintained by
the BDACs, with consolidated accounts being prepared and
maintained by PBDAC. These accounts would be audited annually
by auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Certified copies of the
audited annual project accounts would be sent to the Bank for
review not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The auditors' report would include, inter alia, a
statement that the funds advanced by the Bank for the Special
Account and against SOEs were used for the purpose for which
they were provided (paras. 6.20 and 6.22).
(xii)    Terms of reference for (i) engineering consultants for
warehouses; (ii) consultants for installing temporary bulkhead
facility; and (iii) the study to develop an investment proposal
for imported feed grains would be finalized in consultation with
the Bank (para. 6.23).
(xiii)    Site/soil surveys of selected sites would be completed prior to
firalization of site specific detailed design for each warehouse
(para. 6.24).
(xiv)    Quarterly progress reports would be submitted to the Bank not
later than two months after the e'nd of each quarter. A project
completion report would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the loan closing date (paras. 6.25 and 6.29).
(xv)    PBDAC would, with the assistance of engineering consultants,
develop a standardized invoicing system and establish an
efficient (preferably computerized) record of invoices to
facilitate monitoring of warehouse conscruction and progressive
payments (para. 6..7).
(xvi)    PBDAC would conduct a midterm review not later than December 31,
1992 in accordance with a methodology agreeable to IBRD and
PBDAC, to assess the progress in the achievement of project
objectives and propose any necessary changes in Project design
and scope to IBID (paras. 3.13 and 6.28).
(xvii)    GOE would permit, and PBDAC would set aside sufficient sales
commissions (not less than 12 of sales revenue) on agricultural
inputs, feeds and grains to be able to: (a) finance local
expenditures for the proposed project; (b) service the proposed
IBRD loan; and (c) earn a satisfactory return on PBDAC's
invested funds (para. 6.31).
(xviii)    Sound environmental protection practices, as indicated in
para. 7.09, would be followed in PBDAC's network of agricultural
warehouses.
8.02     The conditions for effectiveness of the Bank Loan would be:
(i)    Establishing satisfactory arrangements for project
implementation which would include:
(a)    Finalization of at least 80 storage sites (paras. 4.16,
6.23 and 6.24);



- 45 -
(b)    Selection of engineering consultants, satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist PBDAC in tasks outlined in paras. 4.28 and
6.24 for warehouse construction and its mechanization;
(c)    Appointment of a full-time Project Coordinator
(para. 6.09); and
(d)    Appointment of a Project Steering Committee (para. 6.10).
(ii)    Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOE and PBDAC
(para. 5.02).
B. Recommendations
8.03     Subject to the above conditions being met, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$40.0 million for 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Burrower would be
the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt.



- 46 -
Annex I
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBOACl
Organizational Chart
Board of Directors
Chairman             |
Vice Chairman for Commercial  |                                                Vice Chairman for Financial
Production. Storage and                                                       Administration and Credit
Branehes
Planning, and
Branch Affairs                         Organization                        Financial and
0-ranb                                                                   Administrative Affairs
Strge and Production  |._ LControl and Followup                                   Credit and Marketing
_3|   Legal Oepartment                            Engineering
- r    Board Affairs                               Finance
- Clent Service                          Administration
_ _|  Training            I                     Development        I
L Storage and Supplies Depart.             Commercial Department                 Production Inputs Department
_4    Product10nStoraoe                  fAgr. Mechanization                       Fertilizer Division
D1v1s1an            _       ~~~~Division_
Sacks Division         l                                                   Pesticides Division
Animal Feed Division                                                             Seeds Division
_ Equipment Division
31 0C



DIMtLTWA STOR PRahitt
W001 IL1BI5 FO T*3CL Dmc             IW   £313A
Fw 33ncolturd  Wu.
Ito bhic tai
MIN                                                     19n- ---sEb -- ---ss0----- -----Jm---w--
----    -------------  --------~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- -------                                                      a----m------.P   S
4.31f      I        so       1.1WtT       3.1.        33      Om       E.IN        B 3.IN      337      Do      tlN          8.3         INF      go        1 E.IH    W. Utv s us OFuT
.nf..n..n..nnss.s..sn.hsa..s..s.h..b..s.n.n               n,n,310     FOB m3E.afn          sbfhnS Es           nbnn-n                                            *,ALaFM-  .s..S...
Nf              70,327    33,634    32,00    713,06       53316    328Z    40,071    45,969        111,667   25,t52    48,00    89,439        18,3S0    30,1,    40,012n   69,101   50,0o          0   3601
in              71,6    ll3,54    24,040    19,4          45,969    4,34    25,071   6262           89,439    2,560   25,es0   92,939         69,101    33,5     24,738   78,222   50,500          0   27.722
SEP             19,5    33,113   20,045   92,533          b2,262   83,101    33,071   81,293        92,919   29,5314   33,0        ,353        I 78,222   3I,243    28,178    87,726    0,s5o      0    37,22b
m1              92,533    42,250    24,21   130,313       33,23    51,869   23,311   09,791         B9,SJ   29,85        4,433   U04,104      87,726    43,303    20,690    8,338    50,500        0   57,638
NV             110,538    33,49    30,36   111,781       109,9,7    5,667    25a,5    341,203      104,104    44,172    33,824   113,052     388,338    44,29    29,15    322,678   50,50          0    72,179
EC             111,7311    40,0    U4,14   109,0          4 3,203   ,066    43,55   15,674           5 IS,052    32,0b   40,047   101,071    122,678   42,n17    4,463   323,94      50,500        0    n,443
A              109,883   42,012    40,259   130,37       3,614   93,443    34,2s3   174,834        307,013   47,269    43,320   31,020       323,943    47,595    39,17   332,250   50,00          0   8,1750
FEB            310,397     0,44      4,9    106,447      174,33     60,48     30,467  204,776       II3,020   50,415   5,797   103,690      132,250   5046    45,056  133,b60    50,500            0   81,340
M               306,447    30,22    52,5      3 ,n7      204,776   52,017   74,220   3,52sn        303,69    42,64    63,204    81,133       337,140    43,634    63459  1335,6   50,500           0   65,316
e               83,3n7    33,049   44,94       I4        352m    43,066   3,423   165,236            3,338   37,e6    49,335   b6,86         35,5836    31,060   50,93   103,975   s,0o0           0   53,415
9               13,8      3,049    46,IQ2   D5,U7        340,216   37,066   63,253   341,032        6,38    34,o0    48,33       54,332     130,975   34,17    52,7b8   83,934    50,500           0   33,43
5,'47     3,o049    3,319   50,176       343,032   22,066   53,431   III36        54,30    33,046    45,143    40,75        83,934   28,m72    45,133    67,52     50,00          0    37,0
OTIAL        1,074,4    424,062  444,213  ,054,339    1,51,191   557,ie0   493,093 1,576,20       ,7,        42,53    503,45  1,0,230    1,239,       47,398  482,059 1,223,92   60,000            0  622,952
..nna nsss.nsbnf.nn                                                                  .s.3n                        inb       3.fl           hl_ SSgfSfllSSfSlfSlSllfssflft##foSs,fsa#.SnSn                                           3
a.  "M              3,543    35,3S9    37,03  37,32      326,415   46,431    4,542   333,357         n,       3,4      43,5      0,09        303,3l8  39,267    o,3n   302,4,u 5o,500              0   53,93
amm   31180.193319                  53,913
m. TII   3*10                         4.n
Ca3tdatik  d lkmap W" Price
l9337            392                   "9                     200e                            *WIrgatlom  Nu
IEI U *UL IU                                         LE                         LI -           ag l ttt
IMF * i "
Ftlalazers    476,000        430 204,1,0010       430 203,4,000         43 203,%4,000                      nIF * 36tn 3g
nit. am .         S,399    6,3  21,,007         6,12    3,497,33      6142  21,57,630                E       .       dI * EuI la rtwy
nho             24,25        401  9,16,           434 3527,34           451 30,93,456
Tat A  lats  50,455          Mg 235,497,663       4173240,132,384 1      80Nl       U 24,47,4 1I



rnTnMK  AInmuK  mm33111k II   wIMTr   am.SIS
m97        90o       09         29o2 03               94       3995       19        I"97       199       199       2000      2not       2002       2003      2009       205
riUth ia   AO listrki of 4Wic lWts             3.070     L.O        1.023      1.0210    1.020      1.0250     .0O       1.0250    1.0250    1.023      1.0250     .0000    I.000       .00        .0000     I-.0O
_a2 hstrib of ric let             .4U2,es   57,1297    32,13       145,410       ,04    m7,n22   s7,37    6,0o1    617,0S2    32,509    4,22           664,529   64,529  6u4,529    6,529   60,529            ,
bd             e Inare    ain         2.00   '.6           2.06       3.03       0.30      1.19        .2n      1.25      1.20       0.31      I.34       l.J       3.3        1.2       I.3D       1.3        0.3
M*thy MAY4 Btwep, kOme
a                                             74,415    7,275       7,U2        0,137     1,340    94,294    9,29         ,4       90,668    92,934    91,259    95,25      9,219    n,2ss    95,258    n,2s
Am                                           .4,27        6,343     U,502    90,714    92,9021   95,337        n,69    10,032   102,6U5    105,201   307,931   101,931   101,931   101,331   101,533   101,33
UP                                            94,n2      9,It       ",255    002,13    10t,2       0,3 10      9117  59    112,M2  35,105   011,9S    120,933   120,9       120,933   320,93    120,933   120,93
tl                                            03,454    1129,35    322,39      25,40    13,54    03,751    us5,050    03,421    340,1117   045,434   14,070    149,070  12,070   149,070   049,070   34,070
O                                            132,112   135,45       33,331   042,22l   145,327   10,4131   3,200    357,040    100,96    004,99O   10,025   009,130                   at93s 129,115   10,1135
RCC                                           u3,414   I3,52       340,231   14,1       147,330       151,     01      03,659    362,625  I06,090    170,1    210,=         170,5    310,=5   310,511   376,
E                                            042,2      13s,m1     34,630   353,32    157,305   36l,030   34,0         Id,29    In,525    111,664    192,310   122,310   0I3,310   192,310  102,310   23,311
fEB                                         0U25        05,9       15,72    259,2    063,022   261,705   1370,65   270,1          3,57    305,112    Ij,74       39,10    19,140   0P,740   IN,10    10,740
11"                                          124,7      127,m90     321,030    034,312   037, 07   141,102   34,3      24,255    13,%2    155,761    159,65   159,05    139,05 5 0,5    35,055   13,0
13                                            009,30    112,562    225,37    233,261   121,211   2,2?   127,31          13,7   0,300I   337,140   IZ,575   040,57           140,55    040,5       10,515    38,55
of9                                            0,3    92,4          94,90     97,3       ",7I1    Imo26S   344,32    107,443   110,129   112,652    10,709    115,709   115,709   015,10         115,704    115,10
a03                                            12,2nm    714,50     70,404    73,34      3m          29    6,20          U6,44     3,045     9,620      93,091    93,091     3,09      93,0n     93,091    93,09
Iwp 1th1  Ed BtOrap hlme                      3o0,30    132,045    115,9J2   113,79    123,7       124,73    327,901   030,09    134,3      037,75      1,0 1     41,17    141,10  ,  141,07    141,1719   140,70
mm. btl Eh   s p SW l                         04 1,25    1512,93   35,731   35,622    143,012       1,703   071,35    170,102    1,59?  105,112   16,740   29,740   13,70    13,740   109,740    m,7
Eietig t     p                                      50,3 3 0        50,50D    5 0        50,5C0 3,5  30  50,5  vio      so,5,0     s 50,  5t00  0,500     ,500     0,50     50,10      so,100    5,50e    50,30
MIacit Caguty
SR                                            23,915    25,m        27,V 2    29,0       33,040    35,09      5,799     J7,        40,W9    42,434     44,7       44,1      44,7n      44,D5     44,D1      44,75S
o                                             33M,7     35,6        3,002      0,214    42,05       t,9D7    41,139         U32    52,115        1 4,1  57,331    57,121    51,31      57,331    57,3       57,31
UP                                            4,972    40,334         ,3      5,23S9 53,3          50,3       9,459    13,793    64,05    61,43        70,433    0,4J       70,433    70,43      70,43      70,43
go                                            05,954    66,665      73,49    74,'9       70,043    63,250    94,150    61,9      "9,7        "9,4    n,570         3,570    9,70   "9,S10        n,170    ",170
is                                            90,102       ,92        ,31     ","        95,32?    9,973   102,710   100,590    iO,460   234,49    316,01o  339,213   339,015    113,015    118,03 133,015
mE                                             1,9"4    66,331       9,132    9,237    9,9         100,534   104,239    ,0S,159   332,5    20,39        20,       20,353    120,21    120,3      120,2    120,3
m                                             91,0      95,U1       99,03O    202,71   100,75    030,0    20,00    i0,79    323,025   027,30    030,900    330,530    233,920   133,900    133,900    330,330
FE                                            97,7n5    10,43      30,223   00,22   113,112   117,203    20,35          1,0       130,097    134,032   I0,240  I2,240    3,240    39,240    33,240    23,240
9W                                            74,m       77,34      5,533 6   U,912    37,310    90,02    ",3           97,71     101,462   105,20    009,01    10,IS    39,155    10,35   10,3S    10 ,1355             i
m                                             59,307       ,02      07          7 ,701          n,7017n,74u    70,54    50,07       3,3l    90,04       ",on      9,075    910,075      n,07     93,075    90,075
my                                            396        42,06      44,404    4,3        ",270     51,70    54,32       50,94      59,629    62,32    05,2        65,204    05,204    65,204    0,204    05,204             i  P
J03                                           22,2m      24,090     A,94      27,14    3,m         31,m       2,3        5,944     3,35    4,30    42,50          42,51    62,591    42,591    42,591    42,59              o t
_                                                             1  __..      -         -I                                                 .-. __  __-w7
boXtbi  bwaq  Mait                            59,733    02,5t5      05,32    69,266      72        7 ,201     77,403    io,5n9    3,875    61,235       0,0U      90,41     90,U07     90,79    90,470    90,*               W



w7         io        iw          io         Is         194 "  M                         l995   197   M          9       2X0        2001       2002       2003       20t4       20D5
lUlm  llthlp bOicit                               ,1m2    101,430     105,228    £09,122    £13,112    117,203    121,395    125,692    130,097    134,12    139,240    139,240    139,20    139,240    139,20    139,20
bp hOAeIJ !ehicit (SWPI.I                        s5         us45        05312      m4          123        420'      7101       s0          31        7235      90071      9018       90s18      90613      90071      90013
,tama  Capacitly                                            aet         25000      230        2500
eldat,   mil           tq*ity                                   0      23,000    5,000       15,000    100,000    100,000    100,00    1           I0,000    £00,000   100,000 00    100,000   0,000    100,000    100,000 f
bp Oiltioit lTM  in towd sturp                       0          0      23,000     45,1       tO,U39     11,918     13,812    15,00       17,444    79,015    00,747 1 0,141         30,747    0,747    D0,141    80,747
bp hatalmu   Ions Std htsiti                    59,Mn    62,545        z0,3n      22,33      T0,599      2,3m       3,58       4,92       ,431      .100       9,931     9,931      9,931      9,931      9,931      9s,9
ko  s oLows Itl                                  3.00       3.00K       L.OW0      3o000      3.O00W     3.0001     3.000e     L.00et    LOO3      1000O                           3.0001  3.0001  3.0001  3.000t S.0Ott    3.0002
bp Agric l          Price Who)                     4S         40          40         400        44         470        478        418       419        417        400        400        480        480        430        460
_aI  usmp                                            0          a   1,051,329 2,991,10  4,005,369  4,1,592  4,919,3l  ,104,407 5,224,s3  5,334,382  5,41,800  5,408,0   5,441,00  5,408,100  5,40,800  5,40,80
lao     t  od  IUIIlml                             210        210         210        210        210       210        210        210        210        210        It0        210        210        210        210      32.7
Total Ietas  Cot ILEI                                0 5,250,00   5,250,000  5,25,00   5,250,000             o         0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          02,30,0
Waking  ostII. oo d Cm1l Ct l                        I          I           I          I          I          I          I          I          I         I          I          I          I          I          I          I
Total  srnia  st (1)                                 0          0      2O,000    50,000      15n,00     0o,0      l,o00      100,000    100,000   lo0,00    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000
tbt hat  UlI                                         0 15,250,000) (3,623,01112,302,02011l,3I9,631) 4,3,52  4,9,"1  5,o04,40   5,124,303  5,234,332  5,3s,0  5,38,80   5,30,u0  5s,3,8   5,30,60   2,4n,
omic lbte of Iltus MM1                            24.02
koosgap25
80  Prbst Vat. WV)                          ll,2,79
Oascn  le                                        12.961
Total CAacity    usti   * M tlmIi               50,3       5,00 Mre     5,500    100,500    12,500    150,00    150,0so0     50,500    150,500    150,500    150,50    150,500    150,500    150,500   150,500    150,50
htitml lSos  tommi Stoege
JR                                                   0          0      23,000    29,631    S3,00        33,094    35,99      37,956      0,10      42,434     44,8       44,,75     44,15      44,710     44,17      44,1
m                                                    0          0      23,o00    40,214      42,42      44,0017    47,109    4,032      52,135    54,701      51,331    571331      517,33      1,331     51,331     17,331
SEP                                                  0          0      23,00      50,000     5,1t       50,31     59,9       u,n         4,0        1,43      70,433    10,433      10,433 70,43          70,43      70,433
MT                                                   0          0      2,e000    se,ee       15,000    81,a0      0,5        67,97      n1,317     9,94       96,510     96,510    93,510       ,570     9,70       98s,5m        '1
WV                                                   0          0      23,00       0,000     15,000    98,9m7    100,000    100,0W      lo,00    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    10,000         it
tEC                                                  0          0      23a,0      50,000     15,000    100,000    100,000    10,000    loo1,00    lo0,000    150,000    100,000    000,000    100,000    100,000    100,000 
am                                                   0          0      23,060    50,060      n,o000    100,000   l0,o0      10,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100oo,0     100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000         -     |
RI                                                   0          0      23,000     S0,tt       5,000    100,000    100,000     00,000    100,000    100,000    loo0,00   100,000    lo,00o    100,000    100,000      00,lo00o             1
113                                                  0          0      23,000    50,000      15,000    90,u0    94,139    91,15    100,0          100,000    100,00 e o     00    100,000 100,00000,000    100,000 00,000          0
0                                                              0      23,oe0     se,eto       ,111     13,14160,031                    33,        80,040     90 70,907             90 7,14  ,  ,31  4  en  e,on  e05  90,015  90,075  98,0
p                                                    0          0      23,000    06,M        09,211    51,104     54,322     50,903      9,029     02,32       5,244    65,204       54        U,204        ,4       65,20             
0         0      23,000     27,n14     29,172     31,129     33,830     31,014     3,105      40,320    42,591    42,51       42,5t1    42,91       42,391    42,591
brap 80tmoal Ton  to Caved Ewap                      0          0      25,000     4,3s5      00,039     11,911    13,612      5,0       n,444    n1,o         6,17        0,1       6,747    00,747        0,1417    60,741



-50-
ANIM 2
ARAB REPUEIC OF EGYPT                                            Table 2
AGRICULTURAL STCRASE PROJECT
EuISTIN6 AND PROPOSED NEV CAPACITIES BY 6OVERNORATE
(tetric Tons '000)
SITES OFEM           t
:  O  Existing Capacity O       Proposed Capacity t Total Capacity: 1995  t  CONSTRUCTION             t
: Ftrti-  Feod I         : Ferti-  Feed I          t Ferti-  Feed I          t Ferti-  Feed           I 1 Truck I
G60YERNORATE    : lizer  Grains   Total I liter  Grains   Total I lizer  6rains   Total ' liztr  Grains   Total ' ScaI. n
g ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :                                                                I                         I       :
lAleu ndria          2.3             2.3:        5       5      10      7.3     5.0    12.3         2       2       4 1
Beheirs         1  29.5             29.5 1    100       12     112 0 129.5    12.0   141.5 1       11       7      I:         4 :
16harbia            33.6            33.6 :      90      24     104 t  113.6   24.0   137.6         16      17       181     5 
!Kafr El Sheik  :  72.9             72.90                7       7?    72.9     7.0    79.9                 7       71        1   I
: akahilia      :  92.2             92.2 1              24      24 t  92.2    24.0   116.2 1                3       3t        5 I
ISharkia        1  43.9             43.9 0    96        27     123 1 139.Y    27.0   166.9 t    21         16      26 :       3 :
Isualia         1  10.0             10.0        16       3      19 1  26.0      3.0    29.0 1       6       3       71        2 1
!Dauietta       2   7.9              7.92       11       4      15     1 9.8    4.0    22.82        5       4       SI        21
INenofia        :  50.4             50.4        20      14      34 1   70.4    14.0    04.4        16      20      23 2       I1
Kalubia              7.3             7.3 0    52        13      65 1  59.3    13.0    72.3 :       10       0        9 1      3 1
.Cairo          1                         1             24      24 1           24.0    24.0:                I        I:
,Giza           1  13.9             13.9        28      20      481   41.9   20.0    61.92          5       3       9 1       2:
'Beni Suef      1  19.8             19.89       32      16      481   51.9    16.0    67.91         9      11      141        31
Flyoun         1  19.7              19.7?      44       8      52 1   62.7      9.0    70.71       8        7       91       41
,Minya          I  39.1             39.1        24      40      64     63.1    40.0   103.1         a       8       8 1       4 1
kAssuit         0  20.9             20.89       49      20      681   68.9   20.0    88.8          13      15     I1 s
ISohag          1  15.3             15.3        36      12      491   51.3    12.0    63.3         15      12       151       31
tQena           I  39.5             38.51       14       7      21 2   52.5     7.0    59.51       10       4      12 1      21
!Asman          1  20.3             20.3                 4       4 1   20.3     4.0    24.3 t               4       4 :1
IEI Arisb       1   9.9              9.9 1               2       2      9.9     2.0    11.9                 2       21
IPvrt Said      0   0.2              0-2 t                              0.2              0.2 t                         :
,Suez                2.1             2.1                 2       2      2.1     2.0      4.11               1       1  I
.South Sinai    1   0.4              0.4 1                         :   0.4               0.4 1                         :        :
.New Valley     I                         :              2       2              2.0      2.0                2       2 :
1TOTAL          : 548.9            548.9 1   606       290     896 1 1154.9   290.0  1444.9 0    155      159     203 1    44 
01/25/89
FILE NAilNEN UCAPI



-51-                               Annex 3
Figure 3.1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
WAREHOUSE DESIGN
Agricultural Inputs Warehouse Design
i d 
'f  ;li                       18
3,1.     jltli1                        14
ll 7  '                      t v \l S   ^*, l~~~~~~~~~~~Aft4-
.1-~ 
I  Q   11   t i   ! I ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     4i 



-52-                            Annex 3
Figure 3.2
AMA USPMIC OF EUG
ACUCULThRAL 5?ORGl PRDJCT
WAKfUSE DESIM
Grains and Feed Warehouse Design
'NW ~~~~~~I 
Ji w4lf '! r
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 2 tI
tt~~~~~~~~~~~~i I1
Ii 



Annex 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT    Figure 3.3
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
WAREHOUSE DESIGN
Imported Corn Bulkhead Design: Site--General Arrangement
I                         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~ i
I



Annex 3
Figure 3.4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
WAREHOUSE DESIGN
Imported Corn Bulkhead Design: Flow Desigr.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-55-                                                       Annex 4
A IEMIC II EMTt
A0ICULIC U~ lPOW
Uwatisg Cst towrm   Edistig  _IMs v. Prapue  N1rohms
Tyical 1sl1d  aNo    Hhulit4 hustc Otral
(ftwrae    1,010 Nt thr_ta  0,S El4 tuuawr iO
Prnout smog                       Prop"  Nudom                         vrluce
Itn                                           I      t Lus   Wllt               I      ItL        W               I  t     LNGs    LMll
Pwchaa Sat et Some  (lE 30 W  frab                           200.00                            2000                                0.00
bp  (2.3 wcts - 1.3 sulva)                                    10.40                              10.0                              0.0
0*m a  ftachI                                                  0.40                              0.30                              .0.30
mectrical liorly                                                                                 0.30                              0.30
Setotal stwen  i ShAM                                        210.0                             210.0                                0.00
Fuiiptios                                                      1.50                               1.SI                              0.0
Haiieg Lse thloadiug                                   0.20t   0.42                      0.101   0.21                     -O.1?   -4.21
Stwae Linus                                            4.00?   1.42                      2.50    L.21                     -1.50t  -LI
TrKck Lai                                                      0.70                              0.71                              0.0
moti   Lous Laing                                      0.3O     0.13                     O.l     0.32                    -4.12   4.32
cihdtal Lbo U so at LImuth)                                    0.15                              0.15                              0.0
he-total at  _u   ate -  iing                          4.50? 22L43                       2.    2iL7T                       -I.7    -3.H9
bintuce  (buildt  ad cotVaYr  1j                                                                 0.13                               0.13
pidatiu                                                                                           1.53                              1.53
Odnistrati  and Ourmud                        tO.0"           22.24              10.0?          21.0                               4.34
latost - awst  fdh  - 4 lat,                   4.0?           14.0               6.01            1444                              4.20
Tow  Cost                                                    259.35                             256.73                             -2.L2
fe1linq Price at gm" St                                      M.32                               M.32                                0.0
Nis                                           L.00            12.97              S.7              5.9              0.721            2.
1_1 LE Ilyuf per e tric to of stwep capacity/ I tins * LE 0.15
2_1 hprWciatiou   lsvutut Cut  lloailOt 10? ftys Cat (II E)          14,0
tesa  IrWcitieO (owr 15 Vewse LE                  12,271
wrsclatim LE/Tm                                     1.5
FIU N      U



-56-                          Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
I
EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
SubJect: Imported Feed Grain Handling, Transportation and
Storage
Feasibility Study: Terms of Reference
Backaround
1.   Imports of yellow corn into Egypt have grown from 600,000
metric tons in 1976 to approximately 2 million metric tons in FY
1987/88. This corn is utilized as an important ingredient of
poultry and animal feed and for starch production. Since 1986
the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC) has served as the principal importer of corn. In 1987-
88, PBDAC handled approximately three fourths of the total
imports of yellow corn.
2.   PBDAC does not have modern grain handling facilities either
at the ports or at inland locations. At Port Said, PBDAC has
contracted the off-loading of vessels with a private sector
operator and a public sector stevedoring company. At Alexandria,
PBDAC has been using the services of the General Company of
Silos, a parastatal under the Ministry of Supply. While some of
these facilities can handle corn in bulk, PBDAC is not equipped
to distribute bulk. In addition, some of these facilities are
not of modern design and at some of the ports there are
limitations of draft and vessel size.
3.   Nearly all of the corn is bagged in 100 KG jute bags at the
ports. From the ports it is hauled by truck to open shounas,
mills or processing plants throughout the country. Only a small
portion of the total quantity is handled in bulk. Excessive
costs are incurred by PDDAC and the feed producers due to: a)
losses of grain and grain quality; b) use of Jute bags; c) ocean
freight charges from slow off-loading; d) ocean freight charges
for small vessels; e) slow loading and unloading of bag trucks;
f) transport by bag truck only; g) larger labor requirements for
handling bagged product; h) lack of flexibility and control of
distribution; i) sub-optimal scheduling of imports; and j)
production disruptions due to the lack of dependable supply. The
cost of imported corn is a critical factor in the production of
poultry, beef and dairy products.
I     l121W_r



-57-                         Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
2
4.   A development opportunity exists for modernization and
rationalization of the system for importation and inland
distribution of feed grains and related products. The
development could include one or more sea port terminal
facilities; several inland terminal facilities; and related
transport equipment, training programs and management systems.
The determination of the number of facilities, their location,
size, capacity, technical characteristics, ownership structure
and operational management systems are the subject of the
proposed study.
5.   There are a number of substitutes for corn which must be
considered when developing any system to serve the formula feed
industry. Other possible basic feed ingredients include barley,
sorghum, corn, gluten feed, tapioca, soyameal and other meals and
pelleted agricultural commodity byproducts.
6.   The study is expected to provide the information and
analysis which would be required by an international lending
institution to consider funding the investment proposal. Much of
the information on ports and the transport sector is already
available in recent reports, and should be utilized for the
study.
General Objectives of the Study
7.   The first general objective of the study is to assess the
current system of receiving (at ports), transporting and
distributing imported feed ingredients to the end users in Egypt,
and to make recommendations on the most cost-effective method of
doing so through optimum utilization of available infrastructure
at ports and in the transport sector, as well as through such
improvements at the ports and in handling and transportation
methods, as may be necessary.
8.   The second objective is to assess the capacity, type and
locations of storage required for imported feed ingredients.
9.   The third objective of the study is to recommend an
appropriate institutional framework to instal, own and operate
these facilities.
Sascific Tasks
10.   The specific tasks are tos
IvZvSm



-58-                          Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
(i)     Enquire and estimate the requirement of imported
feed grains until the year 2000, taking into
account historical trends, present and future
factors likely to impact on future demand.
(ii)     Study and describe the existing system of
importation, transportation and distribution of
feed grains; also review the policy environment
relevant to the procurement and distribution of
these commodities, as well as to the producers of
animal and poultry feed and other industrial
users.
(iii)     Undertake a constraint analysis of the existing
system and facilities, covering in particular port
facilities, handling facilities and methods,
overseas and inland transportation systems
(including modes/types), port and inland storage
systems (designs, capacities and locations),
procurement methods and timing, distribution
methods, institutions involved, the role of the
private sector, systems cost analysis, and
environmental aspects.
(iv)     Having regard to the current and anticipated
policy environment, projections of product demand
by locations, forecasts of port and
transportation systems use, and institutional
factors, identify the most cost-effective,
practical and environmentally sound combination of
facilities suitable for the conditions likely to
exist in Egypt during the period 1990-2000.
Indicate the optimum locations for port and
inland terminal facilities based on transport and
handling costs (using a linear programing
computer model), and compute the optimum vessel
unloading rates, facility material handling rates,
inland unloading rate, system storage and facility
storage capacities based on minimum total annual
cost. Also recommend appropriate institutional
and organizational arrangements for ownership,
management and operation of these facilities.
(v)     Prepare conceptual engineering design of
facilities and equipment as well as general
arrangement, overall elevation and flow diagrams
for the various facilities recommended. The
drawings should be accompanied by a written
_vyx



-59-                           Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
4
description of the facilities as well as the
outline specifications and aquipment list.
(vi)     Prepare cost estimates for investment, operations,
maintenance, training and other direct costs
necessary to build and operate the recommended
facilities; specify the foreign exchange and local
costs components. Also   indicate the sources of
revenue, estimating necessary user fees and other
sources of income, and review financing
alternatives.
(vii)     Calculate the estimated financial and economic
rate of return of the proposed investments, and
indicate the total estimated savings and per ton
savings in costs (compared with the present
without project situation) which are expected to
accrue through the proposed
institutional/organizational improvements and
investments.
11. Before finalizing its recommendations, the study team should
discuss its draft proposals with PBDAC and other institutions
involved, and try to recommend a solution which has the support
of concerned parties.
&chedule of Imnoementation
12. The study will be carried out with the assistance of
specialized consultants having well proven expertise in the area
of the study. Proposals would be invited from selected
consulting firms and successful consultants will be selected on
the basis of evaluation of proposals received. The proposed
study is expected to take approximately 6 months from the
effective date of the contract. The study is expected to require
the following expertise:
(i)     Study Manager - 6 man months - grain handling and
storage specialist with particular experience in
the development of port and inland terminal
facilities in developing countries. He will also
be experienced in operations analysis and
modelling for graint terminal facilities.
(ii)     Agricultural Economist - 5 man months - grain
handling and storage, experienced in
transportation and distribution analysis for
grains, and in the financial and economic analysis



-60-                          Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
5
of grain handling and storage facilities. Will
project import requirements for all grains, and
assist study manager in recommending appropriate
institutional framework for the ownership and
opration of these facilities.
(iii)     Grain Merchandising Specialist - 2 man months -
experience in private sector international
merchandising of feed grains.
(iv)     Feed Formulation Specialist - 2 man months -
specialist in feed ingredients and feed
formulation. Will assist Ag. Economist in
projecting feed ingredients and prices.
(v)     Design Engineer - 2 man months - experience in the
design of port and inland grain handling and
storage facilities.
13. The total period of 6 months would include approximately 2
months in Egypt for the study manager, and the agricultural
economist. Other members will make one trip each of 1 month
duration. The balance of the time will be spent in the
consultants home office in completing the analysis, preparing
designs and writing the report. The consulting firm may hire
such local consultants, as it deems appropriate.
laum



- 61 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGVPT                                      ANEI t
GIWTURAL STORAGE POJECT
Eacluding Contingencin
TmAININ PRORM
%         Unit     Total
Total FOR          Cost      Cost
DESCRIPTION                             NO    198   19o   1991 I 2   1M93   194 Nuaber EICNHiiE    S                S
FERTILIZER WMAREUSES
Foreign  raumng
Study Tours: Top  nagners               No               4      4       4                   12    100      7,500    90,000
Transport/Logistacs: Senior flanagsn   Me                I       1                           2     100     6,000    16,000
Storage: Senior Kanagers                No                I      I      1                    3     100     9,000    24,000
lit Kanqaent: Senior HO Ngt             No                I      1                           2     100     9,000    16,000
Fin Kauaguats Senior HI Hgt             No                1      1                           2     100     9,000    16,000
Total                                             0      9       B      5      0      0     21                     162,000
Local Training
Storages   geont l6mvernorates          l No                    15     10                   25             2,000    50,000
Fin/kct flanagmet: Niddle Hanagent  No                          10     10     10            30             2,000    60,000
MareAouse Kanagers                      NO                     125    125    125           375               300   112,500
0 t K Warebouse Equipunt                go                     90      90     95    100    375               100    37,500
Trainings Dealers                       No                   1,000  1,000  1,500  1,500  5,000                30   150,000
Subject flatter Training: Trainers      No               2      3       3      3            1:            10,000   110,000
0      2  1,243  1,239  1,733  1,600  5,916                     520,000
FEED AND GRAIN IAREHOUSES                                                                                          692,000
Foreign Training
Study Tours: Top Kanagers               No               3      3       3                    9     100     7,500    67,500
TransporttLogistics: Senior Nanagers    No                I      I      1                    3     100     8,000    24,000
Storage: Senior Kanagers                lo               I       I      1                    3     100     9,000    24,000
Nkt llanageant: Senior HI Kgt           No               1       1                           2     1O0     9,000    16,000
Fin Kanagteent: Senior HD 1Kgt          No                I      1                           2     100     8,000    Is,000
Total                                             0      7      7       5      0      0     19                     147,500
Local Trasning
Storage: Nanagmnt (Governorates)        No                      10     10      5            2'             1,000    25,000
0 & K Varebouse Equipaent               No                     40      40     45     50    175               100    17,50C
Bulk Handling Techniques                No                      10    10       5            25               300     7,500
Varehouse Hanagers                       o                     40      40     45     50    175               300    52,500
Subject fatter Training: Trainers       No               2      2      2       3             9            10,000    90,000
Total                                             0      2    102    102    103    100    409                      19.,500
TOTAL TRAIMNS1                          No        0     19  1,360  1,350  1,936  1,700  6,265                    1,022,000
04110/99
FILE IMWE: TRAINI



ewnw r 111' m1TI
CUtIII Pu   '4601
kw Costs                          fInical ct@gu.   las                    PMuLa Catirdlbls
Local (Eecl. blUs I                     Lowl %WI*. kIUl   I                    tLol (tcll,ues In
For. Ech.   Tls)    Tan    Tota    For. Ex.   Tas)    Tam    btd    FeP. EWS.   Taft)    Tam    Tdol
_ _-                     -   -   -    -s _   mim&                                                             
t.  Tli   CKISI
A. CImL uS                               49511.2    02t0314          13t1542d.6    5200,1     3,604.t       - COO4.3   2357.6          ,m2.         - 142,3164
1.  1KMmT An  JENTll                     17P105.9    I305.2 3516.6  34,307.3    146.5    137n.2   37.4 3.627.2   15444.3    142HO.7 3312.0  M,4O5.5
C. E1110B                                   577.9     6,446.3          7.024.2       36.7       64.6       . -    1.3       313.4     5.316,0       -  5,76.5
5. VlIU   t MIE I   TIM  E iET              73t.1       250.4    71.4  I1,5.9       109.7        37.6   11.    15f.0        459.3        54.1    46.     5 34.t
E. TEQIUt ASStSTMM                          747.5          -        -    747.5       74,3           -       -    74.3       453.0        c.0        -    453.0
F. 1I1N2                                    711.9     II6.II        -  2.50.6        71.2       163.9       -   235.1       416.0    1.614U.        -  214I6.8
Total D EI nT OMS                           69N9315.5   103.972,0 3.72.0 177,032.5   7M409.0    IO0M.4   39.2 1,6U3.5   71,224.3   110.145.S  3,M.6 104,742.3
11. IECULf CUSTS
A. ItNWITAL STiF 5AL*IB                        -     1,133.9       -  1,133.9          -       170.1            170.1          -     1.047,5       -  1,047.5
3. 911ETI0 fES                                 -       627.9       -    67.9           -        94.2       -    94.2           -       562.5       -    52.5
Total lEC T COStS                                 -      1,761.3      -  1761.0            -       2U4.3       -   264.3          -     1,61.1        -  1610.1
Total                                       69.3C.5   1057M.8 3..75#0 171M74.3    7409.0    11,007.7   399.2 1C5.39          71,224.3   111.7!5.6 33M.6 1u4372.4
Aprillot 193 15:18
Phuical
Total Incl. Cant.            Cant. plus
Price CntA. b. Custs I
Local (Exl. Duties I          on Pivsical  Price Cnt.
For. Exch.   Taxes)    Tas   Total         Cont.    o lBe Costs
e.   tS       2 n =5..a=        .#::::   r2e3z.. fD:g 2=   3--
1UNt.0   179,428.3         - 27737.3    27,13.1        260.554.2
346917.3    29.277.1  74336.0 71430.4    6*78.5        66641.9 619
1404,0    129475.9       - 13,524.0      1,270.9      120253.1
1,300.1      342.1   130.7  1 OM2.9        231.2       1,541.6
1.275.3        0.0       -  1,275.3        115.9       1,159.3
1,269.1    3,417.4       -  4.636.5        42&.0       4,260.5
1489011.8   224.940.9 7M466.7 3915426.4    36,015.7    344,410.'



EBYPT
ABRCUiTDIIAl S      FRIOJFST
Project Caamtnents by Year
(EGM       PAF   '000)
Total
Base Costs
EGYPTIAN
11  1990    19M1    Im          im       I4       PCUh1  (US '000)
A. FERTIlIZER  WAREI3E                    443.9 2.145,6 32,269,3 2MO53.  32.933.9 23,939,5 116.S9M1  50,963.5
D. GRAIN I FED  1A1HE                     204*1  402.112,M90.2 10062.  14,242,6 109692.3  48,593.2  21,127,5
C. ULOA  FOR t PTED CM                        -  632.5 6,348.9        -        -       -   7414,3   3,252.7
P. PROWECT     ZATIN  I IMLEEATION    533.9 1362,2  s365.6  1,270.2    753.3   448.5   5,733,7   2,492.9
Total DASEMME CMMT                        1.91,9 4,542.4 53,474.0 36,686.0 47t,2W#8 35,0#0.3 179,794.3  77.736.,
Ptsical Continsensies                    1449  640.8 5,134.9 3022.1  4,931.2  3P521.9  IC,995.9   0,215.6
Price Contirgencies                      214.3 2,200.8 3,635.3 35,34S.9 57,997.5 52,075.S l6p372,4  17,143.9
Total PRJECT COST5                        1,5411 7,384.0 97?944,2 75MM571 110,65UM5 90,677.6 3814062#5 103,096.1
~--V-=V :lAl S===X3S SSS32sr cm==*  C=           =31==:8 22r1;r=zC=w
Taxes                                     25.0   66.9 3,789.9    26.0  3'538.9        -   7,4667   2.084.4
Foreign Exchane                          205.8 29751.0 43609 25766M 5 4,972.1 30,702,5 148,01.8  37,94361
April 10, IM   15:18



AWRIULMK S1E PMJECT
ProJect Cawnts by Year
Totals Including Contingeries                               Totalz li,ljl4ing Cuntiieni-cies
(EBYTnm  POUD '@00)                                               (UMS '0)
1919   199      1M99     1992       9       14   Total    1M    17,0    1991          12        M3      1974   Toti.
=:==  :         u2 m              2: a:a   :       2s23Z     Cz3             :L:   -                   z:=:: :_---:- -.
A# FENTIUE  UAKJINES                         567.1 3.541.5 50c827.2 52461.9  76,030.2 61,8582 253,286.1  219.1 1,174.8 17,624#1 14t430,4 17,430.1 14,9.! 670,3.0
B. P6AN I FEED _J     E                      260.7  630.0 23,597.6 20,7269  324,.9 27,621 105.702M3  100.7  209.0  7,070.5  50301,2  M400.M  6.565.3  2C.047*4
C. IIUJWA  FOR IlUliD COIN                       - 1,036.2 13006,8        -         -        - 14,043.0       -  343.0  34C7.2         -        -        -   4y:40 5
3, FILET I      UTIE I I5LE TATION           713.2 2,16*2  2,Y12.6  2,468.4   1694  1,1913  11,031.1  275.5   72t.9          .8   734.0   452,4   203.1  3F?19.
Total FDe    CISTS                           1,541.1 7,384.0 97,944,2 75,857.1 110,65.5 90677.6 34,0625 59.2 2:449.5 27,344.6 MU8M56 3927163 21,547.8 103M096,1
:=CC,=W --=   _o=    2j==  v=:=             1    :     _=vD   s             ::onS =2:2Si      29a=:=t2:_::        CZ==:  ::_:::
Aprl 0, 1o1D 15:18
II1



EGIPT
AORWtLTURAL STRA  PROJECT
Suaar  Account by ProJect Cuoent
.EWTIAN PMN  '000)
Phsca1
mm"ED FOR        PROSCT                 Ci.tingaies
FERTILIZER  WPIN I  FEED   INED       t IZATION I 
1V1M£SES  MAREOS            CORM      INWENENTATION  Ttl          2   Aowr.t
I. INUESY COSaS
A. CIVIL lVW                               88,73.4      40,020.0       2789,2                - 131,542.6 10.5 13.804.3
I. IMAHINERY AND EDIPNENT                  23,823.0      6,556.7       3m928.0               -  34,307.9  10.6  3627,2
C. £1IIEER211                               4,429.7      240165          5.9                 -   7,024.2  10.4   731.3
D. EHICLES. OFFICE I TRAMIING E£!PMENt            -            -         29.7          1,030.2   1,059.9  15.0   159.0
£. TECHICAL ASSISTA                               -            -            -            747.5      747.5  10.0    74.8
F. TRAINING                                      -             -            -          2356   2,350.6  100   235.1
Total INESTM    COSTS                        116,986.1     48.593,2      7MU24.9          4,128.3 177,032.5  10.5 10,631.5
II. RECUR       CSTS
A. INCREMTfAL STAFF SLRIES                       -            -         103.5         1,030.4   1,135.S  1.0   170.1
8. OATING EPEM                                   -            -          52.9           575.0      627.9  15.0    94.2
Total RECRT COSTS                                   -                      156.4          1.605,4   1,761.8  15.0   264.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                          116,986.1     48s593.2       7,481.3         5,733.7  17C,794.3  10.6 1.MS
PhFslcal Cantindaies                        12.209.1      4,859.3       1,122.2           705.1  IBP5.B   0.0        0,0
Price Continsmnoies                        124.090.9     52:24907       5,439.5         4P52#3  1C6,372.4  9.4 17,594.2
Total PROJECT CSTS                            253,286.1    105M702.3      144043.0        114031.1 384,062.5  9.5 36,490.0
Taxes                                        5,166.8      1,11;.7      I1,5J              125.6   7466.7  9.7   725.6
Foreign Extbange                            91,993.2     432t01,1       900D5.7         3,9108  149018.8  9.6 14,176.6
April 10, 1989 lS:IB



EGTPT
AUSICILTtEAL STWIM  PROJECT
SL " SOUw1TS Ct8T Sm
(CEYPTIM POMWD '000)                                tUSs 000)
2 Total                                       2 Totol
Z Foreign  base                               2 Fureiir  Base
Local   Foreigi,  Total   Excharde   Co.sts   Local  Furei;,  lotal   E.chdI           Cw c,ta
1. INVESW COUTS
A. CVIL MWU                                82,031.4  47,511.2 131542,6         38      74 35,665.9 21.526.6  57,192.4         3C      74
8. MN I     ANERT AND E£IPT                17,201.9  17.105.9  34,307.8        50      19  7,479.1  7.437.4  14.916.4         50      19
C.  UMEERIN                                 6446.3      57,.9  7,024.2          8       4  2,902.7   251.3   3,054.0           a       4
D. VEHICLES, OFFICM  a TRAI1N6 EDUIPIET       32D.8    731.1  I,059.S          6?       1    143.0   317.9       460,8        69       1
E. TEIEICA.L ASSISTANCE                           -    747.5    747.5         100       0         -   3=,00    325.0         100       0
F. TRAINRIG                                 1,638.9    711.9  2,350.6          30       1    712.5   309,5   1,022.0          30       1
Total INWVESTNE  COSTS                       107,647.0  6,385.5 177,032.5         39      99  466803.0 30,17.6  76770,7          37       7
Phlsical Contingmncies                     11,222,6  7,409.0  13,631.5         40      10  4,97.4  3,221.3  8,100.7           40      10
Price Contingencies                       113,531,1  71,224.3 184,762,3        31    I0  10,442.3  62554,1  16,SS6,4         3       22
Total INCLUDING CONTIRGENCIES                2329407.6 14018.9 380,426.4          31     213  62,1'4.' 34,743,1 1 12067.7        39    1S:
II. REC1RRT COSTS
A. IEENTAL STAFF SALARIES                   1,1:33,         -  1t133.9         -       1     413.0        -     49S.C         - 
8. OPERATINS EXPESES                         62'.9          -    627.9         -       0    273.0         -     27'.0         -
Total RECMUET CSTS                              1,,61.8         -  1,761.C         -       1     766.0        -     .66.0         -       1
Ph;sical Contirdencies                        264.3         -    264.3          -       0     114.9        -    114.7          -       0
Price Contingencies                          1,610,1         -  1,610.1          -       1    147.5        -     147.5         -       0
Total INCLUDING CNTlNENCIES                   3,636.1         -  3.636.1          -       2   1,029.4        -   1.02.4          -       I
--========                            =-=====:   --   - -----  ------- =… 
Total BASELINE COSTS                          10O,409.8  69,3£5.5 179n794.3        31    100  47,60,0 30,167.6  77M736.7         3P      100
Phusical Continrncies                        11,486,9  7,40S.0  19,8S5.8        31      11   4,994.3  3,221,3  8M215.6         37      11
Price Contingencies                         115314481  71s224.3 IC6M372#4       38      104  10,589.7  6,554.1  1;l43.1        38      22
Total PROECT COSTS                            236,043.7 148901C.8 384.062.5        39    215  63a.53.0 37.943.1 103407.1          3S     133
April      =ZS3:  :::           :3_         S 1  SS3:=     3      _    =S: 'S::S S :::-
Anl 10, 199  15:18
IFE
IJI%



Annex 8
67 -
- - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - ---i  - - -
B~~~kz           01 OL lo t"0!2ta-a9- a-   a   5a I-g-R I     i-q--It I(
J   I I                                         .          ,^iI_     .
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    .-                3    _
s i V ;:|:!!53a3'     $gtttf   et 
m ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~       mm 
- - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - --   -
hW*3t ll33iE§ftfg-gil"-gRg:03U 3'i 5
I _ g    g em gfiE;;.!i_E mmfinmmD'3
3^~~~~~~~- !i                                  ---.- .-    musswn"
t g d  } _ S |   w;-xt"''3X^:'5^"-'"°*"  t  aI
!1   }   _i >8|vl-^"9IS52;tw0o<<*  |Ii   I
_ _.                                           .__.   .__ _    I...................      ........__ _......._   



- 68  -                            ANEX 9
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IBRD Loan
IBRD Fiscal
Year &                       During
Semester                    Semester              Cumulative             % of Total
Endings                 Disbursements  Disbursements                        Loan
US$ Millions -
Mo
Deceder 31, 19Y9                   0.1                0.1                 0.2
June 30, 1990                      0.5                0.6                 1.5
Decfmber 31, 1990                  0.5                1.1                 2.7
June 30, 1991                      5.6                6.7                16.7
DmKubr 31, 191                    5.7                12.4                31.0
am"  30, 1m                        4.1               16.5                41.2
1993
Dedmer 31, 1M                     4.1                20.6                51.5
Jun. 30, 193                       5.5               26.1                65.2
DKUcsur 31,9    3                  5.5               31.6                79.0
June 30,919                        4.2               35.8                99.5
Dhaehr 31, 1                       4.2               40.0               100.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1995.
1isNa,        S
1e ham:DISDSOE



- 69 -
AR   REPAUIC OF E6YPT                                              mIu  10
ICILTIM?AL STORAGE PROJECT
PROJECT URSANIZATIONI DIART
t   Project Stwing Cumitte  (PSC)   I
;---- -  - _------- - --:-                 
t Chairman: Chairman of PIICI
limbors: RNO, RIC R"resentatives
Heads of PIDAC Depts
l Secretary: Project Coordinator
Proeict Coordinator       ------               t Procurmt
I Coenttle
____--_-- - -----
.Trfiningf           1 lPoduc tiff  Inputs 1    Storag  Itupis             iaca    far!           biwn: !xenlFnnig
* ,_   _  __.__   _ _ _ _ .  __   t._._  _ _ _ _:   t   t                                 I~~~~~~~*  a 
eparotuent/t tPro   parllonitonng/t    t          D"artmmt           Ia   aprtit tttn
.              ~      ~     ~     ~     ~~                    ~~~~*  .  . 
_ ___-_---_ - -
9DAC-
- ------____ ---    
------------------                                 Chairman
;Organiz L Training!                         - -------- ----- ----
'Departeunt          --------------------------------;
General llnager
:                     ------------____   _ -  --
*                                             ;  
C o sercial Prod.  t   tia lI ng Finance   t I Engineer
&no Storing               Owpatunt          t
- -------  --------       ----                   - - - -



-70-
ARM  WULIC O EGPT                             Annex  11
UBRICOTIMAL  IORA16E PMOMECT                      Pale I of 2
POWA:, Statot of Incm  and Expenditure
(lIcluding  eC)
ILE '00)
Incom from Current Operations
Vow ending June 30,                                  1901     1"2       199t3      194     I"5       19        19
Gross Incou                                                                  -             - 
Afgricultural Credit                               44,65    45,576   51,503    58,684   53,74    73,562   9,77
Fertilizers                                        26,610   39,621   42,447   50,592   44,931   53,522   54,634
Ses                                                 2,101    2,546    2,613    2,711      2,329    2,903      3,927
Peticide                                           14,640   15,576   14,374   13,503   13,656    16,205    19,789
Spare Parts, P"t Control lIchinery                  1,112    1,426    1,463      1,465    2,042    2,592    2,965
Supplies                                           11,501   13,466   17,39    16,464   20,402   24,959   24,351
Cotton Se Cake and Feds                             5,356    5,132    4,712    5,733    7,142    10,026    11,497
MI  Bags                                            5,603    7,063    6,103      6,772    5,877    6,637    9,017
Cooperative  arketing                               1,319    1,657    1,472        770      163        21        12
Banking Opeatime                                   10,105    13,938   22,2      35,501   23,433    19,973   21,931
Investmt Credits                                   18,469   40,203   60,261   30,632   108,313  1",159   212,59
Crop Maintenance                                      607    1,011       959    1,095    1,110        936    1,211
Cercial                                                                                   7,733    13,734   18,141
Total Gross Incue                                 142,092  187,217  225,498  274,132  296,134  376,308  467,842
Expan#se
Agricultural Credit                                23.%I6   32,383    3,623   45,193   46,507   53,819    66,159
Fertilizers                                        14,11   22,494   24,1N    27,130   26,048   33,193    33,784
Seeds                                               1,996    2,982    2,442    2,697    2,655    3,6"         3,960
Peticides                                           7,235    3,603    7,427    8,404    9,7        11,516   12,107
Spare Parts, Pnt Centrol PMhinery                     7       1,127      919    1,211     1,169    1,563    1,647
Supplin                                             5,076    7,027    7,616    9,996   10,303   10,64    1623
Cotton Se Cake  d Fends                             2,974    3,040    3,041    3,121    3,837    4,873    5,370
No Bsp                                              3,171    4,347    4,336    5,09    4,237    5,121    5,531
Coopative Marketing                                 1,534    2,237     1,781     1,460      75        391       10
Banking Operation                                   4,232    7,031    14,341    17,377    15,419    16,708   16,124
Investnt Credits                                    9,719   27,926   36,993   62,792   70,406   109,064   172,503
Crop laioteua                                         504      912       866       81     1,004     1,265     1,449
Co rtcial                                                                                 3,132    6,920    11,193
Total Expese                                       75,424   120,011   141,594   135,321   197,239   257,685   340,90
Operating Profit
Agricultural Credit                                20,658   13,193   13,880   13,691    10,241    19,763   22,616
Fortilizrs                                         12,499   17,127   18,249   23,462   18,883   20,324   20,950
Seds                                                  122     (3361      171        24     (326)     (M70)      67
Pesticides                                          7,363    6,973    6,947    5,099    4,107    4,769    6,681
Spare Parts, Pest Control Machimny                    346      299       565       274      873    1,029      1,319
Supplin                                             6,425    6,441     9,73      6,468   10,099   14,212   13,729
Cotton Sed Cake ad Fneds                            2,32    2,092    1,671    2,612    3,305    5,153    5,627
Ne bags                                             2,432    2,716    1,167    1,683    1,640    3,516    3,46
Cooperative Marketing                                12151    (5801    (309)    (690)    (5351    (3701          2
Banking Operations                                  5,873    6,907    7,931    18,124    7,944    3,265    5,807
Invstent Credits                                    9,680   12,275   23,260   17,040   37,907   41,125   40,090
Crop taintenuce                                       103       9         (91)     224      106      (3291    (238)
Comercial                                               0        0         0         0    4,651     6,956    6,948
Total Operating Profit                             66,668   67,206   83,914   88,811   99,945  119,623  126,992



- 71 -
Annex 1l
ARU REPUBLIC OF E6YPT
Tai t I
APRICULTURAL STORAWE PRONECT                         Page 2 of 2
PBDAC: Statement of Incoe and Expenditure
(Including BNACs)
(ILE '000)
Year ending June 30:                                    1961      1982       1963      1984      1995      1986       1907
Other Incoe
Niscellaneous Incom                                    6,098     3,532     4,816      4,764     6,216     7,663     9,913
Income Previous Years                                 15,719    10,897    12,536    16,962    11,351      8,330    10,662
186        24
Capital Earnings                                                                                  19O        78        9t
Total Other Income                                    21,817    14,419    17,352    21,912    17,771    16,071    20,661
Other Expenses
Net Deficit From Previous Year                        10,689
Interest and Financial Expenses                        9,0O1
Interest on Investment Loans                             156       192       338        334       455       497       594
Expenses Previous Years                                  732     1,490      3,470     2,062     2,929     7,767      3,335
Total Other Expenses                                  19,637     1,682     3,808      2,396     3,284     8,264     3,919
Profit Before Tax                                     60,848    79,943    97,459   109,327   113,332   126,430   143,724
Business and Industrial Profits Tax                   21,224    26,944    32,946    54,085    53,072    63,644    78,325
Net Income                                            47,624    52,999    64,612   54,242    60,260    62,796    65,399
3323333     32333   33333    3333333   3s s33      =33333   2233333
Distribution of Net Income
Nasser Dank Share                                      1,241     1,492      1,599     1,9873    1,856     2,096      2,436
Sports Cossittee                                         229       251        262       253       236       243        270
General Reserve                                       10,425    16,723    16,231    15,259    12,191    13,900    13,149
korkers' Share                                         7,454     8,398      8,743     9,433     7,837     9,114    12,386
Surplus to Ninistry of Finance                        28,275    26,135    37,779    28,424    39,140    38,433    37,159
Net Income                                            47,624    52,999    64,612    54,242    60,260    62,796    65,399
s as3   -===    32-=         32333    M3s33    3        3      3



- 72 -
- 72 -                            ~~~~Annex 11
M   REPUBLIC OF EWYPT
Tati t 2
AGRICULTURAL STORA6E PROJECT
PBDAC: Breakdawn of ross Incoe:
Operating Profit as Percent of Gross Ineooe
IIncluding 8DACs)
(Percent)
Year endinq June 30:                                   1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      1997
Breakdown of Grmss Incmu (ZT
I_________________… _w_ __
Agricultural Credit                                    31.4      24.3      22.8      21.5      19.8       19.6      19.0
Fertilizers                                            18.7      21.2      18.8      18.5       15.2      14.2      11.7
Seeds                                                   1.5       1.4       1.2       1.0       0.8        0.8       0.8
Pesticidn                                              10.3       8.3       6.4       4.9       4.7       4.3       4.0
Spare Parts, Pest Control NIchinery                     0.8       0.8       0.7       0.5       0.7       0.7       0.6
taWle3                                                  8.1       7.2       7.7       6.0       6.9        6.6       5.2
Cotton Sed Cake and Feds                                3.9       2.7       2.1       2.1       2.4       2.7        2.5
Neu 8Bag                                                3.9       3.8       2.7       2.5       2.0        2.3       1.9
Cooperative Narketing                                   0.9       0.9       0.7       0.3       0.1       0.0        0.0
Banking Operations                                      7.1       7.4       9.9      13.0       7.9        5.3       4.7
Investment Credits                                     13.0      21.5      26.7      29.4      36.6      39.6      45.4
Crop Naintenance                                        0.4       0.5       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.2        0.3
Comerial                                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       2.6       3.7        3.9
Total Bross Income                                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0      100.0
Operating Profit as I of Gross lncom
AQricultural Credit                                    46.3      28.9      26.9      23.3      17.4      26.9       25.5
Fertilizers                                            47.0      43.2      43.0      46.4      42.0      39.0      38.2
seeds                                                   5.8    -13.2        6.5       0.9    -14.0    -27.2          1.7
Pesticides                                             50.3      44.8      48.3      37.8      29.6      29.3       35.6
Spare Parts, Pest Control Nauhiaery                    31.1      21.0      39.1      18.5      42.8      39.7      44.5
Supplies                                               55.9      47.8      56.2      39.3      49.5      57.2      56.4
Cotton Seed Cake and Fee                               44.5      40.8      35.5      45.6      46.3      51.4      48.9
Noe Bags                                               43.4      39.5      29.0      24.9      27.°      40.7      39.7
Cooperative Narketing                                 -16.3    -35.0      -21.0    -99.6   -348.2  -1761.9          16.7
Banking Operations                                     58.1      49.6      35.6      51.1      33.9       16.3     26.5
Investient Credits                                     47.0      30.5      39.6      22.1      35.0      27.6      18.9
Crop Naintnmnce                                        17.0       9.9      -1.0      20.6       9.5     -35.1     -19.7
Coue rcial                                                                                     59.8      50.5      38.3
Total Income as 2 of Revenues                          46.9      35.9      37.2      32.4      33.4      31.5      27.1



- 73 -
ARA REPUBLIC OF E6YPT                          Annex  11
AGRICULTtMAL STORAGE PROJECT                      Table 3
PBDAC: Balance Sheets
(Including BDACs)
(LE 000)
Year ending June 30:                                 1981     1982      1983      1984      1995     1996      1987
ASSETS
Due frcs Banks                                     18,967    1,720     1,283     1,107    9,299    8,752   64,226
Inestments                                          4,993    9,667    13,979   16,697   19,603   22,443   24,M
Receivables:
- Due froa Government                          105,148   90,896   135,712   93,275  140,098  229,852  384,669
- Other Receivables                            222,28S  315,434  231,589  226,887  257,670  366,912  454,154
Loans:
- Short-tere                                   142,944  183,825  189,S57  232,199  229,995  326,671   422,452
- Food Security (mainly Short-terel                  0        0         0  323,771  440,235  591,071   795,153
- Nledium and Long Teri                        141,938  336,155  415,702  259,981   392,033  630,162  999,253
- Miscellaneous Loans (mainly  eodium/LT Loans)      0        0         0   25,045   31,581   44,381    44,462
Total Loans                                  284,982  519,980  605,659  840,995 1,093,844 1,592,215 2,151,320
Less: Provisions for Bad Loans                     35,306   32,965   34,796    49,159   54,259   67,967    90,263
Net Loans                                         249,576  497,015  570,873  791,837 1,039,595 1,524,319 2,061,057
Agricultural Inputs                               201,305  240,599  203,316   144,201  143,244  210,373   227,435
Fixed Assets                                       19,367   26,527   30,557   34,196   50,474   60,254   60,615
Total Assets                                      821,441 1,171,849 1,207,309 1,308,200 1,659,963 2,422,904 3,276,889
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Liabilities
____ _____
Due to Banks                                      312,727  453,783  390,096  353,437  532,155  959,392 1,403,334
Due to Government                                  28,783   81,128  317,662  337,422  386,324  560,056  753,943
Deposits                                          197,100  303,701   376,278  474,235  574,895  706,997  905,132
Accounts Payable                                  222,560  245,462    14,257   15,961   21,256   24,502   28,801
Total Liabilities                                 761,170 1,084,074 1,099,293 1,180,955 1,514,630 2,250,837 3,091,210
Equity
Capital                                            18,641    19,641    18,641    50,650   50,650   55,794   55,784
Resrves                                            38,620    42,99    52,597   48,171   63,041   77,950   92,736
Undistributed Surplus                               3,010   26,135   37,778   29,424   31,642   38,433   37,159
Total Equity                                       60,271   87,774  109,016   127,245  145,3    172,067  195,679
Total Liabilities and Equity                      821,441 1,171,849 1;207,309 1,308,200 1,659,963 2,422,904 3,276,989
822 22   =-22= Z2XzzzX2  =z%z22a s 2-2        288232323 z2auzzma



- 74 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF E6YPT                            Amnex 11
RfRICULTURdL STORAE PROJECT                          Table 4
PBDAC: Financial Ratios
(Includinq BDACs)
Year ending June 30:                                     1991      1992       193       1984      1995       1996      1987
Oerating Ratios
Provisions to Total Loans Outstanding I1)                12.4!      6.3!      5.71       5.01      5.0!      4.31       4.21
Net Profit After TaY to Total Assets (U)                  9.0!      4.52      5.41       4.12      3.6!       2.6!      2.0!
Profit Before Tax to Total Income I!)                    66.8!     42.6!     43.1!      39.52     38.2!     33.52      30.72
Profit Before Tax to Total Equity I2)                   157.4!     91.it     99.42      85.12     78.01     73.52      77.42
Salaries and Nages to Loans Outstanding (2)              16.4!     12.3!     11.61      10.86     10.3!      9.5!       7.22
6en Expenses (Excl Inter Esp) to Total Assets 12)         7.0      6.4!      7.1!       8.9!      8.0!       6.92      6.1!
Financial Structure Ratios
Equity to Assets (2)                                      0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1
Total Liabilities to Equity                              12.6      12.4      10.1        9.3      10.4       13.1      16.6
Long-Term Debt to Equity (2)                             13.0!     16.4!     18.0!      23.92     30.4!     31.5      33.7n
Current Ratio                                             1.1       1.0        1.3       1.1       0.9        0.9       0.9



IIIAB KWC CF E61P
lRCILthK S1TUN  PRIIJEt
Sorces aid jpleatime of Fads Ier tibe ProecKt
(ln turrent LE 000)
1999     1M0       1991     If2        993       9       1995      1991     I"97      2998      I99      2X00      2001      002      2003      2004
Fr. Stirep Projet
i Ineoee (from Cat Racery)                                17911  (1,031)  20,176   23,M        27,84N   30,206   19,029   25,210   32,114    61,493   51,179   63,014    73,551   05,411   99,955   114,197
Deprecietion lo  Project Fecilitinl                           0         0        0         0        0         0   25,706   25,706   25,706   25,706   25,706   25,706   25,107    25,70    25,706   25,706
Total Fre. Stwpe  Project                                  17911   11,036)  20,176   23,721   27,946   30,706    44,n4   50,975   5B,390   U7,UBN   77,33   B0,720   99,261   111,I11   124,t61   139,903
Froe PUfi's Profits aI d FPrvaeisn                        2,713    9,215   45,897    21,9B    U4,999    32,921          0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0
FAtern   Saucn
211 Lou                                                     415    2,921    33,74    29,991    44,429   40,452          0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
etO l Ertnl Sauce                                           425    2,921      ,7149    29,991    44,419   40,052        0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0 
Total Swcs                                                2,337    10,05!   9,922   91,461   117,2    103,170   44,724    50,975   59,390    67,189    7,393   B,720   99,261 t       11,191  124,661   139,903        UL
WPPICATI9S
Invtots                                                   1,Sl     9,015   97,403   76,561   109,398   91,673          0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
T    we rebt Senrce
lIn Lom
Lon l ynts                                                    0         0        0         0        0         0    6,774      7,849    9,126   10,58O    12,264    14,239   16,480   19,129   22,207    25,74
lnteret Ecpeu                                                It       145    1,571     4,223    7,431    21,355   13,06    14,D5    14,454    14,77      14,987    15,075    15,003   14,132    14,213   23,M
C tmet Oaep                                                 77       B9i       949       619       446      150        t01      (01       20)       201      20)       (0)       (02      101       202      tO)
total I   Det Sruce                                         792    1,036    2,419    4,900    7,B77   11,505   20,380   21,900   23,580   25,351   27,251   29,315   31,483    33,961    36,421    39,166
Incras  /Decrase s Cast)                                     (0)       (01       0        10)       20)      10)  24,344    29,067   34,920   41,937   50,132    59,405   67,779    77,321   08,241   100,7>
Total Ap1icattnas                                         2,337    10,051   99,922     1,461 t 117,265  103,017    44,724   50,915   59,390   67,1B    77,33    88,720   9,26b  122,282   124,616   1391,903   ,..
Calative IacraO(Dme) ia Cast                                 201       201       0         0        0        20)  24,344   53,412    0,221   130,050   290,191  239,596   307,114   394,695  472,935  513,611    t0
Loog-ter  Debt Servic Cerovqe  Rastio                                                                       2.6       2.2      2.3       2.5       2.1      2.9       3.0       3.2      3.3       3.4       3.6        I _



- 76 -
ANiEI 12
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                        ------
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
SUUmary of Implementation Schedule
Year      Im9         I" 1          II 1        I2          1993          1994
Activity
Quarter 1 2 3 4  1 23412    4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4 1
a   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~- ------ - *                                                             ------
it. IBRD LOAI APPRVAL                             i     
12. 6OVERIUNET OF EGPT APPROVAL PROCEDURES           t     4ft
13. PROJECT 1OBILIZATIONa
Selection of Key Staff                       i0iismi*mm**
Procurenent of Office Equip. &  ei,icles     I           4    4 44a
4. EN6INEERINS CONSULTANTS FO  WAREHOUSES
Preparation of TOR I Short Ust                He          I
Selection of Consultants                         *4
5. WAREHOUSES: CIVIL WORKS
Prequalification of Contractors              a                                       aa
Preparation of Designs and Biddin  Ocuwentsl           4441444
Bid Invitation and Contract Award            I                       **4    444     1       44
Construction lpleentationlSupervision                     a             44*44**444tt           4144* 4*4444444*444*
16. WAREHOUSE MACNINERY AND EWUIPIENT
Preparation Specs and Bidding Oocummetm       1                                       I            a
Bid Invitation and Contract Aard                          I         *4                            1
I   Delivery of Machinery and Equipset            I                                                    a             44
17. ENB611IEER6 CONSULTANTS FOR BULKHEAD                                    a
Preparation of TOR & Short List                  tN
Selection of Consultants                             t
8Sa BILKHEAD STORA6E FOR IIP0RTED COPN            I                                                    I
Preparation of Design I Tender Documts 1_1:                4        *
Bid Invitation and Contract Award I/ J                         * *      1 *                        a
Construction I plementati-                                                 4                      1 *                        a
1   Fabrication I Delivery of Rach.& Equipmnt                                        *4*44                          a
19. IAREHOUSE REHABILITATION                                 t  t*tt4t4*4 t 4****tt tt           4*tt t4***  !
10. TRAININ6, TRANSPORT IODELIN6 AlD MIS
Preparation of TOR & Short List                                                      I t  *i
Selection of Consultantst                                         t+* NNNt
lsplesentation of Prograns                                        # tt t N       *    tt t*##H  tH  tf+* ff#H!*  i
11t STUDIES: IMPORTED CORIIN
I   Preparation of TOR & Short List                  H ua       44444I4 
I   Selection of Consultants                                   1      4      4      4
I plepmntation of Programs                                        I*4          4     44*4                        4      4
:il  STDIS  I:PORTEDCOR
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
I_/ Separately for civil aorns and tu proureent of u4 *inerya
WII/N11a
Ftln WW                                                       a            a             a



- 77 -
Annex 13
Table I
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
Results of Economic Analysis by Governorate
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Governorate                                    Agri.            Grain/
Inputs            Feed
1.    Alexandria                                 26               24
2.    Beheira                                    25               17
3.    Qalubia                                    20               23
4.    Menufia                                    21               16
5.    Gharbia                                    16               21
6.    Kafr el Sheikh                              -               19
7.    Ismailia                                   28               20
8.    Sharkia                                    27               21
9.    Dakhalia                                    -               19
10.    Damietta                                   21               20
'i.    Giza                                       29               18
12.    Asslyut                                    21               21
13.    Asvan                                       -               18
14.    Qena                                       40               25
15.    Cairo                                       -               27
16.    Fayoum                                     20               21
17.    Beni Suef                                  16               18
18.    El Minya                                   18               19
19.    Sohag                                      21               23
20.    Suez                                        -               21
21.    El Arish                                                    19
22.    El Vadi                                                     15
Pa9



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
Results of Economic Analysis for Agricultural Input and Feed and grain Varehouses
ILE 0001
YEAR:                             1999     1990    I11       1992     199      I'94     195      19                1999     199      2000    2001    2002       2003    2004      2005  2006-12
Total Agricultural Input Narehouses
Benfits                                            1,412    8,917   15,939   21,810   26,100   26,983   27,718   29,367  28,955   29,604   29,604   29,604   29,604   29,604   29,604   29,604
Investeent Costs                  969    1,335   33,57    26,334   33,746   25,567                                                                                              17,393
Operating Costs                                       27      194      344      505      639      642      642      642      642      642      642      642      642      642      642      642
lotal Costs                        969    1,335   33,599   26,519   34,090   26,072      639      642      642      642      642      642      642      642      642      642   19,035      642
Hut  sef its                      (968)  11,335) 132,1971 (17,601) 119,152)  (4,262) 25,461   26,341   27,076   27,725   29,313   29,962   29,962   28,962  28,962   29,962   11,569   29,962
Internal Rate of Return:      21.92
::::_c                                                                                                                                              OD
Total Feed and Grains Haredouses
Benefits                                             356    3,351    6,166    9,691   11,227   11,359   11,442   11,527   11,605   12,089   12,092   12,095   12,097   12,100   12,103   12,103
Investent Costs                   409       619   14,373   11,239   15,594   11,671                                                                                             3,M
Operating Costs                                        7       79      152     231      302       30       304      304      304     304      304       304      304     304      304      304
Total Costs                       40U      61E   14,380   11,317   15,746   I,S02       302       304     304       304     30       304      304      304      304      30     3,596      30
let Benefits                      1408)   (619) (14,0241  (7,9661  I9,5801  (3,2111  10,925   11,054   11,139   11,223   11,301   11,79S   11,79    11,791   21,793   11,796   8,507  1I,79
Z=Z=: CS  *= == aanza= -==: C===::IGt 3 US= VZ                 .       ccman   32=a RUZZS  #c2 :: C:Z                2::U:      9=U8U   ===2  rfx32
Internal Rate of Returnu     20.31
04/10/9
FILE NW: ECOWRI2



ARB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
tRIQlItURAL STOE PJECT
Results of Econosic Analysis for Fertilizer lrebou, Reuabilitation and Buibld for lmorted Cnrn
(LE 0001
YES                               1999     I9O      1        192      IM       194      IM95     199      197      1M        199     2000      2001     2002     2003    2004      2005 2006-t2
Fertilizer  arebtus  Rkbhilitatio
Benefits                                             3S5      794    1,26    1,65    1,63        ,63      1,641    1,646    1,649    1,153    1,653    1,653    1,153    1,653    1,153    1,653
lnmtust Costs                             2,153    1,551    1,5U     1,625
Cwratin costs
lotal Costs                          0    2,153    1,551  1,6       1,625         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
get Beefits                          0   (2,153)  (1,156)    IM)    1429)   1,125    1,635    1,639    1,U41    2,6         1,649    1,653    1,653    I,53    1,153    1,653    1,653    1,653
Internal Rate of Return:      21.21
Bulkhed for lported Corn
BOteits                                                    l0,t10   10,610   10,610   10,620   10,110 0O,610
Initmet Costs                               i0     7,096
pwerating tosts                              49       95    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300
Total Costs                          0      95     7,192    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300    7,300        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
Not Befits                           0     1958)  (7,191)  3,310    3,310    3,310    3,310    3,310    3,320          0       0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
V===   ===s#  at:=   c==*=             C      =G        =tt X 3    1t=:l    t=X =                        t   .X                  C         C         g CC
Interal Rate of Return:       30.21
mug                                                                                                                                          fr.B|
041110/B9
FILE  AIWI: ECDURR2



ARA  REPURLIC OF EE P
ABRICULTURAL STORE PROJECT
Results of Overall Econit Analysis
(IE '0001
iAs                                1999      19o      1991    12        19S3      1994     1995      996      1997     19O       19       2000     2001      2002     2003     2004      2005  -)-12
Bhief its                             0         0    2,163   23,672   33,910   42,736   49,572   50,590   51,411   41,540   42,209   43,346   43,349   43,352   43,354   43,357   43,360   43,360
Investnt Costs                    1,276    5,015   56,592   39,139   50,965   37,239           0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0   20,65          0
llwruiing Costs                       0        49      129    7,562    7,796    8,036    9,241    8,246    R,246         946      946       946      946        46      946       946      946     "9
Total Costs                       1,276    5,064   56,721   46,701   51,761   45,274    9,241    9,246    8,246          946      946       946      946       946      946      946   21,631       946
met   neif its                    (1,276)  (5,064) 154,558) 123,029) 124,351)  (2,539)  41,331   42,344   43,165   40,594   41,263   42,400   42,403   42,406   42,409   42,411   21,729   42,414             O
:C_:    :-:  :Gz    :u::.:  t::w:=:  X2:::g   :8::h,  :z:::  :U=:t:  1":gw:  :,:                   3:tg,; :~::u   =::::  =Bz:2  .::==:  s~:g  t: :                       0
Internal Rate of Return:       21.89
04I!0IBp



Annex 14
- 81-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.   Working Paper:  Agricultural Sector Review
2.   Working Paper:  Grains Subsector Review
3.   Working Peper:  Animal Feed Subsector Review
4.   Working Paper:  Fertilizer Subsector Review
5.   Working Paper:  Engineering Report
6.   Working Paper:  Project Cost Estimates
7.   Working Pa?er:  Cost Recovery Calculations
8.   Working Paper:  Project Economic Analysis



2                                       3b                        .              3-2
cf>  U.:c'
'4~~~~'
SINAI
*'INE4!,, .    0      A 0
I   . e      OS                                     .
2f                  ~~~~APAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT0.;-'                                                                                  ' e
AGRICULTURAL STORAGE PROJECT    R..                                                
StORAGE CAPACITIES AND LOCATIONS BY GOVERNORAkTE                   *           
Pr-p..d Stom  Si@Ct                      0%
aD   N.Hionol Caipital                            Cwo
dApp,d-(                                              f V WOt' IS
NEW CAPACITYCl                                                                    INA
GOVRNIATE           CM0 tom)                                  SHG    s
Bd.b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-2'10 '4>
-2b                  ~~~~~~~~~~~K.k El Shik  7                                                                                         26
DakiWlia            24                                                            QENA             i
S - io             123                                                                    5)
6..~~~~~~~~~ S.0  48 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ' 
sot    No  Caia
C03                 21                                eKVtE                           ,
Gka          4o BnM
Fyl A,5,2                                                                              A   S    A 
o.                  64 i                                                                   +
A*e   b3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASU
Qr e                 21
- i*&Ad o,y w-   Alt
Al.sdn                      I
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D                                         A S i  N
OdoshSolo           1; 
Ne Vlnb'            12                                                                        'r
-24° ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ddii °24  
CA.    s                 24~wJb1    ,Dsiii
e TH~~~~soti    68
|  121tUR!(  Qsna                21
gbl~ ~ ~ ~ ~~EAiI                            2                                                                 A  S u/I  N  t 



