Page  1
                                   LOAN NUMBER 3071 EGT
                   Project Agreement
            (Agricultural Storage Project)
                        between
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                          and
            PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT
                AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
                   Dated May 8, 1990
                                   LOAN NUMBER 3071 EGT
                   PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
(PBDAC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date
herewith between Arab Republic of Egypt (the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that PBDAC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PBDAC, the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made
available to PBDAC on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS PBDAC, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
Page  2
                       ARTICLE I
                      Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "PC" or "Project Coordinator" means the Project
Coordinator referred to in Part A (1) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee
referred to in Part A (2) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  BDACs" means the Banks for Development and
Agricultural Credit, wholly owned subsidiaries of PBDAC,
operating at the governorate level.
                      ARTICLE II
               Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) PBDAC declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank and
PBDAC shall otherwise agree, PBDAC shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. PBDAC shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively).
     Section 2.04. PBDAC shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PBDAC shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) PBDAC shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to
progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
     (b)  PBDAC shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
Page  3
purposes of Loan, or the performance by PBDAC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
          Management and Operations of PBDAC
     Section 3.01. PBDAC shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and agricultural credit
practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. PBDAC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) PBDAC shall maintain records and
accounts, including separate Project accounts, adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  PBDAC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts, including the
               separate Project accounts, and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related
               statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, (A)
               certified copies of its financial
               statements and separate Project accounts
               for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records,
                    accounts and financial statements as
                    well as the audit thereof, as the
                    Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.
                       ARTICLE V
             Effective Date; Termination;
              Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement
becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of PBDAC thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly
Page  4
notify PBDAC thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General
Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
               Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                       82987 (FTCC)
     For PBDAC:
          Principal Bank for Development
               and Agricultural Credit
          110 El-Kasr El-Einy Street
          Cairo, Egypt
          Cable address:           Telex:
               TASLIF                93045 PBDAC UN
               Cairo
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PBDAC may be
taken or executed by the Chairman of PBDAC or such other
person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in
writing, and PBDAC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
                                Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa
               PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
                    AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
               By /S/ A. H. Ezzi
                              Authorized Representative
                      SCHEDULE 1
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   (i)  Bidders for the works included in Part A (1)
          of the Project shall be prequalified as
          described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (ii) To the extent practicable, contracts for works
          under Part A (1) of the Project shall be
          grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
          equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Egypt may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of storage facilities
under Part A (1) of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $2,000,000 per contract and
not more than the equivalent of $7,000,000 in the
aggregate, may be awarded under local competitive bidding
procedures advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In particular, PBDAC
shall ensure under such procedures that: (i)
representatives of foreign bidders shall be allowed to
bid, (ii) all bidders shall be treated equally in terms
of the requirement of furnishing bid or performance
bonds, and (iii) bids received after the date stipulated
for the submission of bids shall not be considered.
2.   Works for repair or rehabilitation of warehouses
under Part A (2) of the Project, estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $3,100,000 in the aggregate,
Page  6
may be carried out: (a) under contracts awarded pursuant
to the procedures described in paragraph (1) above, or
(b) if the Bank shall so agree, by PBDAC under force
account procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Transportation vehicles, computer and other
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of not more
than $100,000 per contract and $2,000,000 in the
aggregate, may be procured on the basis of an evaluation
of price quotations obtained from not less   than three
reliable suppliers.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided in Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth
in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. ¦Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the
Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
3.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Contracting of Consultants' Services
     In order to assist PBDAC in (i) the preparation of
design and tender documents and evaluation of bids for,
and supervision of, works required under Part A.4 of the
Project, (ii) the preparation of design and tender
documents and evaluation of bids for, and the inspection
of, equipment required under Part A.3 of the Project, and
(iii) the carrying out of Part B of the Project, PBDAC
shall contract the services of consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
contracts shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
Page  7
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
                      SCHEDULE 2
                Implementation Program
Part A:   Project Management
     The responsibility for coordinating and supervising
the carrying out of the Project shall be exercised
directly by the Chairman of PBDAC who shall be assisted
by:
1.   a Project Coordinator (PC) appointed on a full-time
basis. The PC, together with his support staff, shall be
located in the Chairman's office and shall (a) facilitate
all administrative work required for the timely and
coordinated implementation of activities under the
Project, (b) develop an appropriate management
information system, monitor progress in Project
implementation and prepare quarterly reports thereon for
submission to the Bank (each within two months from the
end of the period covered by it), (c) expedite
procurement action, and (d) operate as a secretariat for
correspondence with the Bank; and
2.   a Project Steering Committee (PSC) to be chaired by
the Chairman of PBDAC, with members representing the
Ministries of Agriculture and International Cooperation
and the Departments of PBDAC concerned with the carrying
out of the Project. The PSC shall study and make
recommendations on matters presented to it by the
Chairman concerning the general status of the Project and
the action to be taken to improve institutional
arrangements for its implementation.
Part B:   Project Implementation
1.   Departmental Responsibilities:
     Responsibilities for carrying out the various
components of the Project shall be assigned to, and be
coordinated among, the relevant Departments of PBDAC as
follows:
     (a)  the Department of Engineering shall: (i)
prepare, with the assistance, as required, of engineering
consultants, and in coordination with the Storage and
Production Department, the detailed design and tender
documents for the construction of storage facilities
under the Project, (ii) prequalify prospective bidders,
invite and evaluate bids and prepare the recommendations
for award, all in accordance with applicable rules and
procedures, including those stated or referred to in the
Project Agreement; (iii) ensure that the BDACs will
assign an adequate number of qualified engineering staff
to supervise consultants' works; (iv) determine, on the
basis of the criteria referred to in paragraph 2 (a)
below, the location of the storage facilities to be
constructed under Part A (1) of the Project and ensure
that such locations are acquired in a timely manner; (v)
assist in the preparation of the progress reports
referred to in Part A (1) (b) of this Schedule; and (vi)
ensure the optimum utilization of the services of
engineering consultants employed under the Project.
     (b)  The Department of Storage and Production,
through its participation in the PSC's meetings and in
coordination with other Departments of PBDAC and the PC,
Page  8
shall assist in (a) the selection of sites for
construction works, (b) the procurement of equipment; (c)
the selection of candidates for training, (d) the
preparation of the Project progress reports referred to
in Part A (1) (b) of this Schedule; (e) the enforcement
of the environmental standards referred to in Part B (2)
(e) of this Schedule; and (f) the design, with the
assistance of consultants, and implementation of a
transportation planning system.
     (c)  The Department of Training shall: (a) assist in
the selection, on the basis of a predetermined criterion,
of the candidates for training; (b) arrange for the
carrying out of local training; and (c) follow-up on the
progress of training under the Project and provide
regular evaluation thereof for inclusion in the progress
reports referred to in Part A (1) (b) of this Schedule.
     (d)  The Department of Administrative and Financial
Affairs and the Department of Finance shall (a) maintain
the separate Project accounts, (b) prepare the budgetary
estimates for the Project, (c) prepare the documents
required for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(d) arrange for the audit report referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement.
2.   Special Requirements
     (a)  Design and Location of Storage Facilities:
     PBDAC shall (i) consult with the Bank on the final
design for the storage facilities to be constructed under
Part A.1 of the Project, and (ii) determine the sites for
such facilities on the basis of criteria which take into
account (A) the results of the site/soil survey of such
site, (B) ownership of the site by PBDAC/BDACs, and (C)
accessibility of the site and its location within the
designated service area; and (iii) select, in
consultation with the Bank, not later than September 30,
1990, the site for the construction of the bulk handling
and storage facility, to be constructed under Part A.4 of
the Project.
     (b)  Training:
     PBDAC shall exchange views regularly with the Bank
with respect to progress in the carrying out of training
activities under the Project.
     (c)  Monitoring and Review:
     PBDAC shall (i) with the assistance of engineering
consultants, develop a system to be applied by the
relevant BDACs in processing payments under contracts for
construction works, and establish records and invoices to
facilitate monitoring the progress of construction and
payments; and (ii) carry out by December 31, 1992, in
accordance with a methodology agreeable to the Bank and
PBDAC, a mid-term review of the Project with a view to
assessing the achievement of the objectives of the
Project.
     (d)  BDACs:
     PBDAC shall strengthen the engineering and
accounting staff of the BDACs so as to enable such BDACs
to supervise, and to process payments for, construction
works carried out under Part A of the Project within
their respective jurisdictions.
     (e)  Environmental Requirements:
Page  9
     In order to ensure sound environmental practices in
the operation of the storage facilities to be constructed
under Part A.1 of the Project, PBDAC shall take all
measures necessary to ensure that (i) pesticide stores
will be adequately ventilated; (ii) water supply sources
will be provided; (iii) adequate safety procedures will
be adopted for disposal of pesticide containers and for
dealing with accidental spilling of toxic chemicals; (iv)
pesticides will not be stored alongside foodgrains or
feed; (v) staff will be appropriately trained to deal
with emergencies and to fumigate foodgrain and feed
stocks; (vi) staff dealing with pesticides storage will
be provided with suitable protective equipment and
clothing; and (vii) pesticide stores will be
appropriately labeled and emergency procedures will be
posted in each store.
     (f)  Store Operation:
     PBDAC shall establish, in consultation with the
Bank, not later than December 31, 1990, procedures
designed to ensure the efficient utilization and
maintenance of the storage facilities to be constructed
or rehabilitated under Part A of the Project and the
equipment to be provided under Part A.3 for the operation
thereof.
