CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 278 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 278 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 1972, between INDIA, acting by its
President   (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
The State of Mysore, The State of Mysore has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association,
Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Mysore State Cooperative Land Development
Bank, Limited and Mysore State Agro-Industries Corporation, Limited certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project have been undertaken
by Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Mysore State Cooperative Land
Development Bank and Mysore State Agro-Industries Corporation, Limited; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted.


﻿4
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h).
(c)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph 5:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
(d)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is added after paragraph 12:
"13. The terms 'Project Agreement' and 'Mysore Agreement' have the
meanings set forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
(e)   In Section 6.06, the words ", the Project Agreement and the Mysore
Agreement" are added after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the ccntext otherwise
reqrires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Mysore" means The State of Mysore, a State of India, or any successor
thereof.
(b)   "ARC"   means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "LDB" means Mysore State Cooperative Land Development Bank,
Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of Mysore.
(d)   "MAIC" means Mys;.re State Agro-Industries Corporation, Limited, a
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(e)   "PWD" means Public Works Department of Mysore.
(f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, ARC, LDB and MAIC, and all schedules thereto, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(g)   "Mysore Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between Mysore and the Association, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) hereof, and all


﻿5
schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the approval of the Association.
(i)   "Agricultural Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made
to a Beneficiary and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(j)   "Beneficiary" means (i) any person or enterprise carrying out farm
custom work in the territory of Mysore, or (ii) any farmer, group of farmers or
cooperative farming society carrying out farm work in the territory of Mysore
which is eligible to receive an Agricultural Loan.
(k)   "Participating Bank" means any bank listed in the Second Schedule
to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, which has entered into an agreement
with ARC in accordance with Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
(1)   "Primary Bank" means any Primary Land Development Bank which
is a member of LDB and which has cntered into an agreement with LDB in
accordance with Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
(m)   "SGC" means the State Groundwater Cell of the Department of Mines
and Geology established by the Government of Mysore.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Categories II, IV,
V and VI of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule


﻿6
1 hereto shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
January 15, 1982 and ending July 15, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of the obligations of the
Borrower set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all
action required to ensure the prompt importation of the following goods, including
the granting of all necessary licenses, foreign exchange permits and other approvals,
without reconsideration of the eligibility of the items for importation: (i) that
part of the equipment listed in paragraphs 1 and 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
that may be procured from outside the territories of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (ii) spare parts for the tractors
and land reclamation equipment imported under the Project in an amount equal


﻿7
to 15% of the c.i.f. price thereof; (iii) for a period of four years commencing
three years after the disbursement date in respect of each consignment of tractors
financed under the Credit, spare parts for such tractors in an annual amount equal
to 10% of the c.i.f. price of such tractors or such other amount as may from
time to time be agreed to between the Borrower and the Association; and (iv)
in respect of each consignment of land reclamation equipment financed under the
Credit, spare parts for such equipment in an annual amount sufficient to ensure
an adequate supply of spare parts during the execution of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall notify the Association of the firms eligible to bid
for tractors pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, at the
time of each invitation to bid.
(d)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms
and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of relending to ARC for relending
to LDB and Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit in
respect of Categories I, II, III and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 of this Agreement, including the counterpart funds
generated by the sale of initial spare parts to dealers for tractors and land
reclamation equipment. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   In order to assist Mysore in carrying out Parts C and D of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to Mysore the proceeds of the Credit in respect
of Categories VI and VII of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(f)   The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out of the
Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(g)   The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that there is
available to manufacturers of implements required for the Project and to be made
in India, an adequate supply of hard steel.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Mysore to perform
all its obligations under the Mysore Agreement, and (ii) ARC, LDB and MAIC
to perform their obligations under the Project Agreement, and shall not take or


﻿8
permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance of any such obligations of ARC, LDB or MAIC.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods. The Borrower shall keep the
Association informed as to such insurance arrangements.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC, LDB and MAIC to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ARC, LDB and MAIC to: (i) establish and
maintain separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account
of the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year (A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning their accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the


﻿9
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Developme-t Credit
Agreement, the performance by Mysore of its obligations under the Mysore
Agreement, the performance by ARC, LDB and MAIC of their obligations under
the Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of
ARC, LDB and MAIC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of ARC, LDB, MAIC and Mysore
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by Mysore of its obligations under the Mysore
Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance by LDB and MAIC of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Mysore Agreement
and the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purpose of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Mysore shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Mysore Agreement; ARC, LDB or MAIC shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement; or ARC shall have failed to
perform any of its obligaions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   An extraor-inary Situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Mysore will be able to perform its obligations under the Mysore
Agreement, or (ii) ARC, LDB or MAIC will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement, or (iii) ARC will be able to perform
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and the defaulting party.


﻿11
(b)  ARC or LDB shall have become unable to pay any of their uebts
as 4ey mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or
LDB or by others whereby any of the property of ARC or LDB shall or may
be distributed among its creditors.
(c)  The Borrower or any other authority having juarisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or LDB or for
the suspension of their operations.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)  The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC, LDB and MAIC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
(b)  The Subsidiary Loan Agreement mentioned in Section 3.01 (d) hereof
has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
(c)  The Mysore Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
Mysore and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(d)  The appointment in accordance with Section 2.02 of the Mysore
Agreement of an hydrologist and hydrogeologist.
(e)  The amendment of LDB's by-laws to enable the appointment to be
made of any suitably qualified and experienced persons to the posts of managing
director and secretary of LDB as required by Serton 2.13 of the Project
Agreement.
(f)  the financial and managerial reorganization of 50 Primary Banks in
consultation with the Association.
(g)   the appointment by LDB of two experienced and suit.hly qualified
credit specialists.


﻿12
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, LDB and MAIC, respectively, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of ARC, LDB and MAIC in accordance
with its terms.
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
(c)  That the Mysore Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Mysore and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of Mysore in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date April 15, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. On termination of the Project Agreement in accordance with
its terms, the obligations of the Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwith
terminate.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the Director
of the Depar!-Lment of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower,
acting singly, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿13
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Loans for minor               13,100,000         66% of total ex-
irrigation                                        penditures
II.   Loans for tractors             6,700,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
III.  Loans for land                10,000,000         60% of total ex-
reclamation                                       penditures
IV.   Loans for land                 6,900,000          100% of total ex-
reclamation equipment                             penditures
V.    Initial tractor                2,000,000          100% of foreign
and land reclam_at],n                             expenditures
equipment (spare parts)
VI.  Well-drilling equip-
ment and earthmoving
machinery:
(a)   Rigs                       540,000          100% of total ex-
penditures
(b)  Accessories                 460,000          100% of total ex-
penditures
VII. Consultancy services:                             100% of foreign
expenditures
(a)  Groundwater                 300,000
TOTAL        40,000,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   expenditures for freight and insurance within the territories of the
Borrower with respect to goods financed pursuant to Categories IV and VI.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the estimate of the expenditures
under any Category shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to
such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
(subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other Category or Categories) by increasing
correspondingly the amount allocated to Category I and/or III and the Association
will increase (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes) correspondingly the
percentage applicable to Category I and/or III.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above or the provisions of paragraph 4 above, if the estimate of
total expenditures under Category I or III shall increase, and no proceeds of the


﻿16
Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Association shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under this Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's
reasonable opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of a lending program for agricultural development
in Mysore, consists of:
A.    A three-year program to finance loans for minor irrigation, land levelling
and reclamation (including equipment) and farm mechanization for Beneficiaries
through Primary Banks and Participating Banks, the said loans being refinanced
in accordance with the terms and conditions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement
and with the Project Agreement.
B.    The provision of an initial set of spare parts for tractors and land reclamation
equipment.
C.    The provision of well-drilling equipment.
D.    The services of consultants (including necessary equipment) for the purpose
of assisting SGC in carrying out detailed geologic and hydrologic analysis and
training counterpart personnel.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
The Borrower will establish a special committee (hereinafter called the
Committee) for the purpose of directing the procurement of goods under the
Project. The Committee shall consist of representatives of the Borrower (one of
whom shall be the chairman), the Government of Mysore and ARC.
Under the Committee's directions, MAIC will organize procurement of
equipment eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance
with the following procedures:
1.    Tractors and Spare Parts for Tractors
(a)   MAIC will obtain quotations for lots of at least 500 tractors in order
to import about 2,000 tractors. Quotations will be sought by invitation, on unit
prices at varying quantities, from those suppliers in Bank member countries and
Switzerland who have established tractor manufacturing facilities in India, or have
obtained necessary approvals of the Borrower for the manufacture of tractors in
India, prior to the date on which quotations are sought. Before bids are invited
the Committee will furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid, the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures and coverage to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association may reasonably request.
(b)   MAIC will require all suppliers submitting quotations to give full
particulars as to proposed pre-sales and after-sales service arrangements, including
provision for spare parts equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of tractors supplied, 10%
of which shall be initially imported and the remaining 5% over the following 2
years. Any supplier not providing satisfactory assurances as to service arrangements
would be disqualified by the Committee.
(c)   MAIC will advertise through LDB and the Participating Banks the
quoted prices and the service arrangements offered by the different suppliers.
Beneficiaries will be required to state to the Primary Bank or the Participating
Bank for transmittal to MAIC, their choices, in order of preference of, and at
the same time apply for an Agricultural Loan for, tractors which they will be
willing to buy. Loan applications will be processed in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.


﻿19
(d)   MAIC will aggregate the orders received, according to first tractor
choices. If the aggregate orders for the particular model come to below the
minimum acceptable order for that manufacturer at the unit prices quoted for
varying quantities, the Committee will discard the first choice for those farmers
and proceed on the basis of second or other choices. After approval by the
Committee, MAIC will send to the Association its analysis of bids, including a
statement of farmers' choices, and its recommendations before orders are placed.
The Association shall promptly inform the Committee whether it has any objections
to the intended placement of orders and shall state the reasons for any objections
it may have.
(e)   MAIC will subsequently place orders with the selected suppliers at the
unit prices quoted. MAIC also will enter into contracts with the selected suppliers
or their agents which would specify service arrangements and performance
assurances including the supply of spare parts. Agents representing suppliers will
be required to sell post-warranty service.
(f)   MAIC will arrange through the suppliers' representatives in India for
the importation and transportation to Mysore of tractors. MAIC will arrange for
the distribution of tractors to agents designated by the suppliers who would perform
pre-sales services and sell the tractors to Beneficiaries. MAIC may charge agents
a fee for its services.
(g)   Suppliers will be required to maintain stocks of spare parts referred
to under paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule by a designated representative in a central
store to be released through agents for tractors imported under the Project.
2.    Well-Drilling Equipment and Land Reclamation Equipment
Well-drilling equipment and land reclamation equipment will be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, through arrangements to be established
by the Committee, which will offer private contractors providing well-drilling
custom services such proportion of well-drilling equipment as said contractors may
require.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in Categories IV and VI of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with
the following rules:


﻿20
(a)   The term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)        the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Borrower which generally apply
to non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (i) above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      handling costs, inland freight, insurance and other costs
of delivery of such goods to the place of their use or
installation.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Equipment Required for the Project
1.    Tractors in the 25-55 hp range and spare parts for such tractors.
2.    Tractors Implements: basic tillage implements, mouldboard ploughs, ploughs
(with hard steel plough bottoms), cultivators, disc harrows (with hard steel disc),
levelling blades, trailers, seed and fertilizer drill, and tractor mounted power sprayer.
3.    Well-drilling equipment, land reclamation equipment, together with spare
parts for both; rapid drilling rigs (down-the-hole, air hammer type), bits, self-loading
scrapers, land planes, crawler tractors, ridgers, dozer blades, and sub-soilers.
4.    Pumps, engines, electric motors, electric connections, lining of open wells,
casing for borewells, penstocks, transformers and cisterns.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which part
of the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof shall be lent to ARC by
the Borrower:
1.   Lending Terms to ARC from the Borrower:
(a)  Part of the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof which
will be lent by ARC for periods not exceeding 9 years shall be repayable by ARC
at the end of 9 years at an interest rate of 5% per annum, less 1/4% per annum
for prompt payment.
(b)  Part of said proceeds or the equivalent which will be lent by ARC
for periods in excess of 9 years shall be repayable by ARC at the end of 15 years
at an interest rate of..5-1/2% per annum, less 1/4% per annum for prompt payment.
(c)  The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
(d)   The counterpart funds generated by the sale of initial spare parts to
dealers shall be used only for making loans for minor irrigation.


