CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 278 IN
Mysore Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF MYSORE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 278 IN
Mysore Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF MYSORE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972
I.ab


﻿MYSORE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  January 7, 1972, between      THE STATE OF
MYSORE (hereinafter called Mysore) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
inter alia that Mysore agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth; and
(B)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, of
the one part, and Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Mysore State Cooperative
Land Development Bank Limited, and Mysore State Agro-Industries Corporation
Limited, of the other part, Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Mysore State
Cooperative Land Development Bank Limited, and Mysore State Agro-Industries
Corporation Limited, respectively, have agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the carrying out of the Pro.ject; and
WHEREAS Mysore, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) Mysore shall cause that portion which is applicable to
Mysore of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Mysore shall take all such steps as shall be necessary on its part to
ensure that the implements described in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement are available in such quantities and as and when required, to ensure
the carrying out of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency.
Section 2.02. For the primary purpose of assisting SGC in setting up and
carrying out detailed geologic and hydrologic analyses, Mysore shall by the Effective
Date take such steps as shall be necessary on its part to enable SGC to obtain
for a two-year period the services of qualified and experienced consultants
acceptable to the Association who shall be internationally recruited upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Mysore shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project and any relevant records and documents; and shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, such services, and the operations and
financial condition with respect to the Project of the agency or agencies responsible
for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 2.04. Mysore and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Mysore and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the Project, and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
Section 2.05. Mysore shall take all action which shall be necessary on its
part to enable ARC, LDB and MAIC to perform their obligations under (i) the
Project Agreement, and (ii) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in the case of ARC,
and shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would


﻿5
prevent or interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC, LDB
or MAIC or of Participating Banks associated therewith.
Section 2.06. Mysore and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Mysore shall take all action which shall be necessary on its
part for the implementation of the operating policies and procedures set out in
Schedule I to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) Mysore shall cause the Mysore State Electricity Board to
act expeditiously in, and give priority to, the connection of the electricity to wells
included in the Project of Beneficiaries required to deposit Rs3,000 per well with
said Board for the purpose of obtaining such priority.
(b)   Mysore, together with its agencies, shall cause cooperative societies to
be formed for the operation of lift irrigation schemes in Mysore.
(c)   Mysore in consultation with ARC shall arrange for the payment by
Beneficiaries of a water charge sufficient to produce revenues adequate to meet
the cost of lift irrigation schemes.
Section 2.09. Mysore shall through its State Cooperative Department take
measures adequate to ensure (i) that the Primary Banks maintain an accounting
system which conforms to good accounting practices, (ii) that the accounts of
LDB and the Primary Banks are audited efficiently and in a timely manner by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and (iii) that the financial
statement of the Primary Banks shall be available within 4 months after the close
of the respective fiscal year.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04 of the
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify Mysore of this event
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.


﻿6
Section 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of Mysore
and the Association hereunder shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Mysore:
The Development Commissioner and
Special Secretary to Government for
Agricultural Production and Planning
Vidhana Soudha
Bangalore
Cable address:
Vikas
Bangalore
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿7
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and anly
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Mysore may be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Government of Mysore
or such other person or persons as Mysore shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. Mysore shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of Mysore, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by Mysore pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF MYSORE
By /s/ L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


