CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 278 IN
Project Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
MYSORE STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
AND
MYSORE STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION, LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 278 IN
Project Agreement
(Mysore Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
MYSORE STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
AND
MYSORE STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION, LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 7, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT        ASSOCIATION      (hereinafter  called  the   Association),
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC),
MYSORE STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
(hereinafter called LDB), and MYSORE STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION, LIMITED (hereinafter called MAIC).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that
ARC, LDB and MAIC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and The State of Mysore, the said State has agreed to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, LDB and MAIC in consideration of the Association entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Rs" shall mean rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
I


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC, LDB and MAIC shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)   ARC shall invite to participate in the Project the banks listed in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, but shall only allow
such banks or any Primary Bank, capable of effectively carrying out Project lending,
to take part therein and only on terms and conditions (including inter alia those
set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the
Association.
(c)   ARC shall enter into agreements with LDB and each bank selected
in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section, other than Primary. Banks, on
terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in paragraph I of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   ARC shall: (i) require Participating Banks to maintain separate accounts
for Project lending and (ii) ensure that such accounts are audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.03. LDB shall enter into an agreement with each Primary Bank
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to ARC.
Section 2.04. The operating policies and procedures for carrying out the
Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association, ARC and
LDB.


﻿5
Section 2.05. ARC shall take such measures as shall be necessary to ensure
that appraisals of Agricultural Loans are in conformity with agreed lending criteria
and to ensure that not more than one Agricultural Loan is granted for the same
investment.
Section 2.06. MAIC shall organize the procurement of goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) MAIC shall cause all imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
or that adequate provision be made for the insurance thereof, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC and (as the case
may be) LDB and MAIC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit under Categories I, II, III and IV of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.08. ARC, LDB and MAIC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to them by
the Borrower and by ARC, respectively, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent to them and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.09. ARC and LDB shall at all times charge interest on all of their
loans at rates sufficient to enable ARC and LDB, respectively, to (a) cover all
operating expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and interest payments
on borrowings; and (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad debts and maintain
adequate general reserves in accordance with sound commercial practice.
Section 2.10. LDB shall in consultation with ARC by the Effective Date
employ two experienced and suitably qualified credit specialists to assist the
Managing Director of LDB.


﻿6
Section 2.11. ARC in consultation with the Association shall continue to
assist in the maintenance by LDB and the Primary Banks in Mysore of sound
business and financial practices.
Section 2.12. ARC shall as soon as possible after the date of this Agreement
establish a system, satisfactory to the Association, of evaluating on a continuing
basis the financial and economic benefits of agricultural credit projects financed
by the Association.
Section 2.13. LDB shall by the Effective Date revise its by-laws to enable
the appointment of any suitably qualified and experienced persons to the posts
of managing director and secretary of LDB.
Section 2.14. LDB in consultation with ARC shall: (i) by the Effective Date
complete a financial and managerial reorganization of 50 Primary Banks acceptable
to the Association and (ii) by September 30, 1972 complete a similar reorganization
of an additional 41 Primary Banks.
Section 2.15. ARC shall after consultation with and agreement by the
Association discontinue the refinancing of any Primary Bank which fails to maintain
a recovery rate of 75% in respect of all loan repayments due.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC, LDB and MAIC
Section 3.01. ARC, LDB and MAIC shall: (a) at all times manage their affairs,
maintain their financial position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with sound business and financial practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and review all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LDB, the
Primary Banks and the Participating Banks shall apply the same criteria to all similar
types of lending that they apply to Project lending and, with respect to such similar
types of lending, shall not offer more favorable terms than are offered under Project
lending except for schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small Farmers
Development and the Marginal Farmers Development Agencies in Mysore.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC, LDB and MAIC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices their
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC, LDB and MAIC shall: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project;
(ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors, acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of said separate accounts and their financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
their accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, ARC, LDB and MAIC shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association, ARC, LDB and MAIC shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of ARC, LDB or MAIC and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, ARC, LDB and MAIC shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any
of them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and ARC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ARC, LDB and MAIC, respectively, shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect all their records and documents relevant
to the Project.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
ARC, LDB and MAIC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following
two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by ARC
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and interest thereon
shall have been repaid by ARC to the Borrower.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC, LDB and MAIC of this event and, upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
w


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
Agrofinans
Bombay
For LDB:
Managing Director
Mysore State Cooperative Land
Development Bank Limited
Albert Victor Road
Bangalore 18
Cable address:
Mylandbank
B angalore


﻿10
For MAIC:
Managing Director
Mysore State Agro-Industries
Corporation Limited
10 Ali Askar Road
Bangalore I.B.
Cable address:
Mysagroind
Bangalore
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of (i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as ARC shall designate in writing; (ii) LDB may be taken or
executed by its Chairman or such other person or persons as LDB shall designate
in writing; and (iii) MAIC may be taken or executed, by the person duly authorized
by it.
Section 7.03. ARC, LDB and MAIC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of ARC, LDB and MAIC take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC, LDB and
MAIC respectively, pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an oricinal, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
MYSORE STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
MYSORE STATE AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION,
LIMITED
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.   Technical Feasibility of Minor Irrigation Investments
(a)   Loans for minor irrigation investments would include not more than
Rs 3,000 for electricity connections.
(b)   Minor irrigation loans would be individually appraised and would
require:
(A)   In the case of loans for wells that the proposed well:
(i)        is within the area certified in advance by the SGC as
suitable for development; and
(ii)       conforms to recommended standards regarding spacing
between wells and maximum intensity of irrigation from
wells in the adjacent area calculated in accordance with
the formula at Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(B)   In the case of loans for lift irrigation schemes:
(i)        design and cost estimates approved by the PWD,
(ii)       the prior formation of a properly organized and capitalized
cooperative society in which members' contributions shall
not be less than 10% of the cost of the scheme to operate
the scheme; and
(iii)      adequate provision for the enforcement of payment of
water charges by members of the society.
2.    Financial Feasibility of Farm Investments
(a)   All investments shall be evaluated in terms of incremental returns from
the additional investment, in accordance with the evaluation method prescribed
by ARC.
(b)   Loans for tractor purchases shall be granted only to Beneficiaries who
shall offer assurances that they have or will have at the time they receive the


﻿13
tractor, at least three implements, which may include a trailer, for use with the
tractor.
(c)   Tractor borrowers shall be required to buy post-warranty service on
their tractors for the life of the tractor loan.
3.    Financial Terms and Conditions of Agricultural Loans
(a)   Contributions    by    Beneficiaries:  minimum      contributions   by
Beneficiaries expressed as a percentage of investment costs shall be in respect of:
(i)         land reclamation and minor irrigation, 20% except as provided
in sub-paragraph (e) below with respect to small farmer
Beneficiaries;
(ii)         land reclamation equipment, 10%; and
(iii)       tractors and implements, 25%.
In all the above cases the said contributions shall include the cost of the
Beneficiaries' obligatory share contribution to the Primary Banks.
(b)   Interest rate: 9% per annum    on outstanding balance.
(c)   Loan maturity: shall be based on the Beneficiary's capacity to repay,
but shall not exceed the life of the assets financed and shall not, in any case,
exceed for:
(i)         land reclamation, 10 years, including a two-year grace period
when interest only shall be payable (except as provided in
sub-paragraph (e)   below    with   respect  to  small   farmer
Beneficiaries);
(ii)         land reclamation equipment and minor irrigation, 9 years except
as provided in subparagraph (e) below with respect to small
farmer beneficiaries; and
(iii)       tractors and implements, 7 years.
(d)   Security for loans shall be taken in accordance with arrangement
between the Participating Banks and ARC.


﻿14
(e)   Small farmer Beneficiaries (as designated in the agreements referred
to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement) will be required to contribute 10% of
total costs for minor irrigation, costing less than Rs 10,000 each; and for
investments in land reclamation and minor irrigation (excluding pump sets) the
maturity period may be extended to 15 years.
I


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which part
of the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof shall be relent to LDB,
Participating Banks and the Primary Banks:
1.   Lending Terms to LDB and Participating Banks from ARC:
(a)   Amount: ARC shall refinance no more than 90% of Agricultural Loans
for minor irrigation investments and 75% of Agricultural Loans for other investment
purposes.
(b)   Repayment Terms: set to coincide, more or less, with the maturity
period of the special debentures purchased by ARC or as the case may be, with
expected collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(c)   Interest Rate: 6-1/2% per annum on outstanding balance.
2.   Lending Terms to Primary Banks from LDB:
(a)   Amount: LDB shall refinance 100% of Agricultural Loans made by
Primary Banks.
(b)   Repayment Terms: set to coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(c)   Interest Rate: 7-3/4% per annum on outstanding balance.
3.   Re-use of Funds under the Credit:
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, repayments to ARC from
LDB and the Participating Banks shall be deposited in a special account to be
used only for refinancing ARC-approved agricultural development schemes, such
schemes to be carried out in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural,
and financial practices.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Spacing of Dugwells and Tubewells in Areas of Crystalline Rocks
In order to prevent groundwater mining and, at the same time, to minimize
overcapitalization of wells in areas where wells yields may vary considerably due
to local aquifer conditions, the minimum spacing of wells shall be determined by
the following formula, applicable to elementary watersheds:
Sm =      100         x C   x Aha
where:       S m =     distance between wells in meters
Rnm  =     annual watering of irrigated land in mm
rnin =     annual recharge, in millimeters, to groundwater
from rainfall, seepage from canals and tanks, return
flow from irrigation occurring in the likely recharge
area of the well, to be calculated from field
observations on water level fluctuations, run-off
gauging and soil retention obtained from small
representative basins installed in the areas of the
project under the responsibility of the State
Groundwater Cell
C   =     cropping intensity
Aha =      minimum economic area to be irrigated by one well
IM


