Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15758
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3645-PAK and CREDIT 2542-PAK)
June 19, 1996
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
Rs. per US Dollar, Official Rate
(period average)
1992: 25.08
1993: 28.10
1994: 30.57
1995: 31.64
1996: 34.85 (May 1996)
Fiscal Year
July 1- June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB         Asian Development Bank
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FSAL        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GATT        General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOP         Government of Pakistan
ID          Institutional Development
IDA         International Development Association
IDF         Institutional Development Fund
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
NTBs        Non-tariff Barriers
OECF        Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PE          Public Enterprise
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PSDP        Public Sector Development Program
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP         Social Action Program
SAPP        Social Action Program Project
SBA         Standby Arrangement
TA          Technical Assistance
TBs         Treasury Bills



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3645-PAK & CREDIT 2542-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................                              i
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity ..................................................... .1
B. Background ..................................................... .1
C. Program Objectives and Their Relevance ......................................................2
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................5
E. Assessment of Outcome .......................................................9
F. Project Sustainability and Future Operation ......................................................9
G. Bank Performance ......................................................                         10
H. Borrower Performance .....................................................                       11
I. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................                       11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements .15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7:  Studies Associated with Project .18
Table 8  Project Cost and Financing .19
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10      Status of Legal Covenants/Tranche Release Conditions .20
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .23
APPENDICES
I. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
II. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
III. Japan OECF Comments on the ICR
IV. Matrix of Policy Actions
V. Second Tranche Release Memorandum
VI. Trends in Selected Economic, Financial and Social Indicators
VII. Map
This docurnen.t has a restricted distribudion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officiaJ dudes. ILs contents m=y not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.  l






INIIOMPLETION REPORT
EAKISIAN
PUBLIC SFCTOR ADJUJSTMENT LOANICREIDT
(LOAN 3645-PAK/CREDIT 2542-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Sector Adjustrnent
Loan/Credit in Pakistan for which L3645-PAK/C2542-PAK in the amount of US$250 million
equivalent (comprising a US$150 million IBRD loan and a SDR 71.8 million, or US$100 million
equivalent, IDA credit) was approved on September 14, 1993. The Loan/Credit became effective on
September27, 1993.
The loan/credit was closed on December 31, 1995 , this being the original closing date,
having been fully disbursed. The first tranche (US$125 million equivalent), released upon
effectiveness, was fully disbursed. The release of the second tranche was approved on December
14, 1994 and the tranche was disbursed on December 22, 1994. Co-financing was provided by the
Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) in March 1994 in the amount of 16,450
million Japanese yen, equivalent to US$150 million.
This ICR was prepared by Robert Armstrong, a consultant to the Country Operations
Division of the South Asia Region (SAI CO) under the supervision of Shahrokh Fardoust (Task
Manager, SAICO), and was reviewed by Lorene Yap (Chief, SAICO), Fakhruddin Ahmed (Project
Adviser, SAI), John Wall (Lead Economist, SAl) and Mark Baird (Director, Development Policy).
The Borrower's evaluation and the Cofinancier's comments are included as Appendices B and C,
respectively.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during an ICR mission that visited Pakistan in March
1996. The assistance and cooperation provided by both the Government of Pakistan and the Bank's
Resident Mission are gratefully acknowledged. The ICR is based on: material in the project files;
data provided by GOP and by World Bank and IMF staff; discussions in Pakistan with present and
formner Government officials, representatives from the private sector, and staff from the the Bank,
IMF, and OECF resident missions; and on discussions in Washington with Bank and IMF staff.
The Task Managers for the Emergency Adjustment Loan (EMAL), the precursor loan which did
not proceed to appraisal, and the PSAL were as follows:
Regina Bendokat (EMAL/PSAL)        September 1990 -November 1993
Shahrokh Fardoust (PSAL)           December 1993 - December 1995 (closure)
The managing Division Chiefs were Manuel Penalver (September 1990 - February 1994)
and Lorene Yap (March 1994-December 1994 (closure).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3645-PAK/CREDIT 2542-PAK)
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Bank has been a major lender to Pakistan for many years and has played a
substantial role also as leader of the Pakistan Consortium. The Bank began adjustment lending in
1982 with a SAL. This was followed by several sectoral adjustment operations in the
agricultural, energy and financial sectors prior to approval of the Public Sector Adjustment
Loan/Credit (PSAL) in 1993. On the whole these projects were moderately successful in
achieving their objectives.
In 1988 the Government launched a new reform program against a background of good
performance in GDP growth (averaging over six percent annually since 1960)--a relatively high
rate that was all the more remarkable for having been achieved despite serious policy distortions,
structural problems and poor social indicators. Implementation of the reform agenda during the
period FY1989-93 was mixed, with good progress in privatization, industrial liberalization and
deregulation but weak performance especially in fiscal policy, as fiscal deficits averaged over
seven percent of GDP in that period, adding to inflationary and balance of payments pressures. A
major underlying factor was the political instability characterizing the period.
Program and Project Objectives
The two highest priorities of the World Bank's country assistance strategy during the
period FY89-93 were (i) to support Pakistan's adjustment program (with emphasis on improving
the enabling environment for the private sector and improving public expenditure management);
and (ii) to strengthen social sector performance, including through increasing the share of social
sector spending. Two Bank operations, both approved in FY94, became the dual "flagship"
operations of the country strategy: the PSAL in support of the overall adjustment program, and
the Social Action Program Project (SAPP) in support of social sector development.
The gestation of the PSAL was long and difficult, with preparation taking place in a
context of sometimes strained Bank/Government relations. Five appraisal missions were
abortive until the sixth, in August 1993, finally moved the project ahead to negotiation and Board
presentation. The reasons underlying the difficulties and delays in the preparation process were
complex, but are discussed briefly in the ICR proper. The main catalyst to the successful
conclusion of the PSAL was the coming to power, in July 1993, of a non-partisan caretaker
Government headed by Prime Minister Moeen Qureshi. In the face of a balance of payments
crisis, that Government moved swiftly and decisively to take strong new stabilization measures
that were deemed sufficient to serve as the "prior measures" for the PSAL as well as an $1.4
billion ESAF/EFF program of the IMF.



-ii-
It cannot be overemphasized that the PSAL and the IMF arrangements (initially in the
form of a Standby and subsequently in ESAF/EFF Arrangements), were highly complementary
operations. The main stabilization target was to reduce the budgetary deficit from eight percent
of GDP in FY93 to three percent by FY96--a large but seemingly feasible reduction of nearly five
percent within three years. The PSAL's main objective was, as its name implies, to support
improvements in public sector management. There were five specific conditions for second
tranche release, namely: (i) adoption of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework for FY95; (ii)
adoption of an agreed Public Sector Development Program (PSDP, largely the investment
budget) for FY95; (ii) preparation of plans for liquidating an agreed list of public sector industrial
units; (iii) implementation of an agreed action plan to reform public administration (though this
plan fell far short of being a comprehensive civil service reform); and (v) increasing FY95
spending on basic social services under the Social Action Program (equivalent to at least 0.1
percent of GDP). The PSAL also included in its policy matrix a large number of additional
diverse measures, spread over many implementing agencies, that were monitored by the PSAL
supervision missions.
Evaluation of Program Objectives and PSAL Design: The objectives of the PSAL/ESAF
"package" of financial assistance and policy reform support were relevant and appropriate in that
they were (i) owned by the caretaker Govemment and in general supported by both of the major
political parties contesting the October 1993 elections; (ii) addressed to truly important long-tern
as well as short-term issues (e.g. social sector improvement as well as deficit reduction); and (iii)
provided for timely and adequate financial assistance to the balance of payments, including $150
million equivalent in PSAL co-financing from the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF). In several respects, however, the PSAL's design was sub-optimal according to
current standards of best practice adjustment lending. The ownership was narrow, there were too
many unprioritized and vaguely-specified measures (the "Christmas tree" approach) and no core
set of objectively-monitorable performance indicators. The reform program's design was also
weak regarding its lack of attention to institutional development (ID) dimensions of the reform
process. On balance, however, the "quality at entry" of both the reform program in general and
the PSAL in particular was satisfactory.
Implementation Experience and Results
This ICR concludes that the PSAL provided a useful and timely "nudge" to action on a
number of fronts by the Government elected in October 1993. Implementation of the reform
program as a whole was satisfactory in 1993-94 on both the stabilization and structural reform
fronts. For example, the fiscal deficit and maximum tariff were both reduced substantially, the
rupee became fully convertible on current account, cotton marketing was liberalized, public
investment programming and monitoring was improved, privatization was broadened and
proceeded at a satisfactory pace, and progress was made (from a low base) in social sector
development. The weaker areas of implementation were resource mobilization and tax
restructuring (particularly in the area of agricultural taxation), petroleum and petroleum-product
pricing, public administration reform, capacity building (including in the key area of tax
administration), and in several areas related to governance (see below).
Although the Govemment adopted an appropriate macroeconomic framework and budget
for FY95, in CY1995 its resource mobilization efforts--long the Achilles heel of Pakistani reform-
-became progressively off track. Owing largely to the continued adverse impact of devastating



-iii-
floods and a cotton virus, GDP growth was between 3.5-4.5 percent in FY94-95 against targeted
6.5-7.5 percent. The FY96 budget contained provisions for deficit and tariff reduction that fell
short of the PSAL/ESAF/EFF targets, so the ESAF/EFF program became inoperative. These
developments were reflected in macro imbalances, in a large loss of international reserves in the
latter half of 1995, and in a loss of credibility of the stabilization program. This prompted the
Government to enter into a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF that again called for vigorous
measures to reduce the fiscal deficit. As of March 1996 most of the performance criteria under
that Arrangement were being met.
Sustainability: This latest example of Pakistan's recurring history of "stop/go" fiscal
performance is a major reason why sustainability must be rated uncertain--a rating that might
even deteriorate to unlikely unless a comprehensive ESAF-type program is put back in place on
the economic front and unless early progress is made on the governance front. For
notwithstanding the substantial recent gains made to liberalize and privatize the economy, there
remains a large unfinished agenda of reform. A particularly important challenge facing reform
efforts in Pakistan is that of realizing greater transparency and accountability in a context of
substantial vested interests that have resisted in particular reforms in taxation and trade policy.
Bank and Borrower Performance: Bank performance was found to be somewhat deficient in
the identification and preparation stage, for reasons relating mainly to the ways in which the Bank
sent mixed messages about prerequisite Government actions needed to warrant closure on the
PSAL. Bank performance was found to be satisfactory in (final) appraisal, negotiations, and
supervision (although the proliferation of unprioritized PSAL measures kept it focused on
compliance checking). Borrower performance was found to be deficient in PSAL preparation but
satisfactory in implementation.
Outcome: Table 6 provides an overview of how the actual behavior of a number of key
indicators compared with that projected/targeted at the time of appraisal. Many of the "output
and outcome" indicators may be seen to have performed more poorly than expected, but in many
cases (including in GDP growth and in per capita consumption growth--the latter a relevant
poverty alleviation indicator) this was attributable to the negative impact of floods and a cotton
virus--factors clearly beyond the Government's control. On the policy front, however, it was
found that the reform objectives were highly relevant, implementation was on the whole
efficacious (since even the 1995 faltering did not represent a reversal), ID impact was quite
limited, and the degree of difficulty was moderate on the whole but high on the fiscal front.
Taking these together, the ICR finds the outcome to have been marginally satisfactory.
Summary of Findings. Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned
The main ICR findings have been summarized above. With regard to "future
operations", there is no "operational plan" per se but there are many partial plans for follow-up
on the various policy fronts in the forms of the IMF Stand-by Arrangement, commitments under
the SAPP and other projects, the budget, and business plans of the Privatization Commission and
other implementing agencies.
Among the lessons identified are that: (i) lessons of experience from previous
adjustment operations need to be built into the design of succeeding operations, particularly when
lessons from multiple operations are the same; (ii) care must be taken by the Bank to avoid
sending unclear or mixed messages to a Government regarding the prerequisites of adjustment



-iv-
lending, particularly at times when senior officials in either the Bank or Government are changing
or when the policy dialogue may be strained; (iii) it may take years of ESW and policy dialogue
to prepare the Bank adequately to seize a moment of opportunity to advance policy reform; (iv)
covenants should be concentrated only on measures about which the Bank has existing in-depth
knowledge; and (v) virtually every policy reform involves ID and requires capacity building--
hence the design of adjustmentprograms should be replete with ID measures (although quick-
disbursing adjustmnentprojects are rarely themselves appropriate instruments for providing
assistance for institutional development).
Other lessons are that: a "process" (vs a"blueprint") approach may sometimes be
appropriate to an adjustment operation, but if a process approach is adopted, then there needs to
interim high level reviews to (re) prioritize objectives and instruments; and (viii) supervision
should be forward-looking and focused not so much upon details of compliance as upon problem
solving and implementation assistance.
These and other lessons are elaborated upon in the last section of the main text.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. r if cl Ideni d
Name:                                 Public Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit
Loan/Credit Number and Amount        Loan 3645-PAK & Credit 2542-PAK
($150 million) + ($100 million equivalent)
RVP Unit:                             South Asia Region
Sector:                              Public Sector Management
B. BacAground
1.    Following a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit in 1982, the Bank made a series of
sectoral adjustment loans (SECALs) to Pakistan in the agricultural, energy and financial sectors
prior to PSAL approval in 1993. Two free-standing technical assistance credits complemented
these operations. All of these projects were deemed to have been moderately successful in
achieving their objectives, particularly after 1988 when the Government embarked upon a
comprehensive structural reform program aimed primarily at deregulation, liberalization and
privatization, macro-economic stabilization, and giving higher priority to social sector
development, where performance had long been particularly poor.
2.    This reform program was launched against a background of good performance in GDP
growth, which averaged about 6 percent annually since 1960. Factors accounting for this
remarkable growth were a generally business-friendly environment, a green revolution in
agriculture, reasonable macroeconomic stability (although growing fiscal deficits became
increasingly worrisome and threatening to sustainability), and substantial foreign assistance on
concessional terms.. The growth was, moreover, achieved in spite of serious policy distortions,
structural problems and poor social indicators.
3.    Pakistan's performance in implementing its reform agenda during the FY1989-93 period
was mixed. Good progress was made in privatization, deregulation, liberalizing the exchange
system, and in (nearly) abolishing investment licensing. Some progress was also made in trade
policy and financial sector reform, although the maximum tariff, for example, was still a high
120 percent as late as 1993. But implementation was weak in fiscal policy, as fiscal deficits
averaged over seven percent of GDP over the period and in FY93 reached a peak of 9.5 percent,
adding to inflationary and balance of payments pressures.
4.    Shortfalls on the revenue side reflected a narrow tax structure characterized by low
buoyancy, excessive reliance on tariff revenues, a proliferation of special exemptions, and poor
tax administration. Problems on the expenditure side included highly-politicized decision
making regarding expenditure allocations, a high level of defense spending, a rapidly growing



2
burden of interest payments owed on domestic debt, and a propensity to undertake low-priority
projects. Other major factors underlying this weak fiscal performance were the political
instability characterizing the period and the adverse impact of the Gulf Crisis on Pakistan's
balance of payments. Between 1990 and 1993 alone there were eight changes in Government.
Another factor was the decline in bilateral assistance in these years, especially from the United
States.'
5.    The Emergency Adjustment Loan: A PSAL Precursor. The identification and
preparation of the PSAL began with, and was influenced by, prior discussions and preparation of
a prospective Bank loan known as the Emergency Adjustment Loan (EMAL) This originated
with a Government request in September 1990 for Bank assistance to help Pakistan cope with the
impact of the Gulf crisis. The original concept of the EMAL called for a quick and relatively
low-conditionality operation. From the Bank's point of view, the major factors delaying the
EMAL were the Government's own delays in implementing a full "passthrough" of increased
energy prices and the Government's failure to come to terms with the IMF on a stabilization
program. In any event, when the Gulf crisis ended in February 1991, the Bank felt it could no
longer justify a (relatively) low conditionality emergency loan.
6.    One heritage of the aborted EMAL was a Pakistani perception that the Bank had let
Pakistan down in its hour of need. This perception was to color succeeding discussions of the
PSAL. It also became an issue in the PSAL preparation process--just as in the EMAL
preparation process-- that the Government felt that it was not getting clear and consistent
messages from the Bank regarding how the Bank defined the critical mass of Government actions
needed to warrant moving from preparation/appraisal to negotiation and Board presentation.2
The Bank on its part was frustrated by the Government's failure to conclude an agreed
macroeconomic program with the IMF and by the Government's proceeding with low priority
projects such as the motorways project and yellow cab scheme. So although the PSAL Initiating
Memorandum was reviewed in July 1991, there were to be several abortive appraisal missions
between then and mid- 1993.3
C. Program Objectives and Their Relevance
7.    The two highest priorities of the Bank's country assistance strategy during FY89-93 were
(i) to support Pakistan's macroeconomic and structural reforms (with emphasis on improving
both the enabling environment for the private sector and public expenditure management); and
(ii) to strengthen social sector performance, including through increasing the share of social
sector spending. The dual "flagship" operations of the country strategy become the PSAL in
support of the adjustment program and the Social Action Program Project (SAPP), in support of
I  The decline in US aid was in consequence mainly of the ending of the Afghanistan war and the re-
invocation of the Pressler Amendment restricting US aid to countries developing nuclear arms.
2  Notwithstanding prior communications on the subject and discussions during the visit of the
December 1990 EMAL preparation mission, that mission concluded that it could still not specify
"what would constitute a satisfactory policy package for the first tranche of the EMAL".
3  For more on the PSAL preparation process, see sections below on Bank and Borrower
performance.



3
social sector development. But it was not be until FY94 that these operations would be
concluded.
8.    The main catalyst to PSAL's conclusion was the coming to power of a non-partisan
caretaker Government headed by Prime Minister Moeen Qureshi in July 1993. In the face of a
balance of payments crisis that saw Pakistan's international reserves decline to less than two
weeks' imports equivalent, that Government moved swiftly and decisively to take strong new
stabilization and adjustment measures. These measures (listed under "Actions Already Taken" in
the Policy Matrix attached as Appendix D to this report) were deemed sufficient to serve as the
"prior measures" of the PSAL, and also as the basis upon which the IMF could launch its own
programs--initially in the form of a Stand-by Arrangement (concluded in September 1993, when
the PSAL was approved) and subsequently in an ESAF/EFF approved in February 1994.4
9.    PSAL/ESAF/EFF Objectives and Targets: The PSAL and ESAF/EFF were highly
complementary operations. The PSAL preceded the ESAF/EFF by a few months, but it was the
IMF program that contained the "harder" conditions and provided the larger financing of $1.4
billion--as compared with the PSAL financing of $400 million, inclusive of the Japanese co-
financing of $150 million from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) made
available in March 1994. The main stabilization target was to reduce the budgetary deficit from
eight percent of GDP in FY93 to three percent by FY96--an ambitious reduction of nearly five
percent within three years. Inflation was targeted to fall from about nine percent in FY93 to 5.5
percent by FY96, while foreign exchange reserves were targeted to increase to seven weeks'
equivalent in FY94 and to over 11 weeks equivalent by FY96.
10.   Other important objectives of the macroeconomic framework were to achieve current
account convertibility of the rupee, to reduce the maximum tariff from 92 percent in FY93 to 35
percent in FY96, and to offset the reduced customs revenues with substantially increased
revenues from the Generalized Sales Tax and through other changes in the tax structure to
broaden that structure and make it more buoyant and elastic. These and other related
objectives/targets were subsumed in the PSAL covenant that called for "adoption of an agreed
macro-economic program for FY95.'
11.   Other specific PSAL objectives were to privatize public enterprises in commercial,
industrial, energy and banking activities and to improve the efficiency of public expenditure.
Both the Bank and IMF had the same financial objectives of helping Pakistan cope with its
balance of payments crisis, reduce its debt burden, and thereby improve its creditworthiness. In
addition to the aforementioned PSAL covenant, other PSAL covenants (five in all) called for (i)
adoption of an agreed Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) for FY95; (ii) preparation of
plans for liquidating an agreed list of industrial units; (iii) implementation of an agreed action
plan to reform public administration; and (iv) increased expenditures of at least 0.1 percent of
GDP over expenditures for FY94 in the 1994/95 Social Action Program (SAP). The PSAL's
4  See the listing of "Actions Already Taken" in the Policy Matrix (Appendix D).
5  See Table 2 and Appendix F for the key indicators of the changes targeted in the PSAL and
ESAF/EFF.



4
Policy Matrix (see Appendix D) listed a large number of additional measures that were to be
monitored by PSAL supervision missions.6
12.   Evaluation of Program Objectives and PSAL Design: The objectives of the
PSAL/ESAF package of financial assistance and policy reforn support were relevant and
appropriate in that they (i) were addressed to important long-term as well as short-term issues
(e.g. improving education as well as reducing the current year's fiscal deficit); (ii) were
sequenced largely in accordance with current Bank/IMF practice; (iii) provided for timely and
adequate financing, including co-financing; and (v) were owned by the caretaker Government
and in general supported by both of the major political parties contesting the October 1993
elections. However, the political risk was clearly recognized that the new Government might not
follow through with adequate implementation of the program.7
13.   The design of the PSAL/ESAF package was founded upon generally adequate underlying
economic and sectoral studies, and the adjustment package was complemented appropriately by
investment projects that addressed Pakistan's other important needs to improve its social
indicators and infrastructure and to raise agricultural productivity. The reform program entailed
relatively rapid fiscal adjustment in comparison to the more gradual pace of many of the
structural reforms. The PSAL was consistent with the Bank/IDA country assistance strategy, and
the strategy itself appears to have been (as of mid-1993) broadly appropriate to the country's
needs and circumstances.8
14.   The design of the PSAL per se was however sub-optimal in several respects. The
ownership was narrow, with little involvement of the several communities of stakeholders and
potential beneficiaries (e.g. business and labor leaders). There were too many unprioritized and
vaguely-specified measures, and no core set of objectively monitorable performance indicators.9
The covenant concerning implementation of the Economy Commission's recommendations on
public administration reform related to reforms about which there had been no prior Bank ESW
or policy dialogue, even the Bank's access to the Commission's studies was quite limited. The
covenant concerning privatization was too narrowly focused on liquidating a given number of
mainly small industrial enterprises, and not enough on the process of privatizing and regulating
the large public utilities and financial institutions. And while a "process" rather than "blueprint"
approach was appropriately implicit in the project design, there was no advance provision for
6 See Appendix D, the Matrix of Policy Actions for a full listing of these measures.
Regarding various risks to the project, see Report and Recommendation of the President on a
Proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan and on a Proposed Public Sector Adjustment Credit,
Report No. P-5788-PAK, dated August 26, 1993.
8 Bank OD 8.40 on adjustment operations calls for such operations to address the "right issues with
the right priorities", to be sufficiently comprehensive, and to provide adequate financial support.
The PSAL/ESAF/EFF-supported reform program by and large met these criteria.
9 The table labeled "key indicators", attached to the Letter of Development Policy and reproduced as
an attachment to Appendix A, comprises a long list of macroeconomic indicators, with no
differentiation of projections, targets or performance indicators. Table 5 in the Statistical Annex
provides a more useful subset of these indicators, grouped according to whether they measure
policy performance, intermediate outcomes or outcomes in terms of the ultimate objectives of
growth and poverty reduction.



5
interim or mid-term high-level reviews--as is generally appropriate in the case of projects
characterized by the process approach.
15.   The design was also lacking an ex ante diagnosis of either the prospective social costs or
the environmental effects of the adjustment program.'° In defense of the PSAL design, it should
be noted that the special circumstances in which the project was put together-- i.e. by an interim
Government wanting but not fully able to commit its still-to-be elected successor Government to
actions on many fronts-- go a long way to explain why so wide a net was cast by the PSAL
16.   The reform program's design in general and the PSAL's design in particular also gave
insufficient attention to institutional development (ID) dimensions of the reform process. There
was considerable ID in terms of "changing the rules of the game" but little in terms of capacity
building and strengthening implementation capacity. To be sure, some of the design
shortcomings were an inevitable consequence of the speed with which the program was mounted
following the (unexpected) advent of the caretaker Government. But had the program's long
preparation given more attention to such matters as ID and appropriate performance indicators,
the PSAL project's "quality at entry" would have been higher.
D. LImplementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   The detailed story of the implementation of the ESAF/PSAL program in general and of
the measures listed in the policy matrix of the PSAL project in particular is well documented
elsewhere." This being the case, this section will concentrate upon the main successes and
shortcomings.
18.   One main conclusion about implementation is that the PSAL provided a useful and timely
"nudge" to Government action on a number of fronts, including some where there was
considerable inertia to be overcome. Another is that implementation of the reform program as a
whole was satisfactory in 1993-94 but faltered seriously on the fiscal and import tariff reform
fronts by July 1995, causing the ESAF/EFF to become inoperative. In October 1995 a strict new
stabilization program was adopted after reserves had declined substantially owing to a serious
deterioration in the balance of payments. The new program remained broadly on track as of
March 1996. But the 1995 experience resulted in a loss of credibility regarding the macro-
economic management
10 The SAP and SAPP addressed more long-term social issues than short-term social cost/safety net
issues. The PSAL President's Report predicted that the net social impact of the reform program
would be beneficial, but no quantitative indicators of either social costs or benefits were cited.
Appendix D, the Policy Matrix, lists the "prior actions" taken while Appendix E describes in some
detail the actions taken up to second tranche release. Table 6 compares the actual values of a
number of key indicators with the values projected/targeted at the time of appraisal. Appendix F
shows recent trends of a number of economic and financial variables. An updated record of
implementation of Pakistan's overall reform program is contained in the Bank's annual reports to
the Aid Consortium, the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy Papers, the Government's
annual Economic Survey, and IMF documents including the Article IV Consultation reports.



6
19.   As described in the Policy Matrix (Appendix D), the Government took a substantial
number of policy measures in August 1993 that constituted the "prior measures", justifying first
tranche release of the PSAL. These included devaluation of the rupee, deficit reduction,
agreement on the FY94 PSDP and preparation of a draft rolling investment program for FY94-
96; reduction of the maximum tariff by 28 percent, and a 25 percent increase in water charges.
20.   The PSAL originally anticipated that a second tranche review would take place in
June/July 1994, with the tranche release to follow shortly thereafter. In the event, this review
and release was delayed by about five months as it took the new Government some time to get its
bearings and to move ahead with implementation. But as is described in Appendix E, there was
generally satisfactory progress up to the final supervision mission in November 1994 on overall
PSAL/ESAF/EFF implementation. So looking at the overall PSAL-supported reforms between
mid- 1993 and second tranche disbursement in December 1994, it may be said that good progress
was made in fiscal deficit and tariff reduction; in the abolition of export duties and of import
license fees and surcharges and in the imposition of a minimum tariff (10 percent); in reducing
quantitative restrictions (QRs) on imports, in making the rupee was made fully convertible on
current account; in deregulating cotton marketing, in instituting pre-shipment inspections, in
privatization (including of the banks and in the power and telecommunications sectors); and in
improving PSDP control and monitoring. This adds up to a substantial record of reform.
21.   The weaker areas of implementation performance were: resource mobilization in general
(including cost recovery in irrigation as well as shortfalls in tax collection and in tax
restructuring); civil service reform (where there was no attempt to undertake systemic reforms
that would improve the ethos and productivity of the bureaucracy, and where some of the modest
progress achieved in reducing staff and numbers of divisions has been reversed); other areas of
institutional development (see below); and in several areas related to governance (e.g. continued
interference at the political level in decisions of autonomous agencies and entities, continued
granting of special exemptions and subsidies).
22.   More specifically, the FY95 actual budget deficit was equivalent to 5.6 percent of GDP,
as compared to the PSAL/ESAF target of 4.0 percent while the FY96 budget target was set at 5
percent of GDP, as compared to the program target of 3.0 percent. Some, but by no means all of
these shortfalls, were attributable to the effects of floods and cotton virus. Also in the FY96
budget, the maximum tariff was reduced from 70 percent to only 65 percent--as compared with
the 45 percent targeted.'2 Progress did continue in 1995 on various fronts--SAP implementation
and privatization being the two to which the Bank appropriately gave high priority. But given
the centrality of fiscal reform--structural as well as in terms of deficit reduction--on balance it
must be said that 1995 was a year of slowdown in the pace of economic reforms and of
unsatisfactory macroeconomic performance.
12 The FY96 targets refer to targets established in the ESAF/EFF/PSAL-supported program. The
PSAL conditions applied only to FY94 and FY95. The FY96 target for the maximum tariff was
subsequently changed to 55 percent in the revised FY96 budget and agreed to by the IMF after a
meeting between the Prime Minister and the IMF's Managing Director in April 1995.



7
23.   This raises the question of why the Bank released the second tranche of the PSAL in
December 1994, i.e. in the middle of FY95, seemingly in the face of increasingly unsatisfactory
fiscal performance. The IMF review mission of November 1994, coincident with the Bank's last
PSAL supervision mission, found the Government to be then still in compliance with the
ESAF/EFF performance criteria. So even though revenue collections were lagging and there
were concerns about the sustainability of the program, the Government was allowed to make its
scheduled December 1994 purchases under the IMF arrangements. Although the Bank took its
lead from the Fund in judging Pakistan's macroeconomic program to be on track, the Bank's
management decided independently to release the second tranche, notwithstanding the revenue
shortfall, because it was persuaded (i) that implementation of the other reform program
conditions was satisfactory; and (ii) that the government would improve its revenue performance
in the second half of FY95, which it did.
24.   The performance of a number of "output and outcome" variables was disappointing.
Owing largely to the continued large impact of devastating floods and the cotton virus, GDP
growth was between 3.5-4.5 percent in FY94-95 against a targeted 6.5-7.5 percent. Largely for
the same reason, export growth (volume) was poor--averaging only about one percent in FY94-
95 against a targeted eight percent average for those two years.'3 Other outcomes that were
significantly worse than projected include gross domestic savings and government savings,
external debt service, and the rate of inflation, which accelerated from about 9 percent in FY93
to 11 percent and 13 percent in FY94 and FY95, respectively, in contrast to a projected decline.
The current account in the balance of payments was reduced considerably (a good outcome) but
not to the extent expected and to a large extent for the wrong reasons.'4
25.   The main area in which an "outcome" variable performed better than expected was in the
balance of payments capital account, especially the inflow of private capital that facilitated an
increase in reserves to about 11 months imports in FY94 and FY95. Yet the experience of mid-
1995 shows how volatile these capital movements (including non-resident deposits) can be, as
declining confidence in the Government's macroeconomic management led to a rapid decline in
reserves until the October 1995 stabilization program was adopted.'5
26.   Poverty Impact of the Reform Program: The latest available household expenditure
survey data for Pakistan are for FY91, when the incidence of poverty was estimated at 34
percent. That being the case, probably the best indicator of the poverty trend since mid-1993 is
the measure of per capita private consumption, which declined by about one percent in FY94,
rose by about one percent in FY95, and is expected to increase by about 4 percent in FY96. The
13 The low overall export growth reflected largely the poor cotton harvest resulting from the virus and
floods. Non-traditional export growth--a better performnance indicator--was relatively high.
14 The deficit was expected to decline owing to exports growing faster than imports, but with the latter
growing by 5-6 percent per annum in FY94-95. In the event, the deficit was cut mainly through
unplanned import compression. However, non-traditional manufactured exports--often an important
performance indicator-- grew rapidly.
15 As may be seen from Table 6, the current account was also reduced considerably in FY94-95 as
compared to FY93, but not by as much as targeted, even though imports (in volume terms) in FY94
fell by nine percent instead of rising by six percent as expected.



8
implication is that poverty was reduced slightly since the PSAL/ESAF/EFF-supported reforms
were undertaken, assuming no change in consumption distribution during this period.'6
27.   Institutional Development: Because ID was largely neglected in the PSAL design, and
because of insufficient ownership, it was minimal in implementation as well. PSAL involved
some ID in terms of "changing the rules of the game" but relatively little in terms of capacity
building and the strengthening of implementation capacity. The main ID achievement of PSAL
was to provide a stimulus to an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant to the Privatization
Commission, through which effective technical assistance (TA) was extended and continues to
date. Some useful PSAL-related TA was also provided for improving Public Sector
Development Program (PSDP) monitoring and core program implementation.
28.   In some areas (e.g. tax administration and civil service reform) the Government appears
not to have appreciated (at least during the PSAL period) the extent to which TA and/or other
measures were needed to help the implementing agencies develop sufficient capacity to carry out
the PSAL/ESAF/EFF reforms. Nor does there seem to be sufficient recognition that capacity
building is unlikely to be sustainable when tackled only on an ad hoc, agency-by-agency basis, in
a context where there are fundamental systemic distortions in incentives and a deteriorating ethos
of the bureaucracy. These systemic issues remain to be addressed, first through solid diagnostic
work and then through implementation of a more comprehensive program of civil service
reforms. For the above reasons, the PSAL's ID impact is rated as negligible.
29.   Major Factors Affecting the Achievement of Major Objectives: Two factors affecting
adversely the PSAL outcome that were not generally subject to government control (i.e. major
exogenous factors) were the floods and cotton virus mentioned above. Civil disturbances,
especially in Karachi, and tensions with India that kept defense spending high were neither fully
exogenous nor under government control; these too had a negative impact. In a similar category
were the volatile capital inflows--whether of non-resident deposits or portfolio or direct foreign
investment--that had both positive and negative influences, depending upon the direction of the
flows during the PSAL implementation period. Positive factors "subject to government control"
were the ownership of the caretaker Government to major initiatives in 1993, and then the
ownership of the present Government of most parts of the reform agenda. The appointment of
key staff, for example in the Privatization Commission and in the State Bank of Pakistan were
also positive factors in implementation. A negative factor, however, was the continuing
propensity of the Government to politicize budgetary, management, and personnel decisions of
the implementing agencies.
30.   One significant factor "subject to the implementing agencies' control" was the use of
technical assistance (TA). As noted above, in some agencies such as the Privatization
Commission and the unit responsible for PSDP formulation and monitoring, Bank-provided TA
16 No data are available on recent changes in distribution. The above is therefore not a robust finding
but seems a reasonable conclusion. It also seems safe to conclude that had there not been the large
exogenous shocks that so affected lowered consumption growth and raised the inflation rate (the latter
also being of considerable significance to the poor), the net effects on poverty would have been
significantly better.



9
(including through the Bank's annual PSDP review mission) had a significant positive impact on
implementation capacity and in turn on the PSAL outcome. On the other hand, the failure of the
Revenue Authority to make use of TA offered by the IMF to improve tax administration capacity
was a major reason why Pakistan's revenue performance fell short of the targets, and in turn why
the macro-economic program came off track in 1995.
E. Assessment of Outcome
31.   The PSAL's "outcome rating" should take into account the reform program's and PSAL
project's relevance, efficacy, ID impact, and degree of difficulty. The PSAL's relevance was
found to be high, the efficacy of implementation to be partial (highly satisfactory in 1993-94
except for revenue performance, less than satisfactory in 1995 owing to the tax and tariff
performance slippage, satisfactory since October 1995), the ID impact to be negligible, and the
degree of difficulty (ambitiousness of objectives) to be moderate. Taking these factors together,
the outcome is found to have been marginally satisfactory.'7
F. Proect Sustainabdii  and Future Operation
32.   Pakistan's economic reforms since 1988, and particularly since 1993, have gone a long
way towards liberalizing and privatizing the economy. But there remains a large unfinished
agenda of reform, including in the institutionally and politically demanding areas of revenue and
expenditure reform, financial and social sector reform, and above all in governance improvement.
33.   The governance issues are over-arching and cross-cutting. They include law and order
problems in Karachi and some other areas, the granting of special subsidies and exemptions on
non-economic grounds, narcotics trafficking, avoidance and evasion in tax collection, political
interference in the management of supposedly autonomous agencies and financial institutions,
and a politicization and consequent undermining of the professional civil service. A particularly
important challenge facing reform efforts in Pakistan is that of realizing greater transparency in a
context of substantial vested interests, particularly the larger landowners who have resisted
agricultural taxation and some of the larger industrialists who have resisted reforms in trade
policy. This is closely related to the challenge of overcoming Pakistan's history of "stop-go" in
fiscal reform, and achieving the needed structural reforms in taxes and expenditures.
34.   Current uncertainties as to how these issues will be resolved dictate a rating of uncertain
for sustainability. The appropriate rating might even deteriorate to unlikely unless an ESAF-type
program is put back in place on the economic front, and early progress is made on the
governance front There is no "operational plan" per se for the PSAL but there are many partial
17 The ICR guidelines specify that "most project objectives must be met' in order for an adjustment
project's outcome to be rated as satisfactory. In the case of the PSAL, most of the project objectives
were policy reform objectives (as distinguished from the"output and outcome" variables that were so
much affected in the short run by the exogenous shocks), and most of these objectives were mostly met.
Another important consideration is that although there was a substantial shortfall in meeting the 1995
original program targets for tax and tariff reduction, there was never any actual reversal of the progress
made.



10
plans for follow-up on the various policy fronts. A number of planned follow-up actions are
specified in Appendix E. The entire budget, including the PSDP, is itself a form of PSAL
operational plan, as are the business plans of implementing agencies such as the Privatization
Commission. A principal operational document now is place is the IMF Stand-by Arrangement
approved in December 1995.8
G. Bank Performance
35.   Some of the background of the PSAL's identification and preparation, including its
origins in the EMAL project, have been described earlier. These stages were fraught with
difficulty and frustration, in large part because there was limited ownership of the Government,
particularly of the stabilization objectives, until the advent of the caretaker Government in mid-
1993. There is some evidence, too, that Bank officials at various levels (including in senior
management) were inadvertently giving mixed messages to GOP regarding the prerequisites of
the PSAL, e.g. as to whether Government cancellations of its high cost motorways and
telecommunications projects were an absolute prerequisite of the PSAL. Hence, the quality of
the policy dialogue and of the overall identification/preparation process is rated as deficient.
This is not to say that the Bank should have gone ahead with the PSAL before it's time, which
turned out to be August 1993. The main constraints to PSAL preparation were however on the
Government side (see below).
36.   Owing to the advent of the caretaker Government, the final appraisal and negotiations
carried out in August 1993 were characterized by a high degree of congruence between the Bank
and Government views, and these stages went quickly, with good Bank/IMF coordination. And
while there were some notable PSAL design defects, as mentioned above, Bank performance in
these stages was satisfactory. PSAL supervision was intense and meticulous in project
monitoring and compliance checking, and is judged to have been on the whole satisfactory.
Owing however to the many and diffuse measures to be monitored, spanning many different
implementation agencies, and given the lack of a core set of pre-determined performance
indicators, too much of the focus of supervision was on monitoring per se. This was mainly a
consequence of the project design, with its proliferation of unprioritized conditions. Had there
been a formal review and prioritization of measures in consultation with the new Government in
late 1993, this likely would have enabled subsequent supervision missions to concentrate on
fewer key issues and to make the supervision process more oriented to problem solving and to
providing implementation advice and assistance. Given the crucial importance of tax reform in
particular (needed to facilitate many other reforms including tariff reduction and increased SAP
spending), clearly this was one of those key issues upon which the PSAL could/should have been
more concentrated.
37.   Donor coordination was positive and productive, both with the cofinancier (OECF) and
other donors, including especially the IMF. During PSAL implementation, the relationship
between the Bank and Borrower was also quite positive. The Resident Mission in Islamabad was
Is Table 6 describe some the principal targets and measures to be taken under the current IMF Stand-by
Arrangement



I1
helpful in project supervision and implementation, and in facilitating the dialogue between the
Bank and the Government.
H. Borrower Performance
38.   The Government's performance in PSAL preparation was on the whole deficient. Prior
to the advent of the caretaker Government, preceding Governments failed to prepare their own
comprehensive and coherent reform programs. There was a commitment to reform in some
areas, especially privatization, in the early 1 990s but insufficient commitment to fiscal discipline
(especially in terms of raising revenues with new instruments), institutional development, and the
control of corruption and low priority projects . Too much of the initiative for designing the
PSAL/ESAF/EFF package, and for preparing the PFP, was left to the Bank and the IMF. As was
described in Sections D and E above, implementation of .the PSAL/ESAF/EFF-supported
reform program in general, and of the PSAL measures in particular, was on the whole
satisfactory. As this was an adjustment operation with procurement against a negative list, there
were no procurement problems.
i. Key Lessons Learned
39.   This evaluation of the PSAL project, and most importantly of the PSAL process, leads to
the identification of the following lessons of experience, several of which may be relevant to
operations in other countries
40.   Lessons of experience from previous adjustment operations need to be built into the
design of succeeding operations, particularly when lessons from multiple operations are the
same. A key lesson from the 1982 SAL and the 1989 FSAL was that Pakistan has a strong
propensity to come up short on its revenue targets (both for raising and restructuring revenues).
Heeding this lesson might usefully have led the Bank to take a more proactive role vis-a-vis the
IMF in assisting Pakistan with the design and implementation of its revenue reforms, including
especially in agricultural taxation, and in making such reforms a core condition of the PSAL.
41.   Care must be taken by the Bank to avoid sending unclear or mixed messages to a
Government regarding the prerequisites of adjustment lending. This is particularly
important following changes in key staff on either side (and most especially following a change
in government), or when pressures are put upon staff and managers from outside their normal
line supervisors, or when the policy dialogue is strained. Such conditions are especially
demanding of the diplomatic and "field skills" of Bank staff. Those skills cannot however be
expected to substitute for clear and consistent Bank positions. A key instrument for conveying
the messages are pre-mission and post-mission letters from senior-level Bank management to
high-level government officials, setting forth conditions for moving from preparation to appraisal
to negotiation and Board presentation. Attention should also be given to ensuring that the
distribution of copies of these cornrminicti c.ns is sufficiently broad, both withiin the Bank and
the Government so as to ensure thaL al i nvolved parties have the same understandings of what
are the prerequisites for moving to the next stage of the project cycle.



12
42.   It may take years to prepare adequately to seize a moment. But when the moment
comes it often must be seized very quickly. The PSAL project illustrated how it may take years
of preparation, especially through undertaking high quality ESW (see Table 7) for the Bank to be
ready and able to take full advantage of a window of opportunity such as was afforded by the
advent of the caretaker Government in mid-1993.
43.   Covenants should be concentrated only on measures about which the Bank has
existing in-depth knowledge. In the PSAL project, the Bank was neither ready nor able to assist
GOP effectively with civil service reform--to which there was in any event an inadequate
political commitment to reform.
44.   Adjustment operations, like IDTA operations, can be designed with a "process"
approach. But if they are so designed, the lessons learned elsewhere about "process
approach" projects should be applied. These lessons include the need for high-level interim
review(s) and for supervision mission members to have prior country experience and mature
judgment regarding how project components and performance indicators should be redefined and
refined during the course of the project.
45.   Virtually every policy reform involves institutional development (ID) and requires
capacity building. Hence, the design of reform programs should be replete with ID
measures to strengthen both near-term and long-term implementation capacity. The
PSAL/ESAF/EFF program gave too short shrift to the ID implications of the reforms it
supported. But ID measures --including technical assistance, training programs and other
instruments of capacity-building--should not be taken simply on an ad hoc or project-specific
basis. They need to be prioritized and integrated in the context of country-wide as well as sector
specific ID strategies and action plans. Such plans, however, need to begin with the
Government's felt need for and commitment to institutional strengthening.
46.   Supervision should be forward-looking and focused not so much upon details of
compliance and actions taken as upon problem solving and implementation assistance. The
PSAL project illustrated how the modus operandi of the supervision process can be "driven" by
the project's design. In the PSAL, because the design involved too many conditions and too
many implementing agencies (the Christmas tree approach), the supervision process remained
largely concentrated upon tracking compliance. An interim review that might have redefined
priorities (e.g. to give more priority to tax reform) might have enabled the supervision process to
be more effective in maximizing the developmental impact of the PSAL.
47.   Governance is generally crucial to sustainability. There is perhaps no clearer example
of this lesson than Pakistan. Transparency and accountability should in such cases be
watchwords, and all of the Bank instruments--economic and sector studies, policy dialogue,
lending, and aid coordination--should aim to identify and implement ways and means to increase
both transparency and accountability.



13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: SummayofAssessments
A. Achievement of              Substanftial      Parttal       Negligible    Noi applicable
objectives
Macro policies                  1
Sector policies                                 /
Financial objectives                            /
Institutional development                                       I
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                               S
Gender issues                                                                  /
Other social objectives                          /
Environmental objectives                                                       I
Public sector management                        /
Private sector development      I
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability        Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
Highly
C Bankperformance              satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                                                 I/
Preparation assistance                                         I
Appraisal                                       I
Supervision
Highly
D. Borrower performance        satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                                    I
Implementation                                  I
Covenant compliance                             I
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits'
oan/credittitle  Purpose                                    Year:ofapprovqd      Status2
Preceding operations
Ln.2166/C
.1255    Structural Adjustment                                    1982           Closed
r. 1480   Technical Assistance 11                                1984           Closed
Ln.2552   Energy Sector Loan                                      1985            Closed
Ln.2701   Export Development                                      1986            Closed
r. 1755   Technical Assistance IIl                               1987           Closed
n.2986   Agriculture Sector Adjustment                           1989            Closed
Ln.3029   Financial Sector Adjustment                             1989            Closed
Ln.3107   Energy Sector Loan 11                                   1989            Closed
Memo:
IDF Grant
8825    Privatization Commission                                 1994          Disbursing
Following operations
Cr.2593  Social Action Program                                   1994          Disbursing
Ln.3764 Power Sector Development                                 1994          Disbursing
Ln.3808 Financial Sector Deepening & Intermediation              1995          Disbursing
Ln.3812  Private Sector Energy II                                1995          Disbursing
Ln.3950 Telecommunication Regulation & Privatization             1996         Effective 1/96
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related
objectives.
2 As of February 29, 1996.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
steps in project cycle               Date planned             :Date actuatl
Identification (Executive Project Summary)i              Oct. 1990                    Oct. 1990
Preparation Mission (EMAL)                               Nov 1990                     Dec 1990
PSAL Initiating Memorandum Review (OC)                                                Jul. 1991
Appraisals                                                                            Nov 1991
Feb/Apr/Aug 1992
May/Aug 1993
Negotiations                                            Aug. 1993                    Aug. 1993
Letter of development policy                            Aug. 1993                    Aug. 1993
Board presentation                                      Sept. 1993                   Sept. 1993
Signing                                                 Sept. 1993                   Sept. 1993
Effectiveness                                           Sept. 1993                   Sept. 1993
Second tranche release                                   July 1994                   Dec. 1994
Project completion
Loan closing                                                                         Dec. 1995
Identification of Emergency Adjustment Loan
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
-: ' : , -, - .     . . . . .   . .  ,.    . -- ,--. .
, ~~~~~~~~~.                   , .. . .  . . . - - ..   '; .-X-T.. . . .. . .. .':
BankIDA           OECF          BanlkIDA         OECF
Appraisal estimate                 125.0             0             125.0            0
Actual                             125.3                           127.1          150.0
Actual as % of estimate            100%                            102%             --
Date of final disbursement                                       12/22/94 '
OECF co-financing finalized after appraisal and Board approval
2 Small disbursements due to exchange rate adjustment occurred after second tranche release.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation and Operation
Actual Values (A) Compared with Those Projected/Targeted at Appraisal (P)
Budget                     % GDP       P        7.7         5.7          4.1         3.
deficit I/                             A        8.0         5.9          5.6         4.6
Intemational reserves      months'    P         2.2         6.7          8.3         10.1
Policy        (gross)                 imports    A         1.9         10.7        11.2          8.4
Total DOD                    $b        P        24          25.5         27          28.3
Indicators                                          A       22.4         24.4        25.8         27.2
Maximum  tariff               %        P        92           70          45           35
A        92          70          65           50
Increase in expend            %        P         --         0.1          --           --
for SAP                     GDP        A        --          0.3         0.3          0.1
Gove       stm ent ues     % GDP       P        19.5        19.9        20.6         21.1
A        18         17.4         17.3        17.8
GovesDment Savings         % GDP       P        -0.8          1          2.5         3.5
A       -2.5        -1.4        -1.6         -0.5
Inflation Eo                change    P         9.3          8           6.5         5.5
in CPI     A        9.3         11.2         13          10.5
Private Investment         % GDP       P        11.7        12.1        13.6         14.2
A        I10         9.6         9.3          9.4
Intermediate  Gross Domestic             % GDP        P       14.5        17.4         19.3        20.5
Savings                               A       13.6         15.6        15.2         15.1
Indicators   Export growth (vol)          %         P        4.9         9.5           7          6.3
(merchandise)                          A        2.7         2.1          0.4         4.8
Import growth (vol)           %        P        4.7          6           5.1         5.8
(merchandise)                          A        11.3        -8.7         4.6         7.8
BOP Current Account           %        P        5.8         2.5          2.1         1.7
Deficit                     GDP        A        7.1         3.9          3.9         4.5
Real effective              Index      P       100.6        90.1         90          97.3
exchange rate             1992=100    A        100.4        95.6        96.3         93.7
GDP Growth                   %         P         3          7.5          6.5         6.5
Outcome                                             A       2.3          3.8         4.7          6.0
Private consumption          %         P       -2.5         6.7          6.2         2.6
Indicators  (real, per capita)                      A       -1.5         -1.2          1           4
Note: The organization and presentation of this table, in which selected variables are grouped as policy, intermediate or
outcome indicators, represents current (1996) Bank practice, not the practice of the PSAL. See also footnote 8 on page 4.
I/ P = Projected/targeted in the PSAL President's Report; A = actual value (preliminary for FY95; the FY96 projections
were made as of March 1996).
2/ This is the narrow deficit definition, inclusive of the provincial budgets but excluding the borrowing requirements of the
autonomous bodies. The projected and (actual) broad budget deficits, including those bodies, were 9.3 % of GDP (9.6%)
in FY93, 6.7% (6.9%) in FY94, 5.3% (7.1% )in FY95, and 4.4% (6.1%) in FY96
-- = Not applicable. The PSAL target for SAP expenditure applied only to FY95.
3/ Net of salary increases for teachers.



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Program Operations
Some key indicators for "program operation" through FY1996 are shown in Table
5 above. As explained in the text, the IMF's ESAF/EFF programn became inoperative in
1995 and was replaced in December 1995 by an SDR 402 million IMF Stand-by
Arrangement (SBA) spanning 15 months, i.e. until March 1997.
In the absence of a current PFP or other document outlinig a comprehensive,
medium-term Government program, the SBA documents are principal points of reference
for identifying indicators most relevant to "program operations", i.e. the future operation
of the reform program supported by the 1993 PSAL/ESAF/EFF. The first review of the
current SBA arrangement, as of March 1, 1996, included the following IMF prograrn
targets for FY96 plus the current projections for FY96 and FY97.
FY96               FY97
Program     Projected    Projected
Annual % Charges
Real GDP Growth                         5.5          6.0         6.5
Consumer price index                   10.5         10.5         8.0
Net foreign assets                    -2.0          -2.0         -2.0
Net domestic assets                    14.1         14.1         9.0
Domestic liquidity                     12.1         12.1        11.1
As % of GDP
Budget deficit                         4.6          4.5          4.0
Public sector borrowing requirement    5.1          5.0          4.5
Total revenue                         19.8         19.7         19.8
BOP current account deficit
(excluding official transfers)       4.6         4.7           3.8
Other
Gross reserves (wks. imports)          9.4          9.3         10.3
Debt service to exports ratio         24.2         24.4         23.1
Maximum tariff (%)                     65           65         50-55



18
Table 7:  Studies Relevant to PSAL Design
:      :  - ~~. .   . . .   .. . .  .  .. . ... i:.    :   T:iREE EE i
i:  i:-      0:0000  00::;00 :Stdy:  ;;Type/lDate
Restructuring the Financial System: Building on  ER         04/01/93
Financial Reform
Country Economic Memorandum, FY93                ER         03/01/93
Public Expenditure Review                        ER         10/01/92
Current Economic Situation and Prospects         ER         03/01/92
Demand Analysis and Tax Reform in Pakistan       PUB       01/01/92
Access of the Poor to Basic Services             ER         01/01/92
Sources of Income Inequality in Rural Pakistan:
A Decomposition Analysis                      WPS        01/01/92
Willingness to Pay for Water in Rural Punjab     UNP       01/01/92
Towards a Social Action Program for Pakistan     ER         01/01/91
Changes in Trade and Domestic Taxation for Reform of
the Incentive Regime and Fiscal Adjustment
ER         08/11/91
Local Government Finance Sector Review           SR         06/01/91
Tax Policy Options to Promote Private Capital
Formation in Pakistan                        WPS        06/01/91
The Microeconomics of Public Sector Deficits: The
Case of Pakistan                             WPS        05/01/91
Trade, Exchange Rate and Agricultural Pricing Policies
in Pakistan                                   PUB        12/01/90
Imperfect Information, Screening, and the Costs of
Information Lending: A Study of a Rural Credit
Market in Pakistan                           JRN         09/01/90
Pakistan: A Profile of Poverty                   ER         08/01/90
ER  Economic Report; SR = Sector Report; WPS = World Bank Staff Paper; JRN = Published
Journal Article
Table 8A Project Costs
This table, as provided for in the ICR guidelines, is not applicable to the PSAL,
since the loan/credit financed general imports, subject to a negative list. However, Table
8B below deals with "program" costs and financing where the "costs" are taken to be the
financing requirements sufficient to cover the current account deficit plus amortization
plus increases in international reserves.



19
Table 8B: Program Costs and Financing, FY94-95
CATEGORY                        FY94-95 Totals ($billions)
Financing Requirements:                  6.8                   9.1
Current Account deficit                 2.4                   4.4
Public debt amortization                3.0                   2.4
Change in reserves                      1.4                   2.3
Financing Sources:                       6.8                   9.1
Private Capital (net)                   1.4                  3.1
Official Transfers                      0.6                   0.6
Official Loans                          4.8                   5.4
of which BOP Support
- PSAL                              (0.25)                (0.25)
- PSAL Co-financing                 (0.15)                (0.15)
- IMF (net)                         (0.19)                (0.40)
Note: This table compares the FY94-95 financing costs and requirements of the reform
program on a country-wide basis (i) as projected in the SFAL appraisal report; and (ii)as
reported in latest balance of payments data. As of August 1993, when the President's
Report for the PSAL was prepared, the "financing gap" for FY94-95 was then
estimated at about $600 million--the amount shown under needed BOP support.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The standard ICR table for showing economic costs and benefits is not applicable to
this project. Since the PSAL was a SAL-type adjustment operation, no efforts were made at
appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR), owing to the
lack of an accepted methodology for calculating such measures. Nor were any parameters
given at appraisal with regard to cost-effectiveness.



20
Table 1OA: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present         Description of
Agreement  Section     typi e iista              covenant :                 Comments
Ln 3645/   111.3.01     9        C    Regular reporting.
Cr. 2542    111.3.02    3        C    Procurement of goods.
111.3.03     1       C    Central Bank audits, reports.
Schedule 4    10       C    Maintenance of macroeconomic 2nd Tranche condition.
framework.
Schedule 4    10       C    Preparation of PE liquidation    2nd Tranche condition.
plans for agreed list of units.
Schedule 4    10       C    Agreement on Public Sector    2nd Tranche condition.
Investment Program.
Schedule 4    10       C    Prepare/implement action plan to 2nd Tranche condition.
reform public administration
Schedule 4    10       C    Increase budget allocations for  2nd Tranche condition.
Social Action Program
Covenant Le:                            Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                   C = covenant complied with
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds  CD = complied with after delay
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CP = complied with partially
10 = Project implementation not covered  NC = not complied with
by categories 1-0



{~~~ ~ 2- V                                                           -D.>f  '9D  
a   0                            cr~~~
a~~' 
B  i;    S-.                            - eBt fOff      f   
3 o55 ~n                                                  K7-O   
0~~~~~~~~~ CD 
T; C         me f              <  8               v           X o       C
O       D           O O             O  t            O': CD 
.~~~~~~~
n   a              O      M;  §    n    m   rD   8   (n fa r-
Z   *,     0* =0 .t 3                                          -a
.                 Z n 5                          as
cng  ... 
0  ~ ~     ~    ~                                             t
0'             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0                                      CD~~~0 
*          0                  ±                     ft 
C/I~~~~C
nO                 -~~~~~~~~~     0-~~~C.         6> ,
0                                                          -~0 
0                        a               -~~~. 



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements/a
OD 8.60 GUIDELINES                   COMMENT ONWCOMPLIANCE
Institutional development: Paragraph 6: The ICR mission found that the PSAL design did
"Structural reforms focus             not give adequate attention to the institutional
on....strengthening institutions (e.g. the  development dimensions of some of the reforms
government's capacity to implement    supported by the program/project.
policies) and regulatory frameworks (e.g.
the framework for private sector
development)".
Speed of trade liberalization:        The PSAL/ESAF/EFF-supported reform
Paragraphs 10 and 22: "Speedy         program provided for a reduction in the
implementation may be crucial for     maximum tariff from 120 percent in FY93 to 35 ..
some .. program components [such as]  percent by FY96. The revised target now aims
trade liberalization. [which] typically aims at a maximum tariff of 50-55 percent in FY97.
to reduce tariffs to between 5 and 20  This is just an observation on the speed of tariff
percent."                             reduction, not an accusation that compliance was
not adequate.
Environmental impact: Paragraph       No mention is made in the President's:Report of
13. ."Analysis of adjustment programs  the implications of the reform program for the X
also considers the implications for the  environment.
environment."
Ownership and Broad-Based Support.   The President's Report for the PSAL
Paragraphs 38 and 39." The design of a    acknowledged the risk that the government's
suitable adjustment program is a      commitment to pursue the agreed reform
collaborative process, but the initiative  program might falter, whether because of 
and the leadership must come from the    insufficient commitment or implementation:
govemment ... [which) needs to generate    capacity. In fact it did falter in 1995 fortboth of
broad based support if the program is to   those reasons, and because ownership was not 
be sustainable....Adjustment lending is not sufficiently broad-based. The ICR concludes,
advisable when the political commitment  however, that the Bank was justified in going:
to adjustment is weak or highly       ahead with the PSAL in the face of these known
uncertain."                           risks
Number of Conditions: Paragraph       The ICR evaluation found that while the number
51 .."Staff should be as economical as  of covenants (5) was appropriate, there were an:
possible in deciding upon the number of   excessive number of conditions requiring
conditions [to include in an adjustment    monitoring by the supervision missions..:
operation].                           _    _     _   _     _    __i
/a This table is included in order to flag some issues of PSAL design; it is not
intended to imply that Bank staff were remiss in their compliance with the guidelines
of OMS 8.40.



23
Table 12 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage ofproject cycle                    Weeks                 US$
Preparation to appraisal                              37.0                  120.2
Appraisal                                            139.1                  427.1
Negotiations through Board approval                    4.0                   14.6
Supervision                                           54.6                  130.4
Completion (budgeted)                                 15.0                   25.8
TOTAL                                              249.7                  718.1
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Speciaiized                      Performance rating
Stage of        Monthl     Number       staff skills    Days in    Implementation     Development
project cycle      year      or persons   represented    field         status             objectives
Through appraisal     4/92          8            A           13
Appraisal through
Board approval         9/93         2            S-2         0               2                   2
Supervision:
First                 11/93        4            S-i          12             1                   1
Second                2/94         3            S-1          7              1                   1
Third                 5/94         7 2          S-2          17             1                    1
Third                 7/94          6           S-2         0 3            HS                  HS
Fourth              10-11/94      12 2           A           19            HS                   HS
Completion             3/96         1            C           9
Specialized staJfskills represented:
A = Task manager, legal issues, transportation pricing, agricultural pricing, trade, procurement, implementation,
cofinancing, private sector development, privatization, pubic enterprises, industrial pricing, energy pricing.
S-I = Task manager, industrial economist, privatization, regulations, transport, macroeconomics, trade,
agriculture, labor mobility.
S-2 = Task manager (macro), industrial economist, privatization, regulations, trade, energy, agriculture, transport,
labor mobility.
S-3 = Task manager, industrial economist, privatization, legal regulations, trade, transport
C  = Macroeconomist/evaluator.
' OECF participation in mission wrap-up meeting.
2 OECF full mission participation.
3 Policy discussions with Government held in Washington.






APPENDICES






APPENDIX I
Page I of 9
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
World Bank/IDA Public Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit (PSAL)
Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire
A completion mission for this project was undertaken by Mr. Robert Armstrong
(consultant), who visited Pakistan from March 10-22. This Aide-Memoire, which reflects
the mission's views and has not been reviewed by the World Bank's departmental or
regional management, provides selected observations and some preliminary conclusions
of the mission, to be confirmed or modified in the full draft Implementation Completion
Report. While this Aide-Memoire was not discussed with the government during Mr.
Armstrong's mission (in accordance with his Terms-of-Reference), it is hoped that the
Government will provide comments on it, either orally or in writing, to staff of the World
Bank Resident Mission, within the next ten days. If appropriate, a summary of these
comments may be attached to this Aide-Memoire, for inclusion in the ICR. Such
comments will in any event be taken into account in the full draft ICR--which will be sent
to the Government for comments.
The mission discussed with the Government the prospective content and timing of
the Government's own evaluation of the project, to be included in the ICR. The
Government agreed to the proposals contained in the letter dated March 8, 1996 from Ms.
Lorene Yap to Mr. Javed Talat, Secretary, Finance, including the request that the
Government's evaluation be sent to the World Bank Resident Mission by mid-April
1996. (See Annex I).
The mission met with many present and former government officials; Mr. Ikuro
Sato Chief Representative of the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF), which co-financed the project; staff of World Bank and IMF Resident Missions
in Islamabad; and members of the private sector, including in Lahore. Their insights and
reflections on the reform process in Pakistan in general, and on the PSAL in particular,
are greatly appreciated. The OECF was invited to participate in the mission but did not
have staff available to do so.
A questionnaire listing the range of questions and issues the mission sought to
discuss in Pakistan is attached as Annex II. This includes, for reference, a listing of the
PSAL covenants plus other key measures described in the PSAL policy matrix. I The ICR
will attempt to address all of these questions, with particular attention to one additional
question not included in the questionnaire: if we could do the PSAL over again--with the
benefit of hindsight--how should we do it differently, in order to do it better?"
'It should be noted that the ICR evaluation will take into account the relevance and progress towards
implementation of additional measures included in the PSAL matrix but excluded from the list attached to
the questionnaire. The earmarking of proceeds from privatization for debt retirement is an example of such
additional measures



APPENDIX I
Page 2 of 9
Focus of this Aide-Memoire
This is not a draft ICR, nor a review of PSAL implementation. Rather, it focuses
on a selected number of mission findings whose interpretation is (i) important to
establishing the ICR ratings; (ii) problematic or controversial; and (iii) offers a
possibility of yielding lessons of experience and related recommendations. These
selection criteria will inevitably tend to accentuate PSAL 's shortcomings vis a vis its
strengths, as it is the problem areas that most callfor interpretation. To keep the
balance, however, it may be useful to begin by describing some strong features of the
PSAL.2
PSAL Strengths and Successes
Although the PSAL had a protracted and difficult gestation, it was mounted
quickly after the interim Government of Moeen Qureshi came to office and took, in
August 1993, a substantial number of policy measures that comprised the PSAL's "prior
actions". The loan was approved in September 1993 and the first tranche was disbursed
immediately, helping the country cope with its balance of payments crisis. It was also a
vehicle for mobilizing Japanese co-financing of $150 million, and it "leveraged"
additional official concessionary assistance through the Consortium by constituting an
imprimatur of Pakistan's aidworthiness. It was supported and complemented by an IMF
Stand-by Arrangement and later on by an ESAF/EFF. Bank/Fund collaboration in
mounting the ESAF and PSAL was good.
The PSAL was finally put together in August 1993 by cohesive economic tearns
on both the Government and Bank sides who "spoke the same language" and shared
views on what were the binding constraints to Pakistan's development and on what policy
reforms most needed to be taken. There was strong "ownership" of the PSAL agenda by
the Qureshi government, and agreement in principle to that agenda by both of the major
political parties contesting the October 1993 elections. The risk of reduced commitment
by the successor government was however clearly recognized. The aim to use PSAL to
help define and "lock in" that reform agenda was a worthy objective.
PSAL's objectives were clearly "relevant". The five covenants (see last page of
Annex II) all related to important structural issues, and many of the additional measures
called for in the policy matrix reflected the comprehensive nature of the reforms launched
by the Qureshi government. The project design avoided a rigid "blueprint" with arbitrary
or over-ambitious targets and gave considerable flexibility to the task manager to define,
2 The PSAL may be regarded as both a "product" and a "process". As a product, it comprised a pot of
money available for quick disbursement against a negative list, plus a set of policy objectives and planned
measures. As a process, it was (at least potentially) a key vehicle for policy dialogue and cooperative
problem solving . The ICR will give attention to the process as well as the product. The ICR will also aim
to achieve more "balance" than this Aide-Memoire, the main purpose of which is to provoke comments that
will serve to improve the quality of the ICR.



APPEND1X I
Page 3 of 9
in consultation with the implementing agencies, criteria for satisfactory implementation
performance.
The PSAL and its supervision provided a useful and timely "nudge" to
Government action on a number of fronts, including some where there was considerable
inertia to be overcome. The modus operandi could be characterized as a pragmatic
"process" approach suited to the uncertainties of the times. And while the PSAL per se
did not give much attention to social dimensions of adjustment, it was complemented by
the Social Action Program Project that did so.
PSAL/ESAF implementation was generally satisfactory in CY1994--it being
important to re-emphasize that the PSAL's first covenant called for adoption of an agreed
macro-economic program for FY95. The fiscal deficit was reduced considerably, the
maximum import tariff was reduced, good progress was made in privatization and in
designing the regulatory framework, a protected "core investment program" was
institutionalized and served to raise the quality of development expenditure, and
monitoring of development expenditure improved. The implementation of key fiscal and
tariff reforms was slowed down in CY95, but strong fiscal measures are again being taken
under the aegis of an IMF SBA, and there is some prospect of a renewed ESAF in the
near future.
Good progress has continued to be made since PSAL's second tranche
disbursement (in December 1994) in privatization, including of the utilities and
fimancial/banking sectors. And while progress on many fronts of the unfinished reform
agenda has been slower than desirable, it seems unlikely that there will be major
backsliding. In this sense, at least, sustainability seems likely, as even the Bank's
".-muddle through" scenario (as described in the latest Country Assistance Strategy
document) envisages some, albeit slow, improvement in Pakistani living standards.
PSAL Weaknesses and Shortcomings
This is not, however, the whole story. For the PSAL suffered from some serious
shortcomings in preparation, design, implementation, and "process". In some areas,
therefore, the ratings required to be made in the ICR may be close calls. The mission will
do more work after its return to Washington to clarify the criteria and to ensure that the
final ICR ratings are consistent with those criteria. The following findings, comments
and conclusions will inter alia illustrate how and why determining some of the PSAL
ratings is particularly complex, given the special circumstances under which PSAL was
launched.
Finding 1: PSAL's identification and preparation processes were protracted,
difficult, expensive, and characterized by a certain degree of frustration on the parts
of both Bank staff and the Government. On the Pakistani side, there was a
perception of mixed messages from the Bank regarding the requisites for approval
of first the Emergency Adjustment Loan (EMAL) and then the PSAL. On the Bank



APPENDIX I
Page 4 of 9
side, there was a perception of wavering Government commitment to stabilization
and other reform objectives.
Comment: Misunderstandings and unrealized expectations arose first during the
preparation of the EMAL, the precursor of PSAL. One reason why the EMAL was
delayed and aborted was because the Government was slow to implement fully the few
prior actions initially called for--in particular the "passing through" of energy price
increases occasioned by the Gulf war. Another reason was that the Bank hardened its
conditionalities even during the war, and wavered on whether it would (then) require a
parallel program with the IMF. When the Gulf crisis ended suddenly in February 1991,
the Bank understandably felt it could no longer justify a relatively low conditionality
operation. Yet there lingered amongst many officials in Pakistan a feeling that the Bank
had not done its part to help it in its hour of need, and some resentment at what was
perceived as the Bank's constant "shifting of the goalposts" of PSAL conditionality.
Bank staff on their part perceived that changes were occasioned by shifting and
uncertain Pakistani policy, and because each delay in taking needed actions implied a
need for later actions to be more robust. The sticking points then, as now, concerned
mainly the adequacy of the pace of reform, rather than the focus or sequencing. Political
changes on the Pakistani side and senior management changes on the Bank side also
interrupted the continuity of the dialogue. The quality of the policy dialogue in the early
1 990s left something to be desired.
Conclusions/Lessons: The Bank's expenditure of 176 staff weeks on
preparation/appraisal does not appear to have been very cost-effective, and neither side
appears to have formulated a well-defined and prioritized program for reform in the key
areas of fiscal and trade policies and next steps in privatization and financial sector
reform that could and should have formed the basis of an adjustment operation in the
early 1990s. A conclusion is that the mission should consider whether Bank and/or
Borrower performance on preparation ought to be rated as deficient. In any event, a
lesson is that both sides need to focus the policy dialogue on a short set of measures
deemed needed to relieve the most binding constraints to sustainable development, and
set priorities for both the Bank's and the Government's economic and sectoral work
programs accordingly. In the event, the Bank/GOP dialogue appears to have been too
much linked to the IMF/GOP dialogue and lacking in clarity concerning requisite "prior
actions" as well as tranche release conditions.
Perhaps other lessons are that performance indicators should be developed for prior
conditions (in the same way as for second or third tranche release conditions) and that
even when the Bank thinks its messages are clear and consistent, it needs to be sensitive
and responsive to perceptions that this is not the case. At the same time, it should have
been made more clear that preparation was primarily the Government's responsibility,
and that the PSAL and EMAL were really different instruments.



APPENDIX I
Page 5 of 9
Finding 2: PSAL's design was sub-optimal according to current standards of "best
practice" adjustment lending. There were too many vaguely-specified measures
and too few objectively monitorable performance indicators relating to the core
structural reforms. Given the special circumstances of August 1993, however, it
seems appropriate that the project design reflected a "process" (vis a vis a
"blueprint") approach.
Comment: "Best practice" adjustment operations are normally sharply focused on a few
well-specified objectives and highest-priority policy measures and conditionalities, set in
a clear strategic and medium-term context. Objectively monitorable performance
indicators should serve to focus and facilitate the monitoring of progress against the
objectives. The PSAL, however, had many diffuse and unprioritized objectives and
measures to monitor without pre-specified performance indicators, leaving the standards
of adequate compliance to be made up and negotiated by succeeding supervision missions
with a large number of implementing agencies. As noted above, the PSAL could be
characterized as having a "process approach" rather than a "blueprint design".
Many of the PSAL conditionalities could also be characterized as "soft" and vague.
One example of the latter was a conditionality that recommendations of the Economy
Commission on public administration reform be implemented, when the Bank did not
even know precisely what these recommendations were at the time of negotiations. Nor
did the Bank have any preceding ESW on civil service reform issues in Pakistan to draw
upon, and no experts in this field had ever participated in any of the PSAL
preparation/appraisal missions. Hence, the Bank was ill-prepared to undertake a dialogue
or to assist in the implementation of public administration measures targeted (after
agreeing on some targets during supervision) in the PSAL.
On the other hand, the ESAF did include quite specific and monitorable performance
conditions for key reforms in fiscal and trade policy in particular. Still, one may question
why greater priority was not given in the PSAL to the objective of tax reform, including
in the agriculture sector, given the importance of this constraint and the existence of
Bank expertise in this area. Leaving the dialogue and the institutional development
aspects of tax reform out of the PSAL program was probably not warranted, especially
given the importance of increasing taxes on agricultural income.
Notwithstanding the protracted (three year) preparation period, the PSAL package
was put together in a great rush in August 1993, without much reference to all the
preparation/appraisal work that had gone before, and in the absence of the task manager
and supervising division chief. This rush was, however, warranted, and some corner
cutting was justified (as in the lack of performance indicators) because the interim
government and its strong reform agenda came into being quite unexpectedly and was
known to have a short life. Besides which the balance of payments crisis was severe. So
while the design was flawed, the process approach was probably the best approach under
the circumstances.



APPENDIX I
Page 6 of 9
Conclusions/Lessons: A rating of satisfactory seems warranted for appraisal (at least
the final appraisal). A lesson is that the process approach, while generally not applicable
to adjustment operations, did seem warranted in the present case--i.e. leaving some
conditions vague, to be worked out in the course of supervision and mid-term reviews.
But a process approach calls for periodic high-level stock-taking and not just routine
supervision, where the stock-taking (as in mid-term reviews) reassesses priorities and
redefines performance indicators. In the case of the PSAL, it would have been warranted
to have such a formal, high-level stocktaking in, say, January 1994, after the new
Government had gotten its bearings, with the specific objective of refining the project's
priorities and performance indicators.
Often the best practice in an adjustment operation is to have a single tranche, with all
actions and conditionalities representing prior actions. This was obviously not
appropriate in the case of the PSAL, where the circumstances would seem to have
warranted a three-tranche operation.
Finding 3: The design was also weak owing to its lack of attention to institutional
development (ID) dimensions of the reform process. PSAL involved some ID in
terms of changing the rules of the game, but little in terms of capacity building and
strengthening implementation capacity.
Comment: Quick-disbursing adjustment operations are not generally appropriate
vehicles for supporting ID, which is by nature a long-termn process. But attention must be
given in adjustment operations to questions of implementation capacity, and to ensuring
that complementary vehicles (such as free-standing technical assistance (TA) projects are
put in place. In the event, some technical assistance for PSAL-related ID (in the form of
consultants, equipment, studies, training, etc.) was provided through other Bank projects
(power, telecommunications, financial deepening), through an IDF grant to the
Privatization Commission, and IMF/ODA assistance for improving tax administration.
Some of this TA was provided later than would have been desirable, however, and on an
ad hoc basis rather than in the context of a coherent plan for ID.
In some cases (e.g. tax administration, civil service reform) the Government did not
adequately appreciate the extent of its needs for such assistance. The Privatization
Commission, on the other hand, seems to be an area where TA is working well--partly
because the salary schedule of the Commission permits it to recruit at market rates.
Conclusion/Lesson: Because ID seems to have been neglected in the design, it was
minimal in PSAL implementation. No mention was made in the President's Report of the
possibility even being considered of mounting a freestanding TA operation (TA IV?),
whether or not this would have been an appropriate instrument. Hence the warranted
rating for PSAL's ID impact would be negligible.
A lesson is that virtually every significant policy measure entails ID dimensions.
Hence there needs to be an adequate diagnosis for each major measure and each related



APPENDIX I
Page 7 of 9
implementing agency of what needs to be done to build adequate implementation
capacity. On the other hand, capacity building cannot succeed when tackled only on an
agency-by-agency basis in a context, such as Pakistan's, where there are fundamental
systemic distortions in the public administration (e.g. hiring and promotions without
sufficient weight on merit, inadequate incentives, constraints on productivity and quality
that the Economy Commission did not really address). Gains on the policy front do not
appear to have been matched on the institutional front, and some observers have remarked
upon the weakening of the civil service and other institutions crucial to the
implementation of the unfinished agenda of reform. The Bank and Government may
wish to consider the desirability of formulating a comprehensive but highly-prioritized
strategy for reform-related ID in Pakistan. In any event, future adjustment operations
should address the ID dimensions more directly, even if only to indicate through what
instruments and with what success the complementary ID needs are being met.
Finding 4: Bank supervision of the PSAL was intense, meticulous, and satisfactory
in monitoring and compliance checking. But owing to the multiple and diffuse
measures to be monitored, spanning many different implementation agencies, and
given the lack of pre-determined performance indicators, too much of the focus of
supervision was on monitoring per se, as opposed to problem solving and
implementation assistance.
Comment: The modus operandi of the PSAL supervision process was "driven" by the
PSAL design, and the aforementioned flaws in the former led to difficulties in the latter.
Ideally, an adjustment operation with a few core measures is supervised by a team with
strong expertise in each of the areas corresponding to those measures. Such supervision
missions can themselves provide valuable TA. This did not happen in the case of the
PSAL to the extent desirable.
Conclusion/Lesson: Given the difficult challenges to supervision in the PSAL, the
supervision missions appear to have made practical and pragmatic judgments regarding
the setting of performance criteria and the monitoring of progress against those criteria.
Bank supervision may therefore be rated as satisfactory. A lesson is that when an
adjustment operation is characterized by the "process approach", the implications for
downstream review and supervision requirements need to be recognized and planned for--
as in the case, for example, of TA projects for institutional development.
Finding 5: PSAL implementation and covenant compliance was uneven, with good
progress on some fronts but disappointing progress on others. Taking the reform
program as a whole, however, Pakistan clearly achieved significant reforms during
1993-94 in fiscal adjustment, trade policy reform, taxation, public expenditure
allocations, central bank independence, privatization and financial sector reform.
But reform implementation faltered badly in 1995 and the Government suffered a
serious loss in the credibility of its commitment to disciplined macro-economic
management. In deciding upon an overall PSAL "outcome rating", the satisfactory
1993-94 outcome has to be weighed against the unsatisfactory 1995 outcome.



APPENDIX I
Page 8 of 9
Comment: The stronger areas of implementation performance were cited earlier. The
weaker areas included resource mobilization in general (including cost recovery in
irrigation as well as the tax shortfalls), structural changes in the composition and
collection of revenues, civil service reform (where there has been backsliding), the
earmarking of privatization proceeds to debt retirement, and in several areas relating to
governance (e.g. continued interference at the political level in decisions that should be
governed by consistently applied rules and regulations).
Conclusion/Lesson: The implementation rating will need to take into account the
considerations that implementation on some key fronts was partial and that progress was
gradual on almost all fronts other than privatization, and deficit reduction in 1994.
Moreover, with revenues and expenditures both much lower than targeted, the quality of
the deficit reduction was poorer than intended. (Progress on SAP implementation and
trade reform was in the period rapid by historical Pakistani standards but not so rapid by
international standards).
A lesson here is that history repeats itself, as the stop/go pattern on the fiscal front is
a long-standing problem. The PCRs of the 1982 SAL and the 1989 FSAL both remark
that the fiscal faltering was the main problem factor affecting the limited benefits and
sustainability of those projects. This suggests that the Bank could well lend its maximum
efforts and leverage to that of the IMF in trying to ensure that the revenue reforms are
finally implemented and sustained.
Finding 6: The PSAL "outcome" was influenced significantly by exogenous as well
as endogenous factors, e.g. floods, cotton virus, unexpected portfolio capital
movements, etc. There were great differences between the actual values of key
indicators and those projected/targeted at the time of the PSAL.3
Most outcomes were substantially worse than projected. The mission is, however,
still unsure as to how the PSAL outcome should be rated.
Comment: Tables 1 and 2 (attached as Annex III) provide the comparisons. The
projected figures are in each case shown at the left for each year, the actual value on the
right. The mission needs to do more work to clean up some of the data, to interpret the
causes of the outcomes (and the role of ESAF/PSAL in those outcomes), and to assess the
realism of key assumptions underlying the projections. The ICR will briefly "tell the
story" of the outcome(s) and make a judgment as to the realism of the projections
independent of unforeseeable (as opposed to foreseeable) shocks. Guidance will be
sought from OED regarding the appropriate "cutoff point" for judging outcome vis a vis
sustainability.
3 Both tables were included in the PSAL President's Report. These projections were agreed upon by the
Bank, IMF and Government in the context of PFP discussions underway when the President's Report was
being prepared.



APPENDIX I
Page 9 of 9
Conclusion/Lesson. The "outcome rating" takes into account the project's relevance,
efficacy, ID impact, and degree of difficulty in achieving the targeted reforms and
outcomes. If relevance were rated satisfactory, efficacy were rated partial, ID impact
were rated negligible and degree of difficulty were rated moderate, then the outcome
rating could be either satisfactory or unsatisfactory depending on the relative weights
appropriate to these components. Short-term GDP performance will not be taken as a
PSAL performance indicator but consideration ought to be given to performance in
poverty reduction, including through the SAP.
One lesson may be the need to frame the reform program and related projections in a
longer-term framework than now applied to the PSAL, ESAF, PFP, or CAS. Especially
considering Pakistan's preference and propensity for gradualism, policy reform and
especially ID will be very long haul undertakings. Future PSAL-type operations would
surely have improved designs if they were framed in longer-term perspectives.
Finding 7: The PSAL's second tranche release paper described a number of actions
planned to follow up on PSAL measures (e.g. planned measures on privatization,
irrigation water charges, etc.) but there is no comprehensive "operational plan" in
place, nor (with a few exceptions) any established monitoring mechanism to measure
progress against the new targets. There is also uncertainty as to when and if the
PFP will be updated, the ESAF will be resumed, and future Bank adjustment
lending might come on stream.
Comment: An "operational plan" for an adjustment operation might be found in many
places: a PFP, budget figures and statements, business plans of implementing agencies,
the agenda of follow-up IMF programs and Bank adjustment operations, etc. A
principal operational document now in place is the IMF Stand-by Arrangement Given
Pakistan's long history of stop/go on the fiscal front and its loss of credibility surrounding
the abandonment of the ESAF in 1995 in its present context of serious governance
problems, the sustainability of the PSAL benefits would have to be rated as uncertain at
best, and unlikely unless an ESAF-type program is put back in place.
Conclusion/Lesson: Sustainability needs to be considered "up front", i.e. in the very
design of a project. And the "operational plan" requirements should be considered early
on, especially with regard to ID requirements. For the same reasons that the project
design would benefit from taking a longer-term horizon (beyond the typical three years),
it could also benefit from an attempt to identify up front a core set of "sustainability
indicators" for the project. In the case of the PSAL, indicators of revenue buoyancy and
broadening and tax compliance would surely be high on this list of indicators.
Final Remark: As was mentioned at the outset, this is a selective list of findings and
observations that point to themes and issues to be developed in the ICR proper.
Comments from the Government of Pakistan will be welcomed, especially those pointing
out errors of fact, reasoning, and omission.



The World Bank                                     1818 H Street, N.W.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  APPEND2I
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              U.SA.                       AnnexI
Page 1 of 2
March 8, 1996
Mr. Javed Talat
Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad, Pakistan
Dear M,lat: 
RE: Implementation Completion Report:
Public Sector Adiustment Loan (PSAL)
At the completion of every World Bank Group project, as I believe you know, both the
Bank and the Borrower prepare short evaluation reports on the project, mainly with a view to
identifying lessons that may serve to make future projects more effective. Both the Bank's
and the Borrower's evaluations are put together in an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and sent to the Bank's Board of Directors and all member governmnents. This
evaluation formerly was called the Project Completion Report or PCR.
We are beginning the preparation of the ICR for the recently completed Public Sector
Adjustment Project (PSAL). Mr. Robert Armstrong will visit Pakistan during the period
March 9-22 for the purpose of drafting the Bank's part of the ICR for this project. The main
questions that M9Ir. Armstrong looks to address during his visit are listed in Attachment A.
He will also discuss with you how best to handle the Government's part of the ICR.
We suggest that the Government's part of the ICR address these same questions. The Bank
ICR guidelines state simply that "the borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its
own evaluation report on the project's execution, cost and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement. and the extent to
which the purposes of the loan were achieved." The borrower is also requested to identify the
measures taken or to be taken after closing to ensure the sustainability or the project benefits.
We see this as a low-cost effort whichi need not be more than a few pages. We
appreciate the high opportunity costs involved, especially as your budget preparations
intensify over the coming weeks. You may wish, therefore, to use the discussions that Mr.
Armstrong will be having with government officials as the basis for the government's
contribution to the ICR.
RCA 245423 * WUI 64145 * FAX (202) 477-6391



iMr. Javed Talat                                                   APPENDIX I
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
The ICR needs to be completed within six months of the PSAL closing date of
December 1995. Therefore, we request that the Government's section of the ICR be sent to
Mr. Sadiq Ahmed by mid-April. We will be producing our owvn, fuller evaluation on the
same schedule.
Should you wish any furthcr clarifications on this matter, they can be provided by
-Messrs. Armstrong (during his visit) and William Byrd at the Resident NMission. If you thinrk
it would be useful, we would be happy to meet with a few of your senior staff while Mir.
Shahrokh Fardoust, the PS.AL task manacger, is in Islamabad, i.e. from March 12-1 4, to
discuss how best to approach this task'.
With my best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Lor-ne Yap
Chief
Country Operations Division
Countrv Department I
South Asia Revion
At .ac hu L ent
cc: :x!. .-Vui Karimi Lodlhi
rxe.\utive Di,ec;o.
Thze iVosd Bna,k



The World Bank                                     1818 H Street NW.                    APPENDKI
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433               Annex 2
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              U.S.A.                                 Page I of 3
March 1, 1996
EVALUA TION OF PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PSAL)(1993-94)
VISIT OFMR. ROBERTARMSTRONG. MARCH 9-21. 1996
In August 1993, the Board of the World Bank approved a Bank/IDA project for Pakistan
entitled the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) in the amount of $250 million; this operation
was subsequently co-financed by the Japanese OECF in the amount of $150 million. The
loan/credit was disbursed in two tranches: the first upon effectiveness in September 1993, the
second in December 1994.
The South Asia Regional Office of the World Bank is now undertaking preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on this project in this fiscal year. ICRs are required for
all completed Bank projects: One part of this ex post project evaluation is prepared by the World
Bank, another by the Government, which should begin the preparation now. Both parts will be
included in the final ICR to be submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors before end-June 1996..
The Bank's part of the ICR will be drafted by Mr. Robert Armstrong, a consultant to the
Country Operations Division who will visit Pakistan during the period March 9-21, 1996. Mr.
Armstrong was formerly a division chief, economic adviser, and lead evaluation officer in the
Bank.
ICR Objectives and Key Questions
An important objective of the ICR is to identify lessons of experience that may serve to
make future Bank assistance to Pakistan more relevant, efficacious, and cost effective. The ICR
will assess in turn: (i) the PSAL's relevance, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness; (ii) main strengths
and shortcomings in the performance of both the World Bank and the Government at all stages of
the project cycle (going back to its origins in 1990 as an Emergency Adjustment Loan that never
took place); (iii) the PSAL's institutional development impact; and (iv) prospects for sustaining
its benefits. Towards this end, Mr. Armstrong would like to get your views on such core
questions as the following:
* Relevance and Design:
-   Were the project's objectives the "right ones"? (See Annex for a summary of the
main PSAL objectives and targets).
-   Was the PSAL geared to treating symptoms or root causes of Pakistan's economic
problems? Did it address binding or non-binding constraints?
-   How participatory was the process of identifying and preparing the PSAL?
-   How broad or narrow was the Pakistani "ownership" of the PSAL?
-   How adequate was the underlying diagnosis and analysis of the problems addressed
by PSAL?
-   What were the main strengths and the main shortcomings of the PSAL's design?
RCA 248423. (U WUI 64145 LA FAX (202) 477-8391



APPENDIX
Page 2 of 3
*  Efficacy and Efficiency
-   What results did the project achieve (financial, policy, institutional, other)?
-   How do these results compare with original and revised objectives and targets? (see
Annex for reference)
-   What were the most and least successful aspects of PSAL implementation?
-   In retrospect, was the size of the loan/credit ($400 million) appropriate?
-   How cost-effective was the PSAL? Could one say that it had a satisfactory
economic rate of return?
* Bank Performance
-   How well did the Bank involve the PSAL's stakeholders during preparation and
implementation?
-   How would you rate Bank performance during the various stages of the project
cycle; i.e., identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision?
-   Did changes in Bank management or staff during preparation make a difference?
-   Was there clarity and consistency in the Bank's objectives and lending criteria?
-   What were the main strengths and shortcomings of Bank performance in the PSAL?
* Borrower Performance
-   What was the role of the Government vis-a-vis the Bank in preparing the PSAL?
-   Did the Government involve potential beneficiaries?
-   How would you rate the Government's performance in PSAL preparation,
implementation, and covenant compliance? What were the main strengths and
shortcomings of GOP performance?
* Institutional Development: Objectives and Impact
-   Was adequate attention given in the PSAL's design to institutional issues and
constraints?
-   To the extent that the PSAL included institutional development objectives (e.g., in
tax administration, public expenditure programming), how satisfactory was
implementation?
* Sustainability and Main Lessons
-   What are the key factors relating to the prospects for sustainability?
-   Is the persistent difficulty in containing the fiscal deficit an "Achilles heel"?
-   Which of the reforms undertaken under the PSAL appear most and least likely to be
reversed? What are the key governance dimensions?
-   Could one identify a core set of "sustainability indicators" (e.g., revenue buoyancy
and incidence?)
-   What are the main lessons that emerge from the PSAL experience?



APPENDIXI
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
KEY PSAL OBJECTIS AND TARGETS
Actions Defined as Loan Covenants
*  Adoption of an agreed macro-economic program for FY95
*  Adoption/budgeting of an agreed PSDP for FY95
*  Implementation of an agreed action plan to reform public administration, and aimed
at containing current expenditures, based on the findings of the Economy
Commission
*  Preparation of plans for liquidation of an agreed list of industrial units
*  Sufficient funding for the 1994/95 SAP to allow an increase in expenditures of at
least 0. 1% of GDP (over FY94 expenditures)
Other Important Measures Listed in the Policy Matrix
*  Sale of at least one nationalized commercial bank left in the public sector
*  Progress in privatizing PTC and developing plans for privatizing a thermal generation
plant and a distribution district
*  Developing a time-bound action plan for regulating the private sector in selected
areas including power and telecommunications
*  Tax reform measures, including increasing taxes as a share of GDP, increasing the
share of income and wealth taxes, and preparing and implementing a plan to
strengthen tax administration
*  Institution of a "core public investment program", containing high priority projects to
be protected against budgetary cuts.
* Restructuring or closing development projects no longer consistent with Government
priorities, and improving PSDP monitoring
*  Trade policy reforms to reduce the maximum tariff, eliminate most exemptions and
reduce dispersions
*  Increase irrigation water charges and natural gas prices for FY95
*  Liberalize and deregulate fertilizer distribution



APPENDIX I
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN --External Financing Requirements and
Sources of Financing
FY1992  FY1993  FY1994  FY1995  FY1996
Prel.    Proj.
Financing Requirements                2698    4119    5042    4087    3336
Current Account Balance              1500    3687    2020    2387    2965
Public Debt Amortization i/           850      944     1140    1258      1147
Changes in Reserves('-'=increase)    -348      512    -1882    -442       776
Sources of Funding                    2698    4119    5041    4087    3335
Public Loan Disbursement i/          1951    2110    2545    2419    2441
Private Capital Transfers 2/           79    1571    1885    1257         967
Official Transfers                    450      361      314      312      165
IMF (net)                             218       77      297      100    -238
1/ Multilateral and Bilaterals
2/ Net Private guaranteed and nonguaranteed plus net short term
plus errors and omissions



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
PAKISTAN- Ke Indicators
FY1992      FY1993       FY1994       FY1995       FY1996
Actual      Actual       Actual        Pril.        Proj
A. Real Growth rate:
Growth Domestic Product               7.8%         1.9%         3.1%         3.9%         5.5%
Gross Domestic Income                 8.8%         1.4%         3.5%         5.2%         5.7%
B. Real Per Capita Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)          4.6%         -1.1%        0.1%         0.8%        2.3%
Total Consumption                     5.6/o        1.1%        -2.5%        -0.3%        2.8%
Private Consumption                   5.5%        -1.5%        -1.2%        1.0%         4.0%
C. PPG Debt and Debt Service (LT+ST+IMF):
Total DOD (USSM)                     20025        22371        24395        25814       27150
Total DebVGDP                         41.0%       43.2%        46.9%        42.5%        41.1%
Debt Service (USSM)                   2183         2526         2603        3171         3096
Debt Service / Total Exports          22.3%       25.3%        26.4%        27.0%        24.3%
Debt Service / GDP                    4.5%         4.9%         5.0%         5.2%        4.7%
Interest Paid (USSM)                   978         1037         1201         1380        1392
Interest / Total Exports              10.2%        11.6%        13.1%       11.8%        10.9%
Interest / GDP                        2.0%         2.2%         2.5%         2.3%        2.1%
D. Savings and Investment
Gross Investment/GDP                  202%        20.7%         19.5%       19.1%        19.6%
Gross Domestic Savings                13.6%        12.0%        13.9%       14.1%        14.2%
Resource Balance                      -6.5%       -8.7%        -5.7%        -5.1%        -5.4%
GrossNational Savings                17.1%        13.6%        15.6%        15.2%        15.1%
BOP Current Account Deficit/GDP      -3.1%        -7.1%        -3.9%       -3.9%        -4.5%
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate        0.29        0.02         OA7          0.03         0.42
Marginal National Savings Rate        0.97        0.51         1.05         -0.7         0.50
Govemment Investment/GDP             8.8%         9.1%         8.3%         8.3%        8.7%
Govemment Savings/GDP                -1.5%        -2.5%       -1.4%        -1.6%        -0.5%
Private Investment/GDP               9.8%        10.0%        9.6%         9.3%         9.4%
Private Savings/GDP                 13.8%        16.5%        15.5%        17.3%        15.9%
E. Fiscal Indicators
Revenues/GDP                        19.1%        18.0%        17.4%       17.3%        17.8%
Expenditures/GDP                    26.5%       26.0%        23.3%        23.2%        22.8%
Overall Public Sector Balance       -7.4%        -9.6%        -6.9%       -7.1%        -6.1%
Primary Deficit/GDP                -3.1%        -2.4%        -0.4%        -0.5%        0.7%
F. Prices and Exchange Rates
Consumer Price Index (% change)     9.6%         9.3%        11.2%        13.0%        11.8%
GDPDeflator(%change)               10.1%         8.7%        13.1%        14.8%        12.5%
REER Index (1992-100)              100.0        100.4        95.6         96.3         93.7
Terms-of-Trade                     100.0        96.0        100.0        100.0        103.0
G. Balance of Payments
Exports GNFS Volume(% change)      15.7%        2.7%         2.1%         0.4%        4.8%
Exports GNFS/GDP                   16.9%        16.1%        16.0%       15.9%        16.1%
Imports GNFS Volume(% change)      20.0%        11.3%       -8.7%        4.6%         7.8%
Imports GNFS/GDP                   23.5%       24.8%        21.6%        21.0%        21.5%
Current Account Balance(USSM)           -1500       -3687        -2020        -2387        -2965
Gross Reserves (weeks imports)           4.7          1.9         10.7         11.2         7.2



APPFNE I
Anne2x3
Page 3 of 4
PSAL PROJECTIONS
Pakistan -- Key Indicators
Prov.      Est.          Prfoected
__________________________    FY1992   FY1993   FY1994   FY1995   FY 1996
A. Real Growth Rate:
Gross Domestic Product                   7.79      3.0f      7.5%      6.5      6.5%
Gross Domestic Income                    7.2f      2.6%      8.29      6.8f      7.00
B. Real Per-Capita Growth Rates
Gross Domestic Product                   4.5%     -0.1%      4.3%      3.3f      3.3%
Total Consumption                         3.6f     0.6%      4.39      1.29t     2.5f
Prtvate Consumption                      3.2t    -2.5f       6.7%      6.2S      2.6%
C. PPG Debt and Debt Service (LT+IMF+ST
Total DOD                               22573    24045    25522    27000    28276
DODIGDP (1)                             46.       45.9°     49.2°     48.40    47.3S
Debt Service (US$M)                      2248      2236     2263      2353      2720
Debt Service/Exports                    27.2f     27.W      22.9°     20.9f     21.4%
Debt Service/GDP (1)                     4.6f      4.3%      4.4%      4.2f      4.5%
Interest Paid (USSM)                      999      1149     1201      1409      1517
InterestExports                         12.1f     13.9%     12.1f     12.5f     11.9f
InteresUGDP (1)                          2.3%      2.5%      2.6°      2.8f      2.80
D. Savings and Investment
Gross Investment/GDP (1)                 20.0%    20.3°     19.8%     21.4%     22.1°
Domestic Savings/GDP (1)                16.5f     14.2%     17.2%     19.1f     20.5°
BOP Resource DeficitjGDP (1)             6.5f      7.7%      4.1%      3.3f      2.5%
Natlonal Sav1ngs/GDP (1)                17.0f     14.5%     17.4%     19.39     20.5f
BOP Current Acount DeflcItJGDP (1)      -3.1f     -5.8f     -2.5%     -2.1f     -1.7f
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate           0.21     -0.74      0.54      0.47      0.40
Marginal National Savings Rate           0.34     -0.82      0.53      0.47      0.38
Govemment Investment/GDP (1)             7.1       8.6f      7.7%      7.8f      7.94
Govemment Savings/GOP (1)                -0.3%    -0.89      1.0f      2.5f      3.54
Private lnvestmenVGOP (1)               12.9f     11.79     12.1f     13.6%     14.2f
Private Savings/GOP (1)                 17.3f     15.3%     16.4%     16.8%     17.0°
E Fiscal Indicators
Government Revenues/GDP (1)              19.2f    19.5%     19.9%     20.6°     21.1%
Government Expenditures/GDP (1)         26.7f     28.9f     26.6%     25.90     25.5°
Overall Budget Deficit/GDP (1)           7.4°      9.3%      6.7f      5.3f      4.4%
Primary Deficit/GOP (1)                 -1.4%    -4.0%      -1.4%      2.2f      2.4°
F. Prices and Exchange Rates
Consumer Price Index (% change)          9.6f      9.3f      8.0°      6.5f      5.5°
GOP Deflator (% change)                  10.2f     9.6%      8.09      6.5f      5.5f
REER Index (1992-100)                   1.000     1.006     0.901    0.900     0.973
Terms of Trade Index (1992-100)           100        98       102      103       106
G. Balance of Payments
Exports GNFS Volume (% change)          17.9%      4.9°    9.5%        7.0%      6.3%
ExportsGNFSIGDP(1)                      13.8°     12.8%     15.80     16.8%     17.9%
Imports GNFS Volume (% change)          11.4f      4.7%      6.0°      5.1f      5.80
Imports GNFS/GDP (1)                    18.4%     18.4%     17.80     18.0%     18.30
Current Account Balance (USSM)          -1499    -3020    -1287    -1151        -990
Gross Reserves (weeks imports)            5.0       2.2       6.7       8.3      10.1
(1) GOP at factor cost                                  I        I_I_I



APPENDIX I
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
PSAL PROJECTIONS
Table 2.1: Pakistan: External Financing Requirements
and Projected Sources of Financing
(Millions of USS)
Total
category                                       FY94           FY95        FY94 and FY95
Financing Recuirements                                3568           32Z7             6795
Current Account Deficit                             1287            1151            2438
PubLic Debt Amortization                            1405            1614            3019
Change in Gross Reserves                             876            462             1338
Sources of Funding
Pipeline Loan Disbursement                          2102           2110             4212
Private Capital Flows (Net)                          798             585            1383
Capital Grants                                       238            376              614
BOP Support
PSAL                                             125             125             250
IMF (net)                                        230             -44             186
Bilateral                                         75              75             150
Source:  Staff Projections.



Page I of;l
MOST IMMEDIATE/CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Government of Pakistan
Finance Division
(External Finance Wing)
No. F.3(4)/EF(B-JJJ)/94                         Islamabad the 10th June, 96
From: Muhammad Khurshid Kiani
Assistant Eco. Adviser.
To:   Mr. William Byrd,
World Bank,
Pakistan Resident Mission
Islamabad (Pakistan),
Fax: 279648
Sub:- Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's
Evaluation/Comments) Public Sector Adjustments
Loan/Credit (PSAL)
Dear Sir,
I am directed to refer to the World Bank's letter dated June 6, 1996 on the above
subject and to enclosed herewith the Borrower's Evaluation, conmments and a letter of Mr.
Moeen Afzal, Special Secretary, Finance, addressed to Chief Resident Mission, World
Bank, Islamabad on the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL)
Regards,
Yours sincerely
(Muhrrnmad Khurshid Kiani)
AKt. Economic Adviser
COPY OT' ORINI.1AL



APPENDIX 11
Page 2 of 31
SPECIAl.. SECRETARY    No.F.3(4)EF(B-III)/94    </L -$l   18th hJune, 1996.
SUBJECT:- COMMENTS REGARDING PSAL.
Dear
As someone associated with PSAL from its inception to the
finish  (I  attended  the  celebrating  Reception  at  the  Bank
headquarters at its conclusion), I would like to make the following
comments:
(i)       While it was obviously important for the Bank-
to focus on the need for macro-economic
adjustments in the economy, the fact that
Pakistan   -  during   this   period   -  had
arrangements on with the Fund meant that there
was an overlap. It also meant that when there
was some default on the macro-economic side,
Bank lending for other policy loans would also
get stalled. This led to a bit of -acrimony at
times. One the positive side, however, there
was always a "carrot" held out for good
performance.
(ii)      It was a pity that Pakistan did not react
quickly enough to make use of the original
EMAL - conceived in September, 1990. By the
time GOP reacted with the "pass through"
decisions  the  Gulf  War  was  over  and  it
apparently became difficult for the Bank to
justify emergency lending to its Board.
Conversion of EMAL to PSAL certainly helped in
regard to key macro and project policy issues.
But it inordinately delayed the project and
government's financing needs were not met on
time.
Clont'd ... P/2



APPEND1Xll
Page 3 of 31
(lli)     The GOP adopted a number of  far reaching
structural measures in early 19.91 : these
included    foreign    exchange    reforms,
privatization   and   de-regulation   of   the
industries sector. These reforms went well
beyond  what  was  envisaged  in - the  PSAL.
However, government did not get any credit for
these important measures because these were
not a part of the PSAL menu.
(iv)      In retrospect one sees the PSAL as a "mopping
up" all purpose policy loan, which was used to
clean up a number of bits and piecDs left over
from other project/policy loans - under the
umbrella of a macro-economic framework which
was satisfactory to the Bank (in the absence
of an agreemont with the Fund). I think it was
quite useful in doing this. As an instrument
purely for this purpose it could be considered
as having been worth-while.
Best wishes.
Yo r53 aincerely,
Mr. Sadiq Ahmed,
Chief, Resident Mission,
World Bank,
Islamabad.
l1



APENDIX
Page 4 of 31
BORROWE-'-S. EVALUATION
ON
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
FUNDED BY
WORLD BANK



APPENDIX 1
Page 5 of 31
page No.
PREFACE                                                               3
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Program Identity                                                4
Background                                               .      4
Program Objectives                                              6
Program Targets                                                 8
Benefits Expected from PSAL                                     8
RELEVANCE AND DESIGN                                                  9
EFFICACY AND EFFICIENCY                                              10
BANK'S PERFORMANCE                                             !    12
BORROWER'S PERFrORMANCE                                              13
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE                                            14
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                            15
PROGRAtkM & FUTURE EXPERIENCE                                        17
APPENDICES
1)   GOP'S response on W.B.'s questionnairc                         18
2)   Updated Policy Matrix                                          21



APPENIX II
Page 6 of 31
PREFAQE
1.   This is a kind of evaluation report required to be prepared by the borrower and
is supposed to bc included in thc Implementation Completion Report(ICR) mainly with
a view to identifying lessons that may serve to 'nake future projects more effective.
The Public Sector Adjustment Loan(PSAL) initially started during the Gulf War as an
Emergency Assistance Loan (EMAL) which was later converted into the PSAL under
the auspices of International Monetary Fund(IMF)/World Bank.
2.   Preparation of this evaluation is bascd inter alia on the questionnaire and the
Draft Implementation Completion Report provided by the World Bank.



APPENDTX II
Page 7 of 31
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Name                               Public Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan/Crcdit Number & Amount         Loan 3645-PAK & Credit 2542:-Pak
($ 150 Million) + ($ 100 Millitin Equi.)
RVP Unit                           Soutil Asia Region
Sector                             Public Sector Management
BACKGROUND
3.    Consequent upon completion of various sectoral adjustment loan to Pakistan in
rne, gy. finance and agriculture scctors an emergency assistance program (E'.'AL)was
nec.'gssilatcd to help Pakisian cope with tI)C Gulf war impacts. The assista.nce/loan
cov.red under EMAL was supposed to be disbursed quickly with relat.ively low
condii:oniaties. But due to non-clear messagcs sent by World Bank officials to
Gc'vcrnmcnt of Pakistan there hlas bcen cunsidcrable delays in the Prograrti wherein
IMF programs such as ESAF/EFF werc linkcd with it and as such it converted from an
eniorgcncy assistance loan to a mracroeconomic adjustment program and as a rcsult
Pakistan was not provided wi-th the requisitc loan at the tirnc of need.



APENDIX II
Page 8 of 31
4.   T his Program was initiated because of the good performance of Ihe GOP in ihe
Growth in GDP which remained around 6% per annum since early sixties. In addition,
the  GOP has becn implementing a comprchensive program  of macroeconomic
adjustmcnt and structural reform. The first phase of this program was outlined in the
policy framework preparod by thc GOP in Dccember 1988 for the period 1 989 to
1 991. During 1 990-91 there was a considerable identification of structural rcform in
sevtnral areas including the rolr of the puiblic sector that went well beyond vWhat was
oriqinally envisaged. On the otiler hand, the first year also witnessed some slippage
in rryeeling a few policy targets, pertaining mainly to macroeconomic adjustments
on account of thc difficulties and uncertainties associated with the Gulf crises and
el( ction and clhangcs in the Government of Pakistan. Reflecting these channges of
,dc:ntification of reforms and of the macro framc work, the GOP prepared a ne;.v policy
framie work paper in Sept.91 for the peiiod 1991.92 - 1993-94
S.   This program of macro and structural reform was supported under the IMF's
stiictural adjustmcnt facility. Tnc IMF h.id also earlier supported the Governments'
recorrn progriarn with a standby arrangemcnt arid the World Bank has donc so via three
adjl,stment lcnding operations.



APPENDIX 11
Page 9 of 31
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
PROi.RM.OBE CTIVES
6.    The principal objectives of the PSAL loan were to support Government's'efforts
to address public finance issues which wcre crucial for economic and social
developmnent, deregulatc the econoiny and rc-define the role of the public sector while
increasing the effcctiveness and sUstainability of activitiGs that remained in this public
scjcior anJd improve private sector productivity und competitive positionthrougl; reform
of thc tradc regime.
5.    Public Scctor Adjustment Loan was initially negotiated in the shapa of an
emorgency assistance during the Gulf War with the objective as originally envisaged
.,s changes in pricing policy, expansion in taxation base and elimination of tax
cxeir,ption with the conditionality of cliarigc in pricing policy like increase in gas and
e!; c:ritcl,'  prices  and  climinnition  of  tax  exemptions.  In  1991,  additional
:or.j,tiorcali0:cs likc elimination of excmptionis in clauses from Incomc Tax Crdinance
1 979. increasc in tax baso and expansion of Gericral Sales Tax covcrage 6tc. were
ad:iad. Thcn it was linked with nmacro adjustments and structural reforms covered
::::!e !;s' ESAf/EFF arrangements. As ;, result the Government of Pakistan was
r;: ,ied to implemcnt privatiration, dcrepqu!tion and in addition reduction i*n budget
deficit, decreasc in defence cxpencditure, public administration reforms, trade reforms
and cost recovery of irrigation and drainagre was also required. Thus Ihc EMAL
cxt'ndocf its scope of work to miiacro*cconiomic stabilization and in additioin it ;ilso



APPENDIX11
Page 10 of 31
focLissed on social sector DeveloOlt:' t.,..
7.    To achievc these objectivcs the public sector adjustment loan was 'ramed
which aimed Bt
i)    Ensuring a sound & sustainable macroedono.mic frame work;
ii)    Privatizing public enterprises involvcd in commercial, industrial, energy
and banking activities;
ii)   Restrucwuring the composition and increasing the effectiveness -of public
expenditures;
V)    Colntinuing a prograrn of trade reforin to reduce protection, distortions
and non-iariff barriers.
PRO5RAr.i :VflGETS
T ): inairi stabilization) target was lo reduce the budget deficit froin 8% of C,DP
n FY 1993 to 3%  by FY 1996 i.e. a reduction of nearly 5%  within three years.
ft 11llion was torgeted to fall from aboul 9% in PY 1993 to 5.5%  by FY 1996 whiile
l rn,ign Fxchmngc rcserves werc targc:ted lo incrcase seven weeks equivalpint in r:Y



APPENDr- 11
Page 11 of 31
1994 and to over eleven weeks eqU'ii\.al,ent by 1996. However, in FY 1995 ihe actual
budget deficit was equivalent to 5.6% of GDP, as compared to the PSAL target of 4%
while for the FY 1 996 budget target was set at 5% of GDP as compared to program
target of 3%. But the achievement of thcsc targets remained at low ebb mainly
because of floods and cotton virus.
.
BENEFITS EXPECTED FROM PSAL
9.   Imnplementation of the Govcrnmcnt adjustment program was expected lo give
benefits to the economy. The successful privatization of public enterprises were
expcctcd to result in efficiency gain in the enterprises. The implementation of the
public financc comnponent was aimed to reduce public sector borrowing,, requirements
and improve private sector efficacy ihrough tilc climination of tax distortions and allow
the pLublic scctor to fulfil more effectively and in a sustainable manner. Trade policy
reforms vwcrc expected to increase competition and give Pakistan's indust. ial sector
a stronger export orientation. The social impact of the program was expected to
improve thle living standard of thc pooplc.
RLEEVANICE AND DESIGN
1 0. Sincc 1 988, the GOP had been implementing a comprehensive adjustment and
reform progranm aimcd at achieving sustained economic growth and domestic and



APPENDDC II
Page 12 of 31
cxternal financial stability over tiie;  um  term. This medium term program was
supported by IMF through a 12-month stand-by arrangement and ESAF/EFF program.
i
The financial constraints and structural weaknesses of Pakistan's Economny were
alrr ady known to IMF/World Bank even beforc PSAL Program.                it
11.  Th-e World Bank supported the GOP ihrough its past efforts and PSAI. Program
gave a strategy to change in thc fiscal policy, private sector developmerfT through
privatizaiionaraid trade reforms; public expenditurc ctc through medium term'Orogram.
12.  The GOP realized tilat it muist withdraw frornthose activities which can be done
rnore cfficiently by the private sector. Fiscal reforms aimed at reducing thc budget
d uicit vwhile raising developmental oricnted outIlays and moving away from import
taxailion were also recognized. So thc World Bank was requcsted for financial
assistanc:c by providing the policy ltter. The opposition, in principle, also.sLpporls
ihiis policy of the present regime.
.   .                                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
r
1 3.   The PSAL program suggested rnr diLlun-term solution to Pakistan's :cconomic
proilenms. It. did riot suggest long-term solition. Though PSAL program is over, there
I no declinc in Pakistan's econiomic problcms. The World Bank should have raiher
done its homework thoroughly in diagnosinig the econoinic problems of Pakistan before
suggestiHg its medium1 term program undc:r PSAI.
,.



APPENDICES






APPENDIX I
Page I of 9
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
World Bank/IDA Public Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit (PSAL)
Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire
A completion mission for this project was undertaken by Mr. Robert Armstrong
(consultant), who visited Pakistan from March 10-22. This Aide-Memoire, which reflects
the mission's views and has not been reviewed by the World Bank's departmental or
regional management, provides selected observations and some preliminary conclusions
of the mission, to be confirmed or modified in the full draft Implementation Completion
Report. While this Aide-Memoire was not discussed with the government during Mr.
Armstrong's mission (in accordance with his Terms-of-Reference), it is hoped that the
Government will provide comments on it, either orally or in writing, to staff of the World
Bank Resident Mission, within the next ten days. If appropriate, a summary of these
comments may be attached to this Aide-Memoire, for inclusion in the ICR. Such
comments will in any event be taken into account in the full draft ICR--which will be sent
to the Government for comments.
The mission discussed with the Government the prospective content and timing of
the Government's own evaluation of the project, to be included in the ICR. The
Government agreed to the proposals contained in the letter dated March 8, 1996 from Ms.
Lorene Yap to Mr. Javed Talat, Secretary, Finance, including the request that the
Government's evaluation be sent to the World Bank Resident Mission by mid-April
1996. (See Annex I).
The mission met with many present and former government officials; Mr. Ikuro
Sato Chief Representative of the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF), which co-financed the project; staff of World Bank and IMF Resident Missions
in Islamabad; and members of the private sector, including in Lahore. Their insights and
reflections on the reform process in Pakistan in general, and on the PSAL in particular,
are greatly appreciated. The OECF was invited to participate in the mission but did not
have staff available to do so.
A questionnaire listing the range of questions and issues the mission sought to
discuss in Pakistan is attached as Annex II. This includes, for reference, a listing of the
PSAL covenants plus other key measures described in the PSAL policy matrix. I The ICR
will attempt to address all of these questions, with particular attention to one additional
question not included in the questionnaire: if we could do the PSAL over again--with the
benefit of hindsight--how should we do it differently, in order to do it better?"
'It should be noted that the ICR evaluation will take into account the relevance and progress towards
implementation of additional measures included in the PSAL matrix but excluded from the list attached to
the questionnaire. The earmarking of proceeds from privatization for debt retirement is an example of such
additional measures



APPENDIX I
Page 2 of 9
Focus of this Aide-Memoire
This is not a draft ICR, nor a review of PSAL implementation. Rather, it focuses
on a selected number of mission findings whose interpretation is (i) important to
establishing the ICR ratings; (ii) problematic or controversial; and (iii) offers a
possibility of yielding lessons of experience and related recommendations. These
selection criteria will inevitably tend to accentuate PSAL 's shortcomings vis a vis its
strengths, as it is the problem areas that most callfor interpretation. To keep the
balance, however, it may be useful to begin by describing some strong features of the
PSAL.2
PSAL Strengths and Successes
Although the PSAL had a protracted and difficult gestation, it was mounted
quickly after the interim Government of Moeen Qureshi came to office and took, in
August 1993, a substantial number of policy measures that comprised the PSAL's "prior
actions". The loan was approved in September 1993 and the first tranche was disbursed
immediately, helping the country cope with its balance of payments crisis. It was also a
vehicle for mobilizing Japanese co-financing of $150 million, and it "leveraged"
additional official concessionary assistance through the Consortium by constituting an
imprimatur of Pakistan's aidworthiness. It was supported and complemented by an IMF
Stand-by Arrangement and later on by an ESAF/EFF. Bank/Fund collaboration in
mounting the ESAF and PSAL was good.
The PSAL was finally put together in August 1993 by cohesive economic teams
on both the Government and Bank sides who "spoke the same language" and shared
views on what were the binding constraints to Pakistan's development and on what policy
reforms most needed to be taken. There was strong "ownership" of the PSAL agenda by
the Qureshi government, and agreement in principle to that agenda by both of the major
political parties contesting the October 1993 elections. The risk of reduced commitment
by the successor government was however clearly recognized. The aim to use PSAL to
help define and "lock in" that reform agenda was a worthy objective.
PSAL's objectives were clearly "relevant". The five covenants (see last page of
Annex II) all related to important structural issues, and many of the additional measures
called for in the policy matrix reflected the comprehensive nature of the reforms launched
by the Qureshi government. The project design avoided a rigid "blueprint" with arbitrary
or over-ambitious targets and gave considerable flexibility to the task manager to define,
2 The PSAL may be regarded as both a "product" and a "process". As a product, it comprised a pot of
money available for quick disbursement against a negative list, plus a set of policy objectives and planned
measures. As a process, it was (at least potentially) a key vehicle for policy dialogue and cooperative
problem solving. The ICR will give attention to the process as well as the product. The ICR will also aim
to achieve more "balance" than this Aide-Memoire, the main purpose of which is to provoke comments that
will serve to improve the quality of the ICR.



APPENDIX I
Page 3 of 9
in consultation with the implementing agencies, criteria for satisfactory implementation
performance.
The PSAL and its supervision provided a useful and timely "nudge" to
Government action on a number of fronts, including some where there was considerable
inertia to be overcome. The modus operandi could be characterized as a pragmatic
"process" approach suited to the uncertainties of the times. And while the PSAL per se
did not give much attention to social dimensions of adjustment, it was complemented by
the Social Action Program Project that did so.
PSAL/ESAF implementation was generally satisfactory in CY1994--it being
important to re-emphasize that the PSAL's first covenant called for adoption of an agreed
macro-economic program for FY95. The fiscal deficit was reduced considerably, the
maximum import tariff was reduced, good progress was made in privatization and in
designing the regulatory framework, a protected "core investment program" was
institutionalized and served to raise the quality of development expenditure, and
monitoring of development expenditure improved. The implementation of key fiscal and
tariff reforms was slowed down in CY95, but strong fiscal measures are again being taken
under the aegis of an IMF SBA, and there is some prospect of a renewed ESAF in the
near future.
Good progress has continued to be made since PSAL's second tranche
disbursement (in December 1994) in privatization, including of the utilities and
financial/banking sectors. And while progress on many fronts of the unfinished reform
agenda has been slower than desirable, it seems unlikely that there will be major
backsliding. In this sense, at least, sustainability seems likely, as even the Bank's
"muddle through" scenario (as described in the latest Country Assistance Strategy
document) envisages some, albeit slow, improvement in Pakistani living standards.
PSAL Weaknesses and Shortcomings
This is not, however, the whole story. For the PSAL suffered from some serious
shortcomings in preparation, design, implementation, and "process". In some areas,
therefore, the ratings required to be made in the ICR may be close calls. The mission will
do more work after its return to Washington to clarify the criteria and to ensure that the
final ICR ratings are consistent with those criteria. The following findings, comments
and conclusions will inter alia illustrate how and why determining some of the PSAL
ratings is particularly complex, given the special circumstances under which PSAL was
launched.
Finding 1: PSAL's identification and preparation processes were protracted,
difficult, expensive, and characterized by a certain degree of frustration on the parts
of both Bank staff and the Government. On the Pakistani side, there was a
perception of mixed messages from the Bank regarding the requisites for approval
of first the Emergency Adjustment Loan (EMAL) and then the PSAL. On the Bank



APPENDIX I
Page 4 of 9
side, there was a perception of wavering Government commitment to stabilization
and other reform objectives.
Comment: Misunderstandings and unrealized expectations arose first during the
preparation of the EMAL, the precursor of PSAL. One reason why the EMAL was
delayed and aborted was because the Government was slow to implement fully the few
prior actions initially called for--in particular the "passing through" of energy price
increases occasioned by the Gulf war. Another reason was that the Bank hardened its
conditionalities even during the war, and wavered on whether it would (then) require a
parallel program with the IMF. When the Gulf crisis ended suddenly in February 1991,
the Bank understandably felt it could no longer justify a relatively low conditionality
operation. Yet there lingered amongst many officials in Pakistan a feeling that the Bank
had not done its part to help it in its hour of need, and some resentment at what was
perceived as the Bank's constant "shifting of the goalposts" of PSAL conditionality.
Bank staff on their part perceived that changes were occasioned by shifting and
uncertain Pakistani policy, and because each delay in taking needed actions implied a
need for later actions to be more robust. The sticking points then, as now, concerned
mainly the adequacy of the pace of reform, rather than the focus or sequencing. Political
changes on the Pakistani side and senior management changes on the Bank side also
interrupted the continuity of the dialogue. The quality of the policy dialogue in the early
1990s left something to be desired.
Conclusions/Lessons: The Bank's expenditure of 176 staff weeks on
preparation/appraisal does not appear to have been very cost-effective, and neither side
appears to have formulated a well-defined and prioritized program for reformn in the key
areas of fiscal and trade policies and next steps in privatization and financial sector
reform that could and should have formed the basis of an adjustment operation in the
early 1 990s. A conclusion is that the mission should consider whether Bank and/or
Borrower performance on preparation ought to be rated as deficient. In any event, a
lesson is that both sides need to focus the policy dialogue on a short set of measures
deemed needed to relieve the most binding constraints to sustainable development, and
set priorities for both the Bank's and the Government's economic and sectoral work
programs accordingly. In the event, the Bank/GOP dialogue appears to have been too
much linked to the IMF/GOP dialogue and lacking in clarity concerning requisite "prior
actions" as well as tranche release conditions.
Perhaps other lessons are that performance indicators should be developed for prior
conditions (in the same way as for second or third tranche release conditions) and that
even when the Bank thinks its messages are clear and consistent, it needs to be sensitive
and responsive to perceptions that this is not the case. At the same time, it should have
been made more clear that preparation was primarily the Government's responsibility,
and that the PSAL and EMAL were really different instruments.



APPENDIX I
Page 5 of 9
Finding 2: PSAL's design was sub-optimal according to current standards of "best
practice" adjustment lending. There were too many vaguely-specified measures
and too few objectively monitorable performance indicators relating to the core
structural reforms. Given the special circumstances of August 1993, however, it
seems appropriate that the project design reflected a "process" (vis a vis a
"blueprint") approach.
Comment: "Best practice" adjustment operations are normally sharply focused on a few
well-specified objectives and highest-priority policy measures and conditionalities, set in
a clear strategic and medium-term context. Objectively monitorable performance
indicators should serve to focus and facilitate the monitoring of progress against the
objectives. The PSAL, however, had many diffuse and unprioritized objectives and
measures to monitor without pre-specified performance indicators, leaving the standards
of adequate compliance to be made up and negotiated by succeeding supervision missions
with a large number of implementing agencies. As noted above, the PSAL could be
characterized as having a "process approach" rather than a "blueprint design".
Many of the PSAL conditionalities could also be characterized as "soft" and vague.
One example of the latter was a conditionality that recommendations of the Economy
Commission on public administration reform be implemented, when the Bank did not
even know precisely what these recommendations were at the time of negotiations. Nor
did the Bank have any preceding ESW on civil service reform issues in Pakistan to draw
upon, and no experts in this field had ever participated in any of the PSAL
preparation/appraisal missions. Hence, the Bank was ill-prepared to undertake a dialogue
or to assist in the implementation of public administration measures targeted (after
agreeing on some targets during supervision) in the PSAL.
On the other hand, the ESAF did include quite specific and monitorable performance
conditions for key reforms in fiscal and trade policy in particular. Still, one may question
why greater priority was not given in the PSAL to the objective of tax reform, including
in the agriculture sector, given the importance of this constraint and the existence of
Bank expertise in this area. Leaving the dialogue and the institutional development
aspects of tax reform out of the PSAL program was probably not warranted, especially
given the importance of increasing taxes on agricultural income.
Notwithstanding the protracted (three year) preparation period, the PSAL package
was put together in a great rush in August 1993, without much reference to all the
preparation/appraisal work that had gone before, and in the absence of the task manager
and supervising division chief. This rush was, however, warranted, and some corner
cutting was justified (as in the lack of performance indicators) because the interim
government and its strong reform agenda came into being quite unexpectedly and was
known to have a short life. Besides which the balance of payments crisis was severe. So
while the design was flawed, the process approach was probably the best approach under
the circumstances.



APPENDIX I
Page 6 of 9
Conclusions/Lessons: A rating of satisfactory seems warranted for appraisal (at least
the final appraisal). A lesson is that the process approach, while generally not applicable
to adjustment operations, did seem warranted in the present case--i.e. leaving some
conditions vague, to be worked out in the course of supervision and mid-term reviews.
But a process approach calls for periodic high-level stock-taking and not just routine
supervision, where the stock-taking (as in mid-term reviews) reassesses priorities and
redefines performance indicators. In the case of the PSAL, it would have been warranted
to have such a formal, high-level stocktaking in, say, January 1994, after the new
Government had gotten its bearings, with the specific objective of refining the project's
priorities and performance indicators.
Often the best practice in an adjustment operation is to have a single tranche, with all
actions and conditionalities representing prior actions. This was obviously not
appropriate in the case of the PSAL, where the circumstances would seem to have
warranted a three-tranche operation.
Finding 3: The design was also weak owing to its lack of attention to institutional
development (ID) dimensions of the reform process. PSAL involved some ID in
terms of changing the rules of the game, but little in terms of capacity building and
strengthening implementation capacity.
Comment: Quick-disbursing adjustment operations are not generally appropriate
vehicles for supporting ID, which is by nature a long-term process. But attention must be
given in adjustment operations to questions of implementation capacity, and to ensuring
that complementary vehicles (such as free-standing technical assistance (TA) projects are
put in place. In the event, some technical assistance for PSAL-related ID (in the form of
consultants, equipment, studies, training, etc.) was provided through other Bank projects
(power, telecommunications, financial deepening), through an IDF grant to the
Privatization Commission, and IMF/ODA assistance for improving tax administration.
Some of this TA was provided later than would have been desirable, however, and on an
ad hoc basis rather than in the context of a coherent plan for ID.
In some cases (e.g. tax administration, civil service reform) the Government did not
adequately appreciate the extent of its needs for such assistance. The Privatization
Commission, on the other hand, seems to be an area where TA is working well--partly
because the salary schedule of the Commission permits it to recruit at market rates.
Conclusion/Lesson: Because ID seems to have been neglected in the design, it was
minimal in PSAL implementation. No mention was made in the President's Report of the
possibility even being considered of mounting a freestanding TA operation (TA IV?),
whether or not this would have been an appropriate instrument. Hence the warranted
rating for PSAL's ID impact would be negligible.
A lesson is that virtually every significant policy measure entails ID dimensions.
Hence there needs to be an adequate diagnosis for each major measure and each related



APPENDIXI
Page 7 of 9
implementing agency of what needs to be done to build adequate implementation
capacity. On the other hand, capacity building cannot succeed when tackled only on an
agency-by-agency basis in a context, such as Pakistan's, where there are fundamental
systemic distortions in the public administration (e.g. hiring and promotions without
sufficient weight on merit, inadequate incentives, constraints on productivity and quality
that the Economy Commission did not really address). Gains on the policy front do not
appear to have been matched on the institutional front, and some observers have remarked
upon the weakening of the civil service and other institutions crucial to the
implementation of the unfinished agenda of reform. The Bank and Government may
wish to consider the desirability of formulating a comprehensive but highly-prioritized
strategy for reforn-related ID in Pakistan. In any event, future adjustment operations
should address the ID dimensions more directly, even if only to indicate through what
instruments and with what success the complementary ID needs are being met.
Finding 4: Bank supervision of the PSAL was intense, meticulous, and satisfactory
in monitoring and compliance checking. But owing to the multiple and diffuse
measures to be monitored, spanning many different implementation agencies, and
given the lack of pre-determined performance indicators, too much of the focus of
supervision was on monitoring per se, as opposed to problem solving and
implementation assistance.
Comment: The modus operandi of the PSAL supervision process was "driven" by the
PSAL design, and the aforementioned flaws in the former led to difficulties in the latter.
Ideally, an adjustment operation with a few core measures is supervised by a team with
strong expertise in each of the areas corresponding to those measures. Such supervision
missions can themselves provide valuable TA. This did not happen in the case of the
PSAL to the extent desirable.
Conclusion/Lesson: Given the difficult challenges to supervision in the PSAL, the
supervision missions appear to have made practical and pragmatic judgments regarding
the setting of performance criteria and the monitoring of progress against those criteria.
Bank supervision may therefore be rated as satisfactory. A lesson is that when an
adjustment operation is characterized by the "process approach", the implications for
downstream review and supervision requirements need to be recognized and planned for--
as in the case, for example, of TA projects for institutional development.
Finding 5: PSAL implementation and covenant compliance was uneven, with good
progress on some fronts but disappointing progress on others. Taking the reform
program as a whole, however, Pakistan clearly achieved significant reforms during
1993-94 in flscal adjustment, trade policy reform, taxation, public expenditure
allocations, central bank independence, privatization and financial sector reform.
But reform implementation faltered badly in 1995 and the Government suffered a
serious loss in the credibility of its commitment to disciplined macro-economic
management. In deciding upon an overall PSAL "outcome rating", the satisfactory
1993-94 outcome has to be weighed against the unsatisfactory 1995 outcome.



APPENDIXT
Page 8 of 9
Comment: The stronger areas of implementation performance were cited earlier. The
weaker areas included resource mobilization in general (including cost recovery in
irrigation as well as the tax shortfalls), structural changes in the composition and
collection of revenues, civil service reform (where there has been backsliding), the
earmarking of privatization proceeds to debt retirement, and in several areas relating to
governance (e.g. continued interference at the political level in decisions that should be
governed by consistently applied rules and regulations).
Conclusion/Lesson: The implementation rating will need to take into account the
considerations that implementation on some key fronts was partial and that progress was
gradual on almost all fronts other than privatization, and deficit reduction in 1994.
Moreover, with revenues and expenditures both much lower than targeted, the quality of
the deficit reduction was poorer than intended. (Progress on SAP implementation and
trade reform was in the period rapid by historical Pakistani standards but not so rapid by
international standards).
A lesson here is that history repeats itself, as the stop/go pattern on the fiscal front is
a long-standing problem. The PCRs of the 1982 SAL and the 1989 FSAL both remark
that the fiscal faltering was the main problem factor affecting the limited benefits and
sustainability of those projects. This suggests that the Bank could well lend its maximum
efforts and leverage to that of the IMF in trying to ensure that the revenue reforms are
finally implemented and sustained.
Finding 6: The PSAL "outcome" was influenced significantly by exogenous as well
as endogenous factors, e.g. floods, cotton virus, unexpected portfolio capital
movements, etc. There were great differences between the actual values of key
indicators and those projected/targeted at the time of the PSAL.3
Most outcomes were substantially worse than projected. The mission is, however,
still unsure as to how the PSAL outcome should be rated.
Comment: Tables 1 and 2 (attached as Annex III) provide the comparisons. The
projected figures are in each case shown at the left for each year, the actual value on the
right. The mission needs to do more work to clean up some of the data, to interpret the
causes of the outcomes (and the role of ESAF/PSAL in those outcomes), and to assess the
realism of key assumptions underlying the projections. The ICR will briefly "tell the
story" of the outcome(s) and make a judgment as to the realism of the projections
independent of unforeseeable (as opposed to foreseeable) shocks. Guidance will be
sought from OED regarding the appropriate "cutoff point" for judging outcome vis a vis
sustainability.
3 Both tables were included in the PSAL President's Report. These projections were agreed upon by the
Bank, IMF and Government in the context of PFP discussions underway when the President's Report was
being prepared.



APPENDIX I
Page 9 of 9
Conclusion/Lesson. The "outcome rating" takes into account the project's relevance,
efficacy, ID impact, and degree of difficulty in achieving the targeted reforms and
outcomes. If relevance were rated satisfactory, efficacy were rated partial, ID impact
were rated negligible and degree of difficulty were rated moderate, then the outcome
rating could be either satisfactory or unsatisfactory depending on the relative weights
appropriate to these components. Short-term GDP performance will not be taken as a
PSAL performance indicator but consideration ought to be given to performance in
poverty reduction, including through the SAP.
One lesson may be the need to frame the reform program and related projections in a
longer-term framework than now applied to the PSAL, ESAF, PFP, or CAS. Especially
considering Pakistan's preference and propensity for gradualism, policy reform and
especially ID will be very long haul undertakings. Future PSAL-type operations would
surely have improved designs if they were framed in longer-term perspectives.
Finding 7: The PSAL's second tranche release paper described a number of actions
planned to follow up on PSAL measures (e.g. planned measures on privatization,
irrigation water charges, etc.) but there is no comprehensive "operational plan" in
place, nor (with a few exceptions) any established monitoring mechanism to measure
progress against the new targets. There is also uncertainty as to when and if the
PFP will be updated, the ESAF will be resumed, and future Bank adjustment
lending might come on stream.
Comment: An "operational plan" for an adjustment operation might be found in many
places: a PFP, budget figures and statements, business plans of implementing agencies,
the agenda of follow-up IMF programs and Bank adjustment operations, etc. A
principal operational document now in place is the IMF Stand-by Arrangement Given
Pakistan's long history of stop/go on the fiscal front and its loss of credibility surrounding
the abandonment of the ESAF in 1995 in its present context of serious governance
problems, the sustainability of the PSAL benefits would have to be rated as uncertain at
best, and unlikely unless an ESAF-type program is put back in place.
Conclusion/Lesson: Sustainability needs to be considered "up front", i.e. in the very
design of a project. And the "operational plan" requirements should be considered early
on, especially with regard to ID requirements. For the same reasons that the project
design would benefit from taking a longer-term horizon (beyond the typical three years),
it could also benefit from an attempt to identify up front a core set of "sustainability
indicators" for the project. In the case of the PSAL, indicators of revenue buoyancy and
broadening and tax compliance would surely be high on this list of indicators.
Final Remark: As was mentioned at the outset, this is a selective list of findings and
observations that point to themes and issues to be developed in the ICR proper.
Comments from the Government of Pakistan will be welcomed, especially those pointing
out errors of fact, reasoning, and omission.



The World Bank                                      1818 H Street, N.W.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington. D.C. 20433  APPENDIX I
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              U.S.A.
Page 1 of 2
March 8, 1996
Mr. Javed Talat
Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad, Pakistan
Dear M lat:
RE: Implementation Completion Report:
Public Sector Adiustment Loan (PSAL)
At the completion of every World Bank Group project, as I believe you know, both the
Bank and the Borrower prepare short evaluation reports on the project, mainly with a view to
identifying lessons that may serve to make future projects more effective. Both the Bank's
and the Borrower's evaluations are put together in an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and sent to the Bank's Board of Directors and all member governments. This
evaluation formerly was called the Project Completion Report or PCR.
We are beginning the preparation of the ICR for the recently completed Public Sector
Adjustment Project (PSAL). Mr. Robert Armstrong will visit Pakistan during the period
March 9-22 for the purpose of drafting the Bank's part of the ICR for this project. The main
questions that Mr. Armstrong looks to address during his visit are listed in Attachment A.
He wvill also discuss with you how best to handle the Governmnent's part of the ICR.
We suggest that the Governrnent's part of the ICR address these same questions. The Bank
ICR guidelines state simply that "the borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its
own evaluation report on the project's execution, cost and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, and the extent to
which the purposes of the loan were achieved." The borrower is also requested to identify the
nmeasures taken or to be taken after closing to ensure the sustainabilitv or the project benefits.
We see this as a low-cost effort which need not be more than a few pages. We
appreciate the high opportunity costs involved, especially as your budget preparations
intensify over the coming weeks. You may wish, therefore, to use the discussions that MIr.
Armstrong will be having with government officials as the basis for the government's
contribution to the ICR.
RCA 248423 WUI 64145 FAX (202) 477-6391



iMr. Javed Talat                                                   APPENUDIX
Annrex 
Page 2 of 2
The ICR needs to be completed within six months of the PSAL closing date of
December 1995. Therefore, we request that the Government's section of the ICR be sent to
Mvfr. Sadiq Ahmed by mid-April. We will be producing our own, fuller evaluation on the
same schedule.
Should you wish any fiurther clarifications on this marter, they can be provided by
-Messrs. Armstrong (during his visit) and William Byrd at the Resident Mission. If you thinrk
it would be useful, we would be happy to meet with a few of your senior staf while LMr.
Shahrolkh Fardoust, the PSAL task manager, is in Islamab2d, i.e. from March 12-14, to
discuss how best to approach this tasrk.
With my best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Lorene Yap
Chief
Country Opera2ions Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
cc:     Abur. .-\KDul Karinv Lodhi
-zx-cur 'e Director
Thl :, nid Ba.nk



The World Bank                                     1818 HStreetN.W.                     APPE XI
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433               Annexl2
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              U.S.A.                                 Page 1 of 3
March 1, 1996
EVALUATION OF PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PSAL)(1993-94)
VISIT OF MR. ROBERTARMSTRONG. ARCH 9-21. 1996
In August 1993, the Board of the World Bank approved a Bank/IDA project for Pakistan
entitled the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) in the amount of $250 million; this operation
was subsequently co-financed by the Japanese OECF in the amount of $150 million. The
loan/credit was disbursed in two tranches: the first upon effectiveness in September 1993, the
second in December 1994.
The South Asia Regional Office of the World Bank is now undertaking preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on this project in this fiscal year. ICRs are required for
all completed Bank projects: One part of this ex post project evaluation is prepared by the World
Bank, another by the Government, which should begin the preparation now. Both parts will be
included in the final ICR to be submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors before end-June 1996..
The Bank's part of the ICR will be drafted by Mr. Robert Armstrong, a consultant to the
Country Operations Division who will visit Pakistan during the period March 9-21, 1996. Mr.
Armstrong was formerly a division chief, economic adviser, and lead evaluation officer in the
Bank.
ICR Objectives and Key Questions
An important objective of the ICR is to identify lessons of experience that may serve to
make future Bank assistance to Pakistan more relevant, efficacious, and cost effective. The ICR
will assess in turn: (i) the PSAL's relevance, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness; (ii) main strengths
and shortcomings in the performance of both the World Bank and the Government at all stages of
the project cycle (going back to its origins in 1990 as an Emergency Adjustment Loan that never
took place); (iii) the PSAL's institutional development impact; and (iv) prospects for sustaining
its benefits. Towards this end, Mr. Armstrong would like to get your views on such core
questions as the following:
Relevance and Design:
-   Were the project's objectives the "right ones"? (See Annex for a summary of the
main PSAL objectives and targets).
-   Was the PSAL geared to treating symptoms or root causes of Pakistan's economic
problems? Did it address binding or non-binding constraints?
-   How participatory was the process of identifying and preparing the PSAL?
-   How broad or narrow was the Pakistani "ownership" of the PSAL?
-   How adequate was the underlying diagnosis and analysis of the problems addressed
by PSAL?
-   What were the main strengths and the main shortcomings of the PSAL's design?
RCA 248423. L WUI 84145 LU FAX (202) 477-6391



APPENDIX I
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
*  Efficacy and Efficiency
-   What results did the project achieve (financial, policy, institutional, other)?
-   How do these results compare with original and revised objectives and targets? (see
Annex for reference)
-   What were the most and least successful aspects of PSAL implementation?
-   In retrospect, was the size of the loan/credit ($400 million) appropriate?
-   How cost-effective was the PSAL? Could one say that it had a satisfactory
economic rate of return?
* Bank Performance
-   How well did the Bank involve the PSAL's stakeholders during preparation and
implementation?
-   How would you rate Bank performance during the various stages of the project
cycle; i.e., identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision?
-   Did changes in Bank management or staff during preparation make a difference?
-   Was there clarity and consistency in the Bank's objectives and lending criteria?
-   What were the main strengths and shortcomings of Bank performnance in the PSAL?
* Borrower Performance
-   What was the role of the Government vis-a-vis the Bank in preparing the PSAL?
-   Did the Government involve potential beneficiaries?
-   How would you rate the Government's performance in PSAL preparation,
implementation, and covenant compliance? What were the main strengths and
shortcomings of GOP performance?
* Institutional Development: Objectives and Impact
Was adequate attention given in the PSAL's design to institutional issues and
constraints?
To the extent that the PSAL included institutional development objectives (e.g., in
tax administration, public expenditure programming), how satisfactory was
implementation?
* Sustainability and Main Lessons
-   What are the key factors relating to the prospects for sustainability?
-   Is the persistent difficulty in containing the fiscal deficit an "Achilles heel"?
-   Which of the reforms undertaken under the PSAL appear most and least likely to be
reversed? What are the key governance dimensions?
-   Could one identify a core set of "sustainability indicators" (e.g., revenue buoyancy
and incidence?)
What are the main lessons that emerge from the PSAL experience?



APPENDIXT
Annex2
Page 3 of 3
KEY PSAL OBJECTIWES AND TARGETS
Actions Defined as Loan Covenants
* Adoption of an agreed macro-economic program for FY95
* Adoption/budgeting of an agreed PSDP for FY95
* Implementation of an agreed action plan to reform public administration, and aimed
at containing current expenditures, based on the findings of the Economy
Commission
* Preparation of plans for liquidation of an agreed list of industrial units
* Sufficient funding for the 1994/95 SAP to allow an increase in expenditures of at
least 0. 1% of GDP (over FY94 expenditures)
Other Important Measures Listed in the Policy Matrix
- Sale of at least one nationalized commercial bank left in the public sector
-  Progress in privatizing PTC and developing plans for privatizing a thermal generation
plant and a distribution district
* Developing a time-bound action plan for regulating the private sector in selected
areas including power and telecommunications
* Tax reform measures, including increasing taxes as a share of GDP, increasing the
share of income and wealth taxes, and preparing and implementing a plan to
strengthen tax administration
* Institution of a "core public investment program", containing high priority projects to
be protected against budgetary cuts.
* Restructuring or closing development projects no longer consistent with Government
priorities, and improving PSDP monitoring
*  Trade policy reforms to reduce the maximum tariff, eliminate most exemptions and
reduce dispersions
* Increase irrigation water charges and natural gas prices for FY95
* Liberalize and deregulate fertilizer distribution



APPENDIX I
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN --External Financing Requirements and
Sources of Financing
FY1992  FY1993  FY1994  FY1995  FY1996
Prel.    Proj.
Financing Requirements                2698    4119    5042    4087    3336
Current Account Balance              1500    3687    2020    2387    2965
Public Debt Amortization i/           850      944     1140    1258    1147
Changes in Reserves('-'=increase)    -348      512   -1882    -442        776
Sources of Funding                   2698    4119    5041    4087    3335
Public Loan Disbursement 1/          1951    2110    2545    2419    2441
Private Capital Transfers 2/           79    1571    1885    1257         967
Official Transfers                    450      361      314      312      165
IMF (net)                             218       77      297      100    -238
1/ Multilateral and Bilaterals
2/ Net Private guaranteed and nonguaranteed plus net short tern
plus errors and omissions



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
PAKISTAV- Key Indicors
FY1992      FY1993       FY1994       FY1995       FY1996
Actual      Actual       Actual        Pnl.         Proj
A. Real Growth rate:
Growth Domestic Product               7.8%         1.9%         3.1%         3.9%        5.5%
Gross Domestic Income                 8.8%         1.4%         3.5%         5.2%        5.7%
B. Real Per Capita Growth Rates:
GrossDomestic Product (GDP)           4.6%         -1.1%        0.1%         0.8%        2.3%
Total Consumption                     5.6%         1.1%        -2.5%        -0.3%        2.8%
Private Consumption                   5.5%        -1.5%        -1.2%        1.0%         4.0%
C. PPG Debt and Debt Service (LT+ST+IMF):
Total DOD (USSM)                     20025        22371        24395        25814       27150
Total DebtUGDP                        41.0%       43.2%        46.9%        42.5%        41.1%
Debt Service (USSM)                   2183         2526         2603        3171         3096
Debt Service / Total Exports          22.3%        25.3%       26.4%        27.0%/o      24.3%
Debt Service I GDP                    4.5%         4.9%         5.0%         5.2%        4.7%
InterestPaid (USSM)                    978         1037         1201         1380        1392
Interest/TotalExports                 10.2%        11.6%        13.1%       11.8%        10.9%
Interest / GDP                        2.0%         2.2%         2.5%         2.3%        2.1%
D. Savings and Investment
Gross Investment/GDP                  20.2%        20.7%        19.5%       19.1%        19.6%
Gross Domestic Savings                13.6%        12.0%        13.9%       14.1%        14.2%
Resource Balance                     -6.5%        -8.7%        -5.7%        -5.1%        -5.4%
Gross National Savings               17.1%        13.6%        15.6%        15.2%        15.1%
BOP Current Account DeficittODP      -3.1%        -7.1%        -3.9%       -3.9/o       -4.5%
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate        0.29        0.02         0.47         0.03         0.42
Marginal National Savings Rate        0.97        0.51         1.05         -0.7         0.50
Government InvestmentVGDP            8.8%         9.1%         8.3%         8.3%        8.7%
Government Savings/GDP               -1.5%        -2.5%        -1.4%       -1.6%        -0.5%
Private InvestmentVGDP               9.8%        10.0%        9.6%         9.3%         9.4%
Private Savings/GDP                 13.8%        16.5%        15.5%        17.3%        15.9%
E. Fiscal Indicators
Revenues/GDP                        19.1%        18.0%        17.4%       17.3%        17.8%
Expenditures/GDP                    26.5%        26.0%       23.3%        23.2%        22.8%
Overall Public Sector Balance       -7.4%        -9.6%        -6.9%       -7.1%        -6.1%
Primary Deficit/GDP                -3.1%        -2.4%        -0.4%        -0.5%        0.7%
F. Prices and Exchange Rates
Consumer Price Index (% change)     9.6%         9.3%        11.2%        13.0%        11.8%
GDPDeflator(%change)               10.1%         8.7%        13.1%        14.8%        12.5%
REER Index (1992-100)              100.0        100.4        95.6         96.3        93.7
Terms-of-Trade                     100.0        96.0        100.0        100.0        103.0
G. Balance of Payments
Exports GNFS Volume(% change)      15.7%        2.7%         2.1%         0.4%        4.8%
Exports GNFS/GDP                   16.9%        16.1%       16.0%        15.9%        16.1%
Imports GNFS Volume(% change)      20.0%        11.3%       -8.7%        4.6%         7.8%
Imports GNFS/GDP                   23.5%       24.8%        21.6%        21.0%        21.5%
Current Account Balance(USSM)           -1500        -3687       -2020        -2387        -2965
Gross Reserves (weeks imports)           4.7          1.9         10.7         11.2         7.2



APPFND IX I
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
PSAL PROJECTIONS
Pakistan -- Key Indicators
Prov.      Est.          Projected
._____________________________   FY1992   FY1993   FY1994   FY1995   FY1996
A. Real Growth Rate:
Gross Domestic Product                    7.79     3.09      7.5%      6.5%      6.5°
Gross Domestic Income                     7.       2.69      8.2%      6.8%      7.0°k
B. Real Per-Capita Growth Rates
Gross Domestic Product                   4.5     -0.1%       4.3%      3.3%      3.3°
Total Consumption                         3.6%     0.6%      4.3%      1.2%      2.5f
Private Consumption                      3.2%     -2.5%      6.79      6.29      2.6%
C. PPG Debt and Debt Service (LT+IMF+S.T
Total DOD                               22573    24045    25522    27000    28276
DOD/GDP (1)                             46.       45.9%     49.2%     48.49    47.3%
Debt Service (USSM)                      2248      2236     2263      2353      2720
Debt Service/Exports                    27.2%     27.0%     22.9%     20.99     21.4%
Debt ServIce/GDP (1)                     4.6%      4.3%      4.4°      4.2%      4.5S
Interest Pald (USSM)                      999      1149     1201      1409      1517
Interest/Exports                        12.1%     13.9%     12.1%     12.5%     11.9%
Interest/GDP (1)                         2.3%      2.5%      2.6%      2.8%      2.8°
D. Savings and Investment
Gross Investment/GDP (1)                20.0%     20.3%     19.8%     21.4°     22.1°
Domestic Savings/GDP (1)                16.5%     14.2%     17.2%     19.1%     20.5°
BOP Resource DeflcitVGDP (1)             6.5%      7.7i    4.1%        3.3%      2.5°
Natlonal Savings/GDP (1)                17.09     14.59    17.4%      19.3%     20.50
BOP Current Acount DefIcItJGDP (1)      -3.1%     -5.8%    -2.5%      -2.1S     -1.7%
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate           0.21     -0.74      0.54      0.47      0.40
Marginal National Savings Rate           0.34     -0.82      0.53      0.47      0.38
Govemment Investment/GDP (1)              7.1      8.6%      7.7%      7.8%      7.9%
Govemment SavingsDGOP (1)               -0.3%    -0.8%       1.0%      2.5%      3.5°
Private Investment/GDP (1)              12.9%     11.7%     12.1%     13.6f     14.2°
Private Savins/GDP (1)                  17.39     15.39     16.4%     16.8%     17.0%
E Fiscal Indicators
Government Revenues/GDP (1)             19.2%     19.5%     19.9%     20.6°     21.1°
Government ExpenditureGDP (1)           26.7%     28.9%     26.6%     25.9°     25.5%
Overall Budget Deficit/GDP (1)           7.4       9.3%      6.7%      5.3°      4.4
Primary Deficit/GDP (1)                 -1.4%    -4.0%    -1.4%        2.2t      2.4%
F. Prices and Exchange Rates
Consumer Price Index (% change)          9.        9.39      8.0%      6.5%      5.5%
GDP Deflator (% change)                 10.26      9.6       8.09      6.5°      5.5%
REER Index (1992-100)                   1.000     1.006     0.901     0.900    0.973
Terms of Trade Index (1992 100)           100        98       102      103       106
G. Balance of Payments
Exports GNFS Volume (% change)          17.9°      4.9%      9.5%      7.0%      6.3%
Exports GNFS/GDP (1)                    13.8      12.80/    15.80    16.8%/    17.9%
Imports GNFS Volume (% change)          11.4%      4.7%      6.0%      5.1°      5.80
Imports GNFS/GDP (1)                    18.4%     18.4%     17.80     18.0%     18.30
Current Account Balance (USSM)          -1499    -3020    -1287    -1151        -990
Gross Reserves (weeks imports)            5.0       2.2       6.7       8.3      10.1
(1) GDP at factor cost              I_II_II_



APPENDIX I
Anex 3
Page 4 of 4
PSAL PROJECTIONS
Table 2.1: Pakistan: Externsa Financing Requirements
and Projected Sources of Financing
(Millions of USS)
Total
Category                                        FY94           FY95        FY94 and FY95
Financing Requirements                                 36             32Z7             6795
Current Account Deficit                              1287            1151            2438
Public Debt Amortization                             1405            1614            3019
Change in Gross Reserves                              876            462             1338
Sources of Funding
Pipeline Loan Disbursement                           2102            2110            4212
Private Capital Flows (Net)                           798             585            1383
Capital Grants                                        238             376             614
SOP Support
PSAL                                              125             125             250
IMF (net)                                         230             -44             186
Bilateral                                          75              75              150
Source:  Staff Projections.



APMMMDf nT
Page I of;3
MOST IMMEDIATE/CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Government of Pakistan
Finance Division
(External Finance Wing)
No. F.3(4)/EF(B-JJJ)/94                         Islamabad the 10th June, 96
From: Muhammad Khurshid Kiani
Assistant Eco. Adviser.
To:   Mr. William Byrd,
World Bank,
Pakistan Resident Mission
Islamabad (Pakistan),
Fax: 279648
Sub:- Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's
Evaluation/Comments) Public Sector Adjustments
Loan/Credit (PSAL)
Dear Sir,
I am directed to refer to the World Bank's letter dated June 6, 1996 on the above
subject and to enclosed herewith the Borrower's Evaluation, comments and a letter of Mr.
Moeen Afzal, Special Secretary, Finance, addressed to Chief Resident Mission, World
Bank, Islamabad on the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL)
Regards,
Yours sincerely
(MuhImmad Khurshid Kiani)
Ait. Economic Adviser
COPY OF ORI(lINAL



APPENDIXII
Page 2 of 3
No.F.34)EF(-1II).94A   1 -!              t h'Juae      
SPECIAI. SECRETARY    No.F.3(4)E}4(D-III)/94    XhG_644  d4 18th June, 1996.
SUBJECT:- COMMENTS REGARDING PSAL.
Dear
As someone associated with PSAL from its inception to the
finish  (I  attended  the  celebrating  Reception  at  the  Bank
headquarters at its conclusion), I would like to make the following
comments:
(i)       While it was obviously Important for the Bank-
to focus on the need for macro-economic
adjustments in the economy, the fact that
Pakistan   -  during   this   period   -  had
arrangements on with the Fund meant that there
was an overlap It also meant that, when there
was some default on the macro-economic side,
Bank lending for other policy loans would also
get stalled. This led to a bit of acrimony at
times. One the positive side, however, there
was always a "carrot" held out for good
performance.
(ii)      It was a pity that Pakistan did not react
quickly enough to make use of the original
EMAL - conceived in September, 1990. By the
time GOP reacted with the "pass through"
decisions the Gulf War was ovrer and it
apparently became difficult for the Bank to
justify emergency lending to its Board.
Conversion of EMAL to PSAL certainly helped in
regard to key macro and project policy issues.
But it inordinately delayed the project and
government's financing needs were not met on
time.
r.ont'd...P/2



A"PEND~IX 
Page 3 of 31
(iii)     The GOP adopted a number of  fa,r reaching
structural measures In early 1991 : these
included    foreign    exchange -  reforms,
privatization   and  de-regulation   of   the
industries sector. These reforms went well
beyond  what  was  envisaged  in  the  PSAL.
However, government did not get any credit for
these important measures because these were
not a part of the PSAL menu.
(iv)      In retrospect one sees the PSAL as a "mopping
up" all purpose policy loan, which was used to
clean up a number of bits and pieciDs left over
from other project/policy loans - under the
umbrella of a macro-economic franmework which
was satisfactory to the Bank (in the absence
of an agreement with the Fund). I think it was
quite useful in doing this. As an' instrument
purely for this purpose it could be considered
as having been worth-while.
Best wishes.
Yo ra in erely,
Mr. Sadiq Ahmed,
Chief, Resident Mission,
World Bank,
Islamabad.
..i



APPEND  TI
Page 4 of 31
BORROWS.- EVALUATION
ON
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
i
FUNDED BY
WORLD BANK



APPEND1 nI
Page 5 of 31
jpage No.
PREFACE                                                                3
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Program Identity                                                 4
Background                                                        4
Program Objectives                                                6
Program Targets                                            :      8
Benefits Expected from PSAL                                       8
RELEVANCE AND DESIGN                                                   9
EFFICACY AND EFFICIENCY                                               10
BANK'S PERFORMANCE                                              !    12
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE                                                13
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE                                             14
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                             15
PROGRAM & FUTURE EXPERIENCE                                           17
APPENDICES
ll   GOP'S response on W.B.'s questionnairc                           18
2x   Updated Policy Matrix                                            21



APPENDTX 11
Page 6 of 31
PREFAQE
1.   This is a kind of evaluation report required to be prepared by the borrower and
is supposed to be included in the Implementation Completion Report(ICR) mainly with
a view to identifying lessons that may serve to niakq future projects more effective.
The Public Sector Adjustment Loan(PSAL) initially started during the Gulf War as an
Emergency Assistance Loan (EMALi which was later converted into the PSAL under
the auspices of International Monetary Fund(IMF)/World Bank.
2.   Preparation of this evaluation is bascd inter alia on the questionnaire and the
Draft Implementation Completion Report provided by the World Bank.



APPENTX r1
Page 7 of 31
PROJECTLEQ7 1DES     AND ORGANIZATION
f.t2znram1 cLe n-Iity
Name                               Public Sector Adjustment Loarl
Loan/Crcdit Number & Amount        Loan 3645-PAK & Credit 254.;-Pak
($ 150 Million) + ($ 100 MillinIn Equi.)
RVP Unit                           Soulh Asia Region
Sector                             Public Sector Management
BACKGROUND
3.   Consequent upon completion of various sectorai adjustment loan to Pakistan in
one gy., finance 2!d agriculture sectors an emergency assistence program (E,,AAL)was
neci3ssitatcd to hielp Pakistan cope with thc Gulf war impacts. The assistince/loan
cov.:.ced undcr EMAL was supposed to be disbursed quickly witll relatively lovv
conil:tona%ities. Bul due to non-clear messagcs sent by World Bank officials to
Gc,vcrnnment of Pakistan there has bccn considerable delays in the Programi wherein
IMF programs such as ESAF/EFF were linked with it and as such it converted from sn
cniorgcncy ossistance loan to a macroeconomic adjustment program and as a rcsult
Pakistan was not provided w ith hlie requisitc loan at thc timc of need.



APPFNDIX n
Page 8 of 31
4.  T1his Program was initiated because of lhe good performance of Ithe GOP in ithe
Growth in GDP which remained around 6% per annum since early sixties. In addition,
thro  GOP has becn implementing a comprchensive program  of macroeconomic
adjustmcnt and strLictural reform. The first phase of this program was outlined in the
polic:y framework preparod by thc GOP in December 1988 for the period 1989 to
1 991. During 1 990-91 there was a considerable identification of structural rcform in
sevural areas including the rol¢ of the public sector that went well beyond What was
ori'rnally envisaged. On the other hand, the first year also witnessed some slippage
in rrieetinig a few policy targets, pcrtaininrg mainly to macroeconomic adjustmenis
on iaccount of the difficulties and uncertaintics associated with the Gulf crises and
election and clhangcs in the Government of Pakistan. Reflecting ihese chl;nges of
idc:ntificruion of reforms and of the macro fromc work, the GOP prepared a nf:.v policy
iranme v.ork pu,ocr in Sept.91 for the peiiod 1991792 - 1993-94
S.   This program of macro and structural reform was supported under the IMF's
sittctural adjustment facility. Thic IMF had also earlier supported the Goverinments'
tc,crrn progr,am with a standby arrangemcnt anrid tle World Bank has donc so via three
a jostment Icnding operations.



APPENDIX 1I
Page 9 of 31
PRO,.AM-.OBCTIVES
6.   The prinicipal objectives of the PSAL loan were to support Government's'efforts
to address public finance issues which were crucial for economic and social
development, deregulatc the ecoinomy and rc-define the role of the public sectbr while
inc:reasing the effcctiveness and sustaiinability of activitiss that remained in h-Li public
sucior aind improve private sector productivity u.nd competitive position through reform
of thc tradc regime.
5.    Public Sector Adjustment Loan was initially negotiated in the shape of an
e.norgency assistance during the Gulf War with the objective as originally envisaged
as changes in pricing policy, expansion in taxation base and elimination of tax
cxeinption with thc conditionality of chlangc in pricing policy like increase in gas and
e!; c:ricity  :prices  and  cli,tinntion  of tax  exemptions.  In  1991,  additional
1.;riditionali;:cs lhkc elimination of excinptions in clauses from Income Tax Crdinance
1 979, increasc in tax base and cxpansion of General Sales Tax covcrage rtc. were
ad:l.eu. 'hein it w as linked with macro adjustments and structural reforms covered
~:: l!  !,-'5ESAF/EFF arrangements. As a result the Government of Pakistan was
-:w,wed to implemcnt privatization, dcreau!ation and in addition reduction in budget
deficit, decreasc in defence expenditure, public administration reforms, trade reforms
and  cost recovery of irrigation and drainage was also required. Thus lhc EMAL
cxwndocl its scope of work to miacro*ccoriomic stabilization and in addition it ;lso



APPENDIX 11
Page 10 of 3l
focusscd on social sector Developtheht.
7.    To achievc these objectivcs the public seclor adjustment loan was Tramed
which aimed at:-
i)    Ensuring a sound & sustainable macroedonomic frame work;
ii)    Privatizing public enterprises involvcd in commercial, industrial;, encrgy
and banking actIviOes;
tiiJ    Resvructuring thc composition and increasing the effectiveness .6f public
expenditures;
IV)   Continuing a prograrn of trade reform to reduce protection, distortions
and non-iariff barriers.
2OrQC    .i 7AfRlETS
TX  rmaiar stabilization targct was lo reduce the budget deficit froin 8% of (iDP
In FY 1993 lo 3% by FY 1996 i.e. a reduction of nearly 5% within three years.
Inflation was targe;ed to fall from about 9% in FY 1993 to 5.5%  by FY 1 996 wliile
l nroign Fxchange rcserves were targc:tcd io incrcase seven weeks equival.nt in l:Y



APPENDIX II
Page 11 of 31
1994 and to over eleven weeks eq:iiv,a, ient by 1996. However, in FY 1995 the actual
budget deficit was equivalent to 5.6% of GDP, as compared to the PSAL target of 4%
while for the FY 1996 budget target was set at 5% of GDP as compared to program
target of 3%. But the achievement of thcsc targets remained at low ebb mainly
because of floods and cotton virus.
BENEFITS EXPECTED FROM PSAL
9.   Imnplementation of the Govcrrnmcnt adjustment program was expected to give
benefits to the economy. The successful privalizetion of public enterprises were
expectcd to result in efficiency gain in the enterprises. The implementation of the
public financc component was aimed to reduce public sector borrowing., requirements
end improve private sector efficacy ihrougih ithc climination of tax distortions and allow
the public scctor to fulfil more effectively and in a sustainable manner. Trade policy
reforms vtcrc expected to increase competition and give Pakistan's indust, ial sector
a stronger export orientation. The social impact of the program was expected to
improve the living standard of thc pooplc.
RELEVANICE AND DESIGN
1 0.  Sincc 1 988, the GOP had been implementing a comprehensive adjustment and
reform progrOnm aimcd at aclhieving sustained economic growth and domestic and



APPENnD 11
Page 12 of 31
cxternal financial stability over Th:'14 eV.-iun term. This medium term program was
supported by IMF through a 1 2-month stand-by arrangement and ESAF/EFF program.
The financial constraints and structural weaknesses of Pakistan's Economy were
alrcady known to IMF/World Bank cven beforc PSAL Program.
1'1.  The World Bank supported the GOP through its past efforts and PSAI. Program
gave a strategy to change in thc fiscal policy, private sector developmerft through
privatizationl arid trade rcforms; public expenditure ctc through medium termPOrogram.
1 2.  The GOP realized that it must withdraw frorn those activities which cEsrn be done
more clticiently by the private sector. Fiscal reforms aimed at reducing lhc budget
duficit while raising developmental oriented outlays and moving away frocm import
taxaition were also recognized. So thic World Bank was requcsted for financial
assistanr:c by providing the policy Ictter. Thie opposition, in principle, alsC. supports
0his policy of the pres¢nt regime.
.                                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
l 3,  Ttle PSAL program suggested modiumn-term solution to Pakistan's ,cconomic
proldlc!nis. It did riot suggest long-term solultion. Thouglh PSAL program is ovcr, there
ie no declino in Pakistan's economic problems. The World Bank shiould have ratlier
done its honiework thoroughly in diagnosirig the economic problems of Pakistan before
sugg9esting its medium term program undor PSAI.



APPENDIX V
Annex 2
Page lof7
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN: PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
STATUS OF SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS
AND OTHER MEASURES IN THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
POLICY ACTIONS                                               STATUS
.Note:  The five specific second tranche release conditions, as listed in Schedule 3 of the Credit Agreement and
Schedule 4 in the Loan Agreement, are listed below in bold italic together with an '.
1. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK                            1. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
I) Satisfactory implementation of the 1993/94         1) Performance in 1993/94 was satisfactory. All end-June
macroeconomic program agreed with the IMF and         1994 performance criteria under the IMF's ESAF/EFF
the Bank                                             arrangements  were  met, and  preliminary  information
indicates that all end-September 1994 performance criteria
were also met. For 1993/94, however, there were small
deviations with respect to two indicative targets: total federal
revenues (a shonfall of 4.8 %) and budget deficit (a rise of
0.4% of GDP).
2) Adoption  of an  agreed  macroeconomic             2) Complied with. Agreement has been reached with the
program for 1994/95.                                  Bank  and  the  IMF  on the  1994/95  macroeconomrc
framework. The targets are: a GDP growth rate of 6.65%:
an annual inflation of 7%; and an improvement in gross
official reserves to a level equivalent of about 14 wveeks of
imports. Budget deficit will be reduced to 4% of GDP.
II.  PRIVA TIZA TION                                 I.  PRVA TIZA TION
I)   Complete  privatization  of most of the         1) The list of 103 units was expanded to 118 units of which
remaining industrial units included in the initial    84 units were sold by end-October 1994.
list (103 industrial units);
* 2) Prepare liquidation plansforan agreed list of      2) Complied with. Three units have been identified for
inidustrial units which were listedforprivatization  liquidation. As for the remaining units, the Government
in 1990/91 and for which negotiations for sale       intends to sell all units or their assets. It has prepared a
were not well-advanced as of March 31, 1994;         timetable for the rest of the industrial units to be privatized
in three batches in December 1994, February and April
1995.
3) Complete sale of at least I of the 2 remaining    3) The Gover-nment has decided to privatize the United
nationalized cormercial banks left in the public     Bank Limited by end-June 1994 through sale of 26% of its
sector;                                              shares to a strategic investor and transfer of management.
4)  Complete a portfolio audit of the second         4) An audit of assets of the Habib Bank Limited has been
nationalized commercial bank;                        performed by the State Bank of Pak-istan.



APPENDIX V
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
POLICY A CTIONS                                                 STA TUS
5) Implement action program for privatization of        5) The Government has already privatized a number of ihe
industrial enterprises not covered in the initial list,  units that have been added to the original privatization list
non-bank)  financial institutions, public  sector       and has prepared for privatization 30 additional enterprises
investments  bank;s and  public  sector trading         and assets, comprising industrial units and public shares in
houses;                                                investment banks and other nonbank- financial institutions.
6) Satisfactory progress with privatization of the      6) The Government has moved swiftlv to privatize PTC: the
Pakistan Telecommunication Corporation (PTC);           public offering of its share vouchers (about 2% of PTC) in
August 1994 was heavily oversubscribed; and the second
round of public offering abroad (about 10% of PTC) in
September 1994 was also very successful.  About USSI
billion (USS870 million in foreign exchange) has been
raised. The vouchers will be exchanged for shares when the
company is privatized in the next 12 to 18 months. The
Government is proceeding with privatization through sale of
26%   of  shares  to  a  strategic  investor.        The
Telecommunication Ordinance, which would pave way fo,
the privatization, was signed by the President on July 13,
1994. Regulatory bodies for telecommunication vere
established under a Presidential Ordinance in NMay 1994.
7)  Develop plans for the privatization of one          7) An amendment to the Water and Power Development
[hermal power generation and one distribution           Authority (WAPDA) Act, which would allow corporatization
district:                                               and privatization of certain parts of WAPDA, was approved
by the National Assembly in April 1994. The ftrst phase
includes privatization of the Kot Addu and Jamshoro power
units, and on the distribution side, the Faisalabad
Distribution Board. The Government intends to sell 26% of
shares in each of these units to a strategic investor.
Valuation work has been completed and a financial advisor
has been appointed for the sale of the two thermal stations.
8) Develop satisfactory plans for regulating the        8) See (7) and (8) above. The newly established regulatoryv
private sector in selected areas (including power       bodies are the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority and
and telecommunications) with dated action plans         the Frequency Allocation Board. The regulatory framework
for implementation and;                                 for the power sector is being finalized.
9)  Ensure that proceeds from privatization are         9) Total privatization receipts over the past three years (as
used only to meet the costs of privatization            of end-October 1994) were: Rs 10.9 billion in local currency
(including workers  retraining and redundancy           and USS870 million in foreign exchange. The Government
pays). and retire public debt.                          reached agreement with the Bank on using a maximum of Rs
3 billion in 1993/94 and Rs 5 billion in 1994/95 to financc
a portion of SAP. Of the local currency component, some
Rs 2.2 billion has been used to cover costs of privatization
(including worker redundancy pay and acquisition of
financial institutions' shares in the privatized industrial
units). In 1994/95, the Government will use privatization
proceeds primarily to retire public debt.



APPENDIX V
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
POLICY ACTIONS                                                STATUS
111.  PUBLIC FINVANCE                                 11.  PUBLIC FINANCE
1) Approval of the 1994/95 budget consistent with     1)  The 1994/95 budget, wvhich was approved by the
the agreed macroeconomic framework.                   National Assembly in June 1994, is consistent with the
agreed macroeconomic framework and contains the key
revenue, expendirure and trade policy reform  measures
agreed with the Bank and the Fund.
2) Adopt tax reform measures to increase total        2)   Nleasures implemented by [he Governrment in the
federal budgetary revenue to GDP ratio to 197% in     context of the 1994/95 budget include: reductions in
1994/95.                                              exemptions and concessions, widening the sectoral coverage,
and simplifying the tax rate. The ratio of federal budgetary
revenues to GDP is programmed to increase from 17.3% in
1993/94 to 20.41 % in 1994i95.
3)  Increase proportions of income and wealth         3)  Propor.ion of income and wealth taxes to total tax
taxes, and consumption taxes in total talx revenue,   revenues is expected to increase from 21.4 %IC to 22 %C through
expanded use of wvithholdirng taxes, moderating tax rates and
strengthening acdrministratrio; and propcr.icn ofconsump::on
taxes is expected to rise to 44.5%.
4)    Prepare  and  implement  a  plan  for           4) The authorities have implemented a number of measures
strengthening tax administration.                     to strengthen tax administration. These measures include
training  of  staff  and  computerization   of  the  tax
administraLion process.
* 5) Implemenration of an agreed action plan to         5) Complied with. Actions already implemented include: (i)
reform  public administration, and aimed at           imposition of a ban on hiring and creation of new posts in
containing current expenditures, based on the        the Federal Secretariat and affiliated  departments and
findings of the Economy Commission.                   organizations; (ii) reduction in the number of Divisions in
the Federal Secretariat from 46 to 36; (iii) declarina 66S
posts of off:cers and 1872 posts of staff as surplus: (iX)
closing 7 foreign missions and abolishing more than 100
diplomatic posts in other foreign missions; and (v) abohshing
15 Departments. The annual fiscal savings from the actions
already implemented is estimated to be about Rs 500 million
(in 1992/93 prices). Action to be completed by end-
December 1995 in accordarnce with the agreed action plan
concerns rationalizing the work program and staffing of 55
organizations affiliaced with the Federal Secretariat. As of
end-October 1994, the Government has cormpleted detailed
studies on more than half of the organizations and reached
agreement with the concerned Ministries on the respective
action plans. The Government has agreed to implement thc
decisions on the 55 organizations by end-December 1995 in
the context of 1995/96 budget.
6) Contain defense expenditures in the 1994/95        6) In the 1994/95 budget, the allocation for defense rose by
budget at a level that strikes an adequate balance    8% in nominal terms over its level in 1993/94. This implies
between resources availability and security needs.    a fall in defense expenditures as a proportion of GDP from
5.9%; in 1993/94 to 5.6%o of GDP in 1994/95.



APPENDIX V
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
POLICY ACTIONS                                               STA TUS
7) Implementation of the agreed 1993/94 PFublic       7)  Overall, implementation of the PSDP in terms of
Sector  Development  Expenditure   Program            achieving agreed sectoral priorities and protecting the core
(PSDP).                                              investment from budgetary cuts has been satisfactory. The
1993/94 budgetary PSDP is estimated Rs 72.5 billion
compared to target of Rs 78 billion, reflecting mainly a
shortfall in provincial contributions to their development
programs.   Based on preliminary  information, overall
implementation of the 1993/94 core investment program
appears to have been consistent with the agreed program,
although there was an average shortfall of about 10%
compared to the Government's target. The shortfall was
concentrared in the irrigation and drainage and the social
sectors. ]n both sectors corrective actions have been taken to
improve implementation in the context of the 1994/95 core
program.
X 8)  Agreement with the Bank oni tihe size anzd        8)  Complied withl.  The agreed investment program  is
compositiont of the PSDP for 1994/95 and              consistent wirh the 1994/95 macroeconomic framework: the
reflection of this itt the approved budget 1994/95.   1994/95 budgetar- PSDP amounts to Rs 90 billion (including
Rs 5 billion contribution from the provinces to their own
annual development programs), which is 24 %O higher than
that in 1993/94. In the 1994/95 PSDP there is a shift in
emphasis away from t.ansportation/communication sectors
tovards the water (irrigation and drainage), energy (mainly
because of rural electrification and transmission projects) and
social sectors. The PSDP Review mission submitted to the
authorities a list with suggested allocations for core projects
in May  1994/95.   The review  of the  1994/95  core
investment program was coordinated with the Asian
Development Barik and the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan).  The agreed core program  contains high
priority projects in transportation, agriculture, environment,
irTigation and drainage, power, and the federal social
sectors. The total amount of funding required to carry out
the core program is about Rs 51 billion (compared to
preliminary actual estimate of Rs 44 billion in 1993/94),
with additional funding to be made available to some of the
core projects during the mid-term budget review depending
on physical progress.
9) Finalize the 3-year rolling investment program     9) Thq 3-year rolling investment program for 1993/94 to
for 1993/94 to 1995/96.                               1995/96 was finalized in March 1994.
10) Prepare a 3-year rolling investment program       10) The 3-year rolling program  for 1994/95 to 1996/97,
for 1994/95 to 1996/97, ensuring consistency with    containing the agreed investment program for 1994/95, has
the 1994/95 PSDP.                                    been prepared.



APPENDIX V
Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
POLICY A CTIONS                                              STA TUS
I1) After consultation with donors, restructure or   I 1) Over the last 12 months, the Gover=ment has conducted
close projects that are no longer consistent with   three major reviews of problematic foreign-aided projects.
Government's priorities.                             Overall, some 64 projects have been  reviewed. The
Govern_ment has decided that for most of these projects an
extension of the closing date would not be granted and
several of them are being restructured to improve their
performance.
12)   Set up  and  implement an  improved            12) Several new monitoring instruments were put in place
monitoring system for PSDP.                          at  the  Planning  Commission  during   1993/94:  (i)
establishment of a Managemen, Information SN'stem (MIS);
(ii) preparation of Progress Reports and Status Reports; and
(iii) introduction of review meetings for problematic foreign
aided projects (see 11 above).
!V.  SOCI4L SECTORS                                  IV.  SOCIAL SECTORS
I)  Satisfactorv implementation of the 1993/94       1) The total SAP expenditures for 1993/94 is estimated at
SAP.                                                 Rs 3 1.2 billion (compared with target of Rs 35.2 billion), of
which Rs 24.6 billion was financed by the federal and
provincial Governmenis, and Rs 6.6 billion by donors
(compared with a budgeted allocation of Rs 8.9 billion).
Following a slow start in development expenditures during
the First half of 1993/94, spending pick-ed up substantially in
the second half of the year.  Nationally, development
expenditures for the year (as a percentage of the allocations)
were 89%  for education, 86%  for health, 80%  for rural
water supply and sanitation, and 69% for population welfare.
Recurrent expenditure figures were 100% for education,
95%  for health, and 96%  for rural water supply and
sanitation.
2) Preparation of detailed operational plans for     2) Following a joint supervision mission by the Bank, the
the 1994/95 SAP (current budgets, development        Asian Development Bank and Netherlands Government,
plans,  implementation  and  policy  reforms         agreements were reached during October and November
agreeable to the Bank).                              1994 on virtually all Operational Plans for each of the sub-
programs under the SAP.
3) Provide financing for the 1994/95 SAP that        3) Complied with: The agreed budgeted total fo: '°94/9,
Hill allow expenditures to rise by at least 0.1% of  SAP-related expenditures is Rs 45.8 billion, of which Rs
GDP over the previous year (and that will            35.1 billion is to be financed by the federal and provincial
maintain total expenditures so as to reach the       Governments and the remaining Rs 10.7 billion by the
1997/98 target of 2.6% of GDP).                     donors. The agreed levels of the Federal Government's cash
development loans/grants to provinces for SAP-related
investments, which are included in the above sums, are
increased from Rs 6.6 billion in 1993/94 to Rs 7.0 billion in
1994/95. The Government has budgeted an amount for SAP
in 1994/95 that will allow expenditures to rise by more than



APPENDIX V
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
POLICY ACTIONS                                                  STA TUS
0.1 percent of GDP over the budgeted level in 1993/94.
Overall, total SAP expenditures are expected to rise from
1.7^'- of GDP in 1992/93 to about 2.570 GDP in 1994/95.
V. TRADE REFORM                                         V. TRA-DE REFORM
1)  Announce and adopt a trade policy reform            1) The GoverrLnment is implementing a comprenensive trade
package that significantly reduces the maximum          policy reform  program  which was publicly announced in
tariff rate further.                                    June 1994, in the context of the 1994/95 budget. All import
taxes were consolidated imo one all-inclusive tariff schedule.
The maximum tariff rate was reduced from 92 e to 70% and
a minimum tariff rate o' 10% was imposed. (The tariff rate
on imported automobiles, which remains above ihe
maximum  rate, will be brought down by the end of the
program). The maximum  rate will be reduced to 45% by
end-June 1995 and 35r% by end-June 1996.
2)  Eliminate most exemptions and simplify the          2) Additional kev mreasures introduced are: (i) reduction in
tariff schedule to reduce dispersions.                 intermediate tariff rates on im-nports; (ii) withdrawal of one-
third of the import tariff exemptions and concessions: and
(iii) reduction in the number of tariff bands to further reduce
dispersion. The remaining exemptions and concessions will
be elirninated during the 1 995/96-1 996/97 period, except for
existing contractual agreements.
VI.  OTHER SECTORAL POLICIES                            WI.  OTHER SECTORAL POLICIES
1) Implement agreed increases in irrigation water       1) To meet cost recovery targets all provinces have agreed
charges for 1994/95.                                    to substantially increase revenue from  water charges by
increasing water charges and improving assessment and
collection performance, according to different schedules.
Tne Federal Gover-nment and provinces have agreed thait
irrigation water charges will be increased by 25%  effective
from the Kharif crop of 1994 (Balochistan and NWFP have
already implemented the agreed increase).
2) Provide adequate funds in the 1994/95 budgets        2)  Governmernts of Punjab, Sindh and Balochistan have
for   operation   and   maintenance   (O &MN4)         reached agreement with the Federal Government to increase
expenditures for irrigation and drainage; roads;        O&M allocations for irrigation to the specified (adequate)
railways; and water supply and sanitation.              levels (Rs 3814 million, Rs 1354 million and Rs 203
million), respectively, during the mid-term  1994/95 budget
review or earlier (the allycation for NWFP is already higher
than the required level). The Government has allocated an
additional Rs 500 million in capital expenditures to the
National Highway Authority's maintenance program, which
raises the total budgeted amount for 1994/95 to 91 % of the
required level compared to 59 % in 1993/94. However, based
on preliminary data, funding for spare parts in the railway
sector falls short of the required level.



APPENDIX V
Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
POLICY ACTIONS                                                      S TA TUS
3)  Carry out liberalization and d-reculation of i) The liberalization and deregulation of the dcsrib ii:on of
distribution   of  nltrcgenoxis  and  phosphatic           n:lrogerous and phosphatic  e.-nlizers ;s  C:Li. cc-?m;ee.
fertilizers.                                               Tre   dist-ibution   of  phosphatic  fertilizers   (mainly
d iarmroniuri phosphate  fennilzer (DAP)) has a-'so been
deregulated  since  August 1993.  Its prices  have  been
decontrolled,  and  subsidies  ler-rninatec.    l:os  c 
phosphatic  fertilizers  are  allocated  and  sold  to  the
"public/private" sector distributing agencies ina c .can.
with  their existing  market sharc. The on.  -cmain;rng
fcnilllze  subsidy is on importd potassic fcr.i;zc.s.  The
Governmelnt has agreed to mn ease the price of Su fate of
Potash (SOP) by Rs 45 per 50 kg bag in semi-annual
irnstallmrents begiring 199,494 and one final installme.-n  in
order to elirnriinae Lhe residual subsidy by October '995.
The price was increased    P Rs 55o bag in Jurc 1994 an.d D-v
Rs 50/bag in Novemnber 1994
4) Liberalization of gas prices for households and         4) Accord=ng to 2areement w:h the Ban;:. t:he pr:ce cf gas
:esideniial consumers.                                     for household use is to reach ihc border price of f'uel-o:l by
April 1995 wvith Lhe follokng Interinm targets: SC0%7c of par-iy
in April 1994; 90%c of par-t  by September 1994; and 100%7c
of parit) by April 1995. The price of gas was Increased by
4%5  to 90c parit-y wkith the imported    el-oil priCe  in
Noyeimbc.-r 1994.






APPENDIX VI
Page I of 8
Table 1: SUMMARY OF MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(% change unless otherwise indicated)
Long-term
Trend                  Preliminary       Estimates
Item                                               1980-93       1993/94       1994/95        1995/96
at constant 1980/81 prices
GDP (at factor cost)                                         5.9            4.5           4.4            6.0
GDP per                                                      2.7            1.5           1.5            3.1
capita
Private Consumption per capita                               1.5           -1.5          -1.2           n.a.
at current prices
Ml                                                          13.3            9.6          18.0           n.a.
M2   1/                                                     15.2           16.0          16.6           12.1
Inflation (CPI)                                              7.5           11.2          13.0           10.5
Inflation (WPI)                                              7.7           15.0          16.3           n.a.
Exports (G&NFS)/GDP                                         15.0           17.8          16.8           15.8
Imports (G&NFS)/GDP                                         23.0          21.3           20.9           20.9
Current Account Balance/GDP   2/                             4.4            3.8           3.9            4.7
External Debt Stock/GDP 2/ 3/ /6                            41.9          48.2           44.7           45.1
Debt Service (DOD)/Exports  2/ 4/                           24.9          25.7           25.1           24.3
Gross Reserves(weeks of imports) 2/                          6.1           12.6          12.9            9.3
Government Fiscal Deficit/GDP 2/                             7.3            5.9           5.6            4.5
Public Sector borrowing requirement/GDP 2/                   7.8            6.8           6.7            5.0
Gross Investment/GDP  2/                                    19.2           18.2          16.8           19.4
Public Investment                                           9.0           7.0            6.5            6.1
Private Investment 5/                                      10.2          11.1           10 3           13.3
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP 2/                               11.2           14.7          12.6           13.5
Gross National Savings/GDP 2/                               14.3           14.4          12.9           14.7
Public Savings                                              1.7           0.2           -0.3            1.1
Private Savings                                            12.6          14.2           13.7           i3.6
1/ Figures fronm 1990/91 include Resident Foreign Currency Deposits (RFC D.%)
2/ Long-tern? 7rend is ihe average of 12 years. while oiheryears .how ihe yearly ratios
31/For 1995/96, external dehb includes defen.se-related dehb hut excludes foreign exchange.'dollar hearer
cermtficates.
4/ Deht .seriice is the ratio of vsenice paymtenti (GOP .ource) excluding iniere u otn .hort-lerin debt anid IMF
charge v anid export on custom hasis.
51 Includes changesi itnlockv.
6/1993/94-1995/96 data are hased oat the IMd v definition of totll external debi stocks.
Note: Raio.s are calculated hoaed on GDP at Marker Price.s
Source GoverittieittofPak.viat and IMP atidWorldBatik.stafle litmiatet.



APPENDIX VI
Page 2 of 8
Table 2: FISCAL ADJUSTMENT
(Consolidated Federal and Provincial Budgets)
Share of GDP (%)
1990/91   1993/94   1994/95  1995/96          1995/96
Outconie Outcome Outcome  Budget  Estimatesl/
Total Revenues                                                    16.8      17.4      17.3      17.8        18.4
Federally Collected Revenues                                      16.1      16.3      16.2     16.9        17.4
Tax Revenues                                                    12.2      12.8      13.2      13.3        14.0
Direct Taxes                                                    1.9      2.8       3.3       3.6         3.4
Indirect Taxes                                                10.2      10.0       9.9       9.7        10.6
Non-Tax Revenues 2'                                              4.0       3.5       3.0       3.6         3.4
Provincially Collected Revenues                                    0.7       1.0       1.2      0.9          1.0
Total Expenditure                                                 25.6     23.2      22.9      22.8        22.9
Federal Current Expenditure                                     14.7     14.5      14.2      13.8        13.7
Defense                                                       6.3       5.8       5.6       5.3         5.3
Interest Payntenits                                           4.9       5.5       5.0       5.6         5.6
Other 3'                                                       3.5       3.3      4.1       2.9         2.8
Provincial Current Expenditure                                  4.4       4.2       4.4       4.5         4.9
Development Expenditure                                         6.4       4.6       4.4       4.4         4.3
Fiscal Deficit                                                    -8.7     -5.9      -5.6      -5.0        -4. 5
Federal Government                                             -6.9      -6.5      -6.1      -5.4        -4.5
Provincial Governments                                          -1.9      0.6       0.5       0.4         0.0
Overall Public Sector Borrowing Requirement 4/                    -8.7      -6.8     -6.7      -6.4        -5.0
Esimtes arebased anthe G-t-ernme-'s sabiis,tinnanmd reform  -rogra-  ,lport1, .  .    FSlEStand-by Arrangement
2/ Includisgfinancing of the Social Action Pr-grax (SAP)from prit' uai  : -eds.
3/ The 1993/94 and 1994/95figures include smnte  nstidentified'                      - 'zoiur,    i  '. . f  ,D 1.pment
expenditures as well.
4/ The 1990/91 figures for total revenues and toula e.-penditures -re ihe sanie as buderti-r revenues cmid expenditures,
because sitefour corporations (WAPDA, OGDC. NHA t  PTCi were still in ihei budH-
Source:- Goermne,is of Pakistan amd IMF and World PostS stadi es's/mtes.



APPENDIX VI
Page 3 of 8
TABLE 3: PAKISTAN'S SOCIAL INDICATORS IN INTERNATIONAL PERSPECTIVE
Low Income
Pakistan   South Asia    Countries
Population
Population Growth Rate (% p.a.)                   2.8           2.1           1.9
Total Fertility Rate (births/woman)               6.1           4.0           3.6
Education
Gross Primary School Enrollment Ratio (%)         65            106          108
Male                                             80           118           116
Female                                           48            93           101
Literacy Rate (% of Population 15+)               35            46            59
of which Female (% of Population 15+)            21            31            47
Health
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)     88            84            63
Under-five Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)  137          124          101
Population per Hospital Bed                      1777          1638          1016
Other
Female Participation Rate (% of labor force)      13            22            33
Access to Safe Drinking Water (%)                 50             70           67
Rural (%)                                       35             67           62
Note: Data refer to the most recent year for which information is available.
Source: Social Indicators of Development 1995 (World Bank), and estimates based on Government of Pakistan data (for
enrollment ratios).



APPENDIX VI
Page 4 of 8
Table 4: PAKISTAN: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1993/94 - 1998/99
Preliminary   Estimates 1/         Projections 2/
1993/94    1994/95     1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99
Output and prices (annual percent change)
Real GDP at factor cost                   4.5         4.4         6.0         6.5        6.5        6.5
GDP deflator at factor cost               12.5       14.6        10.5         8.0        7.0        6.0
Consumer price index (period average)     11.2       13.0         10.5        8.0        7.0        6.0
Nominal GDP at market prices              17.0       19.9         17.1       15.0       14.0        12.9
Investment and savings (in percent of GDP)
Total investment                          18.2       16.8         19.4       19.6       19.7       20.1
Gross domestic savings                    14.7       12.6         13.5        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Gross national savings                    14.4       12.9         14.7       15.8       16.8        17.3
Nonfinancial public sector (in percent of GDP)
Total revenue                             18.8       18.3         19.7       19.8       19.8       19.8
Total expenditure                         25.7       25.0        24.7        24.3       23.9       23.5
Public sector borrowing requirement        6.8        6.7         5.0         4.6        4.1        3.7
Budgetary revenue                         17.4       17.3         18.4       18.5       18.5        18.5
Budgetary expenditure                     23.2       22.9        22.9        22.5       22.1       21.7
Budgetary balance                         -5.9       -5.6        -4.5        -4.0       -3.6        -3.2
Domestic debt                               44.7       42.7        40.1        37.8       35.7       33.9
Monetary sector (annual percent change)
Net foreign assets 3/                      5.9        4.1        -2.0         2.0        2.8        2.9
Net domestic assets 3/                    10.1       12.6        14.1         9.0        9.2        9.1
Domestic liquidity                        16.0       16.6        12.1        11.0       12.0       12.0
External sector ( in percent of GDP)
Merchandise exports                       12.9       12.9        14.3        15.2       16.0       16.5
Merchandise imports                       16.7       16.6        17.3        17.1       17.1       17.2
Current account excl. official transfers  -3.8       -3.9        -4.7        -3.8       -2.8        -2.8
Current account incl. official transfers  -3.2       -3.4        -4.4        -3.5       -2.6        -2.6
Externaldebt4/                           48.2        44.7        45.1        43.3       41.4       39.5
Gross reserves 5/ (in weeks of imports)   12.6       12.9         9.3        10.3       10.8       11.4
External debt service ratio 4/ 6/        22.7       22.5         24.4        23.1       19.2       18.1
1/ Estimates are based on the Government's stabilization and reform program supported by the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement(SBA).
2/ Projections for 1996/97 are based on the Government's program supported by the IMF SBA;
projections for the outer years (1997/98 and 1998/99) are based on an illustrative scenario involving
continued effective stabilization policies and resumption of broad-based structural reforms,
consistent with return to an ESAF program.
3/ In relation to beginning-of-period domestic liquidity.
4/ Excludesforeign currency deposit liabilities.
5/ Excluding gold.
6/ These figures do not match those in Table I because they are calculated with exports GNFS and
with medium- and long-term debt servicing, whereas the figures in Table 1 are calculated
with merchandise exports (custom basis).
Source: Government of Pakistan and IMF and World Bank staff estimates. Projections are preliminary.



APPENDIX VI
Page 5 of 8
Table 5: PAKISTAN: EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS, 1993/94 - 1998/99
(US $ million)
Preliminary  Estimates 1/     Projections 2/
1993/94    1994/95    1995/96   1996/97  1997/98  1998/99
Current account balance 3/            -1,964    -2,402     -2,992    -2,538   -2,059   -2,181
Trade balance                     -2,000    -2,253      - 1,900    -1,303    -613      -465
Exports fob                      6,685     7,884      9,000    10,244    11,629   12,869
Imports fob                     -8,685    -10,137    -10,900   -11,547  -12,242   -13,334
Service balance                    -2,354    -2,546     -3,336    -3,568   -3,832   -4,159
Private transfers                  2,390      2,397      2,244     2,334    2,387    2,442
Amortization                          -3,318    -4,226     -3,835    -3,236   -3,026   -3,065
Repurchases                             -79       -113      -244      -331      -247      -213
Net international reserves (increase= -)    -1,786  -391     555      -371      -271      -420
Total financing requirements           7,147     7,132      6,516     6,476    5,603    5,879
Identified financing                   7,147     7,132      6,516     6,476    5,603     5,879
Official transfers                   314       312        212        173      167      166
Medium- and long-term assistance   4,203      5,018      4,884     5,221    4,691     4,979
Public and publicly guaranteed   2,493      2,834      2,917     2,950    2,726    2,812
Project and nonproject aid    2,249     2,267      2,333     2,525    2,594    2,673
Project and food aid        1,934     2,003      2,315     2,375    2,444    2,523
Othercommodityaid            316        264         18       150      150       150
Other                           244       567        584       425       132      139
Private Sector                   1,710      2,184      1,967    2,271     1,965    2,167
Short-term Credit                  2,254      1,588      1,059      844       744      734
IMF purchases and disbursements      376       215        360       238        --        --
1/ Estimates are based on the Government's stabilization and reform program supported by the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement(SBA).
2/ Projections for 1996/97 are based on the Government's program supported by the IMF SBA;
projections for the outer years (1997/98 and 1998/99) are based on an illustrative scenario involving
continued effective stabilization policies and resumption of broad-based structural reforms,
consistent with return to an ESAF program.
3/ Excluding official transfers.
Source: Government of Pakistan and IMF and World Bank staff estimates. Projections are preliminary.



APPENDIX VI
Page 6 of 8
Figure 1: Annual Price Inflation (1993-1996)
25
23                             0
21                             0 °
<,17                    O                °0.0 0
Is
7                           -     CPI        A, SP[        O-  WPI
~~~~~~~~~~0
z                                 z    _ -              - o    v    z
Annus l raunP ofinfldeix n are baWed on poin1nd-poinl comparison ofsprice indiexs
CPI = Consumer Price Index: WPI= Wholesale Price Index: SPI = Senshtive Price Index



APPENDIX VI
Page 7 of 8
Figure 2: Exports, Imports, and REER (1992-1995) \1
1200                                                                               - 116
1000                           0                                                     II
00         000
'oo 000, ;;Z0 
0 1~~~~~0                                             --ijl--l|SeS{l|l§S0 §           lSlSYi||              6
400     
200~~~~~~0                                     
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 0   0                                 ) 
-  Exports              -o  Imports                     REER
\1 REER is based on Trade-weighted basket of foreign cwrrencies.
Note: An increase (decrease) in the REER Index represents appreciation (depreciation) of the currency.



APPENDIX VI
Page 8 of 8
Figure 3: COMPOSITION OF TOTAL REVENUES
1989/90                                                        1994/9r
Provincial  Direct Taxes                                       Provincial
Non-tax         4%          9%  Excise                          Non-tax         7%           Direct Taxes
Revenues                         Duties                         Revenues                         19%
24%                       _    15%                              16%
Others                             Excise
Others                              Sales Tax                     2%                                Duties
0%                                   10%                                                            13%
Surcharges                        customs
Customs             ~~~~~6%                           24%                        Sles Tax
Cuistoms                         6 oSurcharges                                                 1 30/o
32%                                                                         6%
Source. Government of Pakistan and IMF and World Bank Staff Estimates.
Figure 4: COMPOSITION OF FEDERALLY FUNDED EXPENDITURE
1989/90                                                         1994/95
Social                                                              Others
Services Others                                            Social     1%
:ervi'ces   6%                                            Services    1
3%                                                         %fes
Interest29
23%                                                        Interest
General             It29%ee                                       General
Administration         2%Adminiistration
3%                                               ~~~~~~~~~~5%
Grants to1*                         usdis0~b                                                         d
ProvincesusdisSbsde
3%                                 4%1%
Development                                     Provinces         Development
29%                                           Prntiasa n           23%
Source: Government of Pakistan and IMF and World Bank Staff Estimates.



IBRD 28058
600                           650                           700          ' TAJIKISTAN   75        i 
I ~~~~~CH   
PAKISTAN                                                                    ( ,HINA
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT                                                                                  '
LOAN AND CREDIT (PSAL)                                                                       I'
03    PROVINCECAPITALS                       f                            N.WEP ,
® *   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                          , J5
-   -  | ~ PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                     L-., Peshawar  ji ApprOimte35n
N    ~ ~ ~   0   ~~~    g   ~~   Line of ~~~~Control
-'-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           ISf  L IAMABAD   JAMMU
RIVERS                                   t                                        i   :   and KASHMIR
1                              .A~~~r-
41, v' \'/      i                      -     Lahore4\
z    -            i,   PUNJABz                      ,
30°
O Quetta                !                            _ )                 305
BALOCHISTAN                                                        IN.IA
'._                                              _   _  ./ s----              ,             I N  D I A
ISLAMIC    '   -                                          _
REPUBLIC OF !                                              /                     i
IRAN               L                               I                               0       100     200      300 Kilometers
I **,               100          200 Miles
25c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
SINDH                                                        250
This mop was prodlucedi by the
Mop Design Unit of The World Bonk
The boundaries, colors, denommnotions
'   . .              a5 ond anyother information shown on
/. a ,, A.+ .                             5   -   -_ .~  ~                    this mop do not Imply, on the port of
The World Bank Group, ony judgment
E                                  i                                       on the legol status of ony territory, or
ony endorsement or acceptance of
4" 1l-                                       such boundaries
60,                               65'                                70'                               750
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15758
Type: ICR



