Docmmat of
The World Bank
KOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
mA/3 ,/ $ - 
RIeputN. P-5788-PAK
REPORT AND RCEDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEATIONAL BA1K FOR RECONSTRUCTION  O1) DEVELPN
AND TOR INTERNIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC SETR ADJUSTM    LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MLLION
ANID ON A
tt                              if
PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTNT CREDIT
IN AN AMON EQUIVALENT TO SDR 71.8 MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AUGUST 26, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 5788 PAK
Type: PR
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
dteir offcial duties. Its contents may not otierwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(annual averages)
Rs per US$1.00             YSS per Rs. 1.00
FY81                  9.90                    0.101
FY82                 10.55                    0.09
FY83                 12.71                    0.079
FY84                 13.48                    0.074
FY85                 15.17                    0.066
FY86                 16.13                    0.062
FY87                 17.17                    0.058
FY88                 17.56                    0.057
FY89                 19.18                    0.052
FY90                 21.39                    0.047
FY91                 22.37                    0.045
FY92                 24.78                    0.040
FY93                 25.90                    0.039
a/      Since January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the rupee has been managed wifth respect
to a weighted basket of currencies.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
FY93: July 1, 1992 - June 30, 1993



V
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
CONTENTS
Page Nc.
LOAN AND CREDIT SUMMARY   ....................................                          i
I.     MACROECONOMIC AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT, FY89-93  ....                           I
A. Background .......................................                    I
B. Economic Developments and Adjustment Efforts -
FY89-93    .........................................                 3
H.    THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ...............................                          5
A. The Overall Adjustment Program  ........................              5
B. The Macroeconomic Framework .........................                 6
C. The Privatization Program  .........       .............              7
D. Public Finance Reforms.                                               8
E. Trade Policy Reform .                                                11
F. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Plan .12
mT.   THE PROPOSED OPERATION ................................                         14
A. Origin and Objectives .14
B. Poverty Impact .14
C. Summary of Actions for the First and
Second Tranche .15
D. Monitoring and Tranching .16
E. Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing .16
F. Financing from other Donors .17
G. Program Benefits and Risks .17
IV. BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS. .STRATEGY.AND.OPERATIONS                            18
V. COLLABORATION WITH THE IF .21
VL    RECONMENDATION  .......................................                         21
ANNEXES
A.    Economic Indicators
B.    Status of Bank Group Operations
C.    Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
D.    Govemment Letter of Development Policy (including Matrix of Policy Actions)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan. 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriz& tion. 



PAKISTAN
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
Loan and Cr:tit Summarv
Bo_rower     :      Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amounts             Crtdit - SDR 71.8 million (US$100 million equivalent)
Loan - US$150 million.
Terms               Credit - Standard, with 35 years maturity
Loan - 20 years maturity including 5 years grace, with interest at the standard
variable rate.
Proom
Objectives    :     The principal objectives of the proposed loan and credit are to support
Government efforts to: address public finance issues which are crucial for
economic and social development; deregulate the economy and redefine the
role of the public sector while increasing the effectiveness and sustainability of
activities that remain in the public sector, and improve private sector
productivity and competitive position through reform of the trade regime.
D nscri:tion    :   To achieve these objectives, the Pubiic Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit (PSAL)
supports a program of reform which aims at: (i) ensuring a sound and
sustainable macroeconomic framework; (ii) privatizing public enterprises
involved in commercial, industrial energy and banking activities; (iii)
restructuring the composition and increasing the effectiveness of public
expenditures, while improving the structure of the tax system and increasing
revenues; and (iv) continuing a program of trade reform to reduce protection,
distortions and non-tariff barriers.
Benefits     :      Implementation of the Government's adjustment program would result in
several benefits to the economy. The successful privatization of public
enterprises should result in efficiency gains in the enterprises being privatized
which represent a significant share of economic activity. The implementation
of the public finance component should reduce public sector bonrowing
requirements and the consequent displacement of private sector investment,
improve private sector efficiency through the elimination of tax distortions,
and allow the public sector to fulfil more effectively and in a sustainable
manner key development needs. Trade policy reforms would increase
competition and efficiency and give Pakistan's industrial sector a stronger
export orientation. The social impact of the program is expected to be positive
with the financing of social services on a sustainable basis.



- ii-
Risks               The main risks relate to uncertainties regarding the external environment and
to policy slippages resulting from political and implementation constraints.
With regard to the external environment, grow if Pakistan's exports may not
be as favorable as envisaged and Pakistan woul  tnain vulnerabie to terms of
trade shocks. With respect to policy slippages, tL. re is a risk that the reform
package approved by the caretaker Government will not be filly implemerted
by the successor Government following the October elections. In this context,
the most important risk is in regard to public finances to the extent that the
next Government seeks to avoid c"nfrontation with special interest groups,
which could delay actions on tax reform. Both major political groups have
expressed their commitment to the refrorm process and its main objectives in
their political programs and when in office have demonstrated their strong
support for the key elements of the reform effort. Moreover, they have also
indicated their agreement in principle to the reform program announced in
August. Implementation constraints are being addressed through technical
assistance and adlministrative reforms.
Disbursements       The proposed loan/credit will be released in two equal tranches. The amount
of each tranche would be equally divided between the loan and the credit. The
first tran .ie would be available upon loan/credit effectiveness. The release of
the second tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory overaUl
implementation of the program and the fulfillment of specific conditions. The
Government of Japan is considering US$150 mil,ion equivalent in parallel
financing of the program.
raisal
Repr-t              Not applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBUC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.           I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Public Sector
Adjustment Loan and Credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. The proposed operation would be
for the equivalent of US$250 million, of which US$100 million (SDR 71.8 million) equivalent would
be from IDA and US$150 million fiom IBRD. The proposed Loan would have a term of twenty
years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
proposed Credit would be on standard IDA terms with thirty-five years maturity.
L MACROECONOMAC AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT, FY89-93
A Background
2.            Although Pakistan's economy continued to grow rapidly during the 1980s, with GDP
increasing by over 6% per annum, by the late 1980s the country confronted increasingly serious
macro-economic imbalances as reflected in large fiscal and cunrent account deficits. These constraints,
coupled with longstanding structural weaknesses, created financial uncertainties and prompted the
Government to initiate a medium-term macroeconomic and structural adjustment program in mid-1988.
External support for the program was provided by the IMF under a SAF and standby arrangement and
by the Bank through sector adjustment loans in energy, finance and agriculture. Additional support
was provided by the Asian Development Bank and several bilateral donors.
3.           The key objectives of the adjustment program, which has been broadened in scope and
accelerated in several areas since 1991, were to redress macroeconomic imbalances, improve the
economy's growth performance, and strengthen efforts to tackle poverty and social sector concerns.
Within this firamework, a key goal was to restructure the respective roles of the public and private
sectors in the economy by withdrawing the public sector from those activities which it does poorly and
concentraing public sector efforts on those tasks where it must play a major role. More specifically,
t;ie program focused on four main areas of reform:
(i)    strengtheninz macroeconomic management through fiscal reforms to increase resource
mobilization and reduce the fiscal deficit as well as actions to strengthen the financial
sector and move toward a market based system of credit allocation and monetary
management;
(ii)   promoting private sector activity and efficiency through privatization, industrial
deregulation, reform of the incentive regime, trade policy reform, flexible management
of the exchange rate, and deregulation and adjustments in administered prices;
(iii) im=roving Dublic expenditure performance by increasing expenditures on development,
in particular for basic infrastructure and human resources, improving the efficiency



with which resources are utilized, and privatization of public sector activities which
can be more efficiently performed by the private sector; and
(iv) accelerating efforts to tackle povertv and increase. low ptr capita income through
sustained economic growth and through preparation and implementation of a Social
Action Program, including policies and programs to improve the coverage and quality
of basic social services and infrastructure, especially in rural areas, and reduce high
population growth.
4.           To achieve these objectives, the original adjustment program aimed at achieving GDP
growth of 5.5-6% p.a., stabilizing inflation at 6% p.a., reducing the current account deficit from over
4% to 2.5% of GNP while increasing gross extemal reserves to 6 weeks of importz. Measures were to
be introduced to deregulate economic activity and investment, liberalize the tiade and exchange
systems, rationalize the tariff systemn, adjust regulated prices, especially in the energy and agricultural
sectors, reform the financial system, and promote foreign direct and portfolio investments. These
reforms were to be complemented by improvernicts in the structure of public finance to reduce the
distortionary impact of taxes, increase the buoyancy of the tax system and redirect resources to key
projects and programs in the social sectors and infrastructure. These policies were to be supported by
a reduiction in the overall fiscal deficit to 4.8% of GDP in order to reduce aggregate demand pressures
and improve financial stability.
S.           Pakistan's performance under its adjustment program has been impressive in terms of
growth, mixed in structurl reform and disappointing in fiscal adjustment. Efforts to open up the
economy, improve the environment for private sector activity and begin to reduce the scope of public
sector activities through privatization have met with considerable success. Good progress is also being
made in initiating reforms to improve social sector performance. On the other hand, the adjustment
effort has been plagued by poor performance in improving public finances. During FY93, the
economic situation deteriorated sharply, partly as a result of the devastating floods of September 1992,
with GDP growth falling to 3%. The fiscal deficit reaching a record high of 9.3% of GDP, while the
current account deficit (excluding official transfers) increased to 5.8% of GDP, and gross reserves fell
to 2.2 weeks of imports by end-June 1993.
6.           Since the start of the reform effort, Pakistan has experienced considerable political
tunnoil and undergone several changes in Government. However, the main thrust and principal
objectives of the adjustment program are fully shared by all major political groups and each successive
Govemment has reaffinned its support for and continued iwplementation of the adjustment program.
The initial program was in fact conceived under the Zia regime, with implementation initiated and
carried forward under the Bhutto Govemment. The refonn effort was subsequently continued by the
Nawaz Sharif Government, which reinforced and accelerated the program in key areas, especially in
terms of privatization and deregulation and in accelerating efforts in the social sectors.
7.           The deterioration in economic performance in FY93 led the Nawaz Sharif Government
to introduce tighter monetary policies in the second half of the year. These policies were continued by
the interim Government in April/May 1993 which included members of the opposition. The outline of
a strengthened reform program was formulated by the interim Government and presented, in the form
of the budget for FY94, to the National Assembly by the then-reinstituted Nawaz Sharif Government
in June 1993. Following the resignation of both President Khan and Prime Minister Sharif in mid-July
1993, a non-partisan caretaker Government headed by Prime Minister Moeen Qureshi, was appointed



to pave the way for October elections. The continuing political crisis led to further deterio-ation of
the external accounts, and the caretaker Government, was faced with gross reserves equivalent to one
week of imnports (US$185 million). It reacted quickly by putting into place, in August 1993, a strong
economic adjustment program, including fiscal, mon4tary and exchange rate actions, to redress the
financial imbalances and to renew and expand the adjustment effort. The program has received the
endorsement of both major political groups contesting the election, and both have confirmed their
intention to continue implementation of the program if they take office.
8.           To support the Government's program, summarized in the PFP for 1993/94-1995/96
(distributed separately to the Executive Directors), the IMF has prepared a standby arrangement (of
SDR 265 million) which it plans to present to its Board in mid-September 1993. The IMF will
consider supplementing the stand-by with an ESAF/EFF arrangement in the near future following
further discussions with the Government after the election. The Bank proposes to support the
Government's new program through the PSAL which has been under discussion for some time, but
which had been delayed by the lack of agreement on a macroeconomic framework and on the public
investment program. The proposed support from the IMF and the Bank for Pakistan's adjustment
efforts will provide urgently needed balance of payments support at a time when Pakistan faces a
serious foreign exchange situation and has taken vigorous steps to stabilize its economy and expand its
structural adjustment program. The proposed Loan/Credit will help to demonstrate strong international
support for the Govemment's renewed economic reform effort and provide the incoming elected
Govermment with added inducement and support for moving ahead effectively with the adjustment
effort.
B. Economic Develolments and Adjustment Efforts - FY89-93
9.           Private Sector Development and Growth. As noted abo. e, progress has been strong in
the private sector agenda. Beginring in 1991, the Government pursued a three-pronged approach to
expand the role of the private sector. First, it moved to free the economy from unproductive
government controls, chief among these sanctioning of private investment and import licensing, which
were abolished. Areas of investment previously off-limits to private initiative were re-opened to the
private sector, including power generation, commercial and development banking, and air and sea
transport. Second, the Government initiated the privatization of 103 manufactring units and began to
take steps to expand the privatization program to the energy and telecommunications subsectors. By
August 1993, 69 manufacturing units had been sold. Import3nt preparatory steps to privatize the
telecommunications utility (PTC) and gas utilities were taken. Third, it continued trade and financial
sector reforms aimed at promoting efficiency and strengthening the export sector. In all three areas,
however, there is still need for further action and the Government's PFP has announced the proposed
next steps.
10.          The economy responded well to these policy reforms. Private sector activity has been
exceptional during the last few years, despite periods of political uncertainty and several changes in
Government, declines in the tenns of trade, and a partial breakdown of law and order in Sindh.
Industrial value added grew by 6.3% p.a. and agriculture expanded by 5.4% p.a. in FY89-92. Within
sectors, growth was well balanced between large and small scale industry and among crops, although
cotton production clearly led agricultural output. The strong growth performance also led to a large
expansion of exports by an average of 14% p.a. in volume tenns (12% in US dollars) during this
period. GDP growth (at factor cost) has averaged some 5.5% p.a. and real per-capita GDP has risen



- 4 -
by over 10%. However, as noted above, Pakistan's economic performance weakened sharply in FY93.
11.          Sa.:ings and Investment. The economy's excellent growth performance was achieved
mainly by increased efficiency. Gross fixed capital formation of the private sector gradually expanded
from 7.7% to 9.4% of GDP betweert FY88 and FY92, in part reflecting the improvement in the
investment climate resulting from the fiberalization of investment and foreign exchange regulations.
Financial sector reforms and some fiscal adjustment contributed to a steady rise in domestic savings
from 10.5% to 14.2% of GDP in FY93. Nevertheless, these improvemeuts are significantly less than
targeted under the program. Overail gross domestic investment and national savings have renmained
stagnant at 18%/6-20% of GDP and 14% of GDP, respectively, during most of the adjustment period.
12.          Public Finances. The reform program aimed for a strong correction in the fiscal
accounts so as to lower the overall fiscal deficit to below 5% of GDP, a reduction of more than 3.5
percentage points of GDP. Government revenues were to rise by more than 2% of GDP to over 20%
of GDP while improving the efficiency, equity and elasticity of the tax system through eliminating tax
exemptions and concessions, improv:ng tax administration and shifting from international trade and
excise duties to direct taxes and a more neutral sales tax. Government spending was to be contained
at about 25%-26% of GDP while at the same time increas;ng the efficiency of public outlays through
a gradual increase in development expenditures and in priority current expenditures such as operations
and maintenance in the social and other key sectors.
13.          Implementation of the adjustment program was weakest in the area of fiscal policy,
and few targets of the program were realized. Since FY88, the fiscal deficit has exceeded 7% of GDP
and public savings have been negative in evety year but one. As a result of reforms, the yield from
direct taxes increased from 1.8% of GDP in FY88 to 2.6% of GDP in FY93, but tax concessions and
exemptions continued to undermine the Government's efforts. In particular, the agricultural sector
continued to be exempt from income taxes and wealth taxes. Revenues from sales taxes have likewise
risen, but the expansion in the tax base remained significantly less than planned. A continued heavy
reliance on the inelastic excise duty undermined progress, and high taxes on international trade were
riddled with exemptions and concessions. Due to the stuctural weaknesses of the tax system, and
despite annual discretionary tax measures, budget revenues were no higher as a proportion of GDP in
FY92 than in FY88.
14.          The Government's efforts on the current expenditure side also had mixed results.
While efforts to contain current expenditures were initially successful, the savings were not long-
lasting; in FY93, expenditures as a ratio to GDP were at the same level as in FY88. Some success
was achieved in controlling the growth il defense outlays and reducing subsidies, but interest
payments increased. In FY93, these three categories represented some 48% of total expenditures
compared to 47% in FY88.
15.          While Government succeeded in increasing development expenditures from 6-7% of
GDP in FY89-91 to 8.6% in FY93, not enough attention was paid to prioritizing projects. The overall
deficit rose from an already high 7.4% of GDP in FY92 to 9.3% of GDP in FY93, surpassing the
FY88 peak. Financing of the deficit added to inflationary pressures; inflation remained around 10%/o in
FY93.
16.          Balance of Payments. The program targeted a reduction in the current account deficit
from over 4% of GNP in 1988 to 2.5% of GNP, with international reserves to increase from 3 weeks



I5- I
to over 6 weeks of imnports while improving creditworthiness and debt indicators. To achieve these
targets, the reform program aimed at better domestic demand management, correction of price
distortions, a flexible exchange rate policy, tariff reforms, and freeing of trade, foreign exchange and
business decisions from bureaucratic controls.
17.          Despite the adjustment effort, Pakistan's balance of payments remained weak.
Although exports increased sharply and the trade deficit improved significantly during this 9eriod, this
improvement was insufficient to compensate for the deterioration in the services balance and the shamp
decline in workers remittances. In FY93, the current account deficit (excluding official transfers)
deteriorated to 5.8% of GDP. On the other hand, the opening of foreign currency deposits (FCDs) to
residents in FY91 resulted in large foreign exchange inflows, in particular in FY92 when these
deposits increased by US$1.2 billion (2.4% of GDP) and again in FY93 when resident FCDs increased
by an additional US$600 million in spite of the political uncertainties in the country. Gross official
reserves at end-FY93 of US$435 million were equivalent to only 2.2 weeks of merchandise imports.
18.          Financial Sector. Financing of the large fiscal deficits relied heavily on the domestic
financial sector. Deficit financing increased the interest cost in the private sector. The Government
had to pay rates of return up to 3% higher than the rates offered on bank deposits in order to attract
enough funds from the non-bank public. Government also imposed highly distorting bank-by-banl
credit ceilings that channeled bank credit to the public sector. Together, these policies led to financial
disintermediation during the second half of the 1980s and artificially stimulated the growth of non-
bank financial institutions.
19.          In spite of the limitations imposed by the fiscal situation, substantive reforms,
supported by a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, have been carried out. Two state-owned
commercial banks were partially privatized and efforts are being made to privatize two more banks.
Prudential regulations have been tightened and non-bank financial institutions were brought under
prudential regulation. The Government also introduced auctianing of public debt instruments which
allowed the rate of return on 6-month Treasury Bills (T-bills) to rise gradually from 6% to 13%.
Although the rate was still not fully market determined, the higher rates led banks to cease
discouraging deposits. Rates of return on concessionary lending schemes were also increased. The
benchmarks used for comparison, however, were not past rates of inflation, but rates optimistically
anticipated as a result of the adjustment measures, in the 6% to 8% range, which have turned out to be
less than actual inflation. Notwithstanding the reforms, subsidized and directed credit still made up
about one-quarter of private domestic credit by the end of FY93.
IL THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. The Overall Adjustment Program
20.          The present caretaker Government, in August 1993, adopted an economic program that
aims to redress macroeconomic imbalances and strengthen the adjustment program. The current
program builds on efforts made earlier in the first half of 1993 to correct fiscal and monetary
developments and goes beyond the measures adopted in the FY94 Budget. The need for action
became much more pronounced with the poor export performance of the last few months and the
political uncertainties in the country, which led to a dramatice reduction of gross official reserves.
The program, most of which has already been implemented in mid-August, includes a sharp fiscal



-6-
adjustment and a aevaluation of the Rupee, as well as structural measures to imptove public sector
performance and provide a more liberal environment for the private sector. The program includes the
following components: (i) a sound macroeconomic framework; (ii) privatization of public enterprises
involved in commercial and inJustrial activities as well as enterprises in the banking, energy and
service sectors; (iii) restructuring of public expenditures and increasing their effectiveness as well as
tax reforms aimed at resource mobilization needed for social and physical infrastructure; and (iv)
continued trade policy and financial sector refonn to increase the efficiency of domestic industries.
21.          The proposed PSAL would support this program for FY94 and FY95. The
components of the program are described below and summarized in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy and the attached Policy Matrix (Annex D). All the actions to be taken in FY94
have been adopted by the Government.
B. The Macroeconomic Framewor
22.          The Government's macroeconomic objectives for the next three years are to: (i)
sustain GDP growth at about 6.5% p.a., following a sharp recovery of 7.5% in FY94 from the low
growth that resulted from the floods in FY93; (ii) reduce inflation to 8% in FY94 and to under 6% by
the end of the period; (iii) strengthen the international reserve position from 2.2 weeks of imports at
end-June 1993 to 6.7 weeks at the end of FY94 and to 10 weeks by the end of the three-year period;
(iv) reduce the ratios of domestic and external debt to GDP; and (v) achieve current account
convertibility of the Pakistan rupee. The adjustment path outlined above includes a considerable share
of the adjustment in the first year.
23.          The policy targets supporting these objectives in FY94 are: (i) a sharp reduction of
2.3% of GDP in the budget deficit and 2.6% of GDP in the public sector borrowing requiremnent;,1
(ii) a decline in the rate of domestic credit expansion to 11.5% of GDP, i.e. substantially below the
projected nominal GDP growth rate, and a reduction of the current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) by almost 3% of GDP to 2.7% of GDP. Significant measures have already been
implemented in July/August 1993 to achieve these argets. These measures (additional to the tax
increases in the June budget) include: (i) a devaluation of the Pakistan rupee by 9.5%, reversing an
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate in FY93; (ii) an increase in interest rates for subsidized
and mandatory credit schemes to 11% and an increase of SBP discount and treasury bill repurchase
rates by 2%; and (iii) an increase in electricity tariffs by 19%/o, an increase in prices of petroleum
products by 10% and increases in consumer prices for gas by 15-20%. Price policy measures and tax
measures included in the budget for FY94 are to increase budgetary revenue by 0.7% of GDP in
FY94, reversing the downward trend of earlier years. In addition to these measures, the program
includes stuctural measures, described below, to address the long-standing structural weaknesses of
Pakistan's economy.
The fiscal deficit targets of the original PFP included the deficit on the consolidated
Government budget (federal and provincial) and the investnent expenditures of four large
semi-autonomous public sector corporations/agencies: Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation (PTC), Oil and Gas
Development Corporation (OGDC) and the National Highways Authority (NHA).



24.          PSAL Prm_   . The Government is committed to implementing the agreed
macreeconomic framework for FY94. Based on a review of macroeconomic performance in FY94,
and in line with the medium-term objectives and targets described above, the Govemment will
formulate a macroeconomic fraunework for FY95, in consultation with the IMF and the Bank.
C. The Privatlzatlhn PEram!
25.          Background and Issues. In the context of redefining its role, the Govemment has
moved rapidly ahead with a wide-ranging privatization program. The initial program aimed at
privatizing 103 public sector industrial units (out of a totai of 152), four of the five publicly owned
commercial banksa, the development finance institutions, and the telecommunications company
(PTC). In addition, the Government has recently announced plans for increasing private sector
participation and ownership in the power subsector. For most of these units, the Government is either
the sole owner or controls a very large majority of the shares. However, public sector entities in
steel, transport and certain strategic enterprises have not yet been targeted; in addition, divestiture from
entities in which the Govemment is a minority shareholder is also not part of the privatization
program. A Privatization Commission, created in January 1991, has ben responsible for privatizing
the units in the industrial seftor. The privatization of PTC was being handled by the Ministry of
Communications, Power by a separate Commission, and the Banks by the Ministry of Finance and the
Privatization Commission. In August 1993, the Government merged these responsibilities for
privatization and reconstituted the Privatizatic  'ommission with a mandate concerning all these
sectors.
26.          The Government moved rapidly ahead in its privatization efforts in FY91 and FY92,
especially with regard to units in the financial and industrial sectors. First, the Government concluded
negotiations in October 1991 on a relief package for employees of the units to be privatized. This
labor accord was crucial for dispelling many uncertainties that were impeding the sale of the industrial
units. Second, in September 1991, the Privatization Commission advertised 100 industrial units for
sale through an auction. By August 1993, 69 industrial units have been sold.
27.          In the financial sector, the Government has already sold a significant proportion of the
shares of two of the four banks to be privatized, the Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB) and the Allied
Bank Limited (ABL). With regard to MlCB, 26% of shares were sold to the bank's new private
owners in April 1991, followed by 25% to the public at large in February 1992. In the case of ABL,
in August 1991, 26% of the shares were sold to the Allied Management Group formed by employees
of the Bank, and the sale of another 250/ If the shares has been initiated. The other two commercial
banks, Habib and United, were offered to the private sector in late 1991 but none of the bids received
were found to be responsive and no sale took place, as was the case for the development finance
institutions.
28.          The PSAL Program. The privatizations described above constitute important up-fron
actions under the PSAL program. During the next two years, the Govemment intends to make
substantial progress towards completing the privatization of the remaining industrial units included in
Of the five banks, one-the National Bank of Pakistan-has been owned by the State since
Independence, while the other four were nationalized in the early 1970s.



- 8 -
the initial list as well as the nationalized commercial banks. The Government has announced its
intentions to move ahead with the sale of the remaining industrial units, by adjusting further the sales
prices, restructuring them financially before re-auctioning, and finally, through liquidation. For those
industrial units which have not been sold by March 1994, the Government will prepare liquidation
plans. As regards privatization of the remaining two nationalized banks, the Govemment aims to
complete the sale of at least one of them in the current fiscal year and to complete a portfolio audit for
the second. In addition, the authorities will continue to implement the respective programs leading to
the privatization of PTC, power and the energy sector public enterprises targeted for divestiture. In
August 1993, the mandate of the Privatization Commission has been expanded to all of these sectors.
29.          In August 1993, the Govemment announced an action program on how it intends to
proceed with the public enterprises and entities currently not included in the privatization effort.
These include industrial firms not on the initial list, non-bank financial institutions, public sector
investment banks and public sector trading houses. The Government will also develop plans for
regulating the private sector in selected areas, and to clarify the rules of the game for potential
investors. Proceeds from privatization will be used only for retiring public debt.
D. Public Finance Reforms
30.          The Government's key objectives in public finance are to: (i) implement structural tax
reform and strengthen tax administration in order to mobilize the resources needed to finance
development requirements; and (ii) restructure public expenditures to ensure adequate funding of
priority areas--including the core public investment progran, particularly in basic infrastructure and the
social sectors while containing non-development expenditures such as defense. The program calls for
measures to be taken at both the federal and provincial levels. The Government has approved a
budget for FY94 consistent with these objectives within a budget deficit (narrow definition) of 5.4% of
GDP. The Government is committed to adopting a budget for FY95 that reflects the above objectives
and is consistent with the medium-term macroeconomic framework, i.e., that reduces the budget deficit
further, that continues efforts at raising the budgetary revenue/GDP ratio, and that pursues objectives
of restructuring expenditures as described below.
Resource Mobilization and Structural Tax Reform
31.          Background and Issues. Pakistan's tax system suffers from: (i) a low tax effort
relative to GDP; (ii) a low ratio of direct taxes to total tax revenue; and (iii) a low -Jtare of
domestically based indirect taxes in total indirect tax revenue (i.e., a high dependency on trade taxes
for overall fiscal revenue). All three ratios have been low because of a large number of exemptions
and other tax concessions, including the virtual exemption of the agriculture sector from income taxes
and a variety of tax holidays; and because of massive tax evasion through non-reporting and under-
reporting. Furthermore, about half of excise taxable products have been subject to specific rates,
directly eroding the built-in flexibility of the tax system. A number of tax rebates and credits are
contributing to a considerable revenue loss while often failing to achieve their intended objectives.
32.          The consequences of this tax structure are detrimental to the economy. First, the tax
system is inelastic. The Government had to adopt discretionary revenue-raising measures with every
annual budget to avoid a further erosion of the tax ratio, a process that introduced considerable
uncertainty in production and investment decisions. Second, the tax structure discriminates against



- 9 -
exports due to the high rate of import taxes and undennines efficiency in allocation of resources
because of the differential rate structure. Third, the tax system is perceived as being inequitable
because of income tax exemptions and concessions. For example, the virtual exemption of agricultural
income from taxation primarily benefits the wealthier landlords. Efforts at reforming the tax system in
the past have been insufficient, and revenue, both from direct as well as indirect taxes, remains low.
The Government's medium-term tax reform program includes a comprehensive reform of both tax
policy and tax administration to secure a steady growth in the tax effort by raising the domestic tax-to-
GDP ratio while providing appropriate incentives and improving progressitivity in incidence.
33.          The PSAL Program. The PSAL would support the tax reform program in areas of
income/wealth taxes, domestic indirect taxes, and provincial revenues. These reforms aim at
improving the structure of taxation and are to increase budgetary revenues from 18% of GDP in FY93
to over 19% in FY95.
34.          As regards income and wealth taxes, the Government is committed to broadening their
base by beginning to tax the agriculture sector, reducing income tax exemptions and concessions, and
simplifying the rate structure. In particular, in August 1993, the Government decided to begin taxing
the agricultural sector through an extension of the wealth tax to the agricultural sector and the
introduction of an agricultural income tax at the provincial level. This is a major step in bringing a
large sector of the economy into the tax net and eliminating a widely-used loophole for tax evasion.
The Government is committed to expanding agricultural taxation through adjustments in the land value
index which will come into effect at the beginning of FY95. At that time income tax exemptions and
concessions will be reduced as will be profit tax rates.
35.          Measures in the area of domestic indirect taxes affect both excises and the general
sales tax and aim at improving the flexibility of the tax system, and extending the product coverage.
As regards excise taxes, several specific excise tax rates have been adjusted and converted to ad-
valorem rates in FY94. Prices of petroleum products were increased in July 1993, resulting in higher
tax rates; the Government has also introduced a mechanism to automatically adjust domestic prices
(and tax) to changes in the landed cost. As regards the general sales tax, the rate has been raised in
FY94 from 12.5% to 15%, and some exemptions have been eliminated. The Government intends to
progressively broaden the base both horizontally and vertically and tighten administration (including
eliminating exemptions for locally produced goods) to result in a broad-based value added tax by
FY96. The Government also intends to strengthen tax administration to combat tax evasion and
reduce opportunities for fraud and other revenue leakages. In particular, over the next two fiscal
years, the Government would improve tax administration by implementing measures recommended in
a recent IMF technical assistance report.
36.          As regards provincial revenues, irrigation water charges have been increased by about
25% at the beginning of FY94 by the Provincial Governments of Punjab, Sindh, and NWFP;
Balochistan had increased water charges earlier. This constitutes the first increase in water charges
since the early 1980s and is an important step in providing more adequate O&M expenditure for the
irrigation system. The Government is committed to implement firther increases in water charges in
FY95.



- 10-
Resrucln Curent ExDenditures
37.          The structure of current expenditures is unbalanced, with excessive expenditures on
non-productive items and not enough on productive ones. In FY93, total current expenditures of the
Federal and Provincial governments were V0.3% of GDP, with interest representing 6.0% of GDP and
defense 6.3% of GDP. Subsidies in FY93 amnounted to 0.5% of GDP. The residual, which includes
federal and provincial expenditure items with the highest development priority such as O&M outlays
for irrigation, education and health, only represented 7.5% of GDP in FY93.
38.          The PSAL ProEirm. In the area of current expenditures, the Government proposes to
restructure expenditures in favor of O&M for basic physical infrastructure (irrigation, roads, railways,
water supply and sanitation) and the delivery of basic social services (primary education, primary
health, population control and rural water supply and sanitation). Most of these are the responsibility
of the provinces and are suffering from a lack of funds. To fund these and high-priority development
expenditures, growth in outlays on defense, interest, and subsidies is to be limited. The Government is
formulating a program for economy in government administration and is committed to implementing
specific steps during the two year period.
39.          In the FY94 budget, the following specific measures have been adopted: (i) Most
importantly, defense expenditures have been reduced from 6.5% of GDP in FY93 to 5.6% of GDP.
The Government is committed to contain defense expenditures in FY95 as well at a level that strikes
an appropriate balance between resource availability and security needs. (ii) In August 1993, the
Government announced initial steps to improve the efficiency of the civil service, including measures
to contain current spending in FY94. Following up on recommendations of the Economy Commission
for savings in public administration, the staffing of all federal Ministries is currently being reviewed.
Following this exercise, the Government will decide on a reduction in the number of staff and
divisions. The Governnent will prepare a detailed action plan in this regard before the end of FY94.
(iii) O&M expenditures for irrigation, roads, railways and urban water supply and sanitation have been
increased in the FY94 budget. (iv) As regards the social sectors, the Govemment is committed to
increasing the level of resources devoted to basic social services-primary health care, primary
education, population and rural water supply and sanitation. In the cases of primary health and
education services, budgetary allocations for current spending have been raised by the Provinces by at
least 5% in real terms over the preceding years. The Govemment is also ensuring that a rising
proportion of current spending for primary health and primary education are allocated to non-salary
inputs, to improve the quality of services.
Develoument Expenditures
40.          Backaround and Issues. Public development expenditures in Pakistan have been low,
when compared with the country's infrastructure and human resource needs. Recognizing this
inadequacy, the Seventh Five-Year Plan (FY89-93) proposed to increase development expenditures by
some 8% in real terms p.a., implying a target for the annual development program equivalent to 7-
7.5% of GDP on average over the plan period. For the first three years of the adjustment program,
actual development expenditures declined, from 6.8% of GDP in FY88 to 6.5% in FY91. Then the
Government sharply increased development expenditures, to 8.6% of GDP in FY93 mostly for large
new projects in transport and telecommunications. These expenditures require close scrutiny in the
future, both to ensure that their overall levels are consistent with the macroeconomic framework



- II -
adopted for the adjustment program, and that their composition maximizes their growth and
development potential.
41.          Implementation of the development program also has been poor. Supervision of
development projects has been weak and deficient, lacking both focus and overall direction, and delays
in project implementation are common. Procurement, which is cLunbersome and slow, has also led to
project delays. Investment programming is also weak; while the five-year plans are well documented
and address the major development issues, the link between these plans and the annual development
programs is weak. Sequencing of investment projects in view of resource constraints and development
priorities has not been sufficiently taken into account in preparing and launching projects. As a result,
the portfolio of projects is too large and not fully consistent with Government priorities, and many
projects are under-funded.
42.          The PSAL Program. The Government has agreed with the Bank on the size and
composition of the public sector development program (PSDP) to be implemented during FY94 (cf:
Attachment 2 to the Letter of Development Policy). The PSDP includes the development programs of
federal and provincial governments as well as the investment programs of WAPDA, PTC, OGDC and
NHA. The Government is committed to adopting a PSDP for FY95 that has been reviewed by and
agmed with the Bank and that is consistent with the three-year rolling investment program (discussed
below).
43.          Within the FY94 PSDP, the Govenmment has adopted a core investment program. This
core program--which consists of projects judged to be essential to the development of the country--
anounts to Rs 49 billion and is to be protected against cuts.
44.          In order to increase the efficiency of public investment, the Govenmment will
implement a comprehensive program during FY94 to: (i) e-,tablish clearer public investment priorities,
including introducing a three-year rolling investment programming system; and (ii) improve project
implementation and supervision, and expenditure monitoring. The Government has prepared a first
draft of the three-year rolling investment program FY94-96 and will finalize it in the next few months.
The program will be updated for FY95-97. The Government will also prepare an action program in
FY94-in consultation with donors-to restructure or close projects that are no longer consistent with
government policies. In the process, the Government will set up an improved monitoring system for
the PSDP.
E. Tnde Policy Reform
45.          BackgMund and Issues. Despite refonrs over the last four years, Pakistan maintains a
protective trade regime, which isolates the economy from international markets and reduces the
competitiveness of Pakistan's manufacturers. Tax rates on imports remain high. There is great
variation in the rates, and the system is riddled with tailor-made exemptions and restrictions. After
progressive reductions since FY89, the maximum tariff in FY93 was still 101% (including import
surcharges). There are export taxes on some goods (including raw cotton and cotton yarn). There are
significant domestic excise and sales taxes that are applied to imported goods but not to locally
produced identical items, which amount to additional import taxation. Although over the years import
licensing, import bans and import restrictions all have been reduced, there still is an import license fee,
a restricted list and a negative list that importers have to navigate to obtain foreign made goods.



- 12 -
These high and varied tariffs and non-tariff barriers raise costs, lower productivity, and make domestic
production less competitive.
46.          The Government program includes fiuther trade and tax reform measures that aim at
lowering the level of protection and distortion of the trade regime, while compensating for revenue
losses through parallel domestic tax reform measures. As discussed above, emphasis is on broadening
the tax base for the General Sales Tax (GST) and direct taxes through the removal of exemptions, and
also on the simplication of the tax structure and strengthening of tax administration. The main thrust
of the fiscal revenue and trade tariff reform is to make GST and income tax the principal sources of
government revenue, and to improve the neutrality of the tax system, while custom duties will be set
in the context of a reformed trade policy, not as a major revenue source. Rationalization of tariffs
through reduction of maximum and average tariff rates and elimination of exemptions would greatly
reduce distortions in incentives and increase efficiency and competitiveness of production.
47.          The PSAL Program. The Government has adopted a trade policy reform package
which will constitute the next major step in its trade reform efforts. At the beginning of FY94, the
following measures have been taken: (i) the maximum import duty (including Iqra and import license
fee has been reduced to 91%; (ii) the list of restricted import items has been eliminated; and (iii) the
negative list has been limited to products related to religious, health, security, and reciprocity
considerations. In addition, the Government is committed to implement, by July 1995, the following
measures: (i) further reduce the maximum tariff; (ii) integrate the Iqra and import license fee into the
tariff structure as a minimum tariff; and (iii) eliminate export taxes.
F. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Plan
48.          The impact of the Government's expanded adjustment program is expected to be
strongly positive, particularly through its effect on private sector investment and output. In the short-
term, the sharp fiscal adjustment should restore macroeconomic balance and stability. In the medium-
to long-term, the successful implementation of the overall reform program will result in fundamental
qualitative changes in the structure of Pakistan's economy. The role of the currently over-extended
public sector would be redirected and concentrated in providing a stable policy and regulatory
environment. It will also complement private sector activity and investment where it has a
comparative advantage. Private sector activity would be enhanced and made more efficient, as tax and
regulatory distortions are eliminated and markets are allowed to allocate resources towards activities
with higher returns. Pakistan would become more outward oriented as exports and imports increase
their share in economic activity, and protection and the anti-export bias of the existing trade regime
are reduced. At the same time, the economy would reduce its dependence on foreign savings and
official sources of capital, as national savings, in particular public savings, increase.
49.          The adjustment program supported by the PSAL aims to revive growth, from the
unusually low 3% in FY93 to 6.5% in the medium-term (see Annex A). The contractionary impact of
demand management measures in FY94 is expected to coincide with a rebound of economic activity
from the impact of the floods and the cotton virus; thus, overall GDP growth, even in FY94, is
expected to be high. Inflation is expected to fall from its current level of about 10% to 8% in FY94
and to 6% in FY95. Total investment would rise from 20% of GDP at present to 22% by FY96 and
thereafter. Gross domestic saving would rise from 14% in FY93 to 20% by FY96, reflecting the steep
fall in the public sector dis-saving. Exports would resume their past performance of growing



- 13 -
significantly faster than imports. The cuffent account deficit (excluding official transfers) would fall,
from its FY93 level of 5.8% of GDP to 2.5% of GDP in FY94, 2.1% of GDP in FY95 and 1.7% of
GDP in FY96. Gross reserves would rise from their end FY93 level of 2.2 weeks of imports, to 6.7
weeks at the end of FY94, 8.4 weeks at the end of FY95 and 10 weeks by the end of FY96. Both
internal and external debt to GDP ratios would fall from FY94 onward and the external debt service
ratio would continue to fall.
so.           External Financing Requirements. Pakistan's foreign exchange situation remains
precarious. During the adjustmnent period, there is an urgent need to increase the country's external
reserves. This would also be required to encourage the inflow of private capital.
51.           Gross external financing requirements are estimated at US$3.6 billion and US$3.2
billion in FY94 and FY95, respectively for a total of US$6.8 billion for the two-year period (see table
2.1). Disbursements from the aid pipeline over the two years are expected to supply US$4.2 billion,
with net private (medium-term) inflows projected to cover US$1.4 billion. Official grants, which have
fallen sharply from their levels of the past few years, are expected to contribute US$614 million. This
leaves a gap of US$586 million.
52.            The balance of payment support proposed by the IMF and the Bank would allow
foreign reserves to increase to about 8 weeks of imports in FY95. The PSAL would provide US$250
million (4% of the total financing requirements), half in each of the two years. The Govemment of
Pakistan is pursuing discussions with the Government of Japan to provide US$150 million in balance
of payments support. The IMF stand-by arrangement, expected to be approved in mid-September
1993, would provide about US$375 million, resulting in a net purchase of US$186 million after
scheduled repurchases of US$189 million. The table shows a negative amount for the IMF in FY95,
because it does not include the proposed ESAF/EFF financing which would allow to bolster the
reserve position firther.
Table 2.1: Pakistan: External Financing Requirements
and Projected Sources of Financing
(Miltions of USS)
Total
Category                               FY94        FY95      FY94 and FY95
Financins Recuirements                      3568         3227          6795
Current Account Deficit                    1287        1151          2438
Public Debt Amortization                   1405        1614          3019
Change in Gross Reserves                    876         462          1338
Sources of Fundina
Pipeline Loan Disbursement                 2102        2110          4212
Private Capital Flows (Net)                 798         585          1383
Capital Grants                              238         376           614
BOP Support
PSAL                                     125         125           250
IMF (net)                               230          -44           186
9ilateral                                75           75           150
Source: Staff Projections.



- 14 -
IIL THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Onilu and Objectives
53.          An adjustment operation to support the Government's efforts to reform the public
sector and improve the structure of expenditures and resource mobilization has been under discussion
since the Fall of 1990. Since then, considerable progress has been made in developing key elements
of the program, especially as they relate to privatization, programming of public investment and the
social sectors. However, processing of the proposed adjustment loan was substantially delayed by the
uneven macroeconomic performance, especially on the fiscal side, and by lack of agreement on the
public sector investment progran given the sharp expansion of spending on highways (especially
motorways) and telecommunications. These difficulties have been resolved in the context of
discussions with Government since April/May 1993 and the agreements confirmed in the reform
program adopted by the Government in August 1993.
54.          The PSAL builds on the Bank's analysis and policy advice in several areas. The need
for improved govemment revenue mobilization and expenditure allocation has been at the forefront of
the P4nk's dialogue with Pakistan for many years. In each of the last five years, the Bank has
reviewed the public investment program and undertaken, under several sectoral adjustment and
investment loans, detailed annual reviews of sectoral investment programs. In several sector reports,
the Bank has analyzed the reasons for poor performance in the social sectors and made proposals for
reforms.
55.          The PSAL has three objectives. First, it addresses public finance issues which are
crucial for promoting economic and social development. Second, it supports the Government's efforts
to deregulate the economy and privatize govemment-controlled companies in the financial and
manufacturing sectors, and, hence, provide an enviromnent more conducive to productivity gains.
Third, it supports trade reform. Both the improvement in resource mobilization and the rationalization
in current and development expenditures will contribute to better budget management and fiscal
stability. Improved planning and prioritization of investments as well as adequate funding for current
expenditures will make the Government's policies more effective in promoting income growth and
alleviating poverty.
B. Poverty Imoact
56.          The impact on poverty and social development of the proposed adjustment program
supported by the PSAL is expected to be positive on balance. In particular, the protection of social
development expenditures through the core investment program and the associated monitoring of the
core PSDP should help improve delivery of social services. A reduced budget deficit and strengthened
resource mobilization effort would, in turn, lead to social services being financed on a sustainable
basis. In addition, the Govemment is implementing a Social Action Program (SAP) at the federal and
provincial level. Agreements in the PSAL on public expenditures, including particularly an increased
financing for the SAP, will help extend and improve basic social services on a sustainable basis.
57.          These positive effects will be reinforced by the strong growth orientation, as well as
other beneficial impacts regarding equity, of the program. Privatization, improvements in the



- Is-
incentive framework resulting from the tax reform program, increased development expenditures,
enhanced efficiency of public outlays resulting from the improvements in programming and
monitoring, are expected to result in an increase in private sector efficiency and investment. Hence,
all these measures are expected to induce faster productivity growth, and ultimately to foster overall
income growth. With regard to the distributional impact, increasing the elasticity of the income tax
and broadening its base will affect the upper- and middle-income groups rather than the poor, who are
below the tax threshold. Hence, the reformed income tax system will be significantly more
progressive.
58.          However, there are also negative effects of the refonn program. The recent price
increase for basic food items (flour, cooking oil) will be felt disproportionately by lower income
groups. To mitigate the effect on lower level government employees, salary increases have been
granted. There is also a negative short-term impact in the form of labor retrenchment that may result
from the restructuring of public enterprises after privatization. Currently, many public enterprises are
considered to be overstaffed, and the new private owners may reduce staff. The Govermment's
agreement with major unions will mitigate this impact through measures that will in large part offset
the negative social consequences of any layoffs. These include generous severance allowances,
training, job search facilities and access to credit for those seeking to start their own businesses. In
the long-term, the growth of the economy is expected to provide opportunities for displaced employees
to find new jobs.
C. Summarv of Actions for the Fint and Second Tranche
59.          Measures already taken. Since taking office in mid-July, the caretaker government has
continued reforms in key areas initiated by previous governments and accelerated policy reforms in a
number of other areas. The Government's overall economic program, including new measures, was
announced by the Prime Minister in a special address to the nation on August 19, 1993. The actions
taken in July and August 1993, described above, and summarized in the Policy Matrix (Annex D,
Attachment I) are the basis for releasing the first tranche of the PSAL.
60.          Actions to be Taken. The Government is committed to adopting a substantial number
of additional measures with the presentation of the FY95 budget. The measures supported by the
PSAL are described in the Letter of Development Policy and the Policy Matrix. The second tranche
of the PSAL will be released following an assessment by the Bank that the overall PSAL program has
been implemented in a satisfactory way in FY94 and once the following specific conditions have been
met:
(i)   adoption of a macroeconomic framework for FY95 that is satisfactory to the Bank, in
consultation with the IMF;
(ii)   preparation of liquidation plans for an agreed list of units on which negotiations for
sale are not well advanced as of March 1994;
(iii)  agreement with the Bank on the size and composition of the PSDP for FY95;
(iv)   preparation and satisfactory implementation of an action plan to reform public
administration on the basis of the findings of the Economy Commission; and



- 16-
(v)   increases of budget allocations for SAP services by at least 0.1 of GDP in the FY95
budgets.
It is expected that these conditions will be met by July 1994, i.e., with the adoption of the FY95
budget.
D. Monitoring and Tranching
61.          The loan and credit will be made available in two equal tranches. The first tranche,
consisting of US$50 million (SDR 35.9 million) equivalent from IDA and US$75 million from IBRD,
will be released upon effectiveness. The second tranche of the loan and the credit of equal amounts
would be released following a tranche review which would take place in June/July 1994.
62.          The institutional arrangements the Government has made for the preparation of the
PSAL have worked well and will be used to monitor progress. They include a working group, under
the chairmanship of the Secretary Finance, with the participation of the Secretary Planning, and the
Secretary Revenues.
E. Procurement. Disbursement and Auditing
63.          The proposed loan would finance 100% of the c.i.f. cost of general imports, excluding
inter alia militaty or para-military items, luxury goods, environmentally hazardous products, nuclear
reactors and parts, and uranium. Goods financed by other sources are also excluded. Since a
substantial number of measures have been taken before Board presentation of the PSAL, retroactive
financing of up to US$50 million will be made for imports in the four months before loan/credit
signing, to help the Government finance urgently needed imports.
64.          Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines which
have also been used for Pakistan's SECALs. Both private and public sector imports would be eligible
for financing. Imports valued at US$ 5 million and above by both public and private sector entities
would be procured in accordance with simplified ICB procedures and using the Bank's standard
bidding documents except for certain commodities which are traded in international markets. For a
list of these commodities agreed with the Bank/Association, other procedures acceptable to the
Bank/Association may be used. Imports valued below US$5 million by public sector entities would be
procured using the Government's standard procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Imports
valued at below US$5 million by private sector finns would follow established commercial practice.
65.          The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) would be responsible for administering the loan and
credit accounts, including collecting appropriate supporting documentation, the preparation and
submission of withdrawal applications, and the maintenance of necessary accounts for the loan funds.
66.          Withdrawal applications for items below US$5 million may be submitted under
Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures. Withdrawal applications for all other imports would be
fully documented. Documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by SBP.



- 17-
67.          The loan/credit accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and the annual audit report would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. The audit report would include a statement verifying that amounts disbursed against
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose they were intended. The auditors' report
will include an opinion on whether satisfactory procedures are in operation at the SBP regarding the
use of Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The closing date for disbursements will be 30 months after
loan/credit signature.
F. Financina from other Donors
68.          The Government is seeking US$150 million financing from the Government of Japan
through OECF in support of its adjustment program. The Govemment of Japan is considering this
request.
G. Prosam Benefits and Risks
69.          The program benefits will be a substantially adjusted economic structure within which
Pakistan can grow and prosper. After re-establishing macroeconomic balance and stability, the PSAL
program addresses the most important structural flaws in the economy. The Gcvernment will have
withdrawn from many areas of activity and will have conserved its resources and energies to better
focus on those areas of operation within more narrow purview of Govemment. The structure of public
msource mobilization will have been put on a much sounder basis, with greater buoyancy of revenues
and less distortions. The residual areas left for government-public social and physical infrastructure-
would be better served, with major benefits for human resource development and lower cost
infrastucture for canying out economic activity. The trade regime would be overhauled, with the
introduction of greater competition from abroad, promoting progressive gains in domestic productivity
and employment.
70.          Given the extent of the adjustment effort required, the uneven implementation of
policy reform and macroeconomic stabilization measures in the last few years, there are significant
risks involved in the public sector adjustment program. A first risk is failure of the Government that
will emerge from the October elections to follow through with the implementation of a satisfactory
macroeconomic program and the structural reform measures due to political opposition. The reform
program, particularly in the tax and tariff area, will reduce the privileges enjoyed by powerful groups
in the country while increasing govemment expenditures for those who are not well represented in the
political arena. The current caretaker Govemment has discussed extensively the most recent measures
and program with the two main political parties contesting the election, and with the military
leadership. Both major political parties have expressed their commitment to the reform process and its
main objectives in their political programs and, when in office, have demonstrated their strong support
for the key elements of the reform effort. Moreover, they have also indicated their agreement in
principle to the reform program announced in August. The Government has also taken steps to
minimize the short-term negative consequences of the privatization program through generous
severance payment rules and retraining offers.
71.          A second risk results from the weak implementation capacity in various parts of
Government. Reforms in the fiscal area depend on a strong tax administration effort and on the



- 18-
Government's capacity to implement and monitor the investment program. Steps have been taken in
the last year, in part through re-deployment of staff, to improve tax administration, and technical
assistance is being provided to help the Govermment improve investment programming and monitoring.
72.          A third risk relates to external factors. Pakistan's balance of payments position
remains fragile, and slow growth in international trade could reduce the prospects for rapid export
expansion over the medium term. In FY94, however, increased exports of cotton and cotton textiles,
recovering from the floods and cotton virus, should provide a strong impetus to the economy.
IV. BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
73.          Given the need for a quick response by the Bank to the Government's request for
financial support to the reform program announced on August 19, 1993, this section is not a full
description of the country assistance strategy. Rather, it focuses briefly on a few key aspects of our
assistance program. A detailed review of Bank and IDA assistance strategy was circulated to the
Board in June 1992 and discussed in early July 1992.3' The revised Country Assistance Strategy for
FY94 is expected to be presented to the Board with the next operation currently scheduled for
consideration in November 1993. Our strategy has four principal goals: poverty reduction;
developing a supporting environment for private sector development; deepening the structural reform
process; and improving the management of Pakistan's natural resources and the environment. The
PSAL supports the Government's structural reforms, in particular in the fiscal area, and in private
sector development through privatization and trade refirm. In supporting a restructuring of public
expenditures, the operation also addresses poverty and social sector concerns and project
implementation issues.
74.          The Bank Group has made 81 loans and 124 development credits to Pakistan since
1952, totalling US$4,626.7 million and US$3,906.0 million respectively (both net of cancellations).
Of these amounts, US$1,187.8 million has been repaid and US$2,792.9 million was still undisbursed
as of June 30, 1993. The relatively high level of undisbursed funds reflects project implementation
constaints as well as the rapid build up of new commitments in recent years. Since 1958, the IFC has
made commitments in Pakistan totalling US$360.5 million, of which US$261.9 million has been
repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled. Of the balanct; of US$98.6 million, US$82.0 million represents
loans and US$16.6 million equity.
75.          World Bank and IDA assistance to Pakistan steadily increased over the last decade,
with average annual commitments growing from about US$160 million in the early 1980s to US$640
million during FY85-87. During the period FY88-91, the annual average commitment level increased
to about US$700 million, owing largely to substantial sector adjustment lending in support of the
Government's adjustment program. In FY92, commitments fell below $400 million reflecting mainly
delays in reaching agreement on new adjustment lending. Total new commitments in FY93
(US$428.9 million) also fell below programmed levels owing mainly to political constraints which
See "Part I - Country Policies and Bank Group Assistance Strategy," of the President's
Memorandum for the Fordwah Eastem Sadiqia (South) Irrigation and Drainage Project (Report
No. P-5749-PAK, dated June 11, 1992).



- 19-
delayed agreement on adjustment lending and slowed progress in finalizing a large power development
loan. About 31% of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for the agriculture sector,
27% for energy; 17% for industry; 21% for infrastructure; and 7% for education, health and family
planning.
76.          In support of poverty reduction objectives, Bank and IDA efforts have concentrated on
improving the quality and coverage of basic services in health and education, with emphasis in the
past several years in assisting the Government to develop Social Action Progratns at the provincial and
federal levels aimed both at increasing funding for basic services and changing policies and procedures
to improve social sector perfonnance. Future assistance in the social sectors includes a Social Action
Program Project for which preparation is well advanced, a project to strengthen primary education in
NWFP, and a project to strengthen the Government's family planning activities. The assistance
program also aims at alleviating the backlog of basic urban services, including preparation of a project
to improve urban services in Sindh and a project to improve basic infrastructure for low income
groups in NWFP.
77.          Bank and IDA efforts to support private sector develonment focus mainly on: i)
helping overcome severe physical constraints in basic infrastructure (especiallv power and transport)
while redefining appropriate roles for the public and private sectors in the provision of infrastructure;
ii) supporting efforts to ensure continued strong growth in agriculture, with particular attention to
improving management of Pakistan's vital irrigation system; and iii) improving the policy and
institutional environment for industry, with emphasis on improving competitiveness and completing
reform of the financial sector. Projects under preparation include a large power development project
to finance a timeslice of the power investment program of WAPDA (the national power and irrigation
c*ompany); preparation of sector investments operations to support national programs to overcome
irrigation and drainage problems; and development of a financial sector deepening and intermediation
project to strengthen financial institutions and provide term resources to help meet private sector
financing needs.
78.          Bank support of Pakistan's structural reform efforts have been described in detail
earlier in this document. The proposed PSAL builds on sectoral adjustment operations which have
been carried out over the past few years in agriculture, energy, and the fnancial sector. Future
lending for adjustment could focus on further support for trade and fmancial sector reform, but would
be linked to progress under the PSAL and the Government's success in continuing its adjustment
agenda over the medium term.
79.          Bank and IDA efforts to support conservation and environmental protection goals
focus on: policy and legal reform; strengthening of Pakistan's environmental institutions; and financing
specific interventions to reduce environmental damage. In addition to agriculture sector projects aimed
at improving water management and combating waterlogging and salinity, lending operations under
preparation would improve natural resources management in Baluchistan, support implementation of a
program to improve forest management practices in the Punjab, and develop solutions to urban
pollution problems through a Punjab Urban Environment project. The Bank has also been working
closely with the Government in developing a priority action plan for implementing Pakistan's National
conservation Strategy, which forms the basis for Pakistan's Environmental Action Plan.
80.          In addition to IBRD and IDA lending in support of specific investments and policy
changes, our assistance program makes use of a variety of other instruments to help Pakistan meet its



- 20 -
large development financing requirements and address structural adjustment concerns. These include
co-financing efforts; use of the Bank's guarantee authority through the ECO program to help put
together a financing package for a large private power development project; aid coordination activities,
with particular emphasis on providing leadership to the aid community through the Bank's role as
chair of the Pakistan Consortium; and a continued focus on strengthening portfolio management.
81.          Economic and sector work further supports Government efforts to address policy and
development issues. Our ESW program in coming years is expected to focus on: i) macro economic
analysis in support of the Government's adjustment efforts, including continued public expenditure
issues; ii) studies on private sector development issues, including a private sector assessment, analysis
of the private sector's role in the provision of basic infrastructure, and work on institutional, marketing
and environmental issues in agriculture; and iii) further analytical work focusing on the development
of human resources and poverty reduction, including a poverty assessment.
82.          IFC is active in financing new ventures and expansions in the private sector in
Pakistan. Recent investments have focused on the general manufacturing and textile sectors, where
PaMdstan enjoys a comparative advantage, and in capital markets. Investment prospects are currently
being considered in fertilizers, textiles, cement, oil and gas, private power generation, tourism and
health care. Other initiatives include seeking to broaden local stock ownership and to assist the
Government's privatization programn.
83.          Pakistan became a member of MIGA in April 1992 and since then cover has been
issued for several banking projects, with additional coverage for other sectors under consideration.
MIGA has also been active in investment promotion, including sponsorship of an Investment
Promotion Conference, in late 1991. In addition, the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) has
completed a detailed study of the foreign investment environment in Pakistan.
84.          Although the overall execution of projects remains satisfactory in terms of achieving
their objectives, project implementation and disbursement performance has often been slower than
expected. These implementation delays, combined with the rapid expansion of the portfolio since the
mid-1980s, have resulted in relatively high undisbursed balances which have hovered around US$3
billion in the early 1990s. To address these imnplementation bottlenecks, the Bank's assistance strategy
has increasingly focused on efforts to strengthen portfolio management. This emphasis has included
the holding of annual Countiy Implementation Reviews, with subsequent agreed action plans, as well
as discussion of implementation issues at the Pakistan Consortium. The Govermnent has also worked
closely with the Bank to develop more effective mechanisms for project monitoring and follow up and
taken actions to resolve procedural and other bottlenecks and to close old projects. The disbursement
rate has increased, including in the social sectors where disbursements had been the slowest, and the
overall pipeline has fallen to about US$2.8 billion.
85.          Pakistan's low per capita income and needs have justified IDA financing. Since 1982
an increasingly larger percentage of Bank Group financing to Pakistan has been through IBRD lending
and since FY85 new IBRD lending has been more than twice that of new IDA financing. The amount
of IDA funds available to Pakistan are likely to remain limited. IBRD resources will therefore have to
continue to be utilized if Bank Group resource transfers to Pakistan are to be maintained, or increased.
Pakistan's high growth rates in the 1980s and its willingess to undertake significant economic policy
reforms have made it creditworthy for Bank lending, despite low incume levels. Pakistan's continued
creditworthiness will depend on its ability to solve its fiscal and balance of payments problems by



- 21 -
increasing domestic resource mobilization and fostering export growth, as well as carrying out other
policy adjustments.
86.          IBRI) and IDA lending to Pakistan accounts for about 27% of long term external debt
outstanding and disbursed and 20% of long term debt service. Over the next five years, the Bank's
share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed is expected to remain at about the same level.
While debt service to IBRD as a share of export eamnings will rise from 3% in 1992 to 3.3% by 1997,
it will gradually decline back to 3% by the end of the decade. The other major donors to Pakistan
have been the Asian Development Bank and Japan, with important contributions from other bilateral
and multilateral sources.
87.          The principal risks to the Bank's canying out of the planned operations program relate
to Pakistan's ability to maintain a satisfactory macro-economic fianework and continue to carry out its
adjustment program. The area of greatest vulnerability in the program is fiscal perfonnance, where
the Government will have to undertake additional meastres to mobilize resources and control non-
development expenditures, while increasing expenditures that are crucial to sustain long-term growth.
Provided that growth remains strong and adjustment measures are implemented, Pakistan's overall debt
indicators are expected to improve. The debt-to-GDP ratio (including military debt) is projected to
decline from 49% in FY94 to 37% by the end of the century; the debt service ratio is also expected to
improve during this period from 23% to 18% of export earnings.
V. COLLABORATION WITH THE I1F
88.          Bank staff have cooperated closely with the IMF and other donors during preparation
of the PSAL. The Bank missions worked with the joint IMF/Bank PFP preparation mission, and the
appraisal mission coordinated with an IMF program mission. More generally, the policy
recommendations of the two institutions have been formulated in parallel, under the umbrella of an
agreed Policy Framework Paper. The close cooperation with the IMF is expected to continue in the
monitoring of progress on macroeconomic issues on a quarterly basis.
VL RECOMMENDATION
89.          I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and Association, respectively, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan and credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
by Ernest Stem
Acting President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August26, 1993



Annex A
Page 1 of 2
Pakistan -- Key Indicators
Prov.     Est.          Projected
FY1992   FY1993   FY1994   FY1995   FY1996
A. Real Growth Rate:
Gross Domestic Product                  7.7      3.0%     7.59      6.5%     6.5%
Gross Domestic Income                   7.2%     2.6t     8.2t    6.8%       7.0%
B. Real Per-Capita Growth Rates
Gross Domestic Product                  4.5%    -0. 1%    4.396     3.30f    3.30
Total Consumption                       3.6%     0.6     4.3%      1.2%     2.5%
Private Consumption                     3.2%    -2.5t    6.70       6.20    2.6%
C. PPG Debt and Debt Service (LT+IMF+ST
Total DOD                             22573    24045    25522    27000    28276
DOD/GDP (1)                            46,2%    45.9%    49.20    48.4    47.3%
Debt Service (US$M)                    2248     2236      2263     2353     2720
Debt Service/Exports                   27.2%    27.0    22.90A   20.9%    21.4%
Debt Service/GOP (1)                    4.6%     4.3t    4.49       4.2%     4.50
Interest Paid (US$M)                    999     1149      1201     1409      1517
lnteresUtExports                       12.1     13.9s    12.1     12.5    11.9%
InteresUiGDP (1)                        2.3%     2.5%     2.6%      2.8%     2.8%
D. Savings and Investment
Gross InvestmentUGDP (1)               20.0%    20.3f    19.8%    21.40    22.10
Domestic SavIngs(GDP (1)               16.5%    14.2%    17.2    19.1q    20.5%
SOP Resource Deficit/GOP (1)            6.5      7.70A    4.1%      3.3%     2.50A
National Savings/GDP (1)               17.09    14.5%    17.49    19.3%    20.50
aOP Current Acount Deficit/GDP (1)    -3.1%    -5.8%    -2.5f    -2.1%    -1.7%
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate          0.21    -0.74     0.54      0.47     0.40
Marginal National Savings Rate          0.34    -0.82     0.53      0.47     0.38
Govemment Investment/GOP (1)            7.1      8.69A    7.70      7.8%     7.90A
Government Savings/GDP (1)             -0.3    -0.8f       1.0%     2.5%     3.5%
Prlvate Investment/GODP (1)            12.99    11.7t    12.1%    13.6    14.20
Private Savings/GDP (1)                17.39    15.3f    16.49    16.8%    17.0%
Ei Fiscal Indicators
Govemment RevenuesIGDP (1)             19.2%    19.5%    19.90    20.6%    21.10
Government Expet'ditures/QDP (1)       26.7%    28.9%    26.6%    25.9%    25.5%
Overall Budget DefIcit/GDP (1)          7.49     9.3%     6.7s      5.30     4.4%
Primary DeficIt/GOP (1)                -1.49    -4.0%    -1.4      2.20    2.40
F. Prces and Exchange Rates
Consumer Price Index (% change)         9.6%     9.3f     8.0w      6.5%A    5.5%
GDP Deflator (% change)                10.29     9.6f     8.00      6.5%     5.5%
REER Index (1992-100)                  1.000    1.006    0.901     0.900    0.973
Terms of Trade Index (1992-100)         100       98       102      103       106
G. Balance of Payments
Exports GNFS Volume (% change)         17.9%     4.9%     9.50      7.00     6.3%
Exports GNFSIGDP (1)                   13.8f    12.8f    15.8%    16.8s    17.9%
Imports GNFS Volume (% change)         11.40     4.73     6.0      5.1%     5.8%
Imports GNFSIGDP (1)                   18.46    18.4%    17.8%    18.0%    18.3%
Current Account Balance (US$M)        -1499    -3020    -1287    -1151       -990
Gross Reserves (weeks Imports)           5.0      2.2      6.7       8.3     10.1
(1) GOP at factor cost                      I        I         I_I



Annex A
Pag 2 of 2
Pakistan -- Balance of Payments
(Millions of US$)
PMov.   -Prov. I    Eat         FProJced
__________ _  0 F 2Yt99   FYlOSS   FY1994   FY195  -FYI99
A. Expons of GNFS                      7460     8274     6268      9887    11246    12719
1. Mechandw e (FOB)                   5902     8762     6703     6188     9387    10699
2 Nonfactor SvIcs                     1548     1512     1565     1699      1859     2020
B. lnport of GNFS                     10563    11468    12297    12012    13080    14221
1. MerchandIe (FOB)                  8385      8998     9654     9250    10058    10937
2. Nonfacor Services                  2178     2470     2643     2762     3022      3284
(of whtch Imports C&F)                709      737      832      870       997     1137
C. esouroe salanc$                     3113     3194     4029      2125     1834     1502
D. Net Factor Income                  -1160    -1268   -1431    -1529    -1691    -1779
1. Factor Receipts                     82        69       81       96      105       114
2 Factor Payments                     1242     1335     1512     1625      1796     1893
a. Interest on Foreign Debt          944      999      1149     1201     1409     1517
b. Other Factor Payments             298      336      363       424      387      411
E Net Current Tranisfer Rcelpts        2292     2961     2440      2367     2374     2291
1. Current Receipts                  2308      2975     2456     2380     2388      2306
a Workers' Remittances              1848     1468      1562     1600     1800     1810
a. Other Current Rceipts             460     1507      894       780     1068     1161
2. Current Payments                     16       14       16       13        14       15
F. Current Account Balance
1. Before Official Capital Grants   -1981    -1499    -3020    -1287    -1151       -990
2. Official Capital Grants            613       450      358      238      376       355
3. After Ofcal Capital Grants        -1368    -1049    -2662    -1049     -775      -635
G. Long-Term Capital Inflows            977     1893     2202      1495     1081     1095
1. LTPrlvate                          274      1137     1142      798      585       690
2. Net LT Borowing (DR9)               703      756     1060      697      496       405
a. Disbursements                    1706     2023      2196     2102     2110     2149
b. Repayments                       1003     1267      1135     1405     1614     1744
H. Total Other Items                    397    -714      -256       200      200      345
1. Net Public ST Capital              684    -403        421      400      350       300
2. PrateCapltal Fkwn.esl.              274     1137     1142      798       500      543
3. ST Private + E&O                   -561    -1448    -1819     -998      -650     -498
1. Change In Net Reserves
1- Indicates Increasel                 -6    -130       716      -840     -506     -805
1. Net Credit from IUF                -120      222       77      230      -"       -228
2. Reserve Changes n.eJl               114    -352       639     -876      -462     -577
J. As Shares of GDPic (current US$)
1. Resource Balanace                  6.8%     6.5       7.7f     4.1%     3.9      2.5%
2. Interest Payments                  2.19     2.0f      2.2%     2.36     2.5t    2.5
3. Current Account 3alance           -4.39    -3.1I    -5.8f    -2.5f    -2.1%    -1.79
4. LTCapital Inflow                   2.1A      3.9f     4.2%     2.9f     1.9S      1.8f
5. Net Credit from IMF               -0.36     0.5f      0.1f     0.4f    -0.1f    -0.4f
K Foreign Exchange Reserves
1. Gross Reserves (ex gol & iF)       574       929      434     1311      1774     2351
2. Gross Reserv  (weeks Imports)       3.3      5.0      2.2       6.7      8.3     10.1
L Exihange Rate$
1. Nominal (RJUS$)
a. Annual Average                   22.73    24.78    25.96    30.45    31.57    32.64
b. Year End                         24.72    25.70    30.45    31.57    32.64    38.37
2. GNP Conversion Factor             22.73    24.78    25.96    30.45    31.57    32.64
3. Real (1992 - 100)
a MUV (PAC estimates)               1.G00    1.000    1.040    1.069    1.099    1.038
b. Index Rea Exchange Rate          0.989    1.000    1.006    0.901    0.900    0.973
(UWRS.)                         ____                                               ._ _   _



Anne 0
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(Asof June 30. 1i9)
Amount (US1 millkn)
FIsa                                                                   o(    anellations)
Loan No        Year   Bonrrer               Purpose                             Sank      IDA      Undibwusud
67 Loans and 73 credIts have been ftully disbursed                              2226.75  1804.00
Cr. 1243-PAK     1982 Republic of Pakisan   Balohlstan Agrimll Dev.                        14.00          1.68
Cr. 134PAK       1983 Republic of Pakisan   Lahore Urban Development                       16.00          3.6
Cr. 1376-PAK    188  Republic of Paidstan  Fourth DraInae                                 33.74          6.06
Cr. 1409"PAK     1984 Republic of Pakistan  Second Small Indusries                         50.00          4.09
Cr. 153PAK       1986 Republic of Paldetan  Left Bank Outfl Drain - Sae         1         10.00         129.75
Cr. 1t00-        19865 Republic of Paidatan  Second Primary EducatIon                      52.60         15.62
Ln. 26-PAK       1985 Republic of Pakitan   Fifth WAPDA Power                    100.00                  S.05
Cr. 11165PAK     196  Republic of Pakitan   Kaahl 8ecbi Development                        70.00         20.67
Cr. 1670-PAK     1606 RepublIc of Pakisan   Second Vocationa Traring                       40.20         27.9
Ln. 2743-PAK     1987 Republic d Pakistan   TelecommunIatione V                  100.00                  2.78
Cr. 1756-PAK     1987 Republic d Pakisan    Third Teohfdali Assistance                      7.00          4.3
Cr. 176-PAK      1987 RepublI of Pakistan   Agric. Extension & Adapi II                    42.10        t0.81
r. 1821-PAK      1987 Republic of Pakisan   Third Primay Education                        145.00         62.50
Ln. 272-PAK      1987 Republic of Paidstan  WAPDA VI-Pwr Plant ERcncy             70.00                  13.1
Ln. 2814-PAK     1987 Repubic of Paldetan   FourthHgha                           152.00                 52.11
Ln. 29PAK        1987 Republic of Pakistan  Small industries HI                   54.00                 86.83
Ln. 2642PMK      1987 Republic of Pakistan  Refinery EnrgyConservation            21.00                  17.01
Ln. 284-PMA      1688 R.publk of Paidaan    Cement Industry Modeizton             98.00                   .31
r. 1888PAK       188 Repub' of Padstn       Second Irrigation Sytm  elhab                  79.50         43.41
Cr. 1806-PAK     188 Repubdc of Paidaan     PunJab Urban Develpmen                         60.00         51.23
Cr. 103-PAM      1688 Republic of Paidtan   National Olsed Deeopnt                         20.00         13.60
Ln. 297-PAK      1968 Republic d Pakistan   National Oil_sed De_vopmt            31.40                  31.40
La. 2982PAK      1988 Republic of Pakistan  Private Setor Energy Development     160.00                 133.62
Cr. 1982-PAK     198  Repubic of Paidan     Industrialnnvesment Credit III                  2.00          024
L. 3016PAK       196  Republic of Pakistan  Industrial Investmet Credit II       148.00                 2124
Or. 1987-PAK     1089 Republic of Pakidan   Karachi Water & Sanitalon If                  125.00        6a37
La. 3107-PAK     109 Republi of Pakitan     Energy Sector Loan 11                250.00                  1.64
Cr. 2004-PAM     1S89 Republic of Pakidtan  Private Tubeweil Dev.                          34.40         4.
Ln. 3147-PAK    10  Republic of Paidetan   Power Trans. Etd. & Reinforce.       162.00                 110.03
Cr. 2078-PAK     1060 Republio of Pakistan  Rural ElbctIatIon                              37.0          30.76
Ln. 3146PAK      1990 Republic d Pakidtan   Rural Electrflation                  123.00                 123.00
Cr. 2102-PAK     190 RepubI of Pakistan     SEndh Pima Education                          11250          e2.11
Or. 2153PM       1660 Republic  Pakistan    Agdouture Crdit                                 1.50          1.48
Ln. 322-PAK      1090 Republic of Pakistan  Agriculture Credit                   14850                  84.18
Cr. 2154-PAK     1660  epubic of Pakidstan  Agricultue PAseaah If                          67.30         57A5
Ln. 3241-PAK     1090 RepubIt of Pakidtan   Transport Setor mIveent              164.00                 130.75
La. 2884-1-PAK    1891 Ppubic of Paidaan    Cement Industry Modern.              58.40                  38.70
*  La. 3107-1-PAK    1091 R    ic of Paidan      nergy ector Loan i Suppli.          28.00                  24.61



THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1083)
Amount (USI millIn)
FIscal                                                                  (lassanUons)
Loan No        Year   Sorrow                Purpose                           Sank    IDA          Undisbursed
Ln. 322-PAK      1801 Repubis of Paldtan    Corp. Resruot. & Systems Expan.      130.00                  73.15
Ln. 9252-1-PAK    1901 Republic ot PaoIstan  Corp. Restructuring Suppl.           60.00                 60.00
Cr. 2228PAK      11 Repubic of Pakistn      Rural War Supply & Sanitation                 136.70        126.96
Ln. 3318-PAK     191 Repubi of Pakistn     Microenterprbas                       26.00                  23.0
Cr. 2240-PAK     1901 Republic of Pakitan   Family Health                                  46.00         4260
Cr. 2246-PAK     1091 Republic of Paidetn   Third On-Farm Water Management                 47.30        298.1
Ln. 3327-PAK     1991 Republic of Paldstan  Third On-Farm Management              36.30                  36.30
Cr. 2267-PAK     1901 Republic of Pakistan  Second SCARP Transidtn                         20.00         18.90
Ln..335-PAK      1901 Republic of Paiden    Karachl Port Modernizatin             91.40                  79.01
Cr. 2354-PAK     1002 RepubIc of Paitan     Middle SohoolIng                              115.00        112.40
Cr. 2383-PAK     1902 Republic of Paistan   Env. Prot. & Res. Co.                          29.20         29.80
Ln. 396-PAK      1992 RepublIc of Pakistn   Domestic Energy Resouroes            180.00                 180.00
Cr. 1987-1-PAK   193 Republic of Pastan    Kxarhl Water Sanitation Ii                     91.00         92.70
Cr. 2410-PAK     1993 Republi of Pakistn    East. adlqia So Phase                          64.20         53.25
Cr. 2464-PAK     1993 Republi of PaWdetan   Family Health II                               4.00          48.90
Ct. 2488-PAK     1993 Republic of Palidtan  102 Flood Damage Restoration                  100.00        101.70
Cr. 2482-PAK     1093 Republic of Paidstan  Balochistan Primary                           106.00        106.73
Cr. 2512-PAK     1993 Repubic of PaWsdn     North Pakitan Resource                         28.80         28.60
Total                                                    4623.75  3905.84 la   272.93
of which has been repaid                                 1000.16   187.61
Total now outsanding                                     3623.59  3718.23
Amount sold                                                38.09
of which has bien repali                                   32.24
Total undisbursed                                                               2792.93
IA  IDA CredIts beginning with the 6th ReplenIshment ae denominated In SORs, and ardshown
In US$ equlvants at the time of negotiations. Disbursed amounts are acmputed at the
change ate applicab  at the date of this tatment
*   Indatses SAIJ8ECAL Loans and Crecdis



Annex B
Page 3 0I3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKi8TAN
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESMENTS
(As d June 30. 1603
Amout (8milllons)
Dde          Borrower               Purposs                           Loan    Equity       TOtal
lo8         Steel Corp. of PaisdtAn    Iron & Steel                   0AS                 0.63
19o         Adampe Indudrie Ltd.   Tesxtl                             0.76                0.75
19811M       Gharlbwal Cement Ltd.   Cement                            4.76     0.42        5.18
1063164/7    PlCiC                  DFC                                         3.00        3.00
87/8916
1906502    Package Limied           Paper Products                    17.00     1.24       18.24
8$788191
1065         Crescent Jute          Textils                            183      0.11        1.04
1967         Padetan Papr Corp.     Pap                                4.83     2.02       6.86
190          Dawood Hercules        Fertilker                          8.30     2.92       21.22
1097         FauJi Foundation       Polypropylene Bags                 1.78                 1.78
1979         Atook Refinery Ltd.    Chemias & Prochemcale              7.50     0.         8.36
1970         Milkpak Ltd.           Food Processng                     1.90     0.40        2.30
1979182      Pakistan Oilfldea Lti.  Chemlals& Petrochemiclas          7.00     1.18       8.16
1990         Premier Board          Pautlo Bofard                      2.70                 2.70
1981         Habib Arkady Ltd.  .    Food & Food Processing            3.15     016        S.31
1082         Asbestos Cemnent ind. Ltd. Cement & ConstruetIon MaterIal  4.02    0.51       4.53
1983/85      Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.   Chemials & Petrochemicals      26.30     1.60      28.86
188         NDLC                   Leaslng                            5.40     0.37        5.8
188Efs2      Marl Gs Coompany Ltd.   Cemncals & Petrochemicals        44.48               44.48
1067/8E      AngloSulese            Chemias & Petrochemicals                    6.80       6.80
19e8         Feso Cement            Cment & Construction MaterIa      19.58                18.58
0888         Muiat Tractos          Tractors                           4.00                 4.90
1989         8hams Textiles         Textibs & FIbers                   2.70                2.76
1889         Surar cotnon           Textilb & Rbers                    2.70                2.76
1089         Haia SpinnIng          Textile Spinning                   3.26     0.6         3.a92
1900         Pat Suukid             Automotiw                         18.17                18.17
100         Rupaiil Pdyeste        synthetic Textileo                22.38     2.00      24.38
1900         FIiB                   Capital Markets                             1.57       1.57
19o         Housing Finance Corp.   Capital Markets                   .53      0.4s        6.02
1961         Engro Chemials Pak. Ltd. Chemials & Petrochemials        8.20      8.50      44.70
191         PiLCO                  Capital Mrkets                     5.00                6.00
1961         Prudential Discount Guaran Capital Markets                         0.40       0.40
1091        FM, The Fund           Capital Markets                             0.78       0.78
1091         ML                     Capital Markets                             0.24       0.24
1992         J.S. Stock Brokerage   Capital Mrkts                               0.U8       0Q.
1002         Rupafll Umited         Synthetic Texiles                 14.38     0.34       14.72
1993         Sarah Textiles         Textiles                           6.00     1.50       7.50
1993         Central seuities Depoitor Capita Markets                           0.25       0.2
1993         Mulim Comrercal Bank  Capital Markets                    15.00                15.00
1993         PaWstan Services Umited  Tourism                         12.00     3.00       15.00
Total Gross Commitments                                318.34    42.14      360.48
Less Cancelations. Termination Exchanges
Adjustmente Prepaoyments and Sles
Writeoffs and ales                                    236.35    25.68     261A.3
Total Commitments now held by IFO                       81.99    16.56       98.58
Total Undisbureed                                       60.65      4.82      65.47
.         .       ~       ~         a



Annex C
Page I of I
PAKISTAN
Public Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit
SupDlementarv Loan/Credit Data Sheet
Timetable for Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare the program: 3 years
(b)    Appraisal mission:    April 1992; Follow-up missions in July, September 1992;
February, April/May and July/August 1993
(c)    Completion of negotiations: August 1993
(d)    Planned date of effectiveness: September 1993
II.    S2ecial Conditions
None



Annex D
Page I of 7
Government of Pakistan
Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs
Islamabad, August 26, 1993
Mr. Lewis T. Preston,
President,
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.           This letter constitutes the Government of Pakistan's request to the World Bank for a
Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) in the amount of US $250 million. Since 1988, the
Government of Pakistan has been implementing a comprehensive adjustment and reform program
aimed at achieving sustained high economic growth and domestic and external financial stability over
the medium-term. The program was financially supported by the International Monetary Fund, the
World Bank, and other multilateral and bilateral creditors and donors. Notwithstanding the substantial
progress achieved, the process of economic and financial strengthening was adversely affected in
1992/93 by both endogenous and exogenous developments. These included wide-spread floods, spread
of a cotton viral infection, adverse international price and demand conditions, as well as slippages in
meeting fiscal and monetary targets. The impact of these developments was further compounded by
uncertainty caused by domestic political developments towards the end of the fiscal year.
2.           As a result of these developments, the growth of GDP declined to 3% in 1992/93 -
against an average of 5.4% in the preceding four years. Since the population is increasing at around 3
percent per annum, this implied a stagnation in per capita terms. The budget deficit reached 7.7% of
GDP, and, reflecting a sharp deterioration in the trade balance, the current account deficit (including
official transfers) increased to 5.1% of GDP. Gross official reserves were down to 2.2 weeks of
imports by end-June 1993.
3.           To improve the economic situation, the Government of Pakistan is intensifying its
adjustment and reform efforts. In July-August, 1993, the Government, with the staffs of the IMF and
the Bank, carried out a comprehensive review of economic and financial developments in 1992-93
and reappraised the outlook and policy requirements for the current fiscal year 1993-94 as well as for
the medium term. A policy framework has been formulated for the three years 1993/94 to 1995/96,
outlining the Government's program of broadening and deepening structural reforms in the context of
a considerable strengthening of the external payments position and a reduction in domestic financial
imbalances. In support of this program, we are requesting assistance from the IMF through a 12-
month standby arrangement and an ESAF/EFF program, as well as through adjustment lending from
the World Bank and the Government of Japan.
Past Adjustment Efforts
4.           About five years ago, the Government of Pakistan embarked upon a wide-ranging
program of economic reforms. In broad terms, this program aimed at the following: (a) making the
economy more competitive through withdrawing the public sector from those activities that can be
done more efficiently by the private sector, together with deregulating and liberalizing the economy to
foster a more efficient and dynamic private sector, (b) providing a stable macro-economic



Annex D
Page 2 of 7
environment, including in particular, ensuring a constant flow and an efficient use of resources from
both public and private investors, and a steady reduction in the domestic and external imbalances, and
(c) redressing the long neglect of the social sectors, and investing in high priority needs in
infrastructure while at the same time protecting and preserving the environment. This reform program
was originally outlined in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) finalized in December 1988. Wile
Pakistan's performance in implementing this program suffered from difficulties in ensuring the
persistence of a stable macroeconomic environment, substantial achievements were accomplished in a
number of areas, and in some progress significantly exceeded what was originally envisaged,
particularly in privatization, liberalization of external payments, and in the foreign investment regime.
5.       Despite changes in Governments, the basic thrust of the reform program has remained the
same. The highlights of the progress to date are summarized below:
-  In the external sector, the Govermment has liberalized the extemal trade and payments
system. Measures have included a significant reduction in the maximum tariff rates, removal of many
items from the negative and restrictive lists of imports, liberalizing a number of capital and current
account transactions, including authorizing residents to hold foreign currency accounts.
- A wide-scale privatization program was launched with 103 nationalized industrial
enterprises and four nationalized banks offered for sale. As of August 1993, 69 industrial enterprises
have been sold, and the majority of the capital of two banks and their management has been
uansfered to private investors; also, initial steps have been taken to introduce privatization in the
power and telecommunications sectors, and many areas earlier reserved for the public sector have been
opened to the private sector,
- The structure of public finance was improved through the introduction of the General Sales
Tax, and of withholding taxes, the removal of certain exemptions from direct and indirect taxes, and
measures to contain expenditures;
-  In the financial sector, debt instruments have been rationalized, an auction system for
treasury bills has been introduced, new banks were licensed, and bank regulation and supervision was
strengthened;
- In the productive sectors, controls over prices and distribution have been liberalized,
controls over private investment in industry has been eliminated, input subsidies in agriculture have
decreased;
- The infrastructure and energy sectors have been opened to private investment, and an
ambitious program to improve the communication network and services has been launched.
- The regime governing foreign investment has been liberalized with the virtual elimination
of all subsidies and control, e.g. on shares in equity, on industrial sector, on portfolio investment, on
repatriation of profits and capitals and on royalties.
Medium-Term Adjustment Program
6.       The Government of Pakistan's medium-term strategy aims at making the economy more
competitive internationally, promoting growth, alleviating poverty, and improving social conditions in
the country, within a sustainable macro-economic framework. These objectives have been quantified
in a policy framework for 1993/94 to 1995/96 which has the following main elements: (i) sustaining
an economic growth rate of some 6.5% p.a.; (ii) reducing inflation to under 6% p.a. by the end of the
period; (iii) strengthening the international reserve position; (iv) reducing the burden of domestic and
extemnal debt; and (v) achieving current account convertibility of the rupee. In addition to enhancing
directly the economy's growth potential and domestic and exteal financial stability, this would
reduce its vulnerability to adverse external developments. Further, the continuous rebalancing of the
relative roles of the public and private sectors, combined with improvements in the structure and the
efficiency of public resource mobilization and allocation, should result in high-priority needs -



Annex D
Page 3 of 7
particularly in the social sectors and the operation and maintenance of invested capital - being better
addressed, and overall productivity gains for the economy. To achieve these objectives, our structural
reform program focusses on the following priority areas: the Govermment budget, trade policy,
privatization and deregulation.
7.        The key element of our reforn program is fiscal adjustment. The country's fiscal situation
has been undermined by a narrow revenue base and a relatively inflexible pattern of expenditure.
Moreover, the country's tax system comprises a myriad of tax instruments, rates, concessions, and
exemptions. These factors have tended to be reflected in inelastic revenue yields over time despite a
series of revenue measures. Accordingly, the major economic policy challenge facing Pakistan is a
substantial and sustained fiscal effort. On the revenue side, our medium-tenn program aims at
broadening the coverage of direct taxation through a reduction of exemptions and concessions,
coverage of the agricultural sector, and a simplification in the rate structure. The coverage of indirect
taxes will also be broadened through a conversion of the general sales tax into a broadly-based value-
added tax. To that effect, we are extending the coverage of the GST horizontally and vertically,
removing exemptions, and improving its administration. The broadening of the GST will also allow
us to eliminate several excise taxes; some of the excise taxes will be converted to an ad-valorem basis.
We will continue to improve non-tax revenues through adjustments in administered prices, in
particular for petroleum, gas and electricity.
8.        On the expenditure side, we intend to continue our review of present public sector
activities to determine which could be more efficiently carried out by the private sector and to
establish priorities for those that are to remain in the public sector. To improve the structure of
current expenditures, we will contain unproductive expenditure, provide adequate allocations to O&M
for irrigation, transport, and the social sectors, and initiate measures to enhance the productivity of
Government employment. As regards development expenditures, we will resume our efforts to
increase them as a ratio to GDP over the medium term, and improve allocations to high-priority
sectors, in particular basic social services and infrastructure. We are also strengthening our investment
planning, programming, and monitoring tools to that effect.
9.        The Government intends to consolidate and extend the important and wide-ranging gains
achieved to date in the area of trade and payments liberalization. To this end, steps will be taken to
remove the remaining items on the negative list that are not related to religious, health, security and
reciprocity consideration. The remaining quantitative trade restrictions will be reviewed further/with
the intention of replacing them with tariffs. The process of tariff reform will also be intensified over
the next two years through further significant reductions in the maximum rate, a rationalization of the
rate structure, the incorporation of Iqra surcharge and the import license fee into the basic tariff
structure, and removal of exemptions. These measures, in combination with the sustained
implemnentation of prudent financial policies, will provide for early progress toward full current
account convertibility of the rupee.
10.      As noted above, the Government has also been enlarging the scope for private sector
participation in selected infrastructur and other areas. The public sector's monopoly has been ended
in many sub-sectors, including power generation and distribution, telecommunication, ports, shipping,
airlines and roads as well as the export of rice and cotton. The opening of these areas to the private
sector, together with selective sales of existing public sector assets (e.g. telecommunications and some
of WAPDA's power sector assets) will be accompanied by the development of appropriate regulatory
arrangements to ensure protection o,f the public interest.



Annex D
Page 4 of 7
PSAL Proaram
11.      Within the medium-term program outlined above, our public sector adjustment program for
which we are requesting World Bank support, aims at redefining the roles of the public and the private
sector and at providing a policy framework which enhances the efficiency of both. The PSAL
program, in addition to a sound macroeconomic framework, includes measures in the following areas:
privatization, restructuring of public expenditures, programming of development expenditures, trade
policy and provision of basic social services. The objectives and broad measures of our program in
these areas are summarized below; the attached matrix (Attachment 1) lists the individual actions and
the schedule of implementation to which the Government is committed.
12.      In the context of stabilization and the above stated objectives, Government has recently
introduced the following measures: (a) As regards monetary policy, the SBP discount rate, repurchase
rate and maximum lending rate have been increased by 2 percentage points and rates on concessional
lending have been raised to 11%; the maximum accepted bid rate in treasury bill auctions has been
increased from 12.5% to 13.15% in the last two auctions. (b) Utility rates have been increased:
electricity tariffs by 19% yielding Rs 6.8 billion additional revenue to WAPDA, gas prices by 15-20%
and irrigation water charges in three provinces by 25% (Balochistan raised charges last year). (c) On
the fiscal side, strong measures have been implemented to improve the structure of the budget: wealth
and income taxes have been extended to agriculture, and a process for automatic adjustments in
petroleum prices has been instituted. (d) A supplementary fiscal revenue package--already in place--is
expected to mobilize some Rs 11.5 billion during the remainder of FY93/94 through the following
measures: (i) a further 10% increase in petroleum product prices (Rs 6.9 billion); (ii) an increase in the
duty on imported edible oils (Rs 2.0 billion); (iii) an increase in gas prices (Rs 1.6 billion); and (iv)
the extension of the wealth and income taxes to agriculture (Rs 1 billion). (e) This budgetary package
also includes a safety net. In order to partially mitigate the impact of the sharp increases in utility
rates and the prices of wheat and edible oil, Govermment is granting a wage increase of Rs 100 per
month to public sector employees in lower grades; the minimum wage has also been increased by that
amount. The cost of this measure is estimated at Rs3 billion, divided equally among the federal and
provincial Governments. Import duties on sugar have also been lowered, albeit no imports are
anticipated. (f) Procurement prices have been increased for staple commodities (in particular wheat
and oilseeds) in line with international border prices.
(a)    The Macroeconomic Framework
13.      The structural reforms proposed under PSAL will be carried out under the following
macroeconomic framework during 1993/94: (a) real GDP growth is targeted at 7.5% (up from 3.0% in
1992/93); (b) average inflation is estimated at 8.0% (down from 9.3%); (c) total investment is
expected to reach 19.8% of GDP (slightly below last year's figure); (d) the budget deficit is targeted at
5.4% of GDP (7.7%); and (e) the current account deficit (including official transfers) is estimated at
2.0% of GDP while (f) gross reserves are targeted at 6.7 weeks of imports. For 1994/95, the
Government will adopt macroeconomic targets which are in line with the medium-term framework set
out in the PFP.
(b)    Privatization
14.          In an effort to further redefine the role of the public sector, the Government of
Pakistan has embarked on a plan to accelerate and expand its far reaching privatization program. In
order to keep up the momentum of this privatization effort, the following activities will be carried out
in the context of PSAT,:



Annex D
Page 5 of 7
15.          The Govemment of Pakistan is launching an expanded privatization program (EPP) to
extend privatization in a number of sectors/areas, including industrial enterprises not included in the
original list, non-bank financial institutions, public investment banks, and public trading houses. It
will also develop and implement plans for establishing regulatory frameworks in those sectors (e.g.
power, telecommunications) where private activity needs to be regulated. Finally, it is setting up
mechanisms to ensure that the proceeds of privatization in the future are exclusively used for retiring
public debt, after covering the costs of privatization.
16.          By June 1994, the Government intends to complete the privatization or divestiture of
those 103 industrial enterprises included in the original list. By March 1994, it will take stock of the
privatization effort and establish a list of enterprises for which there is no private taker. Liquidation
plans for these units will be prepared by June 1994. Also, it will have taken decisive steps to finalize
the privatization of the two remaining nationalized commercial banks.
17.          By the end of 1993/94, the Govemment will also have started implementing the EPP,
made substantial progress with the privatization of PTC, devOoped plans for the privatization of one
generation plant and one distribution district in the power sector, and developed action plans for
regulatory frameworks in power and telecommunications.
(c)    Public Finance
18.          The overall aim of the fiscal measures pursued by the Govemment of Pakistan in the
context of the PSAL is to improve the management of public resources and to ensure that both current
expenditures and public investments are financed on a sustainable basis. To this end, GOP will
present a 1994/95 budget consistent with the macroeconomic framework.
(i)    Resource Mobilization and Structural Tax Reform
19.          The Government is determined to pursue decisively the improvement in the structure
of taxation, and in revenue mobilization. In the context of the PFP, the PSAL will support specific
actions to increase the re',enue/GDP ratio, and increase the proportion of income and wealth taxes and
consumption taxes in total tax revenue. The Government is also creating a task force to examine ways
and means to improve tax administration, and expects an action plan in this area to start being
implemented by mid-1994.
(ii)    Restructuring Current Expenditures
20.          The Government is determined to progressively restructure current expenditures, to
increase the share and efficiency of current expenditure spending for productive purposes, and most
importantly in the social sectors, at the Federal and Provincial levels. The Government has taken a
major step in its 1993/94 budget in reducing by nearly 1% of GDP expenditures for defense. As a
result, the defense expenditures are now budgeted at 5.6% of GDP. The Government is committed to
reducing these expenditures in the future to a level that strikes an appropriate balance between
resource availability and security needs. In the coming years, the Government intends to reduce non-
development expenditures, including defense, to below the 1993/94 level as a share of GDP. The
Government is also committed to increase operation and maintenance expenditures in roads, railways,
irrigation, and water and sanitation. Additional funding for O&M expenditures will be made more
sustainable by increasing cost recovery and charges on users, and, where feasible, by transfenring
responsibility to the private sector.



Annex D
Page 6 of 7
21.          The Government is also determined to improve the effectiveness of the civil service.
To that end, it is taking steps to implement the recommendations of the Economy Commission, and is
developing a comprehensive action plan, which should be substantially implemented by mid-1993/94.
A special working group has been established to review the recommendations of the Economy
Commission and prepare an action plan for submission to the Cabine; for its consideration and
approval by early September 1993. The action plan will include specific proposals for scaling down
the number of Divisions in the Federal Secretariat and reducing the number of autonomous and semi-
autonomous Organizations of the Federal Govemment to eliminate duplication and functions which are
no longer considered appropriate for the public sector. The action plan will incorporate specific
proposals for reducing unneessary administrative expenses as well as proposals for inplementing the
reductions and changes in staff that will be required.
(iii) Streamlining development expenditures
22.          Given its resources constraints, the Government attaches utmost importance to using
them effectively and in a high priority fashion. The Goverment has therefore embarked upon a
program to improve the prioritizing, planning, monitoring and control of development expenditures.
This involves strengthening public investment programming through the annual delineation of a core
public investment program consisting of high priority projects whose funding will be protected from
cuts, and the establishment of a three year PSDP. The PSDP covers development expenditures at the
Federal and Provincial levels, plus four large autonomous public bodies (WAPDA, PTC, OGDC,
NHA). In consultation with the World Bank, the PSDP for 1993/94 has been finalized (Attachment
2), and a first three-year PSDP for 1993/94 to 1996/97 is being formulated. The Government will
continue consulting with the World Bank on the size and composition of the annual and triennial
PSDP in line with the annual budget This focus on high priority projects should also permit to
accelerate aid utilization and faster drawdown of the approximately $10 billion of undisbursed
commitments from donors. The PSDP for FY95 will be agreed with the World Bank.
23.          Faster and better implementation of public investments will also be facilitated by
strengthening the system for monitoring development expenditures and taking other measures to
address generic implementation constraints. In this regard, the reforms envisage the preparation of
quarterly reports on development expenditures, semi-annual reports on problem projects and an annual
review. This system is being put in place and should be fully operative by June, 1994. During
1993/94 the Government will review the portfolio of existing projects, and after consultation with
donors, will restructure or close projects no longer consistent with the Government's priorities.
(d)   Trade reform
24.          In order to further enhance the export orientation of the economy and on the grounds
of fiscal, balance of payments and in particular efficiency considerations, the Govemment of Pakistan
will continue to pursue its trade reform program as defined in the PFP. This trade reform program
includes reduction of maximum tariffs, elimination of tariff exemptions and of non-tariff barriers.
25.          In the context of the PSAL, GOP will in particular announce and adopt early in
1993/94 a trade policy reform package that reduces maximum tariffs from 91% (including surcharges
and IQRA) in 1993/94 to 50% or less in 1995/96. In view of reducing dispersions, GOP will eliminate
exemptions and simplify the tariff schedule by end 1993/94. Non-tariff barriers will be also be
reduced by end 1993/94 by converting the restricted import list to a negative list covering only items
subject to religious, security or health considerations.



Annex D
Page 7 of 7
(e)    Social Action Program
26.          The Social Action Plan (SAP) was launched during 1992/93. The SAP has been
designed to address the neglect of basic social services in a coordinated and concerted manner. It
focuses on the needs of basic education, nutrition, primary health, family planning, rural water supply
and sanitation. These integrated needs require for their adequate provision a coordinated response
across sectors. The SAP is conceived not as a special program, but as an operational framework for
accelerating progress on strategic fronts in the social sectors. Broadly defined, the objectives of the
SAP are to improve access, coverage and quality of basic social services. It provides for a strategy
which would address the following crucial imbalances:
- the imbalance between primary and tertiary services.
the imbalance between rural and urban provision.
-  the imbalance bttween female and male access.
-  the imbalance between the nutrition of women and children and men.
-  the imbalance between current and development expenditures.
-  the imbalance between quantitative and qualitative expansion.
27.          In the franework of the PSAL, the Government is committed to increasing the
expenditure levels for SAP services from the pre-SAP period of 1.8% of GDP (1991/92) to 2.6% of
GDP by 1997/98, raising the level by at least 0.1% of GDP in each successive year. It is our intent
that net savings from refonrs based on the Economy Commission's proposals should be used initially
to ensure that the budget deficit target is met and otherwise for faster implementation of the SAP and
environmental programs. Government is determined to implement the detailed operational SAP plans
during 1993/94 and will prepare such plans for 1994/95 (including current budgets, development plans,
implementation and policy reforms) in the context of the Five Year SAP Framework.
28.          In conclusion, the Government's economic adjustment and structural reforms, - in
tems of the medium term program and as actions to be undertaken in the context of the PSAL
outlined above - will make a very crucial difference to redefining the role of the public and the private
sector in Pakistan. Successful implementation of the PSAL program outlined above will allow us to
substantially better manage public resources and let the private sector play its rightful role. We
therefore think this program deserves the support of the World Bank through an adjustment loan.
Sincerely yours,
(signed)
Syed Babar Ali
(Minister for Finance
and Economic Affairs)
Attachment 1: Policy Matrix
Attachment 2: The Public Investment Program for FY93/94



Annex D
PAKISTAN: Public Sector Adjustment Loan - Matrix of Policy Actions Atge 1ofe2
Acteis to be Taken By
po Arub es    Acons Already Taken                                          EnJune 1994
E; sound and  _sdn             A      _m e  racbed an PY94 m me _ood       Safdwoty implantmoa  f the FY94
awehom ework for               progm.                                        acroewionic program.
adju ,me  prgm.
Adhd  of a mmprg            dfactoy fnm tDha
Bank, foc FY9S in consutatio wih the IMP
11. Eofr~
Redefie rin of pudlc and      Buk of satiod Industries andectd            Complt prvaion of most of the
privt sors in economi           dw  public apes pr}vatizd or                    ing industil unis Inluded In the  ial
-dmw.                          dived.                                      Mi
Scoe for piae sctor pIn in                Prepare iuidatio plans for unis remainng
eletd dinasazmn aras enlarged.             unsd  from h Initial lIs by March 1994.
Amomm_wAd of anoin prgm  for               Compld sde of at least ane of the two
aexftedg prlvtlaton to industrial          zationaalzed commercial banks left Mn the
enterprises at covere I te  Ial lst,        public sector; complet a portfolo audit
icluding non-bank financbl     s,          of      ood.
public secdw Ive    t ban  and pub!lc
sector trading houses.                             naction progam for prdvt_atio of
Industrial terprise  not covered in tOa  ial
list, o-bn fi  ,e              publi
sector Inestmt bans and public sctor
g bousm.
Satisfactoty progrein with privatization_ of FTC;
devop pns for the prvatraio of am
=w   gu atin plan and am distriutw
distriCt
Delop satiactory plan for rglting th
prive sctor I selected areas Wc.
tetecomma, power) with datd acton plan for
btmdewm.
Ensure tt proceeds from privatln  are
used only for rearing public debt.
Ill.  PubUcPhEc
(a)   Redue fisca deft to            FY94 GOP budgot Includes reduction of       Approval of the FY9S GOP busgd coient
susanble lve.                  deficit to 5.4% GDP.                        vih the agreed framework.
)   Improve srcte of tax System                                                  Adopt tax reform measu  to Increas
and i;roea rvenw eGDP                                                      budgetry evleuGDP ratio to 19% In FY95;
rtio.                                                                      Inra  prons of Income and wealth
taxe, and cmpvtion tx   in total tax
revenue.
P a   nd Imlement plan for srengheing
tax.
(C)   Impe structur of curret        A            of steps to be taen to Imrove    Implemenato of action plan to reorm the
ependiture.                    effiiency of ci seve, aiming at             public sedor on the basis of the finding  of the
containing crentexenditures in lIgh of the    Economy Commission.
- '   of the FEnomy
commiudon
Conta  growt of federd         FY94 GOP budget limits defese expeditur     Contain defense cxpdtur  in FY9S budget at
ceurrt exnditurs.              to 5.6% GDP.                                a level that strikes adequate baance between
resuce availablity and security needs.
(d)   Dewdopmm  Expenditure          Agremet with the Dank on sisct                l       i  of the agreed FY94 PSDP.
PSDP for FY94. PSDP to Indude federal and
provicial goven_me  and WAPDA, P1C,         Agreement with the Rank on the size and
OaDC, NHA.                                  and compostlon of the PSDP for FY95.
Imp    p     dng of            Dat rolling Investmt pgram for              Fialie 3-year rolling Investment program
development   s _dkm.          F    -P19496 prpred.                        for FY94-96.



Annex D
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
Actfons to be Taken By
POlyArefObjec*t                AcfonsAlredy Taken                       EndJune 1994
P e 3-yawing Investmat
prgm for FY9S-FY97. ensuring co-stanc
with to FY95 PSDP.
Goveaument's riorte.
lmprove _moiong of                                                      Sat-up and Im nt an  Wmprovod mauorg
dwdopmatexpedltu                                                         yatem for the PSDP.
Improvo quaity, coverage and  Draft fiamowo  for the Socl Action Plans  Susfctoy Impi           of th FY94 SAP.
effetvenes ofbasic keduaon,   (SAP) pqared for the piod FY94-FY98
prmary heat cae, fmi          with deiled operational pas for FY94      Preaation of dead   eatdona plans for
nning, and watr supply and     gceding current budgets,  dement plans,   th FY95 SAP (current budges, development
ammudim                            and k_pdic ird  o     r      Pia , ileantallol    pdy nteo
Ageemet to rais e_pene leves for SA  Provide fincing for the FY95 SAP tda wm
ices from 1.8% of GDP (FY92) to 2.6%      allow epdtus to ris by at lha 0.1%S of
of GDP by FY98, raising the led by at ead    GDP over d  previo  year and tha wi
0.1% of GDP In each successv yaw.         mntain totl expenditu  so as to rah th
FY98  get of 2.6% of GDP.
V.   Tade Rorm                      Maximum tff (ludig surcharge.)             Announc and adopt a tad, polic r m
has betnoduced to 91X%.                   packa  tot reduces the mamu  tarff furher
Eliminat most exempto  ad smplfy the
tariff schel to redou disson.
Tho *o|dded hsapt Has hs bee elmiatd
The. mga. mpgt B h Ias bow mduced to
cvr myhm bjo oml. ne*
bhad  and repcity cosdrtos
VI.  Odhe Sectora Pdicie
(a)   lrrat                         Irigtio  water dge. he been Iceased         1me        agreed icee i Ittio water
by 25% In FY94.                           charges for FY95.
Provide       funds in FY95 budges for
O&M _expedr for Irgtn ad drainage,
road,  rilways, water spply and sania
(6)   AgrIcultue                    A proram for rapdly lali                  Cait            t                 of
and deeglatg dibuldon of                  dstdbudn of n      _  and plc
sbeeand pt.             fo                feR;iz
hobea ao.



Annex D
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
The Public Investment Program for FY93/94
1.           Pakistan's annual public investment program - known as the Public Sector
Development Program (PSDP)--is composed of four major elements, i.e. (i) the federal ministries, (ii)
the special programs, (iii) the corporations (WAPDA, OGDC, NHA, and PTC) and (iv) the provincial
development program. The PSDP incorporates the Core Investment Progam as an integral part of the
public investment program. The Core Investment Prognrm consists of a selection of high priority
projects from the PSDP in the transport, power, agriculture, water resources, and the social sectors
(health and nutrition, education, and population welfare) which in the event of resource constraints will
be protected from cuts. No major project will be added to the PSDP without analysis of the fiscal
impact and economic viability and prior agreement from the World Bank during FY93/94.
2.           The total size of the Public Sector Development Program for FY93/94 amounts to Rs
121.4 billion. Out of this, Rs 74.6 billion are in the federal budget, and the rest are the provincial
contribution (Rs 3.3 billion) and expenditures by WAPDA (Rs 20.0 billion), OGDC
(Rs 6.95 billion), and PTC (Rs 16.5 billion) financed from their cash surplus and direct bon-owing,
amounting to Rs 43.5 billion. NHA will receive a total allocation of Rs 11.8 billion. All foreign
financing ananged through suppliers credit is included in the above totals. The Tamir-i-Watan
Program stands deleted from the PSDP.
3.           In the course of implementation of the PSDP, Govemment of Pakistan will fully
implement the Core Investment Program and will protect it from cuts. The Core Investment Program
amounts to Rs 49 billion. The agreed Core Investment Program for FY93/94 is given as an Appendix
to this Attachment.
4.           The following sectoral allocations have been made for FY93/94 and will be -
implemented:
(i)    tanortation: The PSDP amounts to Rs 15.4 billion including a Core Investment
Progam of Rs 10.2 billion of which Rs 6.735 billion for NHA; the Islamabad-
Peshawar Motorway and the Sheikhapura-D.G.Khan Motorway have been deleted from
the FY94 program; allocations for the Islamabad - Lahore Motorway are Rs 2.155
billion (including suppliers credit);
(ii)   anricultre: the PSDP has been established at Rs 700 million including a Core
Investment Program of Rs 288 million;
(iii) irri,eation and drainage: Rs 8.9 billion have been allocated for this sector entirely for
the Core Investment Program;
(iv)    w   the PSDP has been set to Rs 32.1 billion which includes Rs 27.4 billion for
WAPDA and Rs 4.7 billion for the federal ministiy program; out of the latter, the



AnnexD
Attachtent 2
Page 2 of 2
nuclear power program will receive an allocation of Rs 2.54 billion during FY94; the
agreed Core Investment Program aTnounts to Rs 27.4 billion (all for WAPDA);
WAPDA's program during FY93/94 will be financed as follows:
Rs billion
net internal cash generation and 13.8
bond issues
foreign loans              13.6  (of which 7.5 inside the budget)
The net internal cash generation reflects the agreement reached between the
Govemnment and WAPDA for Government to: (i) reschedule WAPDA's debt
to Govemnment of Rs 2.0 billion due in FY94 and (ii) ensure the rollover of
WAPDA's second bond issue (Rs 5.6 billion) which will mature in March
1994;
(v)   social sectors: the social sectors including education, health and nutrition and
population welfare have been allocated Rs1.7 billion for the Core Investment Progrmn
in the context of the PSDP;
(vi)   minerals: the Saindak Copper mine will receive an a PSDP allocation of Rs 1.9
billion during FY94.



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 4
CORI PUBLIC INMY1B"T PROGRAM
Total
FY93/94
ZMUORTATZONt
I.     National Highwav Authority:
1.     Ongoing NHA Schemes
- Fourth Highway Project (Bank)                                910
- Indus Highway (OECF)                                       3,450
- MBRP                                                         725
- RSP                                                          400
- 1992 Flood Rehabilitation                                    250
2.     Additional Upgrading/Rehabilitation of N-S                    1,000
TOTALs                        6,735
I1.    Local Government and Rural Development:
1.     Farm-to-Market Phase-I (ADB)                                    135
2.     Farm-to-Market Phase-II (ADB)                                   435
3.     Road Resources Management Project                                67
TOTALt                           C37
1II.   RailwaYs:
1.     Track Maintenance (Kuwait Fund)                                 300
2.     Traction Motors                                                 180
3.     Rehab. of 46 Locomotives                                         30
4.     Unit Exchange Spares                                            501
5.     Institutional Development                                        78
6.     Roller Bearing Conversion                                       298
7.     Procurement of S Locomotives/(30 Locos)
8.     Rehab. of Locomotives
9.     Rehab. & Modernization                                          734
(High Capacity Wagons/Coaches, etc.)
10.    Electrification Extension
1..    Signals and Telecoms/ (VHF/UHF)                                  22
12.    Maintenance Equipment                                            80
TOTALs                        2,223



Attachmen 
Anvendix
Page 2 of 4
Total
FY93/94
IV.    Ports:
1.      KPT (Jinnah Bridge Phase-II)                                     275
2.      PQA:
- Phase-I Development                                             25
- Oil Terminals (Temporary)                                      115
3.     Gwader Fish Harbour                                               191
4.      Port Masterplan Study                                             19
TOTALs                           625
TOTAL TRANSPORT:                         10.220
AGRICULTUREs
1.     National Oilseed Development Project                               76
2.     Agriculture Research Project                                      212
TOTALs                           288
SRRIGATION & DRAINAGB (WATER):
1.      CRBC                                                             620
2.      Pat Feeder                                                     1,350
3.     Lower Rechna Remaining                                            179
4.      Khushab Sub Unit                                                 180
S.      Private Tubewell DGKhan                                          235
6.      Second SCARP Transition (Punjab)                                 184
7.      Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia                                          140
8.      LBOD                                                           3,400
9.      SCARP Transition (North Rohri)                                    38
10.     Canal Rehab. (ISRP-II)                                           428
11.     1992 Flood Damage Restoration                                    800
12.     Flood Sector Project (ADS)                                       700
13.    OFMM-II (DGKhan)                                                   80
14.    OFWM-III (IDA)                                                    432
15.    OFMM-III (Japan)                                                  150
TOTAL:                         8,916



Annex D
Attachment 2
ADmendiX
Page 3 of 4
Total
PY93/94
POWE  (waPA):
I.     Thermal:
1.     3x210 MWOFPS Muzaffargarh Unit (1-3)                            1,480
2.      224 MW CC Kot Addu (Unit 9-10)                                   214
3.     250 MW OFPS Jamshoro Unit 1                                        60
4.      3x210 MW OFPS Jamshoro (Unit 2-4)                                200
5.     41S MM CC Guddu                                                   705
6.     Rehabilitation of Thermal Power Plant
(incl. CC at Kotri & Faisalabad)                                 676
7.     3xSO MW FBC Lakhra (1-3)                                        1,070
8.      224 MW CCP Kot Addu (Units 11-12)                              1,618
9.     300 MW CCP Kot Addu (Units 13-15)                               3,000
10.    210 MW OPPS Muzaffergarh (Unit 4)                               1,700
11.    2x210 MW OP7S Muzaffergarh (Units S-6)                          2,575
Sub-Total:                             13.298
II.    Hvdel:
12.    Tarbela HEPS (Units 11-14)                                        520
13.    200 MW Mangla HEPs (Units 9-10)                                   299
14.    Chashma Hydro Power Project (Unit 1-8)                            502
15.    Warsak Rehabilitation                                             258
16.    Detailed Engg. of Basha                                           116
17.    Ghazi Barotha (Units 1-5)                                         200
Sub-Total:                             1.895
III.   Transmission:
18.    3rd 500 KV Tarbela-Lahore                                         335
19.    500 KV Tarbela-Peshawar                                           417
20.    220 KV Guddu-Sibbi-Quetta                                         248
21.    2nd 500 KV Lahore-Multan-Jamshoro                                 868
22.     500 KV Hub Chowki-Jamshoro                                       377
23.    3rd 500 KV Jamshoro-Lahore                                      1,920
24.    Modernization of Load Despatch Centres                            140
25.    National Power Plant Project                                       54
26.    Upgradation of S/Station at Rewat                                 343
27.    Upgradation of Ghakkar Grid Station                                84
Sub-Total:                             4.786



Annex 0
Annendix
Page 4 of 4
Total
7Y93/94
Secondary Transmission Lines and Grid Stations
Sub-Total:                             3,227
Rural Electrification
Sub-Total:                             1.500
Distribution
Sub-Total:                               902
Enercvv Loss Reduction Load Rehab. Program
Sub-Total:                             1,792
GRAUD TOTAL:                             27.400
WDUCATION:
1.     Third Primary Education Project                                     1
2.     National Vocation Training Project                                346
TOTAL:                           347
REALTE r NUTRITION:
1.     Malaria Control Program                                           100
2.      Program for Prevention of AIDS                                    20
3.     Extended Program of Immunization                                  105
TOTAL:                           225
POPULATION WELFARE:
1.     Administrative Organization                                       313
2.      Population Welfare Services                                      547
3.     Training                                                           65
4.     Research                                                           36
5.     Logistics and Supplies                                            144
6.     Construction                                                       25
7.     Transport                                                          33
TOTALt                         1,163



