LOAN NUMBER $L7i PAK
Loan Agreement
(Public Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                       /    , 1993


﻿LOAN UIMWR 34-PAX
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1993, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated August 26,
1993 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower's public sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;
(B)   the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association), to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to seventy-one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 71,800,000) (the Credit);
(C)   the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of each tranche of the Credit as set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of
expenditures in respect of the Program before disbursements of the
proceeds of each corresponding tranche of the Loan as set forth in
this Agreement are made; and
(D)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "Z3neral Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:


﻿-2-
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
(b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.";
(c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the
Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   "SITC"  means   the   Standard   International  Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);


﻿-3-
(c)   "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(d)   "FY" or   "fiscal year" means the Borrower's or a
Province's or AJK's fiscal year covering the period July 1 through
Junie 30;
(e)   "Provinces" mean collectively the Province of Punjab,
the Province of Sindh, the North West Frontier Province and the
Province of Balochistan, all being political subdivisions of the
Borrower, or any successors thereto; and "Province" means each and
any one of the Provinces;
(f)   "AJK" means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, or
any successor thereto;
(g)   "SAP" means the social action program of the Borrower or
a Province or AJK, as the case may be;
(h)   "GDP" means the gross domestic product;
(i)   "Economy Commission" means the Borrower's Commission
established in 1991 to recommend measures for reducing civil service
costs; and
(j)   "PSDP" means the Borrower's Public Sector Development
Program.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:


﻿-5-
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii)  'Quarter'  means  a  three-month  period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The State Bank of Pakistan is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the State Bank of Pakistan with
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under
the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be consoli-
dated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less
than $2,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Saction 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress


﻿-6-
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank    such other   information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Lcan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such records   and  accounts  are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with  the   procedures  and   internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
(a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Credit shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Development Credit Agreement, or
(B)  the Credit shall have become      due  and
payable  prior  to  the   agreed  maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the


﻿-8-
satisfaction  of   the  Bank  that.   (A)   such
suspension,   cancellation,    termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
the  Development  Credit   Agreement;  and   (B)
adequate funds for the Program are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Secretary General or the Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of that
Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islambad
Pakistan
Cable address:                 Telex:
ECONOMIC                   ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By/s/ 4&                  -
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byk
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
112               -           Alcoholic beverages
121               -           Tobacco,    unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco sub-
stitutes)
525               -           Radioactive  and   associated
materials
667               -           Pearls,  precious  and  semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked


﻿- 12 -
Grou]       Sub-group         Description of Items
718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof,     fuel    elements
(cartridges),   non-irradiated
for nuclear reactors
728.43      -                 Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3             Jewelry  of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
May 15, 1993;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $20,000 equivalent;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals  for  expenditures   under  contracts  for  the
procurement of goods estim,ated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after


﻿- 13 -
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $75,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) that the
macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with
the objectives of the Program; (b) with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (c) that the
actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          {expressed in dollars)*
March 1, 1999                                    2,805,000
September 1, 1999                                2,910,000
March 1, 2000                                    3,015,000
September 1, 2000                                3,130,000
March 1, 2001                                    3,245,000
September 1, 2001                                3,365,000
March 1, 2002                                    3,490,000
September 1, 2002                                3,620,000
March 1, 2003                                    3,755,000
September 1, 2003                                3,895,000
March 1, 2004                                    4,040,000
September 1, 2004                                4,190,000
March 1, 2005                                    4,345,000
September 1, 2005                                4,505,000
March 1, 2006                                    4,675,000
September 1, 2006                                4,845,000
March 1, 2007                                    5,025,000
September 1, 2007                                5,215,000
March 1, 2008                                    5,405,000
September 1, 2008                                5,610,000
March 1, 2009                                    5,815,000
September 1, 2009                                6,035,000
March 1, 2010                                    6,255,000
September 1, 2010                                6,490,000
March 1, 2011                                    6,730,000
September 1, 2011                                6,980,000
March 1, 2012                                    7,240,000
September 1, 2012                                7,510,000
March 1, 2013                                    7,790,000
September 1, 2013                                8,070,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                 Premium
The interest rate (expressed as
a   percentage    per   annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,0000000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply, for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Business; or
(ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of    wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 17 -
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Loan.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, !he Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such


﻿- 18 -
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (c)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    Adoption of an agreed macro-economic program for FY95.
2.    Adoption of an agreed PSDP for FY95 and reflection of this in
the approved budget for FY95.
3.    Implementation of an agreed action plan to reform public
administration, and aimed at containing current expenditures, based
on the findings of the Economy Commission.
4.    Preparation of plans for the liquidation of an agreed list of
industrial units which were listed for privatization in FY91 and for
which negotiations for sale were not well-advanced as of March 31,
1994.
5.    Provision of sufficient financing for the 1994/95 SAP to allow
an increase in expenditures of at least 0.1% of GDP over
expenditures for FY94.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


