                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 32216

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (IF-N0280 SCL-41870 TF-29450)

                                        ON A LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION

                                      AND A CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR108.5 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR THE

                    QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT




                                        June 24, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 2005)

                      Currency Unit = Yuan
                               Y1.0 = US$ 0.12
                           US$ 1.0 = Y8.27

                           FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1     December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


8-7 Plan               National Seven-Year (1994-2000) Poverty Reduction Plan
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CFPA                   China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation
CWHRDC                 China Western Human Resources Development Center
EMDP                   Ethnic Minorities Development Plan
ERR                    Economic Rate of Return
FCPMC                  Foreign Capital Project Management Center
FRR                    Financial Rate of Return
HRDC                   Human Resources Development Center
IPMP                   Indigenous Peoples Mitigation Plan
LGPR                   Leading Group for Poverty Reduction
NPV                    Net Present Value
PADO                   Poor Area Development Office
PMO                    Project Management Office
QAG                    Quality Assurance Group
Qinba Project          The Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
QSA                    Quality of Supervision Assessment
RSO                    Rural Survey Organization
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
SSB                    State Statistics Bureau
SWPRP                  Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
TVE                    Township and Village Enterprises




                    Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                   Country Director     David Dollar, EACCF
                    Sector Director     Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                 Task Team Leader:      Guo Li, EASRD

                                            CHINA
                QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. The Qinba Project in A Farmer's Eyes                                    37
Annex 9. Borrower's ICR Summary                                                  40
Maps IBRD 27815

Project ID: P003590                                                  Project Name: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Guo Li                                                  TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project                L/C/TF Number: IF-N0280; SCL-41870;
                                                                                                     TF-29450
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (62%); Other social
                            services (17%); General education sector (9%); Central government
                            administration (9%); General transportation sector (3%)
                  Theme: Other social protection and risk management (P); Poverty strategy,
                            analysis and monitoring (P); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Other rural development (S); Other environment and natural
                            resources management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/20/1996                                     Effective: 10/19/1997                10/16/1997
     Appraisal: 01/10/1997                                         MTR: 06/04/2000                  06/06/2000
      Approval: 06/10/1997                                      Closing: 01/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The People's Republic of China/Sichuan, Shaanxi, and Ningxia Provinces
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Guo Li                                         Alan L. Piazza
ICR Primary Author:             Guo Li


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (the Qinba Project) had the following development
objectives: (a) to demonstrate the effectiveness of a focused multi-sectoral rural development project
approach to poverty reduction; (b) to significantly reduce absolute poverty in 26 of the very poorest
counties in Sichuan, Shaanxi and Ningxia provinces; (c) to facilitate increased labor mobility from the poor
areas to better-off rural and rapidly growing urban areas; (d) to establish a new micro-finance mechanism
to provide credit services to poor households; (e) to stabilize or even reverse upland environmental
destruction; (f) to encourage greater local community participation; and (g) to upgrade poverty monitoring
at the national and local levels.

These objectives were carefully examined and jointly chosen by the Government and the World Bank to
ensure their consistency with the Government's National Seven-Year (1994-2000) Poverty Reduction Plan
(the 8-7 Plan) and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). First, there was an adequate and
effective involvement of the Leading Group for Poverty Reduction (LGPR) under the State Council in the
whole project life; therefore, to a large extent, the Qinba Project was part of the Government's overall
strategy to explore new models of poverty reduction. The development objectives, therefore, were highly
consistent with the 8-7 Plan which called for innovative measures to address issues in the following key
areas:   rural infrastructure, farming activities, improved access of the poor to off-farm employment
opportunities, human capital development, rural industrial development, and institutional building,
including setting up an independent and objective poverty monitoring system. Second, these objectives
were also highly consistent with the Bank's CAS, directly addressing two of the Bank's top operational
priorities in China -- poverty reduction and environmental protection. Third, the selection of these
objectives built upon the strength of the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (SWPRP, Project ID
P003639). The successful implementation of SWPRP confirmed that the multi-sectoral model of poverty
reduction represented a significant advance over previous poverty reduction mechanisms in China and was
worthy of widespread adoption. The Qinba Project focused more on the components which were most
warmly received by the project's primary beneficiaries (e.g., land and farmer development, rural
infrastructure, labor mobility) under SWPRP.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the project's life.

3.3 Original Components:
The project's objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of the following components:

1.       Labor mobility (13% of appraisal total project cost). This component was designed to provide
employment to about 155,000 upland laborers over six years and to provide an important testing ground
for assisting the organized flow of rural laborers into China's fast-growing regions. The goal of the
component was to be achieved through: (a) establishing a voluntary system of enhanced rural labor
mobility for the upland absolute poor; (b) providing skill training through an enterprise reimbursement
system; and (c) building a computerized demand-driven job placement system emphasizing local markets,
monitoring of worker safety and living conditions, and reporting of abuses and grievances. This was a
highly innovative component.

2.       Rural infrastructure (11% of appraisal total project cost). This component was designed to
improve the poor's access to basic infrastructure including rural roads, human and animal drinking water
supply, small-scale irrigation, agricultural drainage works, biogas digesters and rural electrification. Rural



                                                     - 2 -

infrastructure construction has been regarded as the foundation for improving the poor's basic living and
production conditions.

3.       Land and farmer development (54% of appraisal total project cost). This was the biggest
component in terms of investment and was designed to create a substantial and sustainable increase in
agricultural productivity and incomes for project households. The component also intended to stop (and in
some cases to reverse) the trend of environmental degradation. A menu of crop and livestock activities was
developed on a participatory basis, from which the project households were to select their favored
activities. In addition, the component supported: (a) extension of improved agriculture and smallholder
livestock management techniques and inputs; (b) establishment of tree crop nurseries and provision of
saplings and tree crop management extension; (c) intensification of staple crop production on the modest
amount of available flatland; (d) terracing for improved water and social conservation; and (e) the support
of provincial and regional applied agricultural technology research.

4.       Township and village enterprises (TVE) development (17% of appraisal total project cost).
The component was designed to provide credit for labor-intensive commercially viable agroprocessing,
mineral, service and handicraft industries that had strong backward linkages to poor households and met
environmental safeguards. The enterprises were to be selected according to a set of criteria which would
maximize benefits to the poor: (a) cost per job created; (b) commercial feasibility; (c) work safety and
environmental risks; (d) skill training; and (e) backward linkages to products produced by project
households. The selected enterprises were to be financed under sub-loans made by the project provinces on
the Agricultural Bank of China's standard interest terms for similar activities.

5.       Micro-finance (1% of appraisal total project cost). This was a pilot-based component with the
objective of establishing a sustainable financial system to provide working capital loans (initial loans
ranged from RMB400 to RMB700, and larger loans no more than RMB8000) to micro-enterprises run by
poor households in project areas. The main methodology was to employ an adaptation of the Grameen
Bank model (emphasizing a joint liability lending).

6.       Institution building and project management (3% of appraisal total project cost). This
component was designed to improve the capabilities of the Foreign Capital Project Management Center
(FCPMC) and project management offices (PMOs) at all levels in project design and implementation,
procurement, accounting, and internal monitoring and evaluation.

7.       Poverty monitoring (1% of appraisal total project cost). This component intended to use
improved State Statistics Bureau (SSB) survey instruments to provide a credible and comprehensive
poverty profile, analyze the accuracy of the targeting of benefits to the absolute poor, and measure and
evaluate the impact of the project's individual components.        There were four main elements of this
component: (a) to upgrade the existing poverty monitoring system developed under SWPRP in order to
adapt it to the conditions of the Qinba mountains region and more fully exploit the potential of the survey
instruments for project evaluation; (b) to undertake baseline and annual follow-up surveys; (c) to process
and analyze the collected survey data; and (d) to disseminate findings and information.

3.4 Revised Components:
The TVE component performed poorly during the initial years of the implementation and was revised
during the mid-term review, which was conducted in 2000. The size of the component was significantly
reduced, from about 17% of total project cost in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) to around 6%. The
funds released from the TVE component were used for more pro-poor programs, such as rural
infrastructure and agricultural components which were most warmly welcomed by the beneficiaries.


                                                     - 3 -

Many reasons explain the poor performance of the TVE component, but there are two factors worth special
attention. First, there was a high degree of government intervention in the implementation of this
component. The selection of enterprises, therefore, was not strictly based on the predetermined the set of
criteria (see Section 3.3). Second, all the enterprises suffered from a serious lack of equity which resulted
in a lack of working capital. It was impossible, therefore, for these enterprises to create job opportunities
for the poor in the project area. In addition, the expected prosperous market for the locally produced raw
materials did not emerge. Instead of generating tax revenue for the local governments, in many cases these
enterprises became new fiscal burdens to the local governments and hence worsened local fiscal crises. All
these results were contrary to the original component expectations. Useful lessons should be drawn from
the implementation of the TVE component (see Section 4.2).

The significant reduction in the scale of the TVE component, on the other hand, clearly demonstrated the
flexibility of the project design and advantages of a multi-sectoral project. The funds released from the
TVE component were mainly used for the Rural Infrastructure component and the Land and Farmer
Development components, which were among the most welcomed components of the Qinba Project. For
example, by the end of the project implementation, the size of the rural infrastructure component increased
by about 74% (see Section 4.2), which was hailed by beneficiaries and PMOs at different levels as an
unexpected huge success.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predated the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and hence there was no
official assessment of the project's quality at entry. However, it is believed that the quality at entry of the
project was satisfactory for the following reasons. First, there was a high degree of conformity of the
project objectives with the CAS priorities and with the Government's strategy for poverty reduction.
Second, the design incorporated lessons learned from previous broad-based rural development projects,
particularly experience from the successful implementation of SWPRP. Third, the design paid adequate
consideration to the challenges facing this project, including its high degree of complexity and number of
innovations. This consideration was fully reflected by the features of the project design, including choice of
project management and organizational structure. Fourth, the design was fully consistent with the Bank's
safeguard policies. Finally, and perhaps of most importance, the project achieved a profound development
impact by the end of the implementation period without modification of its original objectives or any major
revision of the project component structure (see Section 4.1).

Quality at entry, however, could have been even higher had the following issues been scrutinized and
addressed more carefully. First, the probability of the assumptions employed for designing the TVE
component should have been assessed more carefully. Second, a mechanism for ensuring even stronger
participation from beneficiaries at the early stage of the implementation should have been established.
Third, more user-friendly and appropriate procurement methods with greater community participation
should have been employed at the early period of the project implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the objectives and outputs of the Qinba Project was highly satisfactory. The Qinba
Project is an excellent example of achieving the intended development impact. First, the project generated
a significant and profound policy impact. In its statement of nominating the World Bank as the recipient of
the China Poverty Eradication Award on September 6, 2004, the Government made the following strongly
positive evaluation of the Qinba Project:



                                                      - 4 -

         "... In Southwest and Qinba projects, the World Bank adopted several innovative approaches, such
         as village development planning and project based multi-sectoral methodology, which have
         generated great impact on developing China's poverty alleviation policy. Particularly, the village
         development planning, labor mobility, and project-based multi-sectoral approach have already
         been incorporated into the China Poverty Alleviation Plan (2001-2010) by the Central
         Government, which will have profound impact on China's poverty alleviation efforts in the
         twenty-first century."

In addition, the World Bank became the first international organization to receive the China Poverty
Eradication Award on October 17, 2004. In an article published in the Guangming Daily on March 9,
2005, the Ministry of Finance summarized the Qinba Project's policy impact in highly favorable way:

         "... Southwest and Qinba projects, through introducing project based multi-sectoral methodology
         and participatory approach, have made significant contributions in helping the Government to
         develop `a scientific approach to development' which is characterized by `putting the people
         first'."

Second, the project brought about remarkable economic and social improvements. The SSB's independent
monitoring of the project provides detailed information on these benefits (see Table 1). For example, the
incidence of poverty was drastically reduced from 26.7% (1997) to 4.6% (2003). The current level of
poverty incidence in the project area is now almost the same as the national average. However, at the
beginning of the project in 1997, the incidence of poverty in the project area was five times as high as of the
national average. In 2003, 100% of project villages had road access compared with only 72% in 1997. By
the end of 2003, per capita income in the project area had on average increased about 64% compared with
that of 1997, an annual growth rate at 8.1%. By comparison, the national average growth rate of farmers'
per capita income was around 4% during the same period of time. The poor farmers' ability to deal with
risks, as measured by the degree of food security and per capita cash at hand at the year-end (see Annex 1
for all key performance indicators), was also significantly strengthened. SSB's independent monitoring and
evaluation also showed that, after seven years of project implementation, the project villages are evidently
less vulnerable than non-project villages to natural disasters.

Table 1. Selected Indicators of Economic and Social Benefits
           1            2          3            4            5            6              7              8          9
 Year    Poverty      Food        p. c.     Villagers    Villages       Labor      Remittance      proportion    Gender
        incidence    security*  income      w/ access       w/        migration                      of meat      gap**
                                           safe water     access                                     sold in
           (%)                                             roads                                     market
                      (kg)       (yuan)        (%)          (%)          (%)      (billion yuan)       (%)        (%)
 1997      26.7        190         854         n.a.         71.8         15             n.a.          38.7        89.8
 2000      17.9        331        1087          75          91.0         22             n.a.          42.7        96.7
 2003      4.6         387        1398          86          100          25             1.7           55.9        98.2
* Food security is measured by per capita grain storage at the year-end.
** Gender gap is measured by the ratio of girls enrollment rate over boys' enrollment rate for the age group of 7-15.


Third, poor farmers' access to off-farm employment opportunities was significantly improved. The labor
mobility targets were exceeded in all project counties and the overall quality of implementation was
excellent (see Section 4.2). Households which participated in labor mobility not only realized rapid and
substantial increases in income from worker remittances, but also significantly expanded their knowledge
and views about the outside world and strengthened their self-confidence, which will have a lasting



                                                              - 5 -

development impact. Interviews and project data confirmed that the labor mobility component was widely
considered to be one of the most successful and well received components of the project.

Fourth, the goal of piloting micro-finance was also successfully achieved, particularly in the areas of
institutional capacity building and reaching the poor. However, given the current status of the overall
financial sector in China, there is still a long way to go to achieve financially sustainable micro-finance
institutions.

Fifth, the project also generated significant environmental and ecological benefits, which were confirmed
by an independent environmental monitoring report in 2003. The forest area increased by 49%, the
irrigated area by 20%, and the terraced area by 22%. The ratio of households with difficulty obtaining
daily fuel materials, an indicator used to measure the change of ecological environment, decreased from
62% in 1997 to 41% in 2003.

Sixth, participation levels of the Qinba Project's farm households and communities increased over time,
particularly in the second half of the project implementation period.            In the later stage of project
implementation, participatory monitoring and evaluation was introduced to evaluate outcomes and impact
of the project. It was evident that the targeted groups started to influence and share control over priority
setting, policy-making, resource allocations and access to public goods and services. Nevertheless, the
participatory work could have been better had an even more efficient mechanism been established at the
early stage of the implementation.

Finally, in its 2004 monitoring report, SSB concluded that, compared with the SWPRP, "...Qinba poverty
monitoring component improved the sampling methods, questionnaire design, training, and field interview,"
and this had helped upgraded poverty monitoring at the national and local levels, and hence had an impact
which went far beyond the project itself.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1.       Labor mobility ($48.6 million SAR, $46.1 actual)

The labor mobility component is rated highly satisfactory. This was a very challenging and highly
innovative component, and the first step was the establishment of a capable implementation system with
offices and staff at all levels in both originating and destination areas. The initial institution building effort
was fully successful and facilitated the achievement of about 133% of the SAR planned component output.
More importantly, extensive and rigorous analysis has convincingly documented that the labor mobility
component was extraordinarily effective in achieving its development objective of expanding the upland
poor's knowledge of and access to off-farm employment. The outflow of migrant laborers from the
project's upland villages has continued to expand following project completion, and this clearly shows that
the favorable output and development outcome are fully sustainable.

The China Western Human Resources Development Center (CWHRDC) spearheaded the institution
building at the central level, and played the crucial role in: (a) establishing the implementation organization
at all levels; (b) identifying employment opportunities in the destination areas; and (c) monitoring the
location and well-being of the very large number of migrant laborers spread across a wide geographic area.
The Sichuan and Shaanxi Human Resource Development Centers (HRDC) worked closely with the
provincial PMOs to establish the implementation organization at the county and township levels and to
supervise the work of these lower level organizational units during project implementation. The county and
township level units played the key role during implementation of identifying appropriate candidates for the
labor mobility component and to provide them with orientation training prior to departure for their new


                                                      - 6 -

jobs. This highly capable and extensive implementation organization made it possible to achieve the
component's planned output targets. Nearly 200,000 upland poor found off-farm employment through the
labor mobility component, including roughly 110,000 inter-provincial migrant laborers. The labor mobility
monitoring system in combination with the pre-departure orientation training kept work related accidents
and employment disputes to an absolute minimum. CWHRDC found that less than 0.04% of all project
migrant laborers experienced serious accidents (27 reported) and disputes (40 reported).

CWHRDC has conducted a careful and extensive assessment to understand the cost and benefits of the
component (see Document No. 9 of Annex 7). The assessment provides estimates (based on sample
surveys) of the incomes received by the labor migrants, their remittances sent home to their extended
families, and the ways these incomes were utilized by the migrants and their families. These estimates
show that the labor mobility component was a very powerful poverty reduction measure: total remittances
are estimated to have been about RMB1.7 billion (or about RMB7300 per migrant on average), with most
of these funds being used for the purchase of agricultural production materials, improved housing, family
medical care, educational expenses, and debt repayment. More importantly, all of the documentation and
participatory evaluation indicates that the most significant outcome has been the improved outlook on life
and greater aspirations of the migrants. This was clearly the case for migrant women (comprising about
one quarter of all migrant laborers), who gained greater self esteem and confidence, reduced work burdens
(upon return to their home villages), and increased economic independence.

The component's policy impact is also evident. Based in part on the highly successful experience of the
Southwest and Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Projects with labor mobility, China's poverty
reduction program for 2001-2010 includes a major focus on labor mobility and vocation training. The
vocational training program seeks to further improve the upland poor's access of higher-paying off-farm
employment. Expanding on their successful experience with labor mobility under the Qinba project, for
example, the Shaanxi Poor Area Development Office (PADO) provided vocational training opportunities
for some 30,000 upland poor during 2004. Based on contractual relationships with the vocational training
schools, most of these upland poor were placed in better paying jobs following three to six month training
periods (final payment to the vocational schools was dependent upon successful placement of the trainees in
new jobs).

2.       Rural infrastructure ($40.5 million SAR, $70.6 million actual)

This component is rated highly satisfactory. The rural infrastructure component was one of the most
warmly welcomed components. In response to the farmers' demand, the size of the component was
increased significantly to $70.6 million actual, an increase of 74% over the estimated cost at appraisal.
The funding for increasing this component mainly came from funds released from the TVE component,
increased counterpart funding, and the original unallocated funds. Most of the increased funding was used
for constructing access roads, rural energy supply, and small irrigation systems. Implementation of the
component significantly improved the project beneficiaries' basic living and production conditions.

Project information from Sichuan and Shaanxi showed that 2,258 km of roads were improved and
constructed to Class IV Road standards, as compared with 892 km of new and improved roads envisaged at
project appraisal. In addition, 7,493 km of village access roads were constructed. Road access coverage
has now been extended to about 1.9 million people, more than three times the originally planned number of
beneficiaries. Village access roads, generally varying from several km to 15 km in length and accessible to
tractors and light vehicles, have been effective in linking many natural villages and hamlets to existing rural
road networks, drawing them for the first time into the local main stream of rural economic activities.
Project households demonstrated great enthusiasm for this component, particularly for road construction,


                                                      - 7 -

with a very active participation. Beneficiaries' contributed labor far exceeded in value the amount of cash
injection by the project.

Construction of drinking water facilities was also one of the most welcomed activities. By the end of the
implementation, the project has successfully solved the drinking water problem for about 650,000 people,
compared with the SAR target of 466,000. These are low cost, simple facilities which have effectively
relieved tens of thousands of project households from the daily hard labor of fetching drinking water from
remote sources, thereby setting free numerous labor-days to be profitably utilized for food production and
income generation activities. In addition, small irrigation systems constructed through the project were
very effective in stabilizing and increasing production of paddy and other food crops for home consumption
and animal feed where there is surplus.

One useful lesson from the component implementation is that infrastructure construction, particularly road
access, should be implemented first so that the benefits of activities under other components (e.g.,
agricultural component and labor mobility component) can be maximized due to improved access to input
supplies, services, information, and markets.

3.      Land and farmer development ($ 194.8 million SAR, $232 million actual)

This component is rated highly satisfactory. This is the largest component in terms of investment and
focused on solving the food security and cash income generation problems. As shown by the SSB's
independent monitoring report, both of the two major goals were fully achieved through activities such as
farming, raising livestock, improving land quality, and applied agricultural research. For example, average
per capita income increased by about RMB544 (from RMB854 in 1997 to RMB1398 in 2003), which
exceeded SAR target (RMB400). The per capita amount of stored grain at the year-end was more than
doubled from 190 kg/person in 1997 to 387 kg/person in 2003 (see Table 1, Section 4.1). Project area
field visits consistently confirmed that the food security is no longer a problem for almost all farm
households. In addition, the general living standard of the poor households has been significantly raised.
Another powerful indicator is the consumption structure, as measured by the Engel coefficient, which was
significantly improved.      By the end of 2003, the project villages' Engel coefficient--the ratio of
expenditures on food consumption out of total expenditures--declined from 64% to about 53%, and this
decline for the project villages was greater than that of non-project villages. The poor households' ability to
deal with risks and degree of market participation were also significantly strengthened (see Annex 1, Key
Performance Indicators). Technical quality of project implementation has generally met the project's
technical standards. In response to the farmers' demand, the size of the component was increased from
$195 million to $232 million, an increase of about 19%. The funding for increasing this component mainly
came from the funds released from decreasing the TVE component and unallocated fund.

This component also included supporting activities of applied research (total about $0.5 million). About
75% of applied research investment was in Shaanxi Province. The applied research program was a notable
success for three principal reasons: (a) it was carefully focused on specific production bottlenecks in the
farming system; (b) the research was done at the beginning of the project so that the results could be
applied through the extension activities in later years; and (c) many of the research results was also applied
to other parts of the project provinces. As a result, the applied research program had a much wider impact
than originally anticipated.

The coverage rate (i.e., the proportion of project households which participated in the Land and Farmer
Development Component) was basically 100% in all three provinces, with an average investment intensity
of RMB1988 per household. In addition to the investment, the project also provided technical training to


                                                      - 8 -

the project households. Women made up about half of those who received training; this represents
significant progress compared with the beginning of the project implementation when women were only
about 20% of the total. There were many factors which contributed to the success of the component's
implementation. First, there was a synergy between the development of diversified farm structures and
labor mobility cash income diversification, since both helped to reduce income risk and reduce households'
vulnerability to falling back to poverty. Second, there was a strong participation in terms of activity
selection by project households, which led to increased profitability of component activities and increased
repayment rates. Third, the provision of series small support (ranged from RMB500 to RMB1200 per
year) enabled farm households to build their asset base gradually over time with minimal risk and debt
exposure. Fourth, the development of farmer human resource capacity through training programs and the
building of farmer self-confidence had a major impact and provided the human capital base for long-term
economic development in the project areas.           Finally, there was high degree of integration of rural
infrastructure with land and farmer, and labor mobility activities, which was a major catalyst to economic
development through providing access to inputs, markets, services and information.

There were some factors which constrained the component from achieving an even higher degree of
success. First, tree crop activities did not fully achieve the expected benefits due to the long period (usually
4-5 years) before production and harvesting began, often weak training and extension, variable seedling
quality, market changes, and seedling vulnerability to drought. In future poverty projects, tree crops should
generally be included as part of an integrated, diversified farm investment approach rather than as single
project investments for poor households. Second, an inappropriate choice of procurement methodology
(i.e., time-consuming distribution process and a shrinking price difference between domestic and
international markets of international competitive bidding procured fertilizer, chemicals, and plastic mulch,
etc.) at the early stage of the project implementation caused delay of the activities.

4.        TVE Development ($62.2 million SAR, $24.5 million actual)

This component is rated unsatisfactory. Although the design of this component incorporated the lessons
learned from initial implementation of the similar component in SWPRP, it turned out that the component
was still too ambitious and underestimated the difficulties associated with the TVE sector as well as the
rapid progress China was achieving in transforming its economy from a central-planned one to a
market-oriented one. Following the mid-term adjustment, the total amount of investment for the component
was cut down from US$62 million to US$25 million (i.e., from 17% to around 6% of the total project
investment). The greatest reduction was in Sichuan. Investment in Shaanxi for this component was
moderately adjusted down from US$28 million to US$20 million. The released funding was reallocated to
the activities which were warmly welcomed by the beneficiaries (such as the rural infrastructure
component, land and farmer development component).

At the time of appraisal, the Qinba Project was expected to support 150 enterprises. At the time of the
project completion, only 22 enterprises had been completed. Of these, 12 were operational, 3 were in trial
production and 7 were either not operational yet or had stopped operation, mostly because of a lack of
working capital for operation. All of the enterprises which were not-operational are in Shaanxi Province.
Of 23 small farmers market, 20 were operational, a much higher proportion than that for the enterprises.

It should be pointed out that, while most of the medium and larger TVEs supported by the project were
eventually found not to be financially viable or to have had significant poverty reduction impacts, small
scale enterprises and small scale farmers' markets were typically far more successful. These enterprises,
which were often privately owned, provided goods and services for the local market and relied on simple
technologies. Most of these enterprises were found to be financially viable, to have had favorable poverty


                                                       - 9 -

reduction and local fiscal impacts, and to have provided marketing channels for farm and other products
produced by the poor. Another indicator of success of the farmers' markets construction is that Sichuan
Province, while significantly reducing the size of the component as a whole, doubled the number of markets
constructed from 6 to 12.

The implementation of the TVE component has provided the following lessons. First, the experience of the
component in Shaanxi indicates that it was unwise for the project to invest in large-scale enterprises, given
the natural and economic conditions and the level of government intervention in these counties. Moreover,
the project should have mitigated the risks by not focusing the investment in the six enterprises of the three
project counties. The investment in large-scale enterprises suffered from moral hazard problems when the
enterprise owners did not have sufficient capital funds, as no individuals are finally responsible for the loan
repayment. Second, the time-consuming process of selecting enterprises and the relatively high rates of
interest charged to them may have an adverse effect on the performance of the component: those enterprises
which are able to access commercial loans (interest rates were around 5.5 per cent per annum) would not
be interested in the project loans. This meant that it was the enterprises without commercial sources of
finance which were most likely to apply for the project's funding. Third, the small plants and small
farmers' markets performed better than the large-scale enterprises. This is because these activities require
less capital investment and working capital, and less complicated technology and hence take less time to
prepare. All these fit the poor areas better. Finally, agroprocessing plants do not necessarily add value to
the farm products produced in the project areas. A money-losing processing enterprise could have an
adverse impact on the incomes and welfares of poor farmers in the project areas, as the local governments
may have to collect more taxes and fees to make up the loss and/or persuade farmers to grow the raw
materials for the plant which may not be in the best interest of farmers.

5.       Micro-finance ($4.1 million SAR, $6.8 million actual)

The component is rated marginally satisfactory. In terms of the number of borrowers and the total
amount of loans disbursed, the program has attained its targets and has so far provided almost RMB60
million of micro-loans to more than 40,000 borrowers in two project provinces. By the end of June 2004,
the program had a loan portfolio of over RMB10 million in Langzhong and Tongjiang counties of Sichuan
(the program in Shaanxi was completed in September 2002).

The program targeted the poor in the project counties and both the micro-loans and the training program
provided by China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) to the program beneficiaries have impacted
positively on the poor in the project counties. Of all the micro-loans, more than 70 per cent has been used
by the project beneficiaries for cropping and animal production and the rest mainly for transportation and
agroprocessing.

The program was responsible for a number of innovations, including group lending, dynamic incentives and
emphasis on women's participation. Project beneficiaries decided on loan uses, and loans were provided in
cash rather than in kind. In addition, the program established basic loan disbursement and repayment
procedures, an accounting and reporting system, and an internal control system. The program is more
transparent than other government channels in fund use and able to detect and trace the funds diverted by
the county and township governments from the component. Consequently, most micro-finance funds did
reach the poor households in the project areas, and the program has achieved a much higher overall loan
repayment rate compared with the agricultural component.

The micro-finance program in the project counties, however, will have a difficult time achieving financial
sustainability, because (a) the program has no capital funds and almost all the funds for the micro-finance


                                                    - 10 -

operation are from the Bank loan that need to be repaid; (b) the rate of interest charged by the program
(7% nominal and about 11% effective) barely cover the operational costs and the cost of funds (around 3.2
per cent per annum); and (c) the start-up cost is higher and is not covered by the grant funds. Moreover,
the county governments in Ankang and Langzhong have been reluctant to use the project funds for the
micro-finance component, and this led to frequent conflicts between the county governments and CFPA, the
implementation agency in Beijing. The program's major loan quality and financial indicators are shown in
Table 2.

Table 2. Key Performance Indicators for the Micro-finance Component
·                                             Langzhong        Ankang         Tongjiang            Total


Loan Portfolio (RMB10,000)                      487.2          743.58           626.66            1857.44
Loans past due at close (RMB10,000)             195.7          557.68           128.35            881.73
Overall Loan Repayment Rate (%)                 83.45          72.27            92.77              82.26
Loan Arrears at close (%)                       40.17          75.00            20.48              47.47
Total Income (RMB10,000)                        152.36         166.3            164.84             483.5
Operational Income (RMB10,000)                  99.66          148.78           134.31            382.75
Donations (RMB10,000)                           52.7           17.53            30.53             100.76
Total Expenses (RMB10,000)                      176.66         212.17           217.48            606.32
Interest Expenses (RMB10,000)                   62.5           116.66           53.31             232.48
Provisions for Bad Loans (RMB10,000)            8.91            3.16             18.8              30.87
Operational Expenses (RMB10,000)                105.25         92.35            145.37            342.97
Profit or Losses (RMB10,000)                    -24.3          -45.87           -52.65            -122.81
Total Income/Total expenses (%)                  86             78               76                 80


Some valuable lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the micro-finance pilot. First, some of the
innovations, such as the loan disbursement and repayment procedures, group loans, the basic accounting,
reporting and auditing system and participation of women, can be applied to the agricultural component
with loans to individual households under the World Bank projects. Second, the micro-finance programs
funded with the Bank loans in China can hardly achieve operational and financial sustainability without
alternative sources of funds to replace the Bank loans, as the program counties have to repay the loans to
the Bank. So far all the program counties have failed to obtain alternative funds to replace the Bank loans.
Third, since the county governments provided the guarantee for the repayment of the Bank loans, the
governments have a strong incentive to intervene in the operation of the micro-finance institutions and
micro-loans, which has resulted in a high proportion of non-performing loans for the program. The county
governments in all the three program counties have intervened in staff appointments and in the operation of
the micro-finance institutions, and at least two program counties have diverted the funds from the
micro-finance institutions for use in the non-program townships. The intervention from local government
in the uses of micro-finance funds has led to frequent conflicts between the local governments and the
implementation agency at the national level, CFPA. Fourth, in the program design, virtually no grant
funds were designed to cover the start-up costs and the training of the micro-finance programs, which, in
combination with the relatively low rate of interest, has resulted in financial losses of the program. Finally,
the program should have set up a computerized management information system at the early stage of the
pilot.

6.           Institution building ($8.6 million SAR, $7.6 million actual)

This component is rated highly satisfactory.           The design and implementation built upon SWPRP's
successful experience. To cope with the above-average complexity of the project, a five-level project
management system was established including the central, provincial, county, township, and village levels.
With adequate project support, strong leadership from the central government, and a high degree of
commitment from the project staff, a highly capable, dedicated, and complete PMO system was formed.



                                                       - 11 -

The PMO system is justifiably regarded as one of the project's greatest legacies and it was responsible for
the successful implementation of the project. The project provided adequate support in terms of training,
spacious working space, office equipment and vehicles. In terms of training, about 200 person/time
participated abroad study tours and training, domestic training covered about 1200 person/time. Project
provinces also organized study tours, training among themselves, which in total covered about 3200
person/time. Full time project staff numbered about 11000.

Effective institution building was the foundation for the successful implementation of this highly complex
project in a very challenging environment. Throughout the implementation period, there was a progressive
build-up of institutions with a strong capacity to deliver results with accountability and use methods and
procedures that are transparent and verifiable. The benefits of successful institutional construction have
gone far beyond the immediate results of poverty reduction in the project area. Many project counties
decided to retain and further strengthen the project teams developed under the project.

7.       Poverty monitoring ($2.0 million SAR, $1.3 million actual)

The component is rated satisfactory. Based on the experience of SWPRP, the component improved the
sampling method, questionnaire design, training and field interview procedures. All these ensured the
quality of the survey and the full achievement of the component objectives. The survey program was
designed on the basis of experience and lessons of SWPRP, and was reviewed by national specialists
(Chinese Academy of Social Sciences) and international specialists (the World Bank's Research
Department). The independent monitoring and evaluation continued for six years, following the baseline
survey in 1997. It covered 26 project counties and 2600 households in the baseline survey, 13 project
counties and 1300 households in the following four years, and all 26 project counties and 2600 households
again in 2002. The data were collected through the visits of interviewers as well as the diary-book kept by
the sample households.

The SSB's Rural Survey Organization (RSO) held a series of training session including both the central
and provincial PMO staff. The SSB also held training sessions in all project counties. In addition, the
Provincial Rural Survey branches had annual training courses for interviewers at the county level, and
there was annual training for assistant enumerators from sampling villages. Well organized field surveys
promoted the data quality. Careful data editing and analyzing further improved the quality of the data.

There are two ways in which the performance of this component could have been improved. First, the
duration of the monitoring period was not long enough to capture the full effects of the project. The impact
of some project activities could not appear in a short period and therefore were not captured by the survey,
which lasted for six years. Second, the survey did not capture villagers' direct assessment of the project,
which would have made the impact evaluation more reliable and comprehensive. It is believed that more
qualitative indicators and participatory indicators should have been included.

Status of Women and Female Participation

The project generated a variety of significant benefits which strengthened women's social status. There are
three important and tangible benefits worthy of particular attention.             First, rural infrastructure
construction, particularly the construction of drinking water facilities, effectively liberated women from a
heavy workload of water fetching, so that women have more time to participate in other social and
economic activities. Second, there was significant progress in terms of increasing women's participation in
applied technical training. In the early stage of project implementation, women only accounted for about
20% of those who received training. However, by the end of the project implementation, the proportion


                                                     - 12 -

reached 50%. Third, the labor mobility component improved women's access to off-farm jobs. Women
accounted for about 25% of all migrant laborers who found an off-farm job through the project. All these
benefits significantly strengthened women's social status since they gained greater self esteem and
confidence, had reduced work burdens, and achieved increased economic independence.

Impact on Ethnic Minority People

The project has generated a significant positive impact on ethnic minority people. In the project area, these
are mainly Hui nationalities who concentrate in Ningxia. In the four project counties of Ningxia, Hui
nationality accounts for 96% of the population in Jingyuan, 81% in Tongxin, 69% in Haiyuan, and 51% in
Xiji.   In the SAR there was no independent Indigenous Peoples Mitigation Plan (IPMP) or Ethnic
Minorities Development Plan (EMDP) since the whole project design in Ningxia could be treated as an
IPMP or an EMDP. A review conducted by the Bank's Social Development Specialist confirmed that the
Hui nationality people had equal opportunities to participate in the project, and had benefited from project
activities such as livestock raising, terracing, as well as cropping. The living standards of those who took
part in the project were clearly improved. In addition, productive conditions as well as the residential
environment in project villages were greatly bettered. In sum, there is no doubt that Hui nationality farmers
have benefited from the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Data from different sources consistently confirm that the project achieved remarkable economic, social and
environmental benefits. These data (see Document No. 9 of Annex 7) demonstrated a steady improvement
of a series of key monitoring indicators. The incidence of poverty, for example, declined from 26.7% in
1997 to about 4.6% in 2003; per capita income increased from RMB854 to RMB1398 during the same
period (Annex 3, Table 3.1). The beneficiaries obtained more development opportunities as shown by the
enhanced market participation, strengthened ability of managing risks, increased girls' enrollment rate, and
reduced gender disparity. Project villages, in many aspects, out-performed non-project villages which
generally enjoyed much better initial conditions. For example, SSB's independent monitoring of the project
convincingly shows that project villages are less vulnerable than non-project villages to natural disasters.

A traditional methodology is used for estimating the economic rate of return (ERR) of the project. Data for
calculating the ERR comes from provincial village surveys (conducted by PMOs) and a series of Poverty
Monitoring Reports for the project (State Statistical Bureau, 1997-2004).

Project benefits have been quantified for four major components: (a) labor mobility; (b) rural infrastructure
(for the irrigation subcomponent); (c) land and farmer development; and (d) TVE development (for the
rural market construction subcomponent). Investment in these four major components accounts for 96% of
total project investment. The benefits of other components (institutional building, poverty monitoring and
micro-finance) are difficult to quantify and hence ERRs have not been calculated for them. It should be
pointed out that given their small share in the total project cost, their exclusion does not have a significant
impact on the conclusion. To get the ERR of the project as a whole, the individual ERRs are weighted by
the investment proportion of corresponding components in the total project.

The overall economic rate of return to the project as a whole, under several conservative assumptions, is
estimated to be 37%. The following table presents estimated ERRs for the whole project as well as for
specific components.




                                                     - 13 -

         Project as       Labor             Rural           Land and    TVE
          whole          mobility       infrastructure      farmer
                                                          development
 ICR       37%        More than 50%         27%              36%        13%
 SAR       40%            43%                n.a.            43%       47-71%



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No calculation has been made of the financial rate of return (FRR) of the project or of any of its
components. After twenty five years of market-oriented economic reforms, price distortions resulting from
government intervention in the economy have largely been eliminated. An integrated domestic market has
been established and it is increasingly integrated with the international market. Against this background,
there is essentially no additional value to calculate the ERR and the FRR separately to capture the impact
of price distortions. The SAR found no significant difference between the economic and financial rates of
return for the two components examined, with only exception of TVE component. On this basis, it is
believed that the estimated ERRs are representative of the FRRs.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was high. An efficient, capable, and dedicated project
management system was established from the central level to the village level, with strong support from the
central government (i.e., the LGPR under the State Council) as well as from the provinces (with the
establishment of provincial project-based Leading Group, comprising by all relevant agencies).          The
performance of the PMO system is remarkable in almost all aspects of the project, including planning,
implementing, monitoring, and evaluation (as discussed in Section 4.1 and 4.2). For example, the Central
PMO developed a set of regulations covering loan management, implementation plan, procurement,
reimbursement management, accounting and financial management, and monitoring and evaluation areas.
All these regulations were also adopted by most poverty reduction projects financed by domestic resources.
One of the strongest indicators of the high institutional development impact is the decision of many counties
and provinces to retain, instead of dismantling, the project management offices at the completion of the
project implementation. These counties and provinces are planning to channel domestic resources through
the existing project management system. The project's significant and profound policy impact should also
be regarded as a lasting institutional development impact (see Section 4.1). This policy impact has
received highly favorable reviews from the Shanghai conference participants. The successful experience of
the Qinba Project in institutional development also provided a good model for other countries to learn from.
For example, Vietnamese Government sent a delegation to the Qinba Project area to conduct a study tour in
2004. In short, the Qinba Project significantly improved the poverty alleviation system's ability to make
effective use of its human and financial resources.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors which were beyond the control of Government and the implementation agency had a very positive
impact on the project's implementation and the achievement of its objectives. First, in the past decade,
China's continuing strong economy growth provided a very favorable macroeconomic environment for
project implementation. For example, the high speed of urbanization and industrialization created a large
amount of off-farm job opportunities for the migrant labors from the poor areas. Second, market-oriented
economic reform removed the constraints on the flow of most production inputs and outputs, which also
positively contributed to the effectiveness of many project components (e.g., the Land and Farmer
Development component). Third, the implementation of the Great Western Development Plan brought a



                                                      - 14 -

large amount of investment in large-scale infrastructure in the project provinces, which provided a
favorable environment for farmers to access to better transportation and energy services. All these factors
had significantly favorable impacts on the project implementation and its outcomes.

Two factors adversely affected project implementation. First, several natural disasters affected project
implementation. For example, a drought of four years' duration in Ningxia reduced the effectiveness of the
agricultural activities. However, from the perspective of the Qinba Project as a whole, the impact of these
natural disasters was generally modest. Second, rapid and profound changes in the macroeconomy and
associated market risks invalidated many assumptions made for the TVE component, which contributed to
its unsatisfactory performance.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors which are generally subject to Government control also had a favorable impact on project
implementation.      The Government maintained a high degree of commitment to poverty reduction
throughout the project's life. This high degree of commitment was essential to overcoming many obstacles
which confronted the project and which were beyond the control of the PMOs. One indicator of the
commitment was the establishment of the project-based Leading Groups at provincial and county levels.
These Leading Groups, which served as multi-agency coordinators, provided strong support to project
implementation in terms of ensuring timely provision of counterpart funding, preventing reimbursed project
funding from being diverted to other uses, and other key roles.

The Government's over-emphasis on cost recovery, however, generated some adverse impact on project
implementation and outcome. The over-emphasis on cost recovery resulted in a bias at the project design
stage in favor of those activities which were assumed to be able to generate direct cash returns and against
those activities which were perceived not to have that ability. This bias at least partially explains why, at
the time of appraisal, the TVE development component accounted for 17% of the total project cost and
rural infrastructure only for 11%. However, it should be pointed out that the Government has begun to
recognize the negative impact of emphasizing cost-recovery and started to emphasize the lasting benefits of
public goods provision through projects.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Qinba Project's management system was a very strong and capable system which was indispensable to
the project's successful implementation with lasting development impact. The PMO system effectively
took advantage of most factors which were under their control to improve the performance of the project.
In this aspect, the performance of the Central PMO and the Sichuan and Shaanxi provincial PMOs were
excellent and worthy of particular congratulations.         For example, by noticing the unsatisfactory
performance of the TVE component and realizing that the factors which contributed to it were generally
beyond the control of the PMO system, the Central and Sichuan PMOs significantly scaled down the size
of the TVE component and shifted the resources to the most welcomed activities such as rural
infrastructure and agricultural components (See section 4.2). The project results showed that this timely
readjustment significantly contributed to the successful achievement of the project's development
objectives. Another example was the introduction of a provincial level cross-supervision arrangement (
jiaocha jiancha) for improving the implementation quality.        Sichuan sent a team to supervise the
implementation quality of Shaanxi, Shaanxi sent a team to supervise the Ningxia's work, and Ningxia
supervised the performance of Sichuan. The cross-supervision was conducted about once every year and
had two positive impacts: (a) it strengthened the project monitoring and supervision in addition to the
Bank's twice-a-year regular supervisions; and (b) it provided a good opportunity for the timely scaling up
of good practice in one area to another area. In the final years of project implementation, the PMOs
introduced the participatory monitoring methodology on a pilot basis which not only upgraded the project's



                                                    - 15 -

internal monitoring and evaluation work, but also strengthened the effectiveness of the project's
implementation.

In a limited number of cases, however, county PMOs were inadequately staffed and their record keeping
work needed to be strengthened. This was the case particularly in Ningxia.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The change in total project cost was modest. The total project cost estimated at appraisal was $360
million, and the actual cost was about $389 million, an increase of 8%. The increase mainly comes from
surpassing the counterpart funding target. Based on the data from the central PMO, the final counterpart
funding utilized was about 18% above the estimate in the SAR.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project's development impact is rated highly likely, based on the following
reasons. First, the policy impact has greatly exceeded what was anticipated at appraisal, and the many
innovative approaches tested through the project (such as labor mobility, participatory approach, household
and project based multi-sectoral approach) have been mainstreamed into national policy and are now
widely applied. The most recent indicator of this sustainability is a new poverty project concept, proposed
by the Government for the Bank's consideration, which fully incorporates these innovative approaches.
Second, the establishment, stability, and continuity of a strong project management system have also
contributed favorably to the project's sustainability. As discussed in previous sections (Section 4.1, 4.2,
and 4.5), many project counties have already decided to retain the PMO and will channel new resources
through the Qinba Project management system. Third, the significant improvement of beneficiaries'
participation in the project implementation, self-confidence, and general human capital level will also
contribute to the sustainability of the project's outcomes. Many farmers told the Bank's supervision
missions that the most important benefits they received from the project is their strengthened capacity to
deal with risk, knowledge about new technologies, and better engagement in the market economy. In short,
the project set up a good platform for long-term sustainable development and improvement of their
livelihoods.

The Bank's sixth round of Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6), conducted in September 2004, also
rated the sustainability of this project as "likely" (the highest rate of the QSA). The QSA report states:

        "The progress of the project is now well advanced and it is possible to assess with some confidence
        that the project's results will be sustainable. Given the high level of support from the Chinese
        authorities for the project activities and strong indications that key project activities will be scaled
        up, there is a good likelihood that sustainability will be achieved."

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given the specific but effective institutional arrangement (e.g., the project based Leading Group for better
coordination among different line bureaus), most project activities have been integrated into the regular
operations of relevant departments.       This has significantly minimized the need for special transition
arrangements, and ensures the appropriate technical and financial provisions to sustain project effectiveness
in the post-implementation era. As the implementation period approached its conclusion and during the
final series of Bank supervision mission, the Bank put additional emphasis on these transitional
arrangements to ensure regular operation. Many measures have been discussed and agreed with the
Government, such as improving the record keeping, re-flowing the project funds, and ensuring institutional



                                                       - 16 -

stability and continuity. All these measures included technical, financial, and institutional provisions to
ensure effective project operation in future.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of the project is rated
satisfactory. The identification of the project was fully consistent with government's poverty reduction
strategy and in accordance with the Bank's CAS. The design was made on the basis of success of the
SWPRP. During the stage of preparation assistance and appraisal, the Bank's team provided adequate
technical, financial, economic, and institutional assistance, including procurement and financial
management, to the client. All these were made possible by Japanese Policy and Human Resources
Development grant, consultant trust funds from various sources, and the strong capacity and high degree of
continuity of the Bank's task team. Most of the Bank's preparation team could undertake their work in
Chinese, and hence spend much of their project preparation time at the village and household level
obtaining a more in-depth understanding of the problems and identifying the possible solutions. No major
shortcomings of the preparation efforts have been identified.

The Bank could have done a better job in examining the assumptions about the TVE component design,
even though the size of the component was reduced compared with the Government's original request and
further adjustment and reduction was made during the mid-term review.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in the project's implementation supervision is rated satisfactory. This rating is
also consistent with the rating that QSA6 gave to the project (overall rating of 2 on the 6-point scale). The
following factors contributed to this satisfactory rating. First, throughout the project life, there has been a
high degree of task team continuity, which fostered a long-term and trusting work relationship with the
implementing agency and facilitated good quality supervisions. Second, staff and consultants with the
right expertise were mobilized, particularly in the first years of the project implementation, covering all
project components. Third, the task team had put in solid supervision efforts, with a sound and a timely
focus on implementation problems and development effectiveness as measured by the M&E systems in
place. Fourth, special assessments were carried out to check compliance with the Bank's safeguard
policies on environment and social aspects, which were also judged to be satisfactory.

The effectiveness of the Bank supervision efforts is clearly evident. For example, on the counterpart funds
issue, the Bank raised the problem during supervisions at all levels of the government, and this problem
was subsequently resolved (see Section 5.2 and 5.4). Another example is that, due to its unsatisfactory
performance, the TVE component was sharply reduced in size in response to strong recommendations made
by the Bank's supervision missions.

In retrospect, the main supervision issue was inadequate funding for supervising such a complex project.
This issue was raised as the major issue for management attention in both QSA5 and QSA6, and it was one
of main reasons why the environmental and financial management staff were not adequately involved in
supervision during the latter part of project implementation. Although this problem was successfully
addressed in the final three supervision missions when the team did include environmental, financial
management, and social development specialists, overall project implementation would have been even
better had adequate supervision budgets been available at the early stage of the implementation.




                                                    - 17 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. For this complex and multi-sectoral project, the
Bank organized a strong and stable team from the beginning to the end of implementation. The preparation
and supervision all included the required expertise and local staff who continuously provided services in the
areas of financial management, procurement management, environmental assessment, and ethnic minority
development. The Bank's task team was generally able to provide quick responses to the demands from the
implementing agencies.      One of the most positive aspects was the Bank's flexibility in adjusting
procurement methodologies and cost allocations among different components. The Bank attempted to give
government the maximum flexibility during the implementation to accommodate the rapidly changing
economic and social environment. EASRD's management also attached a great importance to this project
by doing their best to secure an adequate budget and participating in several missions.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in project preparation is rated highly satisfactory. First, as the flagship
poverty reduction project with many innovative measures, the project received attention from the highest
level of the Government. For example, in October 1995, President Jiang Zemin, in his congratulatory letter
to SWPRP's Launch Workshop, specifically asked the Leading Group for Poverty Reduction to "do its best
to have a high quality preparation of the Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project in order to contribute
to the goal of basically eradicating absolute poverty in China by the end of 20th century." Second, the
borrower demonstrated a high degree of commitment during the preparation period. The whole project
preparation was finished within one and half years, with high quality work and covering all major areas
correctly identified by the government's strategy (i.e., the 8-7 Plan). Third, the borrower incorporated
many key lessons from the successful implementation of SWPRP in the project preparation. Finally,
because of the strong organizational structure of the project, all relevant agencies were effectively involved
in the preparation of the project and most issues during the project preparation were resolved in a
reasonable and timely manner.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory.                The importance of
continuous strong government support to the success of the project is one of key lessons learned (see
Section 8). As an indication of the Government's strong support to the project, the actual mobilization of
the counterpart funding exceeded the amount in the SAR by about 18%. The recommendations made in the
Aide Memoires of the Bank's supervision missions received adequate attention from the PMOs and the
issues identified were addressed by the PMOs diligently. The Government also paid adequate attention to
the institutional capacity building for PMOs at different levels through providing necessary support, which
significantly contributed to the project's implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency at all levels is rated highly satisfactory.                 Quality
implementation of the Qinba Project has been quite challenging for the new PMO system, particularly since
these provinces had no previous experience with implementing a Bank-financed poverty reduction project
with a multi-sectoral approach. In the end, the PMO system did an excellent job of the implementing the
project in almost all aspects (see Section 5.3). A dedicated team was established working toward common
objectives. As discussed in Section 4.2, the PMO system was adequately staffed in most project counties,
with a total of about 11000 full time staff in the PMO system at all levels. The overall capacity of the
PMO system in project management (including financial and procurement management, capacity building,
etc.) and monitoring and evaluation have been significantly strengthened.           Sichuan and Shaanxi, in


                                                    - 18 -

particular, did an outstanding job in project implementation. Lastly, in order to provide useful lessons for
the next generation poverty reduction projects, the implementing agency conducted several specific
activity-based evaluation and impact studies, such as the special studies on labor mobility, applied
research, and the TVE component.

Nevertheless, there were some actions which could have been taken to further enhance the performance of
the PMO system. For example, it is believed that the Ningxia PMO's institutional reorganization in the
later years of project implementation had an unfavorable impact on the PMO's effectiveness. Moreover,
the Ningxia PMO could have had better quality internal monitoring and evaluation work had they provided
more guidance to the county PMOs.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory. Like SWPRP, the Qinba Project was a
complex multi-sectoral project which contained numerous innovations. For example, the labor mobility
component, the focus on beneficiaries' participation, and the emphasis on improving poverty monitoring
were highly innovative activities in China in 1990s. The borrower accepted the challenges of preparing and
implementing this project, overcame all obstacles throughout the project's life, and accumulated valuable
experience. The borrower's success in the Qinba Project provided another convincing example that a
multi-sectoral approach is one of the most effective ways for eradicating absolute poverty.           These
experiences have had a profound impact on China's poverty reduction strategy and design of the general
development policy (see Section 4.1).

8. Lessons Learned

The successful implementation of the Qinba Project has provided the following key lessons, which should
be helpful in terms of guiding the design of the next generation poverty reduction projects in China:

Strong support and a high degree of commitment from government at all levels is a precondition of the
project's successful implementation.       The Central Government at the highest levels and the State
Council's LGPR provided strong support and leadership for the project. The support was matched by the
institution building component which strengthened the project management system at all levels. The project
would not have been as successful, and certainly would not have achieved the profound policy impacts,
without LGPR's very strong and consistent support throughout the entire project life.

A strong and adequately supported Central PMO is essential for the success of a multi-province,
multi-sectoral, and above-average complexity project. The Central PMO (i.e., FCPMC under the State
Council's LGPR) played an indispensable role throughout the whole project life in terms of ensuring
effective project design and preparation, monitoring overall project implementation and achievements,
identifying and addressing key implementation issues, promoting cross-provincial learning, and facilitating
dissemination of the useful experiences and incorporation of them into national policies. This is an
important lesson that first emerged from SWPRP and was reconfirmed by the successful implementation of
the Qinba Project.

A good synergy could be achieved through an integrated multi-sectoral approach. With strong and
sustained support from governments at all levels, the multi-sectoral approach has been demonstrated to be
one of the most effective approaches in achieving significant poverty reduction on a sustainable basis in the
worst-affected areas. The Bank supervision missions repeatedly asked government officials and PMO staff
at different levels and farmers about their preference between the multi-sectoral approach and the
single-sector approach, and the answers were surprisingly consistent: all preferred the multi-sectoral



                                                    - 19 -

approach. Indeed, officials of various levels of PMOs also pointed out that the Qinba Project should have
expanded its scope to cover basic health and education activities (which were under separate but parallel
projects) as had been done under SWPRP. In fact, the SSB's independent monitoring reports provided
evidence to support their argument. In short, given that the poverty issue is a multi-dimensional one, a
multi-sectoral approach can achieve a good synergy from bringing different activities together, which
cannot be achieved by a single-sectoral approach.

Active participation of beneficiaries throughout the project life is essential for effective implementation
and a better sense of ownership.         The importance of the active and effective participation of the
beneficiaries has been increasingly recognized by the PMOs at different levels. The high degree of
participation in the second half of the project is regarded as one of the major factors which contributed to
the success of the project. PMOs at different levels believe that participation should be strengthened
throughout the whole project life, and some effective ways of participation, including participatory
evaluation and monitoring, have already been tested and scaled up in the project areas.

Effective institution building, including an emphasis on PMO's stability and continuity, is the
foundation for successfully implementing a highly complex project in a very challenging environment.
Throughout the implementation period, there has been a progressive build-up of an implementation system
with strong capacity and dedication to deliver results with accountability, using methods and procedures
that are transparent and verifiable. The benefits of successful institution building go far beyond the
immediate results of poverty reduction in the project area.

Putting rural infrastructure first will ensure that benefits of activities under other components can be
maximized. Road access in remote mountainous project areas has had a major impact by changing
agricultural systems from subsistence to cash-based through improved access to inputs, support services
and markets. For future projects in similar areas, rural infrastructure construction, particularly road
access, should be implemented first so that benefits of activities under other components (including
agriculture, labor mobility, education, and health) can be maximized.

Building flexibility into the project design will empower the project to accommodate a changing
environment. The project design needs to be flexible in order to accommodate a changing environment. In
this respect, the Qinba Project has set a good example. For example, to reflect the changes in the
macroeconomic environment, the size of the TVE component was reduced significantly. In addition, in
response to the beneficiaries' demand, the investment in rural infrastructure increased from about 11% of
total project cost at appraisal to 18% actual. In Sichuan province, the size of the rural infrastructure was
almost doubled.

Promoting farmers' human capital development will strengthen the project's sustainability. Many
farmers have stated that one of the major project benefits was that it changed their way of thinking about
how to improve their livelihoods. This not only includes improved technical knowledge gained through
project training, but also includes increased self-confidence in their own abilities gained by trying and
succeeding at new things, and by access to new information. Farmers' human capital development is a
very important project achievement that provides a base for future economic development in project areas.

Rationale of supporting TVE activities should be carefully examined. Based on the experience of the
TVE component, there is a need to revisit the assumptions and reassess the efficacy of supporting
enterprise development under similar poverty reduction projects. Several fundamental questions should be
asked and answered. First, it must be determined whether it is appropriate to have such a component in



                                                     - 20 -

poverty reduction projects in an increasingly market-oriented economy in China. Second, if a similar
component still needs to be included in future programs, it must be determined whether the focus should be
shifted from large- or medium-size state/collective enterprises to small private/collective enterprises, or
even poor households' micro-enterprises. Third, perhaps a phased approach might be more appropriate
(e.g., at the early stage of the project, only a limited amount of funds would be available for enterprise
development, limited to a small number of selected counties. The component would be scaled up only after
a satisfactory performance confirmed by the mid-term review). Finally, government intervention in the
process of selecting beneficiary enterprises should be reduced and a more transparent and competitive
enterprise selection process should be introduced.

Ensuring the independence of micro-finance institutions in its business operation is one of key
conditions for achieving its financial sustainability. The micro-finance pilot in the Qinba project showed
that county governments had strong incentives to intervene in the operation of the micro-finance institutions
due to the on-lending arrangement used, i.e., the county governments provided the guarantee for the
repayment of the Bank loans. The government interventions in staff appointments and use of loans resulted
in a high proportion of non-performing loans, which severely weakened the ability of the micro-financial
institutions to achieve financial sustainability. One possible way to reduce or eliminate the government
interventions could be to on-lend the Bank loans directly to CFPA or other independent micro-finance
institutions from the Ministry of Finance or from the Central PMO, instead of through local governments.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project was the second large-scale poverty project financed
jointly by the Chinese government and the World Bank. Like the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project, the
Qinba Project was also a multi-province and multi-sectoral project which directly targeted at the poorest
households. The Qinba Project had the following major characteristics: (a) the project design built upon
strength of SWPRP and reflected mainstream thoughts of poverty reduction in mid 1990s; (b) the Qinba
Project, through mobilizing about US$180 million financial resources from the World Bank, accelerated
the process of fully achieving the goals set in the 8-7 Plan; (c) the Qinba Project generated many valuable
lessons from its successful implementation which would be very useful for the Government to better design
poverty reduction strategy in the 21st century; and (d) the Qinba Project established a good model for the
great cause of global poverty reduction.

A. Major Achievements

(a) The poverty incidence in the project area was reduced at a speed faster than the national average. The
poverty incidence was 26.7% in the project villages in 1997, and it was reduced to 4.6% by the end of
2003. During the same period, the national poverty incidence was reduced from about 5.4% to 3.1%. In
the project area, the poverty gap index was reduced from 3.5% in 1997 to 0.6% in 2003, and the weighted
poverty gap index was reduced from 1.2% in 1997 to 0.2% in 2003.

(b) Per capita income increased significantly. In 2003, per capita income in the project villages reached
RMB1398, which was about 60% higher than that of 1997. Put in another way, the annual growth rate of
the income per capita in the project villages was 8.1% from 1997 to 2003. However, the national average
of farmers' annual per capita income growth rate was about 4% during the same period of time.

(c) Rural infrastructure conditions were significantly improved. The project solved the drinking water
problem for 680,000 villagers and for 640,000 livestock. The project constructed 9000 km of village



                                                    - 21 -

access roads, and the percentage of villages with road access increased from 72% in 1997 to 100% in
2003. The percentage of villages with electricity access increased form 92% in 1997 to 100% in 2003, and
the percentage of villages with telephone access increased from 23% in 1997 to 84% in 2003.

(d) There was an evident improvement of farmers' human capital and self-development capacity, which
was a natural result of the project activities, including different applied technology training.

B. The Qinba Project's Wide Development Impact

(a) The project convincingly demonstrated the effectiveness of the multi-sectoral poverty reduction
approach. The Qinba Project abandoned the traditional approach employed by the government; instead, it
adopted a multi-sectoral approach and increased household-level investment intensity. The multi-sectoral
approach achieved a synergy among different activities, and hence not only increased the farmers' income,
improved their basic production and living conditions, and facilitated labor mobility, but also strengthened
the farmers' capacity of pursuing self-reliance and self-development.

(b) The project had a profound policy impact. The successful implementation of the Qinba Project
provided many valuable lessons for better conducting national poverty alleviation work. Many innovations
of the project, such as participatory approach, village development planning, were incorporated into the
China National Poverty Alleviation Strategy (2001-2010).

(c) The project actively encouraged farmers' participation. Compared with SWPRP, the Qinba Project
achieved a better result of beneficiaries' participation. The participation was reflected in the whole project
cycle, from the project design to implementation, and from implementation to monitoring. The better
participation strengthened the farmers' sense of ownership and hence promoted the sustainability of the
project.

(c) The project brought out positive changes in terms of women's status. For example, the construction of
drinking water facilities reduced women's workload, improved general sanitary conditions, and reduced the
likelihood of some diseases.       Women's participation in some training activities also improved their
production skills as well as management capacity. As the implementation moved forward, women became
a major source of family income and hence their economic and social status was improved.

(d) The project generated a positive environmental impact. Addressing environmental degradation was one
of development objectives of the Project. Therefore, the project deliberately included many activities which
directly targeted restoration of the ecosystem and the mitigation of environment pressure.                Land
improvement activities (terracing, soil fertility conservation, afforestation through planting cash trees, etc.)
significantly reduced soil erosion and effectively stabilized or even reversed environmental degradation.

C. Major Lessons

(a) Overall quality of the project design could have been better. At the project preparation stage, the
feasibility of all activities was carefully examined. However, given the wide scope of the project and short
time for preparation, the feasibility of some activities, particularly for those under the TVE component,
was not adequately scrutinized. In addition, it was believed that more attention should be given to achieve
a higher degree of complementarity among activities so that the effectiveness of a multi-sectoral project
could have been maximized.




                                                       - 22 -

(b) There should be more flexibility in terms of adjusting the project activities. To address ever-changing
economic environment as well as demands from farmers, the procedure for adjusting the project activities
should be more simplified. For example, at the early stage of the project implementation, it took two years
to adjust the procurement methodologies for chemical fertilizer, pesticide, and plastic mulch, etc., and
hence the progress of the agricultural component was negatively affected.

(c) There is a need of exploring a new way to promote rural enterprise development. The performance of
the project's TVE component was not satisfactory due to the following reasons. First, the selected
enterprises had a serious lack of equity, and accordingly, there was a lack of working capital. Second,
feasibility studies of some enterprises were not carefully conducted, and the selection focused too much on
large scale enterprises. Third, enterprise ownership and the property rights arrangements of many TVEs
were not clearly defined, and hence it ended up that no one was responsible for repaying the loan in many
cases. It is an important task to explore a better way of promoting TVE development to serve the poor
farmers better, in terms of providing more employment opportunities, diversifying income sources,
increasing income per capita, and raising the value-added of the agricultural products.

(d) Government should bear more responsibility of mobilizing counterpart funding. After the financial
sector reform in 1998, the management of subsidized loan was shifted from the Agricultural Development
Bank (a policy bank) to the China Agricultural Bank (a commercial bank). However, there was a conflict
between the objectives of a commercial bank and the objectives of poverty reduction. The government had
intended to rely on the subsidized loans as a major source of counterpart funding, but found it difficult to
mobilize those founds following the 1998 financial sector reform. Accordingly, the implementation of the
project was negatively affected and farmers' contribution to the counterpart funding was increased.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
A) Poverty Reduction Model:

(1) Establish a focused multi-sectoral rural   the multi-sectoral poverty reduction model did a focused multi-sectoral poverty reduction
development project approach to poverty        not exist                                      model has been successfully established and
reduction in China                                                                            become and remained as a national policy



(2) extend this model to China's other poor    the model was only piloted in SWPRP            the model has been successfully extended
counties.                                                                                     nationwide

B) Reduce Poverty:

(3) poverty headcount rate                     poverty incidence was 26.7%                    poverty incidence was reduced to 4.6% in
                                                                                              2003

(4) rate of poverty gap*                       3.5% in 1997                                   0.6% in 2003



(5) rate of weighted poverty gap**             1.2% in 1997                                   0.2 in 2003



(6) per capita income                          854 yuan in 1997                               1398 yuan in 2003

C) Ability To Deal With Risks:

(7) percentage of population with greater than 6% percentage of population with per capita    4% percentage of population with per capita
subsistence levels of grain production,        grain output less than 150kg/per year in 1997 grain output less than 150kg/per year in 1997


(8) per capita cash at hand at year-end        84 yuan in 1997                                238 yuan in 2003


(9) per capita grain storage at year-end       190 kg in 1997                                 387 kg in 2003


(10) proportion of wage income                 25.9% in 1997                                  45.7% in 2003

D) Rural Infrastrcuture Conditions:

(11) percentage of villages with road access   71.8% in 1997                                  100% in 2003

(12) percentage of villages with electricity
access                                         92.3% in 1997                                  100% in 2003

(13) percentage of villages with telephone
access                                         23.1% in 1997                                  83.6% in 2003

(14) proportion of households with access to
water within 100 meters                        55% in 1997                                    79.2% in 2003

(15) proportion of households spending less
than 30 minutes per day fetching water         60% in 1997                                    86.4% in 2003

* The rate of poverty gap is a measure of the additional income that would be necessary to bring a poor person up to the poverty
line. Summed across the poor population and normalized against the poverty line and total population size, the indicator can be
used to assess the relative depth of poverty among subpopulations, across time, or internationally.
** The rate of weighted poverty gap takes into account not only the distance separating the poor from the poverty line (the
poverty gap), but also the inequality among the poor. That is, a higher weight is placed on those households who are further
away from the poverty line.




                                                                  - 24 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
E) Labor Mobility:

(16) the number of upland poor finding         none in 1997                         199276 persons found off-farm job through
off-farm employment through the project                                             the project by the end of 2003

(17) percentage of labor migrated for off-farm 15% in 1997                          25% in 2003
job

(18) remittances by these project financed     none in 1997                         RMB1.7 billion yuan by the end of 2003
successful migrant laborers to their
"home-village" families



F) Micro-finance:

(19) number of borrowers increased             none in 1997                         41000 borrowers by the end of the project

(20) total loan portfolio                      none in 1997                         RMB18.6 million in 2003


G) Environmental Improvement:

(21) percentage of households with difficulty  61.5% in 1997                        41% in 2003
securing fuel materials


H) General Living Standards:

(22) Engel coefficient*** (%)                  64% in 1997                          53.8% in 2003

(23) per capita living space                   16.6 square meters in 1997           23.6 square meters in 2003

(24) per capita meat consumption               15.8 kg in 1997                      17.6 kg in 2003


I) Gender:

(25) girl-boy ratio for 7-12 age group students89.8% in 1997                        98.2% in 2003
(boy=100)


J) Market Participation

(26) proportion of grain sold in market        10% in 1997                          17.8% in 2003

(27) proportion of meat sold in market         38.7% in 1997                        55.9% in 2003

1End of project
***The ratio of expenditures on food consumption out of total expenditures. Over time the ratio tends to decline as incomes
rise.




                                                                - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Labor Mobility                                              37.00          46.10           124.59
Rural Infrastructure                                        30.70          70.60           229.97
Land and Farmer Development                                149.60         232.00           155.08
Township and Village Enterprises Development                47.30          24.50             51.8
Micro-finance                                                3.20            6.80           212.5
Institutional Building and Project Management                7.80            7.60           97.44
Poverty Monitoring                                           2.00            1.30            62.5

Total Baseline Cost                                        277.60         388.90
 Physical Contingencies                                     13.70
 Price Contingencies                                        68.70
                          Total Project Costs              360.00         388.90
                    Total Financing Required               360.00         388.90


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           27.70       168.80         0.00         196.50
                                    (0.00)         (9.70)      (58.50)        (0.00)      (68.20)
2. Goods                            40.00          24.20        12.30         0.00         76.50
                                   (40.00)        (18.10)      (10.00)        (0.00)      (68.10)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        11.00         0.00         11.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (11.00)        (0.00)      (11.00)
4. Labor Training and               0.00            0.00        43.40         0.00         43.40
Placement
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (21.70)        (0.00)      (21.70)
5. Micro-finance Subloans           0.00            0.00         3.60         0.00          3.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.80)         (0.00)       (1.80)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00        15.00         14.00        29.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (9.20)         (0.00)       (9.20)
   Total                            40.00          51.90       254.10         14.00        360.00
                                   (40.00)        (27.80)     (112.20)        (0.00)      (180.00)




                                                - 26 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               7.93            242.81             0.00             250.74
                                           (0.00)             (2.78)           (77.40)            (0.00)           (80.18)
   2. Goods                                 26.14              5.49             27.29             0.00             58.92
                                           (26.14)            (4.69)           (20.14)            (0.00)           (50.97)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             20.24             0.00             20.24
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (20.24)            (0.00)           (20.24)
   4. Labor Training and                    0.00               0.00             42.86             0.00             42.86
   Placement
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (17.74)            (0.00)           (17.74)
   5. Micro-finance Subloans                0.00               0.00              6.49             0.00              6.49
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.20)            (0.00)           (3.20)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              8.96             0.69              9.65
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.67)            (0.00)           (4.67)
       Total                                26.14             13.42            348.65             0.69             388.90
                                           (26.14)            (7.47)          (143.39)            (0.00)          (177.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Labor Mobility                 24.60        24.00                    20.90         25.20                 85.0     105.0
Rural Infrastructure           16.00        24.50                    32.00         38.60                 200.0    157.6
Land and Farmer                100.70       94.10                    105.20       126.80                 104.5    134.8
Development
Township and Village           28.80        33.40                    11.10         13.40                 38.5      40.1
Enterprises Development
Micro-finance                   2.00         2.10                     3.10         3.70                  155.0    176.2
Institutional Building and      6.70         1.90                     3.50         4.10                  52.2     215.8
Project Management
Poverty Monitoring              2.00                                  1.20         0.05                  60.0




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Overall evaluation

Data from different sources has consistently confirmed that the project achieved remarkable economic,
social and environmental benefits.           There was a steady improvement of a series of key monitoring
indicators. The incidence of poverty, for example, declined from 27% in 1997 to about 5% in 2003;
average per capita income increased from RMB854 to RMB1398 during the same period (Table 3.1). The
beneficiaries obtained more development opportunities as shown by the enhanced market participation, and
strengthened ability to manage risks. The project also resulted in an increased school enrollment rate of
girls, and a reduced level of gender disparity.                Project villages, in many aspects, outperformed the
non-project villages which generally enjoyed much better initial conditions. For example, in 2003, the
incidence of poverty was almost the same as the national average, whereas in 1997 it had been nearly five
times as high as the national average.

The project also generated significant environmental and ecological benefits, which were confirmed by an
independent environmental monitoring report of 2003. The forest area was increased by 49%, the irrigated
area by 20%, and the area of terrace by 22%. The proportion of households with difficulty of obtaining
daily fuel materials, an indicator used to measure the change of ecological environment, decreased from
62% in 1997 to 41% in 2003.

The overall ERR of the project as a whole, under several conservative assumptions, is estimated to be 37%.

Table 3.1. Selected Indicators of Economic and Social Benefits
       1            2           3          4            5            6            7                 8            9
Year    Poverty     Food        p.    c.   Villagers    Villages     Labor        Remittance        proportion   Gender
        incidence   security*   income     w/ access    w/           migration                      of meat      gap**
                                           safe water   access                                      sold     in
        (%)                                             roads                                       market
                   (kg)         (yuan)     (%)          (%)          (%)          (billion yuan)    (%)         (%)
 1997   26.7        190         854        n.a.         71.8         15           n.a.              38.7         89.8
2000   17.9         331         1087       75           91.0         22           n.a.              42.7         96.7
2003   4.6          387         1398       86           100          25           1.7               55.9         98.2
* Food security is measured by per capita grain storage at year-end.
** Gender gap is measured by the ratio of girls' enrollment rate over boys' enrollment rate for the age group of 7-15.


Rate of return estimation

Data for calculating the ERR comes from provincial village surveys (conducted by PMOs) and a series of
Poverty Monitoring Report for The Qinba Project (State Statistical Bureau, 1997-2004).

Project benefits have been quantified for four major components: (a) the labor mobility, (b) the rural
infrastructure (for the irrigation subcomponent), (c) the land and farmer development, and (d) the TVE
development (for the rural market construction subcomponent). Investment in these four major components
accounts for 96% of total project investment. The benefits of other components (institutional building,
poverty monitoring and micro-finance) are difficult to quantify and hence ERRs have not been calculated
for them. Given their small share in the total project cost, their exclusion does not have a significant
impact on the conclusion. To get the ERR of the project as a whole, the individual ERRs are weighted by
the investment proportion of corresponding components in the total project.

No calculation has been made of the financial rate of return (FRR) of the project or of any of its
components. After twenty five years of market-oriented economic reforms, price distortions resulting from



                                                             - 28 -

government intervention in the economy have largely been eliminated. An integrated domestic market has
been established and it is increasingly integrated with the international market. Against this background,
there is essentially no additional value to calculate the ERR and the FRR separately to capture the impact
of price distortions. The SAR found no significant difference between the economic and financial rates of
return for the two components examined, with only exception of TVE component. On this basis, it is
believed that the estimated ERRs are representative of the FRRs. Table 3.2 presents estimated ERRs for
the whole project as well as for specific components.

Table 3.2 ERRs to the whole project and four components
        Project  as   Labor           Rural              Land    and  TVE
        whole         mobility        infrastructure     farmer
                                                         development
ICR     37%           More than 50%   27%                36%          13%
SAR     40%           43%             n.a.               43%          47-71%


Labor mobility: This component has overwhelmingly been rated by the project beneficiaries as one of their
most favorite components. In many cases, farm households can easily repay what they borrowed from the
project within the same year, which makes ERR undefined. SSB's Poverty Monitoring Report also
consistently shows that improving off-farm job opportunities has considerably contributed to the increase
of per capita income.        Under a set of very conservative assumptions, by using the data from the
representative village survey, the ERR for the Labor Mobility component is estimated to be more than
50%.

Rural infrastructure:        Rural infrastructure is also one of the components most welcomed by the
beneficiaries. The Poverty Monitoring Report (SSB, 2001) shows that the small irrigation subcomponent
results in 1.35% increase of per capita income.         Based on this parameter and three other moderate
assumptions about the number of beneficiaries, potential of per capita income growth after 10 years, and
maintenance cost, the rate of return to the small irrigation subcomponent is estimated around 27%. This
ERR can be treated as the lower bound of the real ERR for the whole rural infrastructure component. For
example, when asked to rank the subcomponents of the infrastructure component, farmers always give the
first two priorities to road construction and drinking water supply. Farmers generally rank small irrigation
as the third priority. Therefore, it can be reasonably argued that ERRs for road and drinking water should
be higher than that of small irrigation in order to match farmers' preference order. Moreover, other
researchers (e.g., Rozelle and Huang, 2003) also found similar results, which gives us additional
confidence in our findings.

TVE development: The size of the component was significantly reduced and the focus was shifted after
the mid-term review.       The whole component included two group activities: small farmers' markets
construction (accounting for 20% of total component cost) and enterprises development (accounting for the
remaining 80%). There were total 23 markets constructed and 22 enterprises obtained support from the
project. For the small market construction subcomponent, based on data from Sichuan Province and
extrapolating the benefits over 20 years, the ERR for constructing local markets is about 42%. For the
enterprise development subcomponent, there is not enough data to calculate the ERR; however, it is
assumed that the ERR is around 5% given its generally unsatisfactory performance. Weighted by their
share in the total project investment, the ERR for the whole TVE component is estimated 13%.

Land and farmer development:             Following conventional methodology, the ERRs for the three
subcomponents have been calculated: livestock subcomponent (including goat, pig, and silkworm), the
cash-crop/tree-crop subcomponent (including tea and sugar cane), and the grain subcomponent (including



                                                     - 29 -

maize and rice). The overall weighted ERR for the whole component is about 36%, ranging from 22% (pig
raising) to 66% (silkworm).

Detailed calculations of the economic analysis, including methodologies, specific assumptions, crop
budgets, and activity models, are provided in the project files (Annex 7, Document No.14).




                                                   - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/15/1995              17     TTL (1), MICROFINANCE (2),
                                             SOCIAL (1), RESETTLEMENT
                                             (1), UN POVERTY ADVISOR
                                             (1), PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1),
                                             AGRICULTTURE (2),
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1),
                                             DIVISION CHIEF (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (2),
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL (1),
                                             HEALTH (1), EDUCATION (1)
              04/21/1996              17     TTL (1), M & E (3),
                                             MICROFINANCE (1), SOCIAL
                                             (1), PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE/INSTITUT
                                             ION (1), AGRICULTTURE (2),
                                             ETHNIC MINORITY (1),
                                             DIVISION CHIEF (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1), GENDER (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL (1),
                                             HEALTH (1), EDUCATION (1)
              09/17/1996              14     TTL (1), MICROFINANCE (1),
                                             SOCIAL (1), LABOR
                                             MOBILITY (1), ENTERPRISES
                                             (1), INFRASTRUCTURE (2),
                                             AGRICULTTURE (2),
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL (1),
                                             HEALTH (1), EDUCATION (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01//11/1997               9    TTL (1), MICROFINANCE
                                             (1), LAWYER (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (2),
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE/INSTI
                                             TUTION (1),
                                             AGRICULTURE (2),
                                             RESETTLEMENT (1)

 Supervision

              11/18/1997                5    SR. ECONOMIST (1);               S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); AGRONOMIST
                                             (1); LABOR MOBILITY (1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1)
              04/24/1998                5    SR. ECONOMIST (1); LABOR         S               S




                                              - 31 -

                MOBILITY (1); ENGINEER (1);
                AGRONOMIST (1);
                AGRICULTURALIST (1)
11/19/1998    7 MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                AGRICULTURE (2);
                INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                LABOR/MICROCREDIT (1);
                TVES/MICROCREDIT (1);
                PARTICIPATION (1)
05/13/1999    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                ENGINEER (1);
                AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                ECONOMIST (2)
09/30/1999    5 MISSION LEADER (1); LABOR     S    S
                MOBILITY/CREDIT (1);
                INFRASTRUCTURE/INSTIT.
                (1); AGRICULTURE (1);
                TVES/CREDIT (1)
06/09/2000    7 TASK MANAGER (1); RURAL       S    HS
                ENTERPRISE DEV. (1);
                ENGINEER/INSTITUTIONS
                (1); AGRICULTURE (1);
                SOCIAL (2); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1)
04/06/2001    4 MISSION LEADER (1);           S    HS
                ENGINEER (1); CREDIT
                SPECIALIST (1);
                AGRICULTURALIST (1)
06/17/2002    5 TEAM LEADER (1); CIVIL        S    S
                ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                AND FINANCIA (1);
                AGRICULTURIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                (1)
11/02/2002    2 MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                ECONOMIST (1)
11/21/2003    8 TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);       S    S
                SECTOR LEADER (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL EXPERT
                (1); AGRICULTURAL EXPERT
                (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                EXPERT (1); SECTOR
                DIRECTOR (1); FINANCIAL
                SPECIALIST (1)
06/08/2004    5 TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);       S    S
                AGRICULTURAL EXPERT (1);
                INFRASTRUCTURE EXPERT
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1)
11/08/2004    3 TTL (1); FINANCIAL            S    S
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL AND
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1)



                - 32 -

 ICR
               03/27/2005                     4     TTL (1); SENIOR                      S            S
                                                    ECONOMIST (1);
                                                    SENIOR AGRICULTURE
                                                    SPECIALIST (1);
                                                    MICRO-FINANCE
                                                    SPECIALIST(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                      219.84
  Supervision                                                                511.38
  ICR
  Total                                                                      731.22
Identification/preparation costs incorporated in Appraisal/Negotiation; and ICR costs incorporated in
Supervision.




                                                    - 33 -

 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

 (H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                 Rating
     Macro policies                            H       SU      M       N       NA
     Sector Policies                           H       SU      M       N       NA
     Physical                                  H       SU      M       N       NA
     Financial                                 H       SU      M       N       NA
     Institutional Development                 H       SU      M       N       NA
     Environmental                             H       SU      M       N       NA

 Social
              Poverty Reduction                H       SU      M       N       NA
              Gender                           H       SU      M       N       NA
              Other (Please specify)           H       SU      M       N       NA
           The project has generated a
 significant positive impact on ethnic
 minority people. A review conducted
 by the Bank's Social Development
 Specialist confirmed that the Hui
 nationality people had equal
 opportunities to participate in the
 project, and had benefited from
 project activities such as livestock
 raising, terracing, as well as
 cropping.
     Private sector development                H       SU      M       N       NA
     Public sector management                  H       SU      M       N       NA
     Other (Please specify)                    H       SU      M       N       NA
The indepedent poverty monitoring implemented by the State Statistics Bureau had helped upgrading poverty monitoring at the
national and local levels, and generated an impact which went far beyond the project itself.




                                                            - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

     1. Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project Staff Appraisal Report
     2. Aide Memoires
     3. Project Status Reports
     4. Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project "Jungong" (completion) Report (by FCPMC, in
     Chinese)
     5. Component Evaluations
        5.1 Labor Mobility Component (by CWHRDC)
        5.2 TVE Component
        5.3 Micro-finance Component
        5.4 Applied Research Activities
     6. China Poverty Alleviation Plan (2001 to 2010) Leading Group for Poverty Reduction of the
     State Council
     7. New Development Concept: from the Perspective of International Cooperation, March 9, 2005,
     Guangming Daily (by Zhu Guangyao, Director General of International Department, Ministry of
     Finance)
     8. Qinba Project: Post-implementation Environmental Impact Evaluation, Sheng Dezhong,
     September 2003, China Agricultural University
     9. SSB Series Qinba Poverty Monitoring Reports (1997 to 2003)
     10. Documents from the National Conference in December, 2004
     11. National Seven-Year (1994-2000) Plan for Poverty Reduction (8-7 Plan) Leading Group for
     Poverty Reduction of the State Council
     12. English Translation of the Government's Statement on Nominating the World Bank As the
     Recipient of the China Poverty Eradication Award (September 2004)
     13. Report of the Sixth round of Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6)
     14. Rate of Return Calculations (spreadsheet) and Underlying Data (in Chinese)




                                               - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. The Qinba Project in A Farmer's Eyes

My name is He Yuangui and I live in Dagoutou Village, Longchi Township, Jialing District, Nanchong
City, Sichuan Province. I have five family members and 8.5 mu farmland, of which, 2.5 mu paddy field
and 6 mu dry land. Since 1997, through the implementation of the Qinba Project, my family's economic
situation has changed greatly. Here I would like to share my views and feelings about the Qinba Project
with all of you.

1. Construction of water conservancy facilities and village roads has led to the improvement of
production and living environment

Before the implementation of the project, my family had to spend half a work-day to carry water from the
gully half a kilometer away. The 2.5 mu paddy field was very low quality land (we called it as "cold, bad
and poisonous land") and due to insufficient sunlight, damages caused by disease and insect were very
severe every year. Almost all of the 6 mu dry land was with a slope greater than 25 degrees and cultivation
was very difficult. In addition, as there was no road, whenever I wanted to sell a pig, I had to ask four
persons to carry it to the market about four kilometers away, and the labor cost and other expenses was
more than RMB100. At that time, the annual net income of the whole family was less than RMB1,600 and
per capita grain was less than 150 kg. Doggerel in our valley was: "mountains are high and stones are
numerous, walking out of door to climb hills; the gully is too long and there are many bachelors in the
village." That is to say, our village had too many bachelors and young people could not find wives due to
poverty.

In 1996, the working staff from the Qinba Project Office in Jialing District and the township Project Work
Station visited our village and households and went to my home to talk to me. They asked me what I was
thinking and what I was expecting. I said: "If the drinking water problem is not solved, our lives will not be
guaranteed;" "To become rich, the first thing to do is to build road. When the road is built, it will bring us
a lot of conveniences" and "If our gully land was improved, the yield will be increased." So with the help
of the working staff from the district and county project offices and through the extensive participation of
peasant households in the whole village, the village level planning for the Qinba Project was formulated for
the whole village. The first was to resolve the difficulty of water and road for the village. With the
rumbling sound of exploding rocks, the curtain of the Qinba Project was raised in our village. After
implementing the project for seven years, 59 irrigating storage ponds, 3 terrace ponds, 2 drinking water
bailing projects, 28 manmade wells and 10 km village road were successively built. My family also
expanded 6 mu wooded area, improved 2.5 mu low-yielding paddy field and 4 mu low-yielding dry lands
and built 1 manmade well and improved our production and living environment.

2. Construction of industrial bases has expanded our money bag

"Cultivating land is to cram ourselves with food, raising chicken and ducks is for edible oil and salt, and
raising a fat pig is for the Spring Festival." This was the true situation of our village before 1996. "We
can eat and fill, but do not have decent food; we work everyday, but do not have cash" is a common saying
of all villagers. When the Qinba Project was initiated, our village carried out 230 mu of improved wheat,
350 mu of plastic-mulched corn, 580 mu of paddy field, 180 mu of sweet potato, 200 mu of field
vegetables, planted 650 mu of fruit forest, introduced high quality meat pigs and 960 goats, and built 110
stalk ammonification pits. As a village cadre, I took the lead to carry out 4 mu of improved wheat, 5 mu
plastic-mulched corn, 2.5 mu paddy rice project, 3 mu sweet potato and 2 mu field vegetables; planted 5
mu fruit forest, raised 12 pork pigs and 4 high quality black goats, and built 1 ammonification basin, and



                                                    - 37 -

established the pillar industry for income increase for our family. At the same time, I participated in 11
various trainings held by the district and township project offices. My son attended the motorcycle repair
training seminar in May 2001 and now is engaged in his own repair business. My wife participated in 3
livestock breeding trainings. Due to the project, the overall production and living skills of my family
members have greatly improved.

3. Participation by farm households in the project evaluation enhanced the project effectiveness and
transparency

How is the implementation effectiveness of the Qinba Project? Leaders' favorable comments do not count,
but peasants' comments do. In the beginning of 2004, the District PMO used the method of participation to
conduct final project acceptance and evaluation in our village and I was elected as a member of the
evaluation group. The acceptance evaluation results from the whole village showed that 283 peasant
households were satisfied with the project implementation, accounting for 86% of project participating
households, and 34 peasant households were basically satisfied, accounting for another 10% of project
participating households.

Within the period of the Qinba Project implementation, the total investment in our village was RMB2.3
million and the average amount of investment for each household was about RMB4,000 and per capita
investment was RMB1,077. My family received total RMB5,700 project fund and per capita fund was
RMB1,140. Through the utilization of the funds, we achieved the following great effects:

Firstly, through infrastructure construction, agricultural production condition in our village has been greatly
improved and per capita basic farmland (that is, stable and high yield land) was 0.8 mu, increasing 0.6 mu.
The previous situation of living at the mercy of weather has been changed and the ability to resist and
defend against natural disasters has been strengthened. The village road has been built, and this has
changed previous situation of going out of door with sweat all over in sunny days and with mud all over in
rainy days. At the same time, it facilitates the flow of agricultural and sideline products as well as
transporting agricultural production materials. Running water is supplied for the whole village and labor
time spent on fetching water has been significantly reduced.

Secondly, through crop and plant cultivation, livestock breeding, and finding off-farm employment through
the labor mobility component, per capita income has been greatly increased. Improvement of medium and
low yielding field and standard agricultural crop cultivation has led to the increase of grain output. For
example, yield of one mu corn was 140 kg before improvement, but it reaches 310 kg after improvement.
This year for my family, the number of meat pigs and sheep for sale was 11 and 3 respectively, an increase
of 8 and 2 respectively compared with that of 1996. My family income has seen an increase of RMB7,700
due to livestock activities. Since fruit forest activity was implemented, the fruit trees grow well and are
expected to bear fruits successively and will play an active role in increasing my family income. At the end
of year 2004, per capita net income for my family was RMB3,680 yuan and per capita grain was 450 kg.
We have cast away our poverty hat and resolved the problem of inadequate food and inadequate clothing.
In sum, our life quality has been improved.

Thirdly, through technical training and labor mobility, each family of the whole village has at least one
member who learned 1 or 2 applied technologies and become new type peasants. I myself also have learned
technologies such as crop cultivation, fruit tree planting, livestock breeding and project management
through participation in district and county level trainings. Now, I am a barefoot expert in our village and I
share the knowledge I learned with other project peasant households in our village. I am loved and
esteemed by villagers. In 2000, I was elected as the director of our Villagers' Committee and became a


                                                     - 38 -

village level leader. My son is engaged in motorcycle repair and his annual income is over 8,000Yuan.
Through technical trainings in livestock breeding, my wife abandoned the traditional feeding method and
adopted the new one. She knows much more about production and marketing than before due to the project
implementation. My wife's status both in our family and in our community has been improved.

Fourthly, through the project implementation, my family living environment has been improved. In October
2003, my family built 240 square meter brick and tile house and upgraded our kitchen and toilet, thus our
living environment becomes better.      Also, our family has cable TV, telephone, refrigerator, washing
machine, and even mobile phone now.

The implementation of the Qinba Project has changed the poverty situation in our village and given us a
better life. Here I shall thank the Poverty Alleviation Office at all levels, thank the PMOs, thank the World
Bank, and thank all people who care about us in the poverty stricken region.




                                                     - 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's ICR Summary

The Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project was the second large-scale, cross-regional, and
multi-sectoral poverty project cooperated between the World Bank and the Chinese Government. The
objectives of the project were to greatly reduce the absolute poverty in 26 national designated poor counties
in Qinba mountains area, to solve problems of inadequate food and clothing for 2.3 million poor people,
and to demonstrate the effectiveness of an integrated poverty reduction model. The total project investment
was about RMB2,988,000,000, including $180,000,000 World Bank loan (of which, $150,000,000 credit
from the International Development Association and $30,000,000 loan from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development). The project was included in the Government's three-year national plan
on utilizing foreign capital in March 1995 and preparation work started in September 1995. The Qinba
Project was approved by the World Bank in July 1997 and became effective in October 1997. The project
implementation was completed on July 31, 2004 and the project was closed on December 31, 2004.

The Government adopted and expanded the concept of the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project in the
Qinba Project design. The Qinba Project also reflected then mainstream views on overcoming rural poverty
in China. The project was successfully implemented with a full achievement of all development objectives.
There are many factors contributed to the project's success, such as the great importance attached by the
leaders of Chinese Government at different levels, close and effective cooperation between related
departments, arduous work of the project implementation agencies, and active participation of poor farm
households in the whole process of the project implementation.

1. Overall Project Implementation

Labor Mobility. An investment of RMB383,000,000 was completed. The component included investment
of RMB210,000,000 in Sichuan Province and RMB173,000,000 in Shannxi Province. Up to December
2003, totally 199,276 people as surplus labors were migrated from the project area (accounting for 100.3%
of the ultimate goal). Of which, 110,300 people were from Sichuan Province and 88,976 from Shannxi
Province.

Rural Infrastructure. The final investment of the component was about RMB586,000,000, about 200%
of the appraisal goal. This component was among one of farmers' most favorite components. The total
investment was greatly increased during the period of implementation as a response to the strong demand
from farmers. The source of funding for increasing the size of the component came from the unallocated
funds reserved at the project appraisal stage, funds released from the rural enterprise component, and
increased domestic counterpart fund.       By the end of implementation, 9,843 km village road were
constructed, drinking water problems for 600,000 people was solved, irrigated area increased at 37,722
hectares, 4,228 biogas generating pits were built, 18,001 solar-energy stoves were constructed, and 78km
rural 10kV-electric transmission line was established.

Land and Farmer Development. This component had the highest investment amount and covered a wide
range of activities. The component's ultimate investment goal was RMB181,000,000 and the actual
investment was RMB193,000,000. Following seven years' project construction, most project activities
were successfully completed except the construction of gravity trickle irrigation to which poor farmers were
not willing to invest due to cost and associated great risks. 58,273 hectares farmland and 30,196 irrigation
land were newly added to the project villages; 71,250 hectares food crops such as wheat, paddy rice and
core were planted; 37,218 hectares medicinal herbs and vegetables and 6,500,000 bags of edible funguses
were planted; 63,899 hectares forest and fruit trees such as tea, mulberry silkworm, Chinese chestnut and



                                                    - 40 -

walnut were planted; more than 1,300,000 heads of domestic animals such as pig, sheep and cattle and
approximately 1,800,000 small domestic fowls were raised; 7,216 hectares seed production land and 351
hectares tree cultivation were completed; over 2,300,000 person-time received applied technical trainings at
county, township and village levels; veterinarian service was provided for over 1,600,000 heads of domestic
animals; new technologies from four applied technical researches were extended to 77,901 hectares; totally
11 rural practical research subprojects were completed in the three project provinces.

Township and Village Enterprises Development. Due to the rapid changes of market situation and
insufficient preparation, implementation of the component moved very slowly at the beginning and
significant adjustment was conducted at the mid-term review.             By the end of July 2004, total
RMB203,000,000 investment was completed, accounting for 39.8% of the appraisal estimate. Sichuan
made the greatest reduction of this component and final investment was only about 13.0% of appraisal
estimate.   Shaanxi completed RMB164,000,000 investment and Ningxia completed RMB6,350,000,
accounting for 70.0% and 26.5% of the appraisal estimates respectively. By the end of July 2004, the
component totally supported 23 rural enterprises, of which 14 are still operating, 5 have completely stopped
production, and the remaining 4 have not started operation yet. Activities on rural market construction
were generally satisfactory. Out of 23 market places constructed by the component, 20 are operating
normally.

Micro-finance. This was a pilot based component. Two counties (Langzhong in Sichuan and Hanbin in
Shannxi) were selected as experimental spots for this component. After the mid-term review of November
2000, Tongjiang County in Sichuan Province was added to the pilot. By the end of June 30, 2004, the three
counties totally completed RMB56,230,000 investment, accounting for 103.4% of the finalized goal, and
total amount of loans to farm households was RMB53,670,000, which was 107% of the final adjusted goal.
Total about 40,963 farm households received loan services from the component, which was about 121% of
the ultimate goal.

Institutional Building and Project Management.              The component completed RMB63,393,000
investment, about 90% of the ultimate objective. Of the total investment, RMB25,333,000 was in Sichuan,
RMB29,793,000 in Shannxi, and RMB8,266,000 in Ningxia. All the main construction contents were
successfully completed. 10,363m2 office area were constructed, 1,023 sets of office equipments were
provided (e.g., computer, printer and facsimile apparatus), and 46 vehicles were purchased. Total about
190,000 person-day project management personnel were trained and 17 overseas training and study tours
were organized, participated by more than 200 person-time.

Poverty Monitoring. Total investment was about RMB10,339,000, being 103.8% of the appraisal
objective. Of the completed investment, RMB4,113,000 was for the State Statistics Bureau's poverty
monitoring work and RMB6,225,000 was for monitoring labor mobility by the West Center. In both 1997
and 2002, all 2,600 peasant households in 26 project counties were surveyed. From 1998 to 2001,
follow-up surveys were conducted for the 1,300 peasant households in the 13 project counties out of the 26
counties. By the end of the project implementation, total six poverty monitoring reports on the project
performance compiled by the State Statistics Bureau were published.

2. Project's Financial Aspects

World Bank credit/loan. By the end of September 2004, the three project provinces totally withdrawn
108,500,000 special drawing rights and $30,000,000 for World Bank account, amounted to about
$171,990,00 due to exchange rate fluctuation.           In terms of Renminbi, the total amount was
RMB1,422,360,000. Of which, Sichuan withdrawn 50,360,000 special drawing rights and $15,110,000


                                                    - 41 -

loan; Shaanxi 42,470,000 special drawing rights and $10,940,000; and Ningxia 9,750,000 special drawing
rights and $3,930,000 loan. China Western Human Resource Center withdrawn 5,920,000 special drawing
rights and $16,000 loan. According to analysis of the availability of World Bank funds in all provinces and
regions, Sichuan, Shannxi, Ningxia and China West Human Resource Center completely realized the debts
as scheduled by the end of 2004.

Counterpart fund. By the end of project implementation, about RMB2,105,970,000 counterpart fund was
made available to the project, being 124% of the planned figure. Of the total counterpart fund mobilized,
RMB1,303,510,000 was from Sichuan (125% of the planned figure); RMB621,800,000 from Shannxi
(82% of the planned figure), and RMB180,670,000 from Ningxia (121% of the planned figure). Analysis
of the counterpart funds in the three provinces shows that the total available amount of counterpart funds
for the three provinces exceeded the appraisal targets.

Divided the counterpart funds by sources, RMB150,200,000 was financial fund (66% of the planned
figure); RMB635,890,000 was subsidized land (66% of the planned figure); RMB142,130,000 was food
for work fund (54% of the planned figure); RMB34,880,000 was special fund for the development of
"three-west region" (101% of the planned figure); RMB63,000,000 was line-agency fund (122% of the
planned figure); and RMB1,079,870,000 was farmers' contribution in kind and labor contribution (794%
of the planned figure). During the project implementation, force account procurement methodology was
more widely used than expected, and international competitive bidding was dropped in many cases;
therefore, these changes required the increase of counterpart funding due to relatively low reimbursement
rate for those categories procured through these methodologies. Moreover, because of the exchange rate
risk, the total funding from the World Bank was shrunk about 5%, which put additional pressure on
mobilizing domestic counterpart funds.       As shown by the above detailed figures, due to the limited
availability of counterpart fund from government channels, the proportion of farmers' contribution in the
counterpart fund was too high.

3. Project Evaluation

Achievement of overall project objective. Firstly, the successful implementation of the Qinba Project has
verified the effectiveness of the integrated poverty alleviation model. It is well known that poverty is not
only an economic problem; instead, it involves various aspects of society, environment, resource and human
capital.   The Qinba Project abandoned the traditional poverty alleviation development model (i.e.,
single-sectoral approach), adopted the integrated and comprehensive approach to tackle the poverty
reduction. In addition, by introducing the financial resources from the World Bank, the project also
increased the investment intensity in the field of poverty reduction. It solved the basic food and clothing
problem for 1,520,000 people, laid down a solid foundation for the sustainable development of the project
region, and significantly improved the human capital level of those poverty stricken farmers. Secondly, the
project verified the effectiveness of reducing poverty through promoting labor mobility. The Qinba Project
transferred the surplus labors from the project regions to either costal area (outside of the provinces) or
relatively developed areas within the project provinces for off-farm employment. Promoting labor mobility
has not only accelerated the transfer of surplus labor force in the poverty stricken region, but also become
one of the rapidest and most effective ways for increasing cash income of those poor households. Thirdly,
the project improved national and local poverty monitoring system. On the basis of Southwest Poverty
Reduction Project, the State Statistics Bureau established a monitoring evaluation system conforming to the
characteristics of the project to carry out dynamic monitoring and evaluation of the project performance.
The information from this independent monitoring provided an objective picture of the project
implementation; at the same time, it also and helped the PMOs at different levels to address any major
problems in the process of implementation in a timely manner. Fourthly, the effectiveness of poverty


                                                    - 42 -

alleviation was significant and profound. The direct objective of the project was to greatly reduce the
absolute poverty in the 26 very poor counties of the three project provinces.            By the end of the
implementation, the effect of poverty alleviation was significant. For example, the speed of poverty
incidence reduction was faster in the project areas than that in non-project area. The poverty incidence rate
of the project villages in 1997 was 26.7% and was reduced to 4.6% in 2003. During the same period, the
national average of poverty incidence was reduced from around 5% to 3.1%. Per capita net income of the
project villages was greatly increased. In 2003 the per capita net income of the project villages reached
RMB1,398, a 60% increase compared with that of 1997. Moreover, the implementation of infrastructure
component resolved the drinking water difficulty for 680,000 people and 640,000 domestic animals. The
villages having roads increased from 72% in 1997 to 100% in 2003. Fifthly, the project effectively stopped
and even reversed the trend of environmental deterioration. The overall environmental impact of the project
was positive due to the following three factors: (a) the implementation of agricultural project has effectively
improved environmental quality; (b) the infrastructure construction has improved farmers' production and
living conditions and accordingly promoted their awareness of environmental protection; (c) labor migration
successfully reduced the population pressure on land, which also generated a positive impact on
environment. Sixth, the project promoted the participation of the farm households and strengthened rural
communities' development capacity.            Compared with the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project,
participation of the poverty stricken farm households in the Qinba Project was more extensive and deeper
and ran through the whole project cycle. Finally, the implementation of the project produced a positive
impact on women's status. For example, through improving the infrastructure conditions (e.g., drinking
water facilities), the project effectively reduced the workload of women in the agricultural production and
family life. Women's status was also improved through receiving various applied technical trainings. In
sum, women's basic production and management skills get strengthened through the project activities, and
hence their status in both community and family was consequently improved.

Component implementation quality and benefits

Labor Mobility. Based on the feedback from the project villages and participating households, this
component was well implemented in a way consistent with all technical standards. The component carried
out pre-employment trainings for the migrated labors. Survey conducted by the China West Human
Resource Center in 22 counties showed that the working and living conditions of the outgoing working
people met the project's requirements, legal rights of the workers were protected, and the project benefits
were evident. The survey showed that in Sichuan and Shaanxi provinces, remittances sent back to home
villages by the migrated labors reached RMB1,450,965,900 from 1998 to 2003. In addition to sending
cash back, the migrated labors also bought commodities and brought them back to their home villages, with
the value around RMB258,578,600. Therefore, the total benefits (combining the remittances and value of
commodities together) was around RMB1,709,544,500.

Rural Infrastructure. Based on sample surveys, infrastructure construction activities met or exceeded all
pre-determined technical standards and specifications. The major benefits of the component could be
summarized as the following. (a) The component basically solved the road access problem which was a
bottleneck for the project area development, enhanced the connection between remote mountainous area and
the outside world, and provided convenience to the poverty stricken farm households to be engaged in the
market transactions. (b) The component successfully solved the drinking water difficulty for the 680,000
people and 640,000 domestic animals in the project villages. It also significantly mitigated the problem of
securing fuel materials for villagers, which consequently reduced the rate of forest felling and hence
promoted the environment protection. Basically living and production conditions also enhanced the poor
villagers' ability to fight against natural disasters.



                                                      - 43 -

Land and Farmer Development. Implementation of most farmland renovation and soil improvement
works exceeded the technical standards specified by the project. Farm household coverage reached 99.9%.
Over 2 million person-time received technical trainings provided at different levels. About 5000 production
demonstration households were established. The implementation of the project increased farmers' income
and grain output and lifted them out of the trap of absolute poverty. The practical research activities
financed under this component also generated huge benefits to farm households by providing them better
tailor practical technologies. Some research activities were awarded the second and third prizes in the
provisional level competition and evaluation.

Township and Village Enterprises Development.             The performance of this component was not
satisfactory. Of the 23 rural enterprises constructed, 14 are still operating, 5 have stopped operation, and
the remaining 4 have not yet started operation. How to effectively promote the rural industrial sector
development is an issue needs further research.

Micro-finance. Selection of farm households was appropriated conducted and almost 100% of fund
reached the household level.       Organization or operation of farm household groups was basically
standardized. The ratio of success of household activities financed under the micro-finance pilot reached
98%. The on-time repayment rate exceeded 90%.

Institutional Building and Project Management. The Qinba Project established a five-level project
implementation system from the Central level to the village level. The project constructed office buildings
for PMOs at different levels and provided necessary office equipments. More than a thousand project
management staff at various levels received training with various forms and rich contents. Through
training, the project management personnel at various levels learnt the knowledge of project management,
finance, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation. All these improved their working efficiency and
strengthened their ability to organize, coordinate and manage projects. Institutional construction ensured
the quality of the project implementation.

Project Management. The Qinba Project was a trans-regional and trans-sectoral integrated poverty
alleviation project. The project basically adopted the management model used by the Southwest Poverty
Reduction Project, which had the project office system as the main implementation channel with
cooperation from other line agencies. The project accumulated valuable experience in project planning,
management, and monitoring and evaluation, which provide a good reference for the poverty alleviation in
the new century. The main experience can be summarized as the following. (a) The project leading group
consisting of main line agencies made major decisions; the project management offices were mainly
responsible for executing these major decisions and conducting other detailed project management; experts
from different line agencies actively participated in project management in order to achieve better
cooperation and synergy. (b) The project effectively integrated the World Bank's procedure with domestic
procedures to establish an effective and complete management system for poverty alleviation projects. This
system covered the areas of organizational management, implementation planning, financial and
procurement management, technical management, monitoring and evaluation arrangements etc. (c) The
project kept and improved an independent monitoring system which significantly contributed to the project
implementation and evaluation.      (d)   The project emphasized the post-implementation management,
importance of PMO's stability and continuity, the role of appropriate incentives to the project management
staffs. (e) The project management system absorbed the advanced project concept and scientific and
standard project management thoughts from the World Bank, which will also benefit other domestic
programs.



                                                   - 44 -

4. Project Lessons

Importance attached to the project from leaders is the precondition for the successful implementation
of the Qinba Project. The project was a trans-regional and multi-sectoral integrated poverty alleviation
project, and it was directly related to the resolution of the adequate food and clothing problem of the broad
masses in the poverty stricken regions and to the development of poverty stricken regions. Therefore,
leaders at various levels from the Central Government to local governments attached great importance to
the project work. In 1995, the then Chinese President Jiang Zemin requested, in its letter to the first World
Bank Poverty Alleviation Project working conference, to spare no effort to conduct early stage preparation
work for the Qinba Project. During project preparation, the then State Counselor Chen Junsheng met with
high level World Bank officials for many times to discuss project related issues. To well implement the
project, the secretaries and provincial governors of the three provinces (regions) personally looked into the
project preparation and implementation work and coordinated to resolve related difficulties and problems.
All the project regions and counties made the project as their main work for local poverty alleviation
development and the major leaders took command in person to create conditions for the project preparation
and implementation.

Close inter-departmental cooperation is the important basis for success.                    The quality of
inter-departmental cooperation was an important factor of explaining the difference of project performance
across provinces and counties. The Qinba Project involved many departments such as poverty alleviation,
finance, planning, agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, water conservancy, transport, labor, bank and
village and township enterprises. It would be very difficult to complete this integrated poverty alleviation
project if the whole implementation purely relied on a single department.                 Instead, successful
implementation needs mutual understanding, mutual support and full cooperation among all departments
concerned. From project preparation to implementation, project institutions at various levels and related
departments at different levels established a favorable working relation of mutual trust, mutual
understanding, and mutual respect. The World Bank has identified that, when summarizing the experience
of poverty projects in developing countries, the project design complexity and inter-institutional
coordination were two major factors which explained the different results for multi-sectoral projects across
different countries.

Sound management system is the essential guarantee for the project success. As an exploratory and
exemplary project, the Qinba Project established a management system with the project leading group as
the decision making level, the project office as the principal implementation body, and the experts and
advisory groups and business departments as technical support. This system ensured clear leadership
relationship from the vertical perspective, and also ensured cooperation relationship from the horizontal
perspective. Put in another way, this system ensured that (a) the major issues in the project could be
promptly resolved, project preparation and implementation work schedule could be expedited, and project
quality could be guaranteed; (b) international and domestic advanced experiences and practices could be
timely and accurately incorporated into the project design and implementation; (c) project experience and
lessons could be timely and accurately reported to the policy makers for being incorporated in general
policy formation and other domestic project designs.

Standardized project management is an important means to ensure the project success. To ensure the
successful implementation of the project and achieve the project objective, the Qinba Project absorbed
advanced project management concept and implementation procedures from the World Bank. At the same
time, the project also fully considered the local conditions. By doing so, a complete set of standard and
systematic management methods was established. These methods simplified the complicated project
management works.


                                                      - 45 -

Extensive participation of farmers is a key step towards a successful project implementation and
sustainability. The active participation of farmers can sufficiently ensure the project design meets their
demands, project success rate is improved, the continuous exertion of project benefit is guaranteed and
farmers' self-development ability is constantly strengthened. The Qinba Project fully absorbed the lessons
of the previous World Bank projects, paid special attention to the characteristics of poverty stricken
regions, regarded the participation of farmers as a key link of the project, and sufficiently respected the
participation rights.   In the initial period of project preparation, numerous visits were paid to farm
households to solicit their opinions and the design proposed project activity lists conforming to actual local
situations and for their free choice. During project implementation, farm household card and manuals were
issued; the project contents and beneficiaries were published by notices to the whole village to increase the
transparency.     By doing so, farmers had a better understanding about their rights, obligations and
responsibilities, and the whole project enjoyed a higher degree of ownership.

However, as the Qinba Project involved an extensive area and the participation type poverty alleviation was
a completely new content at that time, the degree of participation from farmers varied greatly across
regions. Therefore, there is a room to enhance and expand the participatory work in many aspects in future
project work.

Overall quality of the project design could have been better and there should be more flexibility in
terms of adjusting the project activities. At the project preparation stage, the feasibility of all activities
was carefully examined. However, given the wide scope of the project and short time for preparation, the
feasibility of some activities, particularly for those under the TVE component, was not adequately
scrutinized. In addition, it was believed that more attention should be given to achieve a higher degree of
complementarity among activities so that the effectiveness of a multi-sectoral project could be maximized.
To address ever-changing economic environment as well as demands from farmers, the procedure for
adjusting the project activities should be more simplified. For example, at the early stage of the project
implementation, it took two years to adjust the procurement methodologies for chemical fertilizer, pesticide,
and plastic mulch, etc., and hence the progress of the agricultural component was negatively affected.

There is an need to explore an effective way of better integrating the foreign project funds with the
domestic resources so that the difficulty of mobilizing counterpart fund could be better overcome.
Counterpart fund is an important factor that affects project implementation schedule and quality. The
counterpart fund of the Qinba Project was borne by provincial, prefecture and county level governments
respectively. Sources of counterpart fund included subsidized loans, funds from financial system, and food
for work funds. Of these three types of funds, the subsidized loans accounted for the biggest proportion. In
the first two years of project implementation, the subsidized loans were managed by the China Agricultural
Development Bank, a policy bank, and its availability was relatively guaranteed. However, After the
financial sector reform in 1998, the management of subsidized loan was shifted from the Agricultural
Development Bank to the China Agricultural Bank (a commercial bank). There was an evident conflict
between the objectives of a commercial bank and the objectives of poverty reduction. The subsidized loans,
which was originally planned as a major source of counterpart funding, were very difficult to be mobilized
by the government after the financial sector reform, and accordingly, the implementation of the project was
negatively affected. The result was that proportion of farmers' contribution to the counterpart funding was
increased. To resolve this problem, it is needed to fundamentally reform the existing practice of mobilizing
counterpart funds and better integrate the World Bank funds with the domestic funds. It is advisable to
consider to use the World Bank funds as counterpart funds for the national programs, i.e., the Bank's
project is part of national program so that the domestic resources could be better utilized, which will also
ensure a wider policy impact of the Bank's projects.


                                                    - 46 -

There is a need to explore more effective ways to promote the rural enterprise development. Rural
enterprise project can provide job opportunities for poor farmers and increase their incomes, and it also can
increase value-added to the agricultural products. Therefore, it could be argued that supporting rural
enterprises is a good type of activities to lift the poor farmers out of poverty trap. The Qinba Project did
some meaningful work in this regard and accumulated some useful lessons. However, it still needs in-depth
research and exploration on how to better carry out rural enterprise work in the poverty stricken regions.

5. Major Development Impacts

The Qinba Project increased financial inputs in the China's poverty reduction course and accelerated
the progress of successfully completion the 8-7 Plan. The project totally mobilized $180,000,000 from
the World Bank, amounting to RMB1,494,000,000.                    The total project investment reached
RMB2,998,000,000 (including counterpart fund of RMB1,494,000,000). For the 26 project counties in
three project provinces, this meant that average investment intensity in each county reached
RMB115,000,000, with annual investment of RMB20,000,000. This investment amount was about 4-5
times of regular domestic fund mobilized by these national designated poor counties. Such a large scale
poverty alleviation investment generated significant positive impact. The production and living conditions
in the project areas have been greatly improved and the general living standard of the poor households was
significantly raised. Before the project implementation, the poverty (1997), the project areas had totally
1,920,000 poor people and poverty incidence rate was 26.7%.             After the completion of the project
implementation, the poor population in the project areas was reduced to 400,000 people and poverty
incidence rate was 4.6%. Totally about 1,520,000 poor people were lifted out of poverty, which accounted
for 3.2% of 8-7 Plan reduced, accounting to 3.2% of the total target of the National Seven-Year
(1994-2000) Poverty Reduction Plan.

The project provided many useful lessons for the Chinese government to design new poverty
alleviation policies for the 21st century. Through fruitful cooperation with the World Bank in the
implementation of Southwest and Qinba projects, Chinese Government has tested and formalized a set of
poverty alleviation models which are consistent with the characteristics of Chinese situation. These models
include village development planning, participatory approach, labor mobility, micro-finance, project
sustainability, and independent poverty monitoring and evaluation etc.         All these effective practices
provided important inputs for designing poverty alleviation polices for the new era. For example, most of
them have been incorporated into the China Poverty Alleviation Plan (2001-2010). Put in another way, the
approaches adopted by the Southwest and Qinba projects contributed to the fundamental transformation of
the China's poverty alleviation approach.

The project strengthened and improved the human capital quality of cadres and masses in poverty
stricken regions and laid a foundation for the sustainable development of project areas. The whole
project management system had about 11,000 people at different levels. These staffs received professional
trainings in project preparation, implementation, management, and monitoring and evaluation. They are
also tempered by the actual hard work and hence the overall capacity level was significantly improved.
This high quality team is one of most valuable assets generated by the project. Many people not only
played an important role in the project implementation, but also become the backbone force of the Chinese
poverty alleviation work. Some of them have been promoted to the leadership positions at different levels.
With regard to the poor farmers, there were 2,300,000 poor people have directly benefited from activities
under components such as land and farmer development and labor mobility. Through participating in the
project training, project planning, project selection, project implementation and project management
activities, they become more open-minded, and their general human capital level and production and living


                                                      - 47 -

skills have been significantly improved. Their confidence over lifting themselves out of poverty through
self-development has been strengthened. All these has laid a foundation for the sustainable development of
the project area, which could be regarded as the most far-reaching development impact generated by the
project.

The project received attention from the international community and provided useful experience for
the world poverty alleviation cause. The successful implementation of the Southwest and Qinba projects
in China has set a model for the world poverty elimination cause and received extensive attention from the
international community.     The project has not only verified the effectiveness of the large-scale and
multi-sectoral poverty alleviation approach, but also provided valuable experience for the poverty reduction
cause of other developing countries. In recent years, the developing countries such as Ethiopia and Viet
Nam successively organized several study tours in the Qinba Project area. Therefore, the Qinba Project
also made contributions to the world-wide poverty alleviation cause and to the achievement of the United
Nations millennium development goals.




                                                    - 48 -

- 49 -

                                                                                                                               |


                                                                                                                            |


                                                            N E I                                                         |


                                                                                                                         |             M O N G O L                                                                                                                                                      CHINA
                                                                                                                     |

                                                                                                                  |            R.)                                                                                                                                              QINBA MOUNTAINS
                                                                                                             |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             POVERTY REDUCTION
                                                                                                         |

                                                                                                       |            ellow
                                                                              Yinchuan                             (Y                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT
                                                                                                   |

                                                                                                |

                                                                                           |

                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT COUNTIES
                                                                                       |
                 |
                     |                                                                |
                         |     |       |                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANXI
                                            |
                                                                                    |
                                                 ||      |  |
                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X I J I
                                                                 |               |
                                                                     |   |   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT COUNTIES
                                       |        Zhongwei               |
                                                                       N I N G X I A
                                                                           |
                                   |                                          |
                                                              Ho                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |  |   |  |         RAILROADS
                               |                                                |


                                 |           Huang                               TONGXIN                                                                                                        I
           |                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ROADS
                                                                                       |

                                  |
             |                                                                            |

                                                                                                                                                                                               X
                                  |
             |                                                         HAIYUAN              |                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                 |
              |                                                                               |

                             |
                |                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELEVATIONS >1500 METERS
                           |                                                                                                                                                                                           ).R
            |                                                                                 |                                                                                              N
               |  |        |
                      |   |                                                                       |
                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SELECTED CITIES
                        Lanzhou      |                                                                |

                                        |                                    X I J I                |                                                                                                                     wolleY(
                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                      |        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                          |                                                         |

                                                 |
                                                                                                     |
                                                  |                                                       |      |    Pingliang                                                                                                                                                                       COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                       |
                                                    |
                                                                                                      JINGYUAN
                                                      |
                                                                                                                                |                                                     A                    |       Ho                                                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                   |                                                                                                                                                   |
                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                         |
                                               |                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                        |
                 G                  A             |                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
                                                     |  N             S          U                                      |                                                                                                                      |

                                                                |                                                                                                                  H              |                                                                                                    (INSET)
                                                                     |                                                                                                                        |              Huang                      |
                                                         |   |          |                                                    |                                                             |                     |               |
                                                                                                                                                                                        |                   |
                                                                            |                                                    |
                                                                                |                                                                                            S       |                      |                                   HENAN
                                                                                    |      |                                                                                      |
                                                             Q                                     |     |                         |
                                                                                                               |
                                                                    i  n                                           Baoji                                                                                | |
                                                                                                                                      |                                         |
                                                                                                                                                                                                   |   |    |
                                                                            g                                                                                                                                     |
                                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                            0                      100                200                    300
                                                                                                                  |                                                                     |      |
                                                                                                                         |       ||                                          |             |
                                                                                   i     n       g                                    |                                  |
                                                                                                                                          |                                          |
                                                                                                                                              |                          |
                                                                                                                              |                  |                            |   |
                                                                                                                                                     |    |   |   |  |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                          |                                                    Xi'an
                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                      |        M
                                                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                 |
                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                          |                               n
                                                                                                    |
                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                         |                                                                                    ZHASHUI
                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                  LÜEYANG                                                                                                     For detail
                                                                                   |                                                                                                          see IBRD 28214                                                              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any

                                                                                      |                                                                     NINGSHAN   ZHENAN                                                                                             judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or

                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                      acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                   |
                                                                                NINGQIANG
                                                                                 |                                                                                                          |  |    |
                                                                                                                                                                                        |              |   |
                                                                               |                                                          XIXIANG                                                                |
                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                           |     |             |
                                                                                                                                                                                 |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
                                                                             |                                                                                 HANYIN         |
                                                                                                                                                                     ANKANG
                                                                                                                                                                      |   | |
                                                                            |
                                                                         |                                                                  ZHENBA                 |                                                                                                               RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                  |CHAOTIAN                                                                                    ANG
                                                                                                                                                                |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HUBEI
                                                                    | |
                                                                                                                                  D a b a
                                                               |                  WANGCANG                                                                  ZIY
                                                                                                                                                             |

                                                                                                                                                           |
                                                           |  |
                                                                                                                                                        |
                                                                                                                                                           M t n s .
                                                        |                                                               NANJIANG                    |
                                                                               CANGXI
                                                       |                                                                         TONGJIANG       |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HEILONGJIANG
                                                 |                                                                                             |


                                              |                                         LANGZHONG                                            |


                                                                                                                                           XUANHAN
                                            |                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                         |
                                             |                                                     YILONG                                                                                                                                                                                                              L             J I L I N
                                          |                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                     |                                     NANBU
                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                           G
                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                                        O               LIAONING
              |             |                                                                                          QU                                                                                                                                                                                   M                              DEM. PEOPLE'S
                    |                                           JIALING                                                             |                            (Yangtze      R.)
                        ||                                                                                        XIAN|                                                                                                                                                                              N E I                                 REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BEIJING
                           Chengdu
                      |                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                           Beijing

                       ||    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Area of map
                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                             TIANJIN
                       |               S I C H U A N
                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REP. OF
                  |                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                          HEBEI
                                                                                                        GUANGAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KOREA
               |                 |                                                                              |                                     Jiang                                                                                                                                               SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHANDONG       Ye l l o w
            |                      |                                                                        |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   QINGHAI                  NINGXIA                                  S e a
          |                          |                                                                  |

                                                                                                    |                                           Chang                                                                                                                               GANSU
                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHAANXI   HENAN           JIANGSU
                                                                                                  |
                                      |

                                                                                               |
                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANHUI        SHANGHAI SHI
                                            |                                                |

                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUBEI
                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E a s t
                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SICHUAN                                      ZHEJIANG
                                                |
                                                           |           |  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C h i n a
                                           |                                               ||
                                                               |    |                |                                                                                                                                                                       XIZANG                                                 JIANGXI
                                                                           |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S e a
                                          |                                       |
                                                                            |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                        HUNAN
                                        |                                       |
                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                   GUIZHOU                         FUJIAN
                                     |
                                                                                                         |
                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAIWAN
                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                 H U N A N
                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YUNNAN                            GUANGDONG
                          |                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                      GUANGXI
                      |                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                      HONG KONG, U.K.                    IBRD
                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MACAO, PORT.
MA                                                                                                            |

                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANMAR              VIETNAM
  Y                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                     LAO                                  South                                  27815
   1997     |                                                                                                     G U I Z H O U                                                                                                                                         MY
                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                    PEOPLE'S
         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HAINAN       China Sea
                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                            |                    THAILAND              DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                  REP.                                              PHILIPPINES

