Report No. PIC3940
Project Name              China-Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (@)
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sectors                  Poverty Reduction/Agriculture
Project ID                CNPE3590
Borrower                  People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency       Foreign Capital Project Management Center,
(FCPMC)
Building 19, Anhuidongli
Beijing, China 100101
Tel: (86-10) 6492-0129
Fax: (86-10) 6492-0134
Date PID Prepared         March 5, 1997
Project Appraisal         January, 1997
Projected Board Date      June, 1997
A. Background
1.   Rural Absolute Poverty.   Broad participation in reform-driven rural
economic growth brought about a tremendous reduction in absolute poverty
in China from roughly 270 million poor in 1978 to about 100 million in
1985, or from one-third to less than one-tenth of total population.
However, despite continued rapid overall economic growth and strong
government commitment to poverty reduction, the proportion of total
population living in absolute poverty has declined only modestly since
1985. Most of China's remaining absolute poor are now concentrated in
remote resource-deficient rural areas -- primarily in upland regions of
the interior provinces of central and western China -- where they
typically comprise entire communities. The very poorest households in
these communities are those further disadvantaged by high dependency
ratios, ill health and other difficulties. Minority peoples are heavily
overrepresented amongst the rural poor. Although the absolute poor have
land use rights, as do all of China's rural population, in most cases
the land itself is of such low quality that even subsistence levels of
crop production are generally impossible. Achieving productivity gains
on these rainfed uplands, through increased application of fertilizer,
better seed and other modern inputs, has proven problematic, and the
number of the absolute poor now exceeds the carrying capacity of the
land. Furthermore, since these are in many cases some of China's most
ecologically fragile lands, the poor are often both the perpetrators and
victims of upland environmental destruction.
2.   One-fifth -- or about 15 million -- of China's remaining absolute
poor reside in the remote upland areas of Sichuan, Shaanxi and Ningxia.
Absent sufficient increases in agricultural production and rural
enterprise development in these upland areas during the 1980s, per
capita output of grain and subsistence foods failed to sustain any
significant increase and off-farm employment opportunities have little
more than kept pace with population growth. Provision of social



services has also stagnated in these areas, and education achievement
and health status remains deplorable. At least half of the boys in the
poorest towns and villages and, particularly in some minority areas,
nearly all of the girls do not attend school and will not achieve
literacy. Infant and maternal mortality rates in very poor counties --
which exceed 10t and 0.3w respectively -- are at least 50t to 100t
greater than the national average, and are much greater yet in the
poorest townships and villages. Incidence of several infectious and
endemic diseases, including tuberculosis and iodine deficiency
disorders, are also prevalent in these areas. Roughly half of children
in households at or below the absolute poverty line are at least mildly
malnourished (stunted), and iron, vitamin A, and other micronutrient
deficiencies remain a severe problem.   As many as 90t of poor children
suffer chronic intestinal worm infection.
3.   Labor Mobility.   Labor market liberalization in China, spurred by
strong economic growth and reduced constraints to internal travel and
change of residency, has led to unprecedented labor mobility by at least
70 million migrants in a total rural labor force of 450 million. For
those who have been able to participate in the local and interprovincial
migration for employment process, the income rewards have been
substantial. Off-farm employment opportunities are particularly
important for the upland poor, since most are severely underemployed
throughout most or all of the year. However, the absolute poor in
upland areas have not been able to fully take part in the labor
migration process due to (a) labor market imperfections such as the lack
of labor market information, (b) the poor's paucity of even rudimentary
knowledge and skills required for obtaining employment in growth pole
areas, and (c) inadequate financial resources to cover the initial
expenses of a job search.
4.   Poverty Reduction Through Voluntary Resettlement.    Faced with
severe absolute poverty in rural areas where the population hopelessly
exceeds the carrying capacity of the land, China's central and local
governments have undertaken a number of poverty-reduction-through-
voluntary-resettlement (PRTVR) schemes. The largest of these PRTVR
schemes has been supported for more than a decade by the Sanxi Program
in Ningxia and neighboring Gansu. During the Sanxi Program's first
decade (1983-1992), more than 500,000 people were resettled to newly
irrigated lands. Resettlement of at least another 680,000 people is
planned during the Sanxi Program's second decade. Two nearly completed
Bank-supported projects -- Gansu Provincial Development (Ln. 2812-CHA
and Cr. 1793-CHA) and Northern Irrigation (Cr. 1885-CHA) -- have
supported the Sanxi PRTVR Program by providing voluntary resettlement
opportunities for 135,000 upland poor to newly irrigated areas in Gansu
and Ningxia. The Sanxi and other PRTVR programs have been very
successful in providing opportunities for large numbers of upland farm
families residing in the worst affected areas of Gansu, Ningxia, and
other provinces to permanently escape absolute poverty. The most
telling indicator of the program's success is that the number of upland
poor now actively seeking to resettle greatly exceeds available
opportunities. Based on the successful experience and acceptable costs
of the PRTVR program since 1983, the Chinese government is now
considering an expansion of the program. In addition to the 680,000
settlers planned for the second decade of the Sanxi Program, the central
-2 -



government is considering providing support for resettlement during the
1990s of at least 500,000 other absolute poor. However, the provinces
have requested assistance for resettlement of several million upland
absolute poor, including one million in Ningxia, 300,000 in Guizhou,
200,000 in Guangxi, 100,000 in Guangdong, and similar numbers in Yunnan,
Sichuan, Xinjiang, Shaanxi, Qinghai, Inner Mongolia, and other
provinces.
5.   Government Strategy.   The government's poverty reduction program,
established in 1986 and coordinated by the State Council's Leading Group
for Poverty Reduction (LGPR) and the central and provincial Poor Area
Development Offices (PADO), emphasizes improving the productivity of the
poor through investments in upland agriculture, rural infrastructure and
rural enterprise development in poor counties. Since its establishment,
LGPR has emerged as the principal advocate of China's rural poor and is
now the key agency responsible for coordinating the nation's Y10 billion
in annual funding for poverty reduction programs. The LGPR has recently
issued a new National Seven Year (1994-2000) Plan for Poverty Reduction
(8-7 Plan) to achieve further reductions in poverty. The 8-7 Plan
recognizes that the transition and significant reduction of absolute
poverty, from large numbers of poor spread widely across the countryside
in the late-1970s to pockets of poverty in remote resource deficient
areas by the mid-1980s, makes it easier and fiscally less burdensome to
target increased development and social services assistance to the
remaining absolute poor. In near complete agreement with the Bank's
1992 report China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s
(hereafter, Strategies), the 8-7 Plan calls for:
(a) institution building and policy reform, including a
strengthening of the institutions responsible for implementing
explicit poverty alleviation projects and programs, the
establishment of an independent and objective poverty monitoring
system, the concentration of available funding in the poorest
counties (a number of relatively well-off counties and provinces
will be "graduated" from the new poverty reduction program);
(b) greater investment in the development of human capital,
including more central government funding for health, nutrition,
education, and relief services in the poorest areas;
(c) promotion of labor mobility strategies to encourage the
organized flow of low skilled labor from the poor areas to growth
pole areas, and an expansion of the successful voluntary
resettlement program from poor upland areas to newly irrigated
lands; and,
(d) continued investment in poor area agricultural, rural
enterprise, road and other rural infrastructure development
projects.
B. Project Concept
6.   Objectives.  The primary objectives of the project are to: (a)
demonstrate the effectiveness of a focussed rural development project
approach to poverty reduction, (b) facilitate a "market friendly"
-3 -



increase in labor mobility from the poor areas to better off rural and
rapidly growing urban areas, (c) upgrade poverty monitoring at the
national and local levels, and (d) significantly reduce absolute poverty
in 26 of the very poorest counties in Sichuan, Shaanxi and Ningxia.
7.   Scope and Components.   Previous Bank-supported poverty reduction
activities in China include poor area health, education, rural water
supply, and numerous agricultural projects and project components.
Implementation of these single-sector projects has been successful and
has made a very real and sustainable contribution to reducing absolute
poverty. The proposed Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project would
be a focussed, participatory, multisectoral attack on absolute poverty
in an extremely resource deficient area, where previous single-sector
actions undertaken by the government have achieved inadequate or
unsustainable reductions in poverty. All interested international
agencies, both official and non-governmental, have been invited to
participate in the preparation, funding and implementation of the
proposed project. Key components of the project are:
(a)  upland agriculture (54w of project cost), using menus of crop
and livestock activities to increase upland agricultural
productivity and reverse the trend of environmental degradation
through (i) extension of improved agriculture and smallholder
livestock management techniques and inputs, (ii) establishment of
tree crop nurseries and extension (for high altitude and red soil
varieties), (iii) intensification of staple crop production on the
modest amount of available flat land, (iv) terracing for improved
water and soil conservation, and (v) support for the development
and extension of applied agricultural technologies;
(b)  off-farm employment (30- of project cost), through (i) a
voluntary system of enhanced rural labor mobility for the upland
absolute poor, supported by vocational training, a computerized
demand-driven placement system emphasizing local markets,
monitoring of worker safety and resolution of abuses and
grievances, and provision of financial resources to cover initial
job search costs, (ii) support for rural enterprises consisting of
investment credit for labor-intensive commercially viable agro-
processing, mineral, service and handicraft industries with strong
backward linkages to poor households and environmental safeguards
meeting national standards, and (iii) a small scale pilot rural
microfinance program in two or three selected counties;
(c)  social services and rural infrastructure (11 of project
cost), through (i) upgrading township and village health clinics
and primary schools and the training of health workers and
teachers, (ii) the development of mechanisms to insure sustainable
access to these social services by the absolute poor, and (iii) the
construction of rural roads, safe drinking water supply systems,
small scale irrigation, drainage, biogas, and rural electrification
<< note that social services items "i" and "ii" would be funded and
implemented under the Fourth Basic Education and Eighth Basic
Health projects>>;
(d) institution building and independent monitoring (4t of project
- 4 -



cost), by (i) improving the LGPR and PADOs' capabilities in project
design and implementation, procurement, accounting, and monitoring
and evaluation, and (ii) establishing an objective poverty
monitoring system by using improved survey instruments to provide
a credible and comprehensive poverty profile for the project areas,
analyze the accuracy of the targeting of benefits to the absolute
poor, and measure and evaluate the impact of the project's
individual components; and,
(e)  microfinance (1- of project cost), through a cooperative
structure organizing members into five-member voluntary joint
liability groups, to provide credit and savings services to poor
households for production activities.
8.   Financing Plan.   The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million and IDA
credit of US$150 million would finance about 50t of total estimated
project costs. Counterpart funding from the central, provincial,
municipal, and prefectural and county governments and from beneficiaries
would provide for the other half of project costs.
9.   Implementation.   The LGPR and its Foreign Capital Project
Management Center (FCPMC) have principal responsibility for project
design and implementation. A Technical Advisory Group has been set up
at the national level to provide technical support to FCPMC and assist
the provinces and counties in completing the provincial, county, and
subproject feasibility studies. At the provincial level, Project
Leading Groups (PLG) have been set up to (a) mobilize institutional,
technical and financial resources and support for the preparation and
implementation of the project and (b) provide a critical coordination
and monitoring function. The PLGs comprise Directors and staff of the
provincial PADOs, Planning Commissions and Finance bureaus, the several
technical bureaus directly involved in the project (including the
Agriculture, Forestry, Water Resources, Health, Education, Labor, TVE,
Statistical and other bureaus), the Women's Federation and the
Agricultural Bank of China. In addition, provincial Project Management
Offices (PMO), comprising PADO staff and an increasing number of
specialized staff from outside the LGPR system, have been established to
insure effective and timely preparation and implementation of the
project. It has also been agreed that, under the general supervision of
the provincial PMOs, the provincial Education, Health, and Labor bureaus
would play leading roles in the implementation of the social services
and labor mobility components. At the county level, PMOs have been
established and have played the lead role in organizing the preparation
of the county and subproject feasibility studies. Working closely with
the several technical bureaus directly involved in the project and with
the township governments and their offices at the administrative village
level, the county PMOs would also take the lead role in coordinating
project implementation. County PLGs have also been set up to secure
coordination among the technical bureaus.
C. Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned
10. Rationale. The project directly addresses two of the Bank's top
operational priorities in China, viz., poverty alleviation and
environmental protection. Through the collaborative preparation of
- 5 -



Strategies and the "International Conference on Poverty Issues in China"
(held in Beijing for the public release of that report), close
cooperation with the Chinese government has been established and the
Bank played an active role in the development of the national 8-7 Plan
for reducing absolute poverty in the 1990s. During 1994 and 1995, the
successful collaboration was extended through the preparation and
initial implementation of the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (Loan
3906-CHA and Credit 2744-CHA), which concretely operationalized
Strategies' principal recommendations in the three poorest provinces in
Southwestern China. Bank participation in the Qinba project will
greatly assist the implementation of the government's 8-7 Plan, and
further extend (to three more provinces reaching into China's near
northwest) the development of a multisectoral poverty reduction project
prototype for the remainder of China's poor areas and the overall
poverty reduction program. Bank involvement will also play a catalytic
function in the establishment of an independent national level poverty
monitoring system. In addition, Bank participation will help to focus
the project's rural development component toward the development and
provision of an integrated package of environmentally sound and farmer-
determined technologies for more productive upland agriculture.
11. Poverty Sector Work and Lending Operations in China. Completion of
Strategies contributed to making poverty reduction a more explicit focus
of Bank lending in China in the early-1990s. An increased number of
Bank-supported poverty reduction activities, channeled to areas of
concentrated poverty in central and western China, now include poor area
health, education, rural water supply and hygiene, and numerous
agricultural projects and agricultural project components. The Rural
Health Workers Development Project (Credit 39-CHA) aims at better
quality health services, improved health status, and the development of
new financing models for health services in the poorest areas. The
Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Project (Credit 2655-CHA)
addresses the high maternal and infant mortality rates that remain
widespread among China's absolute poor. The Infectious Diseases Project
(Credit 2317-CHA) seeks to reduce the incidence and risk of infection of
two severe diseases (tuberculosis and schistosomiasis) which are most
prevalent in poor areas. The Disease Prevention Project (Credit 2794-
CHA) will provide immunization coverage and greater accessibility to
health care in ten poor provinces. The Education Development in Poor
Provinces (Credit 2339-CHA), Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas
(Credit 2651-CHA), and Third Basic Education (CN-PA-36950) projects are
helping to improve primary and lower secondary education and schools in
poor counties and villages. By increasing coverage of safe water supply
and sanitation, health and hygiene services, the Rural Water and
Sanitation Project (Credit 2336-CHA) improves health and productivity of
some of the poorest and most needy inhabitants of rural China. The
Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2616-CHA) seeks
to double real income levels for the 1.2 million rural poor in the
targeted watersheds by increasing agricultural productivity. The Gansu
Hexi Corridor Project (CN-PE-3594) would reduce poverty through
providing opportunities for voluntary resettlement to newly irrigated
lands for about 200,000 upland poor in Gansu. The Shaanxi Agricultural
Development (Credit 1997-CHA), Henan Agricultural Development (Credit
2242-CHA), Tarim Basin (Credit 2294-CHA), Guangdong Agricultural
Development (Credit 2307-CHA) and Sichuan Agricultural Development
- 6 -



(Credit 2411-CHA) projects include poverty reduction components in
extremely poor counties. Attacking poverty through single-sector
programs, these projects and project components have made a real and
sustainable contribution to poverty reduction. The recent Southwest
Poverty Reduction Project (Loan 3906-CHA and Credit 2744-CHA) is the
first Bank-supported project in China to use a focussed multisectoral
rural development approach to attack absolute poverty in a severely
resource-deficient area where single-sector programs cannot achieve
sustained poverty reduction.
12. Lessons Learned The Bank's experience with a large number of
multisectoral rural-development-cum-poverty-reduction projects has not
been entirely successful in terms of impact or sustainability. An
extensive OED review of two decades of Bank experience with rural
development projects documents that the complexity of project
implementation and problems with institutional coordination have been
the principal causes of mixed results (see 1/). This confirms the
warning of the Bank's 1975 Rural Development Sector Policy Paper that
such projects tend to suffer from a program design that is too ambitious
and complex, calling for exceptional leadership that cannot always be
made available on a sustained basis. Recognizing that these
institutional difficulties are inherent to multisectoral projects, the
OED analysis favors the approach of "implementing separate project
components in different ministries as though they were separate
projects, but with a coordinating unit located in a non-sector ministry
such as Planning or the President's Office" and emphasizes the
importance of long term institution building. The OED report also
highlights the importance of (a) strong government commitment to the
project and a favorable macroeconomic environment, (b) relying primarily
on locally proven technical innovations (the results of research and
trials were often not available in time to have an impact on concurrent
projects), (c) retaining flexibility in program design during
implementation, (d) supplementing the Bank's own inputs, during design
and supervision, to cover the full range of skills required by a
multisectoral project, (e) a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
process, and (f) full community participation.
13. The proposed project also builds on lessons from recent Bank loans
to China in the health, education, agriculture and rural infrastructure
sectors, including the importance of (a) community participation, (b)
effective collaboration of government authorities at all levels, and (c)
component design flexibility. For social services, specific lessons
include the importance of: increasing access to existing rural
facilities, improving teacher and health service work technical skills,
establishing reliable financing mechanisms, and upgrading bilingual
education in minority areas. In agriculture, the experience of earlier
Bank supported projects suggests the need: for greater emphasis on crop
diversification and marketing in order to avoid the risk of oversupply,
and to enhance sustainability by assigning responsibility for project
management to existing institutions (suitably strengthened). Since the
Bank has very little experience with labor mobility projects, the
project builds on the early experience of the Southwest Poverty
Reduction Project's labor mobility component, and on lessons from the
Ministry of Labor's recent experience in this area, ongoing rural
research work, and a wide range of counterpart and village interviews.
- 7-



D. Borrower Commitment and Conditionality
14. Borrower Commitment. The proposed project enjoys extraordinarily
strong support and commitment from the highest levels of government.
This support and commitment was clearly evidenced at the State Council's
Working Conference on implementation of the Southwest and preparation of
the Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Projects held in Nanning during
October -27, 1995. In an unprecedented step for Bank-supported projects
in China, President Jiang Zemin wrote a letter to the Conference and
State Councilor Chen Junsheng personally chaired the Nanning meetings.
LGPR has informed the Bank that this was (a) the first time that the
President has written a letter regarding the importance of effective
preparation of a Bank-supported project, (b) the first time that a State
Councilor has presided over a Bank-supported project preparation
conference, and (c) the first time that the State Council has held
briefing sessions on Bank-supported projects. The State Council
considers the proposed project to be a concrete part of the national 8-7
Plan for Poverty Reduction, and State Councilor Chen Junsheng has
exchanged letters with Mr. Wolfensohn expressing his personal concern
that the Bank give adequate emphasis to the preparation of the proposed
project.
15. Conditionality. The principal assurances to be agreed with the
Borrower are that: (a) tuition fees would be provided for a specific
number of children per year, and cooperative health care funds would be
established and adequately funded in all project villages, (b) project
farmers would receive exclusive land use rights for a term of not less
than 50 years for wastelands and other lands they plant to perennial
crops under the project, (c) labor mobility would be undertaken only on
a strictly voluntary basis, and the existing monitoring and reporting
system, focusing on fair treatment of workers and workplace safety,
would be adequately expanded, and (d) at least 70 percent of the full
time jobs created in all participating rural enterprises would be
provided to the absolute poor from the project's upland counties.
E. Project Benefits, Sustainability, and Risks
16. Project Benefits. The project would significantly reduce absolute
poverty in 26 of the very poorest counties in Western China by
increasing the incomes and productivity and improving the health and
educational status of about 2.6 million upland smallholders. It would
also demonstrate the effectiveness of a comprehensive rural development
project approach to poverty reduction, stabilize or even reverse the
environmental destruction of upland areas, upgrade poverty monitoring at
the national and local levels, and encourage greater local community
participation by enabling households to make key decisions during
implementation.
17. Project Sustainability. Based on the development of improved
extension services, the selection of a wide range of appropriate crop
varieties and livestock breeds, and the improvement of research
capabilities that will support project activities, the upland
agriculture component is likely to be sustainable. Activities
supporting off-farm employment will be sustainable through (a) the
emphasis on labor mobility cost-recovery, (b) rural enterprise selection
- 8 -



based on commercial viability, and (c) the provision of training to
county and provincial Labor Bureau staff. Improved education and health
services will be sustainable since the increases in household income
levels brought about through the project will be sufficient to allow for
the gradual phase out of the initial subsidies for the recurrent costs
under the social services component. Institutional sustainability is
addressed through a comprehensive program of technical assistance,
training, and study tours to strengthen existing capacity and ensure
development of long term capabilities. The ability to monitor poverty
is sustainable, and will increase over time through the development of
enhanced survey instruments.
18. Risks. The project addresses problems of chronic absolute poverty
and natural resource degradation in an area where previous single-sector
interventions have not led to sustainable reductions in poverty. The
greatest strength of the project -- its focussed multisectoral rural
development approach -- comes at the inherent cost of greater than
average complexity and greater difficulties in implementation. This
risk was identified prior to the initiation of project preparation, and
has been effectively countered by (a) the project's unique
organizational and management structure, which features an existing,
relatively powerful national network of committed anti-poverty agencies,
(b) a strong institution and implementation capacity building program,
and (c) the full involvement of the beneficiaries and village
communities in the design and implementation of the project. In
addition, the project relies on an integrated package of proven
technologies and interventions. County level governments, where
leadership required for effective implementation is more sustainable due
to the local importance of the project, have extensive experience with
these technologies and interventions.
19. Individual components also face specific risks. The upland
agriculture component faces a risk of slower than expected adoption of
improved farming techniques, which would result in a slower rate of
economic and environmental benefits. However, the project's package of
improved farming techniques would (a) require only limited cash inputs,
(b) be integrated with existing farming practices and be supported by
stronger extension services, and (c) be introduced, in some cases, on a
pilot basis. The labor mobility and rural enterprise components face
three risks: (a) inadequate institutional coordination, (b) sudden
market changes, and (c) insufficient worker safety monitoring.
Successful initial implementation of the Southwest Poverty Reduction
Project has shown that FCPMC and the provincial Project Management
Offices have the capacity to adequately mitigate these risks.
20. Financial and Economic Analysis. The financial and economic
analysis would enhance project outcome and viability through a careful
review of the financial and economic returns to (a) the numerous upland
agriculture activities, (b) labor mobility, and (c) typical rural
enterprises. The analysis would comprise cost benefit models of one or
two representative village programs, an average labor mobility activity,
and typical rural enterprises. The benefits of the rural
infrastructure, social services, and poverty monitoring components would
be described, but a separate cost benefit analysis would not be
undertaken for these components. The financial and economic analysis
-9-



would be supported by a simplified analysis of counterpart funding,
fiscal impact, and cost recovery.
21. Performance Monitoring. Performance monitoring would include a
detailed baseline sample survey with annual follow-up surveys, and
monitoring by FCPMC and the three provincial PMOs of a detailed listing
of performance indicators. The Southwest Poverty Reduction Project has
established models for both the survey work and the listing of
performance indicators. Throughout implementation, the Bank will focus
on a subset of about fifteen indicators, including: inputs --
counterpart funding, and staffing of the provincial and lower level
PMOs; outputs -- elementary school attendance rates, number of
treatments provided by village level health care funds, number of upland
poor placed in off-farm jobs, kilometers of rural roads built, land area
adopting project agricultural activities, and jobs created in project
rural enterprises; outcomes -- completion rate at sixth grade level,
migrant laborers' income levels and remittances, and number of project
beneficiaries with improved access to safe drinking water; and impact --
infant mortality rate, incidence of absolute poverty in the project
areas, knowledge of and access to off-farm employment, and adoption of
a focussed rural development project approach to poverty reduction in
nonproject counties.
F. Participation and Environmental Assessment
22. Participation. Project beneficiaries and other stakeholders will
participate in project preparation and implementation, and all
interested international agencies, both official and non-governmental,
are invited to participate in the preparation, funding and
implementation of the proposed project. Participatory project design
will be insured through a process of detailed consultation in upland
communities involving village leaders, a sample of the poorest
households, village teachers, health practitioners and other members of
the community. The core team for project preparation includes two
anthropologists, Mr. Lin Zongcheng and Ms. Cai Yiping (para. 24), who
will devote most of their efforts to participatory project preparation
and planning participatory project implementation.
23. Environmental Assessment. This is a category "B" project and,
overall, the project is expected to have a favorable environmental
impact. In particular, the upland agriculture component focusses on
improving productivity through reversing upland environmental
destruction. Potential minor environmental issues arise from changes in
land use practices, the development of small-scale enterprises, and the
construction of rural roads and other small-scale rural infrastructure.
The labor mobility and voluntary resettlement components also raise
several social issues. To be available prior to the time of appraisal,
FCPMC has commissioned an Environmental Management and Mitigation Plan
which will identify environmental issues and define necessary mitigation
measures. Any necessary mitigation measures would likely comprise known
and proven engineering and technical solutions. In addition, the labor
mobility and voluntary resettlement components will be subjected to
continuing careful social and anthropological review. The existing
labor mobility monitoring system would be expanded under the project to
guarantee migrant workers' rights and job safety. Similarly, FCPMC's
- 10 -



existing Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit (established under
the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project) would be expanded, and new
Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Units would be established
within each of the three provincial PMOs, to assist (a) the provincial
Environmental Protection Bureaus with screening and clearance of all
project rural enterprises and (b) the design staff of the rural
enterprises with Clean Production audits and design. Lastly, a Land
Acquisition and Monitoring Plan would be developed for the limited and
dispersed acquisition of dryland expected under the project.
G. Preparation Arrangements and Timing
24. Staffing and Review. The core team for project preparation and
appraisal includes: Alan Piazza (EA2RS) for overall task management;
Mike Goldberg (CGAP), Julia Li and Scott Liu (consultants) for the labor
mobility, rural enterprise, and microfinance components; Echo Liang
(consultant) for the poverty monitoring and education components; Ray
Yip (consultant) for the health component; Cheong Chup Lim (consultant)
for the rural infrastructure component and for project costs and
procurement; Claude Saint-Pierre and Bruce Trangmar (consultants) for
the upland agriculture component; Lin Zongcheng and Cai Yiping
(consultants) for participatory project preparation and design, and the
land acquisition and monitoring plan; J. Fritz (ASTEN) for environmental
review; Peter Sun (consultant) for training and technical assistance;
and Gao Hong (consultant) for the financial and economic analysis. Zhu
Zhengxuan (RMC) joined most missions on at least a part time basis. The
peer reviewers are Mr. M. Ravallion (PRDPH; overall project design and
poverty monitoring), Mr. R. Grimshaw (upland agriculture), and Ms. Mary
Young (HDD; health care subcomponent). Ms. DeWitt (LEGEA) is the
lawyer, and Mary Judd and Zhang Chaohua are the ASTHR contact staff.
Timing.  State Councilor Chen Junsheng, in his October 30, 1995
letter to Mr. Wolfensohn, has requested accelerated processing for the
proposed project including appraisal and negotiations in calendar 1996.
In response, Mr. Wolfensohn's November 14, 1995 letter to State
Councilor Chen states that "we will expedite our work in accordance with
your preparation progress." The project core preparation team believes
that, based on (a) FCPMC and the three provincial PMOs' excellent
progress to date on project preparation and (b) the fact that the
proposed project is nearly identical to the Southwest Poverty Reduction
Project, the following accelerated schedule should be possible:
Concept Review            March, 1996
Preparation Mission       April, 1996
Preappraisal Mission      September, 1996
Decision Meeting          December, 1996
Appraisal Mission         January, 1997
Negotiations              April, 1997
Board Presentation        June, 1997
1/
World Bank Experience with Rural Development, 1965-1986, (World
Bank, 1987).



Contact Point:      Mr. Alan Piazza, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997
CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (CN-PA-3590)
Environment and Social Impact Annex
1.   Prior to the time of project appraisal, LGPR arranged for a full
environmental impact assessment of the overall project and of each of
the three provincial subprojects. These environmental assessment
reports were reviewed by the Bank in Washington during December, 1996.
2.   Environmental Aspects.   Overall the project is expected to have a
favorable environmental impact. The land and farmer development
component would make significant contributions to the mitigation of the
existing environmental problems in the project areas of severe soil
erosion and degraded vegetative cover. To avoid one of the few
potential negative impacts of project activities, assurances will be
sought at negotiations that (a) pesticides to be provided under the
project would be approved by the Bank Group and would be stored and
handled in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank Group,
and (b) all project activities would comply with environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank Group, necessary mitigation actions would be
taken, and actions taken to fulfill the recommendations contained in the
Environmental Assessment Report would be included in the annual work
programs forwarded to the Bank Group.
3.   Other components would take all necessary actions to minimize
negative effects on the environment. One of the five TVE selection
criteria examines the likely environmental impact, and this has led to
the elimination of several proposed ventures. TVEs supported by the
project would address environmental issues during the design stage by
submitting plans to the provincial and county EPBs, thereby meeting
national pollution control requirements. During this review process,
special attention has been and would be given to controlling emissions
and effluents which are byproducts of production processes. Food
processing TVEs would also be subject to regular sanitary inspections by
local health authorities.
4.   TVE establishment and expansion, and the construction of rural
roads and other rural infrastructure supported by the project would
require acquisition of about 320 ha of wasteland and cultivated land
- 12 -



over a six-year period. Current land acquisition plans do not require
the involuntary resettlement of people, and the Bank Group would not
approve (during project implementation) any changes to the project or
land acquisition plans which would require involuntary resettlement of
people. Assurances will be sought at negotiations that (a) all proposed
land acquisition required for project activities would be reviewed by
county, prefectural or provincial land administration bureaus in
accordance with existing national regulations, (b) the existing land
administration system for valuation of land and other assets affected by
the project would be used, with plans for compensation in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group, and (c)
land acquisition and compensation activities undertaken due to project
activities would be monitored by the PMOs and included in the semi-
annual progress reports to be provided to the Bank Group.
5.   Social Aspects.   The project's components also directly address the
fundamental social problems in the project area of grossly inadequate
educational attainment, excessive morbidity and mortality, severe
underemployment, and the lack of access to roads, safe drinking water
and electricity. During project preparation, there has been careful
targeting of the poorest upland counties, townships and villages. The
education program includes in-service bilingual education training and
the recruitment of women teachers and administrators, and strongly
favors girls primary education.
6.   The most significant social risks are related to the participation
of large numbers of women in the innovative labor mobility component.
Special attention has been given to the enterprise selection process and
orientation of voluntary migrants, and an important role has been
defined for the ACWF in this process. In coordination with local Labor
Bureaus, all new low skilled jobs created by the project would be filled
in large part with women. This affirmative action approach would not
have negative effects since many sectors, such as handicrafts and
agroprocessing, tend to have 60 to 80 percent female staff.
- 13 -



