Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16390-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
May 15, 1997
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1997)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 8.30
Y 1.00  = $0.12
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet
I kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) =  15 mu
I ton (t) =  1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
8-7 Plan   - National Seven-Year Plan for    LGPR   - Leading Group for Poverty Reduction
Poverty Reduction (1994-2000)    MCH   - Maternal and Child Health
AATP      - Applied Agricultural Technology   MOA   - Ministry of Agriculture
Program                          MOF   - Ministry of Finance
ABC       - Agricultural Bank of China        MOL   - Ministry of Labor
ACWF    - All-China Women's Federation       NCB    - National Competitive Bidding
ADBC      - Agricultural Development Bank of   NER    - Net Enrollment Ratio
China                            OGR    - On-time Graduation Ratio
CAS       - Chinese Academy of Sciences       PADO   - Provincial Poor Area Development
CWHRDC - China Western Human Resources                 Office
Development Center               PLG    - Project Leading Group
EPB       - Environmental Protection Bureau  PMO    - Project Management Office
ERR       - Economic Rate of Return          QEP    - Qinba Education Program
FCPMC    - Foreign Capital Project Management  QHP    - Qinba Health Program
Center                           RAP    - Resettlement Action Plan
FRR       - Financial Rate of Return         RCRD  - Research Center for Rural Development
IBRD      - International Bank for Reconstruction SOE    - Statement of Expenditures
and Development                  SPC    - State Planning Commission
ICB       - International Competitive Bidding    SSB    - State Statistical Bureau
IDA       - International Development        SWPRP - Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Association                      TAG    - Technical Advisory Group
IMR       - Infant Mortality Rate            TVE    - Township and Village Enterprise
ITF       - Interim Trust Fund               UBE    - Universal Basic Education
Vice President      Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director            Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief      Joseph Goldberg, EA2RS
Staff Member        Alan Piazza, Senior Economist, EA2RS



CHINA
QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
LOAN/INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:           Sichuan  and  Shaanxi Provinces, and  Ningxia  Hui
Autonomous Region
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  Loan:       $30.0 million
ITF Credit: SDR 108.5 million ($150 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Loan:       20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for
LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans
ITF Credit: IDA standard terms with 35 years' maturity
Commitment Fee:          Loan:       0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
ITF Credit: 0.50 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Onlending Terms:         Microfinance Cooperatives: 15 years, including 5 years of
grace, at 2.88 percent annual interest rate or
more
TVEs: Agricultural Bank of China's standard terms
Foreign Exchange Risk: borne by the project provincial
governments
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.44
Economic Rate of Return: 40 percent overall
Map:                     IBRD 27815
Project ID Number:       CN-PE-3590






CONTENTS
1. ABSOLUTE POVERTY IN CHINA ................................................l1
A. Introduction ...............................................1
B. Rural Absolute Poverty ...............................................1
C. The Government's Poverty Reduction Program  ................................................5
D. Origin of the Project ...............................................7
E. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ...............................................7
F. Bank Group Sector Work and Lending Operations .............................................8
G. Lessons Learned from  Previous Bank Group Operations ...................................9
2. THE PROJECT AREA ................................................                                                         12
A. Natural Resources, Land Use and Poverty ..............................................                          12
B. Social Services ..............................................                                                  16
C. Rural Infrastructure ...............................................                                           18
D. Employment, TVE  Development, and Microfinance ....................................... 19
E. Poverty Monitoring ..............................................                                              22
F. Selection of Project Counties, Townships and Villages .................................... 22
3. THE PROJECT ................................................                                                              25
A. Objectives and Scope ..............................................                                            25
B. Description ..............................................                                                     25
C. Detailed Features ..............................................                                               27
D. Status of Preparation ..............................................                                           37
E. Implementation Schedule ..............................................                                         37
F. Project Costs and Financing ...............................................                                    38
G. Procurement ..............................................                                                    39
H. Disbursements ..............................................                                                   42
I. Accounts and Audit ..............................................                                             44
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission in September 1996 and an
appraisal mission in January 1997, comprising M/M A. Piazza, M. Goldberg, J. Fritz,
M. Judd, M. Young, P. Aklilu, N. DeWitt, Z. Zhu (IBRD/IDA), C.L. Cheong,
S. Holcombe, J. Li, E. Liang, Z. Lin, S. Liu, C. Saint-Pierre, P. Sun, and B. Trangmar
(Consultants). Peer reviewers are M. Ravallion (PRDPH), M. Young (HDD), and
R. Grimshaw (Consultant). The preparation team gratefully acknowledges the strong
support of a Japan: Policy and Human Resources Development Fund grant, without
which the preparation of this complex and innovative project would have been extremely
difficult.



- ii -
J. Environmental and Social Impact ...............................................                                    44
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................................... 46
A. Project Organization and Management ....................................................                             46
B. Financial Management ....................................................                                          49
C. Execution of Project Works .....................................................                                   50
D. Project Launch Workshop .....................................................                                      50
E. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting ....................................................                           51
5. PRODUCTION AND MARKETS ....................................................                                                   52
A. Production .....................................................                                                   52
B. Markets and Prices ....................................................                                            54
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................................                                                       57
A. Benefits .....................................................                                                     57
B. Cost and Rent Recovery .....................................................                                       58
C. Financial and Economic Analysis ....................................................                               58
D. Risks ....................................................                                                         60
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 62
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Area Statistics .65
Annex 2: Rural Infrastructure Component .69
Annex 3: Land and Farmer Development Component .80
Annex 4: Microfinance Component .100
Annex 5: Cost Estimates .105
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement by Expenditure .117
Annex 7: Implementation Schedules .135
Annex 8: Disbursements .137
Annex 9: Financial and Economic Analysis .138
Annex  10:  Proposed Bank Group  Supervision Input .................................................... 159
Annex  1 1:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files ...........                                     ........... 164
Annex  12:  Project Counties and Townships ....................................................                                 166
TABLES IN TEXT
Table  1.1: Rural Economic Growth and Incidence of Absolute Poverty ............................2
Table  1.2: Rural Economic Growth Rates .....................................................4
Table 2.1: 1995 Rural Poverty Incidence, Income and Grain Production .23



- iii -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary ............................................                                                   39
Table 3.2: Project Financing ............................................                                                       39
Table 3.3:  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ......................................... 40
Table 3.4: Disbursement Arrangements ............................................                                              43
Table 5.1: Annual Production at Full Development ............................................                                  53
BOXES
Box 2.1: Project Area Selection-the Poorest of the Poor ............................................  24
CHARTS
Chart 1: Project Management Structure .............................................                                          167
PHOTOGRAPHS
Ningxia Hui Project Area ............................................                                                        168
MAPS
IBRD No. 27815: Project Counties
IBRD No. 28214: Zhenan County Project Townships






- 1 -
1. ABSOLUTE POVERTY IN CHINA
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   China is widely recognized for its achievements in reducing absolute poverty
since the adoption of a broad program of rural economic reforms beginning in 1978. It is
estimated that, since that year, some 184 million Chinese escaped absolute poverty and
that the share of total population living in absolute poverty declined to less than 10
percent. The form of poverty also changed over this period, from large numbers of poor
spread widely across the countryside to pockets of poverty in remote resource-deficient
areas. This change in the form of poverty required a change in the Government's
approach to reducing poverty, and the Bank Group has been an active participant in the
design of the Government's new national strategy for reducing absolute poverty in the
1990s. As one of several means of operationalizing that new strategy, the Government of
China has requested Bank Group assistance in financing a poverty reduction project in
the poorest upland counties of the Qinba mountains area of Sichuan and Shaanxi and the
Loess Plateau area of southern Ningxia.
B. RURAL ABSOLUTE POVERTY
1.2   Background. Rural economic reforms, including the adoption of the production
responsibility system, the dismantling of the commune system, agricultural product price
increases and market liberalization, were associated with dramatic rural economic growth
during 1978-85. The 1992 Bank Group study, China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in
the 1990s (hereafter, Strategies),' concluded that broad participation in that reform-driven
rural economic growth brought about the tremendous reduction in absolute poverty from
roughly 270 million poor in 1978 to about 100 million in 1985, or from one third to about
one tenth of total rural population. Average rural per capita income grew at an average
annual rate of 13 percent in real terms during this period, and increased a total of more
than 140 percent. The gross value of agricultural output increased by a total of 60 percent
in real terms, at an average annual rate of 7 percent, or more than double the total growth
and rate of the previous decade. Perhaps most impressive was the increase in township
and village enterprise (TVE) output and employment levels. TVE output values appear to
have increased fivefold in real terms during 1978-85 (though part of this increase is
explained by a broadening of the definition of TVE beginning in 1984), and employment
more than doubled from 28 to 70 million jobs. These trends in rural economic growth
and absolute poverty are summarized in Table 1.1.
The report, China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s (Washington, DC: The World Bank,
1992) is available to the public.



- 2 -
TABLE 1.1: RURAL ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INCIDENCE OF ABSOLUTE POVERTY
1978      1985      1990      1995
Population (million)
Total                                 963      1,059     1,143     1,211
Rural                                 790       808       841       859
Incidence of Rural Absolute Poverty
Million people                        260        96        97        70
Percent of rural population            33%       12%       12%        8%
Average Real Per Capita Income
Rural (1978 Yuan) /a                  134       324       339       441
Real Sectoral Output Values
Agriculture (1978=100)                100       162       203       290
TVE (1978=100) Lb                     100       506      1,184    6,834
Total Rural Laborers
Million                               306       371       420       450
TVE Employment
Million people                         28        70        93       129
La Nominal rural average per capita income deflated by the rural retail consumer price
index.
L Nominal TVE output value deflated by the implied deflator for gross industrial output.
Source: Chinese Statistical Yearbook 1996 and Strategies.
1.3   Correlates of Poverty. Absolute poverty in China is now concentrated in
resource-constrained remote upland areas. Since virtually all of China's rural population
received land use rights as part of the implementation of the production responsibility
system during the early 1980s, there are few if any landless laborers. Instead, the
majority of the rural poor are now concentrated in resource-deficient areas, and comprise
entire communities located mostly in upland sections of the interior provinces of
northern, northwestern and southwestern China. Although these poor have land use
rights, in most cases the land itself is of such low quality that it is not possible to achieve
subsistence levels of crop production. Consequently, most poor consume grain and other
subsistence foods beyond their own production levels, and are negatively affected by
price increases for these products. The poorest households are typically those further
disadvantaged by high dependency ratios, ill health and other difficulties. Minority
peoples are known to represent a highly disproportionate share of the rural poor.
Available evidence does not suggest that women are greatly overrepresented among the
poor, though poverty certainly does exacerbate societywide problems of lower rates of
female participation in education, higher relative female infant mortality rates, and higher
rates of maternal mortality.



- 3 -
1.4   The educational and health status of China's remaining absolute poor is
deplorable. At least 50 percent of the boys in some of China's poorest natural villages
and, particularly in some minority areas, nearly 100 percent of the girls do not attend
school and will not achieve literacy. The infant mortality rate and maternal mortality
ratio in very poor counties-which exceed 10 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively-are
at least 50 to 100 percent greater than the national average, and are much greater yet in
the poorest townships and villages. Incidence of several infectious and endemic diseases,
including tuberculosis and iodine deficiency disorders, is concentrated in poor and remote
areas. Roughly 50 percent of children in households at or below the absolute poverty line
are at least mildly malnourished (stunted), and iron, vitamin A, and other micronutrient
deficiencies remain a severe problem among the poor. As many as 90 percent of poor
children suffer chronic worm infections.
1.5   Recent Trends. A number of macroeconomic developments stymied concerted
government efforts to reduce poverty during the second half of the 1980s: (a) sharply
increased prices for grain and other subsistence goods adversely affected the real incomes
of the majority of the rural poor; (b) rapid growth of the working-age population
exceeded the expansion of employment opportunities, contributing to a temporary
worsening of rural underemployment (during 1989-90); (c) economic growth was greater
in the higher-income coastal provinces than in the lower-income inland northwestern and
southwestern provinces; and (d) rural income levels stagnated during the second half of
the 1980s (the average annual growth rate of real per capita rural income declined to only
1 percent during 1985-90).  In addition, given the limited revenues of poor-area
governments and in the absence of adequate levels of appropriately earmarked funding
from higher levels of government, poor-area local governments are unable to support
adequate social services.
1.6   The key obstacle to reducing poverty during 1985-90, however, was the absence
of meaningful levels of agricultural growth and rural enterprise development in the
upland areas. Many of the rural poor in 1978 resided in less remote and less hilly areas,
where increased application of fertilizer, irrigation, better seed and other modern inputs
could bring about rapid productivity gains, and so were able to participate in the rapid
agricultural growth of 1978-84. However, the quick reductions of poverty through
agricultural growth were largely exhausted by end-1984. Most of the residual poor have
remained trapped in more remote upland areas where agricultural productivity gains have
proven far more problematic. Measured on a per capita basis, output of grain and
subsistence foods in such areas failed to sustain any significant increase during the 1980s.
Although the agriculture sector did expand in real terms during 1985-89, increased output
of nongrain crops and animal and aquatic products, products that few of the poor either
produce or consume in significant quantities, accounted for virtually all of the modest
growth that did occur. By comparison, the very strong annual growth during 1978-84 of
per capita production of grain and oilseeds-which are the subsistence crops of most
immediate importance to the poor-tumed negative during 1985-89.
1.7   TVEs, an important source of employment in the rural economy as a whole, have
developed very slowly in China's poorest areas. In the early 1980s, TVE employment



actually decreased in poor areas as the commune system was dismantled and workers
could no longer be paid in work points instead of cash. Employment rose only after a
1984 policy initiative supporting private rural enterprise opened opportunities for small,
family firms particularly suited to the small market niches available in poor areas.
However, by 1990 only 4 percent of the rural labor force in China's 120 poorest counties
had found employment in rural enterprises, in contrast to the 22 percent finding such
employment in the nation as a whole. Restraints on labor mobility were relaxed during
the 1980s, enabling an increasing number of the rural poor to share in national TVE
growth by migrating to employment opportunities where they occur. Unfortunately, after
tremendous growth during 1978-88, TVE employment declined in 1989 and 1990 in
response to the Government's strong deflationary measures implemented in those two
years. It is believed that the absolute poor were among the first to lose their jobs during
the temporary decline in TVE employment.
1.8    Current Status.  Official government estimates indicate that the number of
absolute poor declined to about 65 million, or about 5 percent of total population, by
1995. Very strong overall economic growth, coupled with a resurgence of rural income
growth and TVE employment during 1990-95, support the Government's reports of
continued declines in absolute poverty during the 1990s.? As shown in Table 1.2, the
growth rate of real rural income recovered from only 1 percent during 1985-90 to more
than 5 percent during 1990-95. TVE employment, having declined in 1989 and in 1990,
also increased sharply during 1990-95, expanding by more than 7 million jobs each year
on average. Grain production also increased strongly during 1990-95, leading to a
temporary decline in the market price of grain with consequential benefits for the
absolute poor.
TABLE 1.2: RURAL ECONOMIC GROWTH RATES
Average per capita      Agricultural      Incremental annual
Period                   rural income         output value       TVE employment
(%)                  (%)             (million jobs)
1978-85                       13                    7                    6.0
1985-90                        1                    5                    4.6
1990-95                        5                    7                    7.2
Source: Table 1.1.
2 Strategies estimated the incidence of absolute poverty for each year 1978 and 1980-90. A simple
extension of Strategies' methodology-viz., inflating the 1990 rural absolute poverty line (after
adjustment to account for changes in the State Statistical Bureau's (SSB) calculation of rural income
beginning in 1990) by the rural consumer price index-suggests that rural absolute poverty declined to
about 70 million in 1995. The Bank Group's Policy Research Departnent (Poverty and Human Resources
Division; PRDPH) has initiated work with SSB to establish an updated methodology for estimating
poverty in the 1 990s.



- 5 -
C. THE GOVERNMENT'S POVERTY REDUCTION PROGRAM
1.9  Institutions. The Chinese Government has a strong commitment to poverty
reduction, and most government ministries and agencies have special poverty reduction
responsibilities and projects. The Ministry of Civil Affairs provides disaster relief and
income maintenance support, and coordinates the distribution of relief grain through the
Ministry of Internal Trade's Grain Bureau system. The State Education Commission and
the Ministry of Public Health administer some special programs to improve the education
and health status of the poor. The recently established Agricultural Development Bank of
China (ADBC) offers subsidized loans for poor-area development through a variety of
funds administered by provincial bank branches and their networks of county- and lower-
level banks (until mid-1994, these funds were administered by the Agricultural Bank of
China and several other banks). The Regional Office of the State Planning Commission
administers a Food-for-Work Program, which assists with the building of roads and riverine
transport, drinking water systems, irrigation works and other capital construction in poor
areas. In addition, each of 27 central ministries and agencies has its own special poor-area
project and every province has its own specially-funded programs.
1.10 The State Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction (LGPR) was
established in 1986 in part to provide greater coherence to these many poverty reduction
initiatives and, in particular, to expedite economic development in the poor areas. Since
its establishment, LGPR and its executive agency, the Poor Area Development Office
(PADO), has emerged as the principal advocate of China's rural poor and is now the key
agency responsible for coordinating the nation's more than $1 billion in annual funding
for poverty reduction programs. The State Council funds another four poverty reduction
units that operate within the LGPR orbit: the China Development Foundation for Poor
Areas, the Cadre Training Center, the Training Center Office, and the Economic
Development Service Center. Provinces, prefectures, and counties have all established
Leading Groups and PADOs after the central model, and many townships have a
"designated person" to handle poverty reduction work.
1.11  Strategy. While continuing preexisting rural social and relief services, the
poverty reduction strategy adopted during the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90)
introduced a new emphasis on economic development programs in the poor areas. The
Government's commitment to sustained efforts to eradicate poverty also figured
prominently in the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95). The Eighth Five-Year Plan
reconfirmed and extended LGPR's central role as the coordinating body responsible for
poverty measurement and research, project planning and monitoring, and management
not only of domestic funding but of bilateral and multilateral assistance for poverty
reduction. The poverty reduction strategy announced in the Eighth Five-Year Plan
highlighted (a) a continued emphasis on developing the productive capacity of poor-area
agriculture and rural enterprise through subsidized loans, (b) better targeting of assistance
to reach the poorest of the poor, and (c) improved management and coordination of
poverty reduction activities.



- 6 -
1.12 The Government's poverty reduction strategy has been further defined and
substantially updated through the newly issued National Seven-Year (1994-2000) Plan
for Poverty Reduction (8-7 Plan). The 8-7 Plan recognizes that the significant reduction
and change in nature of absolute poverty (para. 1.1) makes it more practical and fiscally
less burdensome to target increased development and social services assistance to China's
remaining absolute poor. In near complete agreement with Strategies' recommendations
for reducing poverty in the 1990s, the 8-7 Plan calls for:
(a)   institution building and policy reform, including a strengthening of the
institutions responsible for implementing explicit poverty reduction projects
and programs, the establishment of an independent and objective poverty
monitoring system, the concentration of available funding in the poorest
counties (a number of relatively well-off counties and provinces have been
"graduated" from the new poverty reduction program), and improved access
of the poor to employment opportunities outside the poor areas;
(b)   greater investment in the development of human capital, including more
central government funding for health, education, and relief services in the
poorest areas; and,
(c)   continued investment in poor-area agricultural, rural enterprise, road and
other rural infrastructure development projects.
1.13  Officially Designated Poor Counties. In 1986, using Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) county-level rural income data, LGPR developed a national roster of 331 poor
counties eligible for development assistance. A county was identified as poor if its 1985
average rural per capita income fell below poverty lines of Y 300, Y 200, or Y 150,
depending on other locational or political factors. Average per capita grain production of
less than 200 kg was also adopted as a second key indicator of poverty. In addition to the
national roster, 368 provincially designated poor counties, eligible for provincial funding,
were selected on the basis of poverty lines determined by the provinces. Province-
specific poverty lines used during the Seventh Five-Year Plan period ranged from Y 150
in Yunnan to Y 400 in Jiangsu. In addition to drawing up a roster of poor counties, most
provinces have identified townships in otherwise well-off counties as eligible for special
assistance. As evidenced by the wide difference in qualifying income levels (Y 150 to
Y 400), the provincial rosters include a number of counties that are relatively poor by
provincial standards but that would not qualify as absolutely poor by the national
minimum standard. That provinces created their own special programs testifies to a
concern with relative poverty and, in many instances, to provincial budgetary strength.
On the other hand, the provincial roster does, in some cases, compensate for the incorrect
exclusion of counties with average per capita income levels below the national minimum
standard. The Yunnan provincial roster, for example, includes all the counties that should
have received central government support for absolute poverty reduction (that is, 15
counties with average per capita income of between Y 120 and Y 150 in 1985).



- 7 -
1.14  While a very large proportion of the rural population within the officially
designated poor counties must have been poor, this definition of poverty failed to capture
the poor in otherwise well-off counties.3 Based solely on 1985 income data, furthermore,
the method did not adequately correct for single-year aberrations in county rural income
levels. Strategies also observed that the regionalization of poverty evidenced by the
MOA county-level rural income data is significantly different from that indicated by the
State Statistical Bureau's (SSB) provincial rural income distribution data.
Notwithstanding these important issues, it is certain that the combined list of officially
designated poor counties captures at least half of the most severe remaining absolute
poverty in China. Furthermore, under the new 8-7 Plan, the list of officially designated
poor counties has been reduced from 699 to 592, and a number of relatively well-off
counties and provinces have "graduated" from the new poverty reduction program (para.
1.12).
D. ORIGIN OF THE PROJECT
1.15   Through the preparation of Strategies and its public release at the "International
Conference on Poverty Issues in China" (held in Beijing in October 1992), close
collaboration with the Chinese Government has been established and the Bank Group has
played an active role in the development of the new national strategy for reducing
absolute poverty in the 1990s (para. 1.12). At the conclusion of the conference, State
Councilor Chen Junsheng (the Government of China's senior policymaker for agriculture,
rural development, and poverty reduction) and senior Bank Group staff announced a
proposal to operationalize Strategies' recommendations for reducing poverty in the 1990s
through the Bank Group-assisted Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (SWPRP).
Consistent with SWPRP, the proposed Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
(QBPRP) would take a multisectoral approach to reducing absolute poverty in the worst-
affected upland counties of the Qinba mountains and Loess Plateau areas of Sichuan,
Shaanxi and Ningxia. Both projects strongly encourage community participation during
preparation and implementation. Supported by two generous Japan: Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund grants, preparation of the two projects has included local
and international consultants and more than 10 missions to China since July 1993.
E. RATIONALE FOR BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT
1.16   The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy in that it directly
addresses two of the Bank's top operational priorities in China, namely poverty reduction
and environmental protection. Bank Group participation in the project will greatly assist
3 Based on three-year (1981-83) average township-level rural per capita income data, the Research Center
for Rural Development (RCRD) had earlier identified 50 million absolute poor residing in about 7,000
townships, situated in 225 counties in 11 mountainous regions. While a preferred means of monitoring
poverty, the RCRD township-level methodology was not an operationally viable mechanism for targeting
China's poverty reduction programs. In 1986, LGPR switched to the county level for the purposes of
poverty reduction programs and monitoring.



- 8 -
the realization of the Government's 8-7 Plan and it is expected that, if successful, the
project will further highlight the potential of the multisectoral approach to the remainder
of China's poor areas and the overall poverty reduction program.  Bank Group
involvement in the project will also play a catalytic function in the establishment of an
independent national-level poverty monitoring system.  In addition, Bank Group
participation is helping to focus the project's rural development component toward the
development and provision of an integrated package of environmentally sound and
farmer-determined technologies for more productive upland agriculture.
F. BANK GROUP SECTOR WORK AND LENDING OPERATIONS
1.17  During the early and mid-1980s, the first Country Economic Report and the
Gansu Provincial Study devoted much analysis to China's income distribution and the
physical well-being of the Chinese population and the poor.4 A number of Bank Group-
supported projects during these years, including the Gansu Provincial Development
Project (Loan 2812-CHA and Credit 1793-CHA) and the Northern Irrigation Project
(Credit 1885-CHA), directly helped reduce poverty by providing opportunities for
voluntary resettlement to newly irrigated areas for hundreds of thousands of absolute poor
residing in rainfed upland areas of the Loess Plateau. The Gansu Provincial Development
Project also included a very effective rural education subproject that targeted the absolute
poor. More generally, the Bank Group's program of agricultural investments (about 40
projects in all), buttressed by projects supporting agricultural education, rural health care
and rural water supply, played a significant role in raising rural incomes and living
standards during the 1980s.
1.18  Completion of Strategies contributed to making poverty reduction a more explicit
focus of Bank Group lending in China in the early 1 990s. Bank Group-supported poverty
reduction activities, channeled to areas of concentrated poverty in central and western
China, now include poor-area health, education, rural water supply and hygiene, and
numerous agricultural projects and agricultural project subcomponents. The Rural Health
Workers Development Project (Credit 2539-CHA) aims at better-quality health services,
improved health status, and the development of new financing models for health services
in the poorest areas. The Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Project (Credit
2655-CHA) addresses the malnutrition, epidemic disease and high maternal and infant
mortality rates that remain widespread among China's absolute poor. The Infectious
Diseases Project (Credit 2317-CHA) seeks to reduce the incidence and risk of infection of
two severe diseases (tuberculosis and schistosomiasis) that are most prevalent in poor
areas. The Disease Prevention Project (Credit 2794-CHA) will provide immunization
coverage and greater accessibility to health care in 10 poor provinces. The Education
Development in Poor Provinces (Credit 2339-CHA), Basic Education in Poor and
Minority Areas (Credit 2651-CHA), and Third Basic Education (Credit 2831-CHA)
4 China: Long-Term Development Issues and Options (Baltimnore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1985)
and China: Growth and Development in Gansu Province (Washington, DC: The World Bank, 1988).



- 9 -
projects are helping to improve primary and lower secondary education and schools in a
large number of poor counties and villages. By increasing coverage of safe water supply
and sanitation, health and hygiene services, the Rural Water and Sanitation Project
(Credit 2336-CHA) improves health and productivity of some of the poorest and most
needy inhabitants of rural China. The Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2616-CHA) seeks to double real income levels for the 1.2 million rural poor in
the targeted watersheds by increasing agricultural productivity. The Gansu Hexi Corridor
Project (Loan 4028-CHA and Credit 2870-CHA) will reduce poverty by providing
opportunities for voluntary resettlement to newly irrigated lands for about 200,000 upland
poor in Gansu. The Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project (Credit 2834-CHA) will raise
incomes for about 3 million poor through rehabilitation of an existing irrigation system,
terrace agriculture, smallholder livestock, and other activities. The Shaanxi Agricultural
Development (Credit 1997-CHA), Henan Agricultural Development (Credit 2242-CHA),
Tarim Basin (Credit 2294), Guangdong Agricultural Development (Credit 2307-CHA)
and Sichuan Agricultural Development (Credit 241 1-CHA) projects include poverty
reduction subprojects in several extremely poor counties. Attacking poverty through
single-sector programs, these projects and project components have made a real and
sustainable contribution to poverty reduction. SWPRP (Loan 3906-CHA and Credit
2744-CHA) is the first Bank Group-supported project in China to use a focused,
multisectoral rural development approach to attack absolute poverty in a severely
resource-deficient area where single-sector programs cannot achieve sustained poverty
reduction.
G. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREvIOuS BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
1.19 The Bank Group's experience with a large number of multisectoral rural-
development-cum-poverty-reduction projects has not been entirely successful in terms of
impact or sustainability. An extensive Operations Evaluation Department (OED) review
of two decades of Bank Group experience with rural development projects documents
that the complexity of project design and implementation and problems with institutional
coordination have been the principal causes of mixed results.5 This confirms the warning
of the Bank Group's 1975 Rural Development Sector Policy Paper that such projects tend
to suffer from a program design that is too ambitious and complex, calling for exceptional
leadership that cannot always be made available on a sustained basis. Recognizing that
these institutional difficulties are inherent to multisectoral projects, the OED analysis
favors the approach of "implementing separate project components in different ministries
as though they were separate projects, but with a coordinating unit located in a nonsector
ministry such as Planning or the President's Office" and emphasizes the importance of
long-term institution building. The OED report also highlights the importance of
(a) strong government commitment to the project and a favorable macroeconomic
environment, (b) relying primarily on locally proven technical innovations (the results of
research and trials were often not available in time to have an impact on concurrent
5 World Bank Experience with Rural Development, 1965-1986 (The World Bank, 1987).



- 10-
projects), (c) retaining flexibility in program design during implementation (i.e., after the
time of appraisal), and (d) supplementing the Bank Group's own inputs, during design
and supervision, to cover the full range of skills required by a multisectoral project. A
more recent OED review of the Aga Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP), on the other
hand, concludes that "rural development can be made to work" with proper project design
and implementation.6 Additional key lessons from the successful AKRSP experience are
the importance of (e) a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation process and (f) full
community participation.
1.20 The OED analysis of the Bank Group's rural development projects confirms that
the proposed project's two principal issues are its above-average complexity and its
requirement for above-average institutional capacity for project design and
implementation. Project design and plans for organization and management directly
address these two concerns. First, although the proposed project comprises a number of
diverse sectors, the project activities within each of these sectors together represent an
integrated package of proven technologies. Second, as recommended by the OED report,
the project will not be implemented by a sectoral agency. Instead, LGPR, which is a
nonsectoral office of the State Council, is responsible for coordinating project design and,
through the provincial and county Project Management Offices (PMO) and Leading
Groups (LG), for monitoring implementation. Per OED's recommendation, each
component has been designed at each operational level by the relevant specialized
sectoral agency as a "separate project." LGPR's Foreign Capital Project Management
Center (FCPMC) was established, with bureau-level status, for the preparation and
implementation of SWPRP. FCPMC is now staffed at levels sufficient for satisfactory
implementation of SWPRP and the preparation of the proposed Qinba Mountains Poverty
Reduction Project. In addition, the project enjoys strong government support and a
favorable macroeconomic environment, relies primarily on an integrated package of
proven technologies, and would establish a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
process. It is believed that current Bank Group procedures provide adequate allowance
for changes to project design during the course of implementation. Lastly, the project
encourages community participation by enabling households to make key decisions
during project design and implementation.
1.21  The proposed project also builds on lessons from recent Bank Group loans to
China in the health, education, agriculture and rural infrastructure sectors. For social
services, specific lessons include the importance of increasing access to existing rural
facilities, improving teacher and health service worker technical skills, establishing
reliable financing mechanisms, and upgrading bilingual education in minority areas. In
agriculture, the experience of earlier Bank Group-supported projects suggests the need for
greater emphasis on crop diversification and marketing in order to avoid the risk of
oversupply, and to enhance sustainability by assigning responsibility for project
management to existing institutions (suitably strengthened). Since the Bank Group has
6 The Aga Khan Rural Support Program in Pakistan (The World Bank, 1990).



- 11 -
very little experience with labor mobility projects, the project builds on the early
experience of SWPRP's labor mobility component, and on lessons from the Ministry of
Labor's (MOL) recent experience in this area and ongoing rural research work.
1.22 SWPRP Poverty Reduction Model. SWPRP has been under implementation for
two years and, while careful review and evaluation of the project's individual
components can only begin in the latter years of project implementation, enough evidence
is already available to support some preliminary lessons.  First, the successful
implementation of SWPRP during 1995-96 has confirmed that the project's unique
organizational and management structure can satisfy its above-average complexity and
implementation capacity requirements. Second, the SWPRP model of poverty reduction
represents a significant advance over previous poverty reduction mechanisms in China
and is worthy of widespread adoption. Third, it is now clear which components have
been most successful. During intensive supervision work during the second half of 1996,
an organized exchange between SWPRP county PMO staff in Guangxi confirmed the
growing consensus that:  the education and health subcomponents and the rural
infrastructure component are the activities that are most warmly received by the project's
primary beneficiaries; the labor mobility component provides the quickest means of
overcoming poverty; the agriculture component's activities require an enormous amount
of preparatory work by county- and lower-level project staff; and project supervision and
poverty monitoring are the most difficult tasks to complete.  The success of the
education, health and rural infrastructure activities is closely associated with the fact that
project villagers actively plan and implement, and directly and immediately benefit from,
these undertakings. Bank Group supervision of the project has confirmed the county
PMO staffs views that the project's primary beneficiaries are extremely enthusiastic
about the education, health, drinking water, and other rural infrastructure activities, and
that labor mobility can quickly lift migrant workers and (through remittances) their
families above the poverty line. Supervision missions have also observed the payoff to
some successful upland agriculture activities and to effective project supervision and
poverty monitoring, but have noted the heavy demands these activities place on county-
and lower-level project implementation staff. TVE development is the only SWPRP
component that is performing poorly. Measures were taken during the second half of
1996 to overcome the key obstacles of (a) poor prospects for enterprise financial viability
and (b) lack of counterpart financing, and it is hoped that the component will move
forward quickly during 1997.



- 12 -
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. NATURAL RESOURCES, LAND USE AND POVERTY
2.1   Location and Population. The project would take place in 26 mountainous and
remote poor counties of Sichuan (12 counties), Shaanxi (10 counties) and Ningxia (4
counties), all of which are nationally designated poor counties under the 8-7 Plan (para.
1.14). The project area comprises two distinct regions: 22 counties in northeast Sichuan
and southern Shaanxi, stretching east-to-west over 350 km along the Qinling and Daba
mountain ranges; and four counties in southern Ningxia in the Loess Plateau. Project
locations and area statistics are given in IBRD Map No. 27815 and Annex 1. Within the
26 project counties, the project area comprises the poorest 2,941 administrative villages (or
about a quarter of the total number of administrative villages in the project counties) with a
total rural population of 2.3 million people. The Sichuan and Shaanxi project area has 2.08
million beneficiaries, of which less than 1 percent are ethnic minorities. The Ningxia
project area has about 0.24 million people, nearly 80 percent of whom are Hui people,
distinguished from Hans chiefly by their religion (Islam). The Hui comprise 7 percent of
the total nurnber of project beneficiaries.
2.2   Topography, Soils and Climate. The mountainous part of the Sichuan and
Shaanxi project area lies within 500 to 2,950 meters of elevation. It is deeply dissected
into narrow, steep-sided valleys, with many rock outcrops and shallow soils that originate
from parent materials ranging from limestone to granite. Arable land comprises less than
10 percent of the total land area. The seven southern counties of the Sichuan project area
comprise hilly terrain, at elevations ranging from 200 to 600 meters, with purple soils
developed on sandstone parent material. In both the mountainous and hilly project areas,
soil fertility is generally low, with limited organic matter, phosphorus and potassium.
The climate is subtropical with warm, moist summers, and cold winters with low rainfall.
Spring and autumn droughts are common, while high-intensity summer rainfall often
causes flooding and waterlogging of soils. All result in unstable yields and severe crop
losses on nonterraced land. The number of frost-free days declines from 280 in the
Sichuan hills, to 220 in Shaanxi valleys, to only 170 days at elevations of 1,200 meters
and above. Households residing above 1,200 meters of elevation comprise a limited
portion of the project beneficiaries in Sichuan, but account for at least 30 percent of
project beneficiaries in Shaanxi.
2.3   The Ningxia project area lies within 1,500 to 2,950 meters of elevation and
contains a mix of landforms, including loess-mantled granitic hills and mountains in the
southern Liupan mountains, steep and heavily gullied loess hills in the central part of the
project area, and loess hills and sandy rolling terrain with dunes in the northern part.
Soils are mainly derived from loess, and have moderate fertility with thin eroded topsoil.



- 13 -
Mean annual rainfall decreases from south to north from 650 to 250 millimeters (mm),
while annual evaporation increases from 1,200 to 2,300 mm. The climate becomes
semiarid in the lower-elevation northern project area, and in valleys throughout the
project area. Drinking water is severely constrained in these areas, and has to be stored
throughout the winter season. Moisture deficits for rainfed crops occur everywhere in the
project area. Moreover, spring drought-such as in 1992 and 1995-causes failure of the
wheat crop (the area's staple food). The frost-free period is only 130 to 180 days.
2.4   Land Use and Farming Systems. Current farming systems in all the project
villages strive to achieve basic food security and minimize income shocks through the
close integration of field crops (both subsistence and cash), animal husbandry and tree
crops. In Sichuan and Shaanxi, land use is dominated by forestry. In the mountainous
area, some 60 percent of the land area is covered by oak and coniferous forests.
However, with population densities of 400 inhabitants per square kilometer (krn2) in the
hills and 100 inhabitants per km2 in the mountains, such forestry can only provide a
limited source of income. Arable land per capita ranges from only 0.06 hectares (ha) in
Sichuan to 0.12 ha in Shaanxi. Application of cash inputs is very limited, and although
one third of existing arable land is terraced, average yields for the principal crops of corn
and wheat are only 1.5 to 2.5 tons per ha. Corn cultivation (on bush-fallowed hillsides)
has severely encroached upon the forest area in the mountains. A variety of relay-
cropping patterns-which include corn, wheat, potato, sweet potato, pulses, rice and
rapeseed-are employed on the arable land to increase production and reduce the impact
of climatic risks. The arable land area is also extensively interplanted with tree crops,
including mulberry (for silk production), tung and citrus at lower elevations, and nuts,
lacquer, paulownia, and tea at higher elevations. Most households raise pigs, which are
fed on local grasses, tuber crops, and bran. Pigs are the major source of cash income.
Fewer than half of project households raise a cow (used primarily for draft purposes). At
lower elevations, secondary sources of cash income include silk cocoons, edible fungi,
and occasional sales of cows, poultry, vegetables, fruit and nuts. At higher elevations, the
gathering of wild medicinal plants provides a limited source of cash income.
Commercial cattle and goat raising is being developed, using palatable shrubs and native
grasses as grazing resources.
2.5   In the Ningxia project area, livestock is the primary source of cash income for
farmers, with products including meat, leather and wool. Livestock sales are also the
primary means of buffering grain crop failures. Rangeland in much of the project area is
extensively grazed by herds of sheep, goat and cattle. Straw and alfalfa are also
important fodder sources. The long cold season and the variability of straw output cause
severe feed deficits during winter, and there is a consequent deterioration of animal health
and survival rates. With growing animal numbers, and a decreasing rangeland area due to
the extension of wheat, rangeland overgrazing has become common at lower elevations
and adds to fodder shortages. The cropping pattern is predominantly rainfed, and
includes mostly spring crops of wheat (rotated with peas) or summer crops of potatoes,
linseed, oats, millet and buckwheat. Until recently, corn has been only a minor crop in
the project villages. Arable land holdings average 0.6 ha per capita, but yields are limited



- 14-
and highly variable. Wheat only yields an average 0.6 ton/ha. Terracing has created
distinctly higher fertility in areas with annual rainfall above 400 mm. Trees are hardly
present in the land use system. Despite previous plantation programs of fuelwood
bushes, there is a continued shortage of fuelwood. Available straw is also often used for
fuel, contributing to the shortage of animal feed. Fruit production is being developed on
a very limited basis.
2.6   Resource Constraints and Poverty. Topography, soil, and climate all pose
serious limitations to agricultural development in the project areas. Population densities,
which are well in excess of the carrying capacity of the agricultural resource base, are a
major factor in the ongoing environmental degradation. In the Sichuan and Shaanxi
project area, highly variable grain yields and cash crop production on unterraced land are
the major agricultural constraints faced by households. Households residing above 1,200
meters of elevation have limited options to improve food crop production. In addition,
settlements are scattered and remote from roads, and the majority of households
consequently have very limited access to markets, agricultural extension and other
services. The Ningxia project area faces a complex set of resource limitations. Water
resources are inadequate and unreliable for both crop production and human and animal
consumption. Insufficient biomass production results in fuel and feed deficits. Animal
numbers are too low to allow households to withstand drought years, but too high for the
declining rangeland resource.
2.7   These severe resource constraints in the Qinba project area are associated with
levels of grain production that are both below basic subsistence requirements and highly
variable, very limited cash income, and extreme poverty. In the Sichuan and Shaanxi
project area, annual per capita grain production during 1993-95 averaged about 300
kilograms (kg). Average annual per capita income during 1993-95 was about Y 525 (in
1995 prices), or just one third of national average rural per capita income. The resource
constraints and consequent poverty are most extreme in the Ningxia project area, where
annual per capita grain production averaged only 150 kg during 1993-95, and annual per
capita income averaged Y 470 (in 1995 prices) during 1993-95. Most of the project villages
suffer significant grain deficits, and on average between 10 to 70 kg per capita of relief
grain are brought into project counties annually. Even these quantities of relief grain are not
sufficient to raise per capita grain availability to the level necessary for basic subsistence,
and food shortages and malnutrition are common, particularly during the end of winter and
early spring. Since much of household income is in-kind and consumed on-farm, entire
households typically have cash incomes of only Y 150 to Y 300 ($15 to $35) per year.
Some farm households also obtain irregular off-farm income from activities such as local
mining, construction, and migrant labor in urban areas. Households with very limited land
area, with a high proportion of dependents, few livestock, or adversely affected by natural
disaster have significantly lower grain production and incomes than the average figures
given above.
2.8   Development Strategies. Despite these resource constraints, there are opportunities
to increase agricultural productivity and income through synergistic investments in fully



- 15 -
integrated farming systems. Most importantly, investments in land development (such as
terracing) and water resource development (such as microirrigation systems) will directly
boost production of grain and cash crops, and will also provide additional crop residues for
the expansion of livestock production and cash income for the purchase of fertilizer, better
seed, and other yield-increasing inputs. Expanded animal production augments cash
incomes over the short term, and provides more organic fertilizer for field crop production.
Over the longer term, expanded tree crop production and fodder resource development will
help to reduce upland environmental destruction, augment cash income, and provide feed
for expanded animal production and fuelwood for household cooking and heating. The
effectiveness of all of these investments should be augmented through increased and
improved support services at the village level-including training and extension, and
veterinary services-undertaken on the basis of full community participation. While no one
of these investment activities would lead to a major sustained increase in farm productivity
and incomes, together they should be sufficient to achieve a significant sustainable impact.
And while investments in upland agriculture alone cannot bring most of Qinba's poor above
the poverty line, together they comprise a key component of the package of multisectoral
investments that can lead to a sustainable reduction in absolute poverty.
2.9  In the Sichuan and Shaanxi project area, an appropriate integrated strategy would
be to help households enhance their land use systems through investments in terracing,
animal husbandry, and tree crops. Terraces nearby farmers' homes, which support grain
and cash crops, feed production, interplanted trees, and pig and poultry production, would
be expanded. Together with appropriate technology (such as basic tools and better
seeds), terracing would allow a sustained increase in soil fertility, and increased and more
stable crop yields. As a result, bush-fallow cultivation on steeper hill and mountainside
slopes would decline, allowing the development of tree crops and animal grazing on these
lands.  Households would not only undertake tree crop plantations on their own
wasteland area, which is limited and often less fertile, but also on contracted government-
managed forestry land. Substantial investments in tree crop development-which would
include provision of improved fruit and economic tree variety root stock, and soil
improvement, and be supported by tree crop management technical advice-would balance
households' short- and long-term benefits. Related marketing risks and long-term
technical risks would be minimized through the provision of appropriate technology,
farmer training, and improved market access.
2.10  In the loess hills project area, the strategy would emphasize increasing biomass
production.  The development of water-harvesting microirrigation systems and the
expansion of terraces would allow a gradual shift from wheat to crops with increased
biomass output, such as potatoes and corn, on part of the arable land. Increased biomass
would contribute to the reduction of animal losses during droughts and during winter and
early spring, and also help reduce households' cooking and heating fuel deficit. A
comprehensive improvement of feed resources, including corn and alfalfa, and the use of
rotational grazing and other improved rangeland management practices, would further
contribute to the resolution of existing feed deficits. The Ningxia government has
established and already initiated plans for these core investments in upland agriculture.



- 16 -
These plans call for a massive buildup of water-harvesting and microirrigation systems,
terracing, afforestation, and fodder resource development. The effectiveness of these plans
will be greatly enhanced through a large-scale poverty-reduction-through-voluntary-
resettlement program, which will provide one third of the population of the project upland
counties with the opportunity to relocate to lower-elevation newly irrigated areas. These
government programs should be further complemented with support for soil improvement
on the newly terraced land, improved agricultural practices on lands serviced by new
microirrigation systems, and expanded animal production.
B. SOCIAL SERVICES
2.11   Education. In its 1995 " Education Law," the State Education Commission (SEdC)
established national implementation plans for achieving universal basic education (UBE) by
2000. Since local governments and communities are primarily responsible for financing
primary education, different targets and timetables have been determined for achieving
UBE in accordance with different regions' abilities and resources. Urban and better-off
rural areas, which comprise about 80 percent of the country's population, have already
achieved six-year UBE and expect to meet nine-year targets before or by 2000. Less
developed areas, on the other hand, have more modest UBE targets. The national plans
specify that, for the poorest 20 percent of China's population, 5 percent will achieve nine-
year UBE by 2000, another 10 percent will strive for five- or six-year UBE, and the
remaining 5 percent in poverty-stricken areas will seek three- to four-year UBE.
2.12   Despite impressive achievements at the national level, primary schooling in the
project areas is still marked by poor attendance and very low on-time graduation. Official
figures indicate a significant disparity between the national average and project county
average. For example, the net enrollment ratios (NER) for the nation and for the project
counties for the primary school-age cohort are 98 and 85 percent, respectively. Special
household surveys, undertaken during project preparation, document even greater
disparities at the project village level. For example, the special household surveys show
that the three representative villages in Zhenan County (Shaanxi) have an average NER of
79 percent and on-time graduation ratio (OGR)7 of 40 percent. The low OGR is mainly due
to the high dropout rate-an average of 35 percent for the three villages in 1995. Gender
disparity is even more severe at the project village level. The household surveys show that
girls comprise 60 percent of school dropouts and, consequently, that only 20 percent of the
15-year-old female cohort graduated from primary school. It is no surprise that many
adults, particularly women, do not achieve literacy.
2.13   Low educational status in the project areas is the result of the poor's limited access
to education and the inferior quality of primary education services in the poor areas. While
the central government provides financial transfers to the poor areas of China, these
7 OGR is the percentage of primary school graduates among the 15-year-old population. Higher
repetition and dropout rates usually result in a lower OGR.



- 17-
resources are not adequate to meet all primary education needs, and financing of education
is mainly the responsibility of local governments and communities. As part of their cost-
recovery process, these local entities require that families pay for children to attend school.
The annual school fee per child, about Y 80 to Y 100, represents nearly 25 percent of
average per capita income in the project areas, and is therefore a major hindrance to many
poor children's access to school. Parents often have to pay additional boarding and
transportation for children in grades four and above, since these schools are usually located
far from home. This heavy financial burden is also often exacerbated by the perceived-
opportunity cost of forgone household labor, especially for girls. Limited government and
community financing has also contributed to a lack of primary schools, dilapidated school
buildings, and highly inadequate schooling materials such as books and instructional
equipment.
2.14 Along with limited access, inadequately planned and managed teacher training
programs, at both the preservice and inservice level, also hinder the quality of primary
education and the progress toward universalization in the project areas. Official statistics
show that, while 83 percent of primary school teachers meet the State-prescribed
qualifications at the national level, this percentage at the project county level ranges from
only 60 percent in Shaanxi to 74 percent in Sichuan. Current training courses focus on
content and pedagogical techniques appropriate for large urban schools, but few programs
offer teachers instructional methods and skills needed for the curriculum suited to small and
sometimes ethnically mixed rural schools. In addition, the lack of both management
personnel training and accurate education statistics and reporting has lowered the
effectiveness of education management.
2.15   Health. China has made considerable progress in enhancing the health of its
general population, but regional disparities in health status are in many cases extreme.
Infant mortality, maternal mortality, and nutritional status are far worse in project areas
compared to the national average and better-off rural areas (para. 1.4). The poor health
status of those in the project areas stems from a combination of limited access to health
services and the low quality of services provided.
2.16  In combination with inadequate government support and severe poverty, access to
health care in the project areas is hindered by the dilapidated condition and insufficient
number of health clinics, an inadequate quantity and flow of supplies and pharmaceuticals,
and the fee-for-service provision of most health services. Village health clinics exist in only
20 to 30 percent of project areas in Shaanxi and Ningxia. Village clinics do exist in 70
percent of the project areas in Sichuan, but nearly all are dilapidated. Most of the existing
village health clinics do not have an adequate operating budget for the pharmaceuticals,
syringes, needles, and sterilization equipment necessary to provide even basic health care.
Due to the lack of health facilities, most villagers in the project area must walk at least 4 km
to reach a village clinic or (in some cases) a township hospital. Following the elimination
of the cooperative health system during the 1980s, many rural families do not have health
insurance and must obtain care on a fee-for-service basis. The special household surveys
(para. 2.12) indicate that as many as 87 percent of the project population suffer from one or



- 18-
more of the following illnesses: acute respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, severe
colds, and neonatal tetanus, and annual treatments for such illnesses could cost a family as
much as Y 40. This amount is prohibitive for many poor families, and at present less than
20 percent of those suffering significant illness actually visit clinics.
2.17   The quality of the health services that reach the poor population greatly suffers
because of inadequate training on the part of providers, insufficient monetary incentives to
provide quality care, and poor planning and management. The care practices and skills of
health staff at all, but particularly at lower levels, is problematic. Compensation for health
workers is insufficient, resulting in low retention rates and in health workers splitting their
time between health tasks and other income-earning activities. (Since most project farm
families cannot afford to pay for clinical visits, village health workers rely on selling
pharmaceuticals-at an average retail markup of 30 percent-for much or all of their
income from practicing medicine.) Furthermore, reliable data on mortality, morbidity, and
nutritional status, which are important for designing and evaluating health and nutrition
interventions, are lacking.
C. RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
2.18 The Government's Food-for-Work Program (para. 1.9) was established in 1985 as a
means to improve basic infrastructure in rural China's poorest areas. The Program's
achievements have been significant, and by end-1995 a total of Y 19.8 billion in cash and
in-kind had been provided for the construction of rural water supply facilities, roads,
electrification, small-scale irrigation, drainage, soil conservation, terracing and other
infrastructure. However, despite these large expenditures, by end-1995 there were still
some 30 million inhabitants in the officially designated 592 poor counties without access to
potable water, some 214 townships without road access, and about 20,000 villages without
any form of electricity supply.
2.19   Despite the overall success of the Food-for-Work Program, environmental
degradation and the continuing lack of basic rural infrastructure in the poorest villages in
the project area make living conditions harsh and arduous. Inhabitants in these regions
often have to cover long distances by foot through steep terrain to reach the nearest source
of drinking water, and even there the water source may be contaminated or contain
dangerous levels of natural fluoride.  The expansion of water-saving techniques is
particularly urgent in the loess hills project counties where 83 percent of project villages
face seasonal drinking water shortages and only a very small proportion of project area
cultivated land is irrigated. Although paved roads reach all project county seats and dirt
roads reach almost all project townships in the project area, more than half of the
administrative villages in the Sichuan and Shaanxi project area, and about one third of the
project administrative villages in Ningxia, have no road access.  For most project
beneficiaries, the nearest dirt roads are reached only after some kilometers of steep climb
and descent over dirt foot trail, and considerable labor power is expended by villagers in
bringing their small amounts of agricultural and forest products to the nearest farners'
market. Half of the project administrative villages in Sichuan, and about one third of those



- 19-
in Shaanxi have no access to electricity. Overall, the limited access to safe water supply,
roads, electricity and telecommunications constitutes a severe constraint to the increased
productivity and improved health and well-being of the poorest communities in these
remote areas.
D. EMPLOYMENT, TVE DEVELOPMENT, AND MICROFINANCE
2.20 Labor Markets. Rural underemployment is a major challenge for the Chinese
Government, and agricultural job creation, which is expected to increase only marginally in
the 1990s (less than 1 percent per year at best), cannot solve the problem. For much of rural
China, the tremendous growth of employment opportunities in TVEs, coupled with large-
scale migration to emerging job opportunities in rural and urban areas, has provided a
solution to this underemployment. However, in the upland counties of Sichuan, Shaanxi,
Ningxia, and other western provinces, TVE development has been relatively slow, and
access to off-farm employment opportunities has been very limited. There are large pools
of surplus laborers in the western provinces, and more than one third of the rural population
in the project areas are chronically underemployed (i.e., classified as "surplus workers"). A
profile of the underemployed in project areas has identified a large pool of potentially
productive workers, provided they are offered rudimentary training. At least half of these
underemployed are illiterate or have only completed primary school education, and three
quarters are between the ages of 16 to 35.
2.21  TVE Development. The TVE sector has been one of the most dynamic elements of
the economic boom in China over the past 15 years. Nationally, TVE gross output value
amounted to Y 6.9 trillion in 1995, corresponding to a real increase of more than fourfold
since 1990. TVEs are a promising source of employment for the rural underemployed,
providing jobs to more than 129 million workers, or some 29 percent of the national rural
labor force, in 1995.
2.22 Measured by gross revenue, TVE development in China's western region has kept
pace with the national average during the 1990s. The growth of gross revenue of Sichuan's
TVEs has outpaced the national average during the 1990s. Measured by employment
growth rates, TVE development in China's western region has outstripped that of the nation
as a whole since 1990. Average annual TVE employment growth in Sichuan and Ningxia
was particularly strong during 1990-95, reaching 10.3 and 16.3 percent, respectively.
Shaanxi, at 5.3 percent, lagged the national average of 6.8 percent.
2.23  Unfortunately, TVE development has been relatively weak in the poor upland
project areas where significant barriers block the development of agroprocessing, mineral
processing, handicraft and other industries. Project county TVE and Labor Bureau staff
attribute slow TVE development to the lack of investment credit and working capital and
poorly developed infrastructure. While TVE managers may be attracted by relatively low
wage costs and the availability of agricultural and mineral raw materials, these advantages
are often not sufficient to overcome the lack of financing, roads, reliable electricity supply
and other basic requirements. Despite these obstacles and previous experience of slow



- 20 -
development, the production and employment potential of selected enterprises in poor
counties should not be overlooked. The Zhenan County Nasha Embroidery Station in
Shaanxi is a good example. For the past 10 years, the Station has established marketing
channels with more developed provinces and now subcontracts embroidery orders to more
than 500 upland village women. These women, who first receive training by Station staff,
complete these work orders at home. Village women earn an average income of about
Y 300 per month from this activity, which alone is often sufficient to bring their entire
family above the absolute poverty line. The Station has large numbers of orders for their
products, but has been unable to fully satisfy demand and expand its business due to
insufficient investment credit and working capital. Other TVEs throughout the project area,
such as carpet weaving and silk reeling factories, have significant job creation potential but
remain underfunded.
2.24  The Government's "East-West Cooperation Program" was recently established as
a means of expediting rural enterprise development in western China by linking poor
counties with existing firms in China's coastal and other more developed regions. A
strategic alliance between poor counties and China's more developed areas offers the
possibility of more effectively matching the poor areas' surplus labor and often abundant
supplies of raw materials with more developed areas' advanced technology, better
management skills, greater market access, and available investment funds.
2.25  Labor Mobility. Local TVEs cannot create sufficient numbers of jobs for the large
number of rural surplus laborers in upland counties, and many unemployed people turn to
labor mobility as an alternative. However, poor households in upland counties suffer from
serious labor market barriers, which raise the risks of labor mobility and lower the returns.
Faced with limited local employment opportunities and little information about jobs in
distant markets, tens of thousands of surplus laborers from upland households use informal
labor mobility channels to find work. Households report having to liquidate assets or take
on additional debt from local sources to finance frequently unsuccessful job searches.
While Sichuan is recognized as China's leader in labor mobility, having developed a large
network of informal employment connections, the very poor in the project areas rarely get
employment opportunities from these networks.
2.26  Both government-organized and spontaneous labor mobility channels now exist.
However, existing government-organized channels have not focused on helping the millions
of underemployed poor upland migrants eager to find jobs in urban markets. (Until
recently, the priority of provincial Labor Bureaus has instead been the redeployment of
unemployed workers from urban state-owned enterprises.) Consequently, most rural
migrant laborers-and nearly all poor-area migrant laborers-use the riskier spontaneous
labor mobility channels. In Sichuan, for example, between 8 and 9 million people have
migrated to other provinces over the last decade in search of jobs. Government channels
facilitated the flow of about 2 million of these migrant laborers, but very few if any of these
were from the poorest and more remote Qinba mountains area. In Shaanxi, an estimated 1.5
million people migrated interprovincially to find jobs, with only 175,000 served by Labor
Bureau channels and another 74,000 using other employment agencies. Most of the



-21
- 21 -
spontaneous labor migrants headed for Guangdong, Shanghai, Beijing, Hainan and
Xinjiang.
2.27  One reason for large-scale spontaneous labor mobility is that wage rate differences
between poor rural areas and prosperous urban and rural areas have grown, from a 300
percent difference in 1982 to about 600 percent at present. The large wage rate gap holds
the promise of large remittances as a source of cash income for upland poor households and
the local economy. MOL estimates that 37 million rural migrants in 23 large cities remitted
Y 75 billion to their farnilies in 1994, and the Sichuan Labor Bureau reports that that
province's six million migrant workers send home remittances of more than Y 16 billion
each year. Per capita remittances of Y 2,000 are far greater than per capita income for poor
households in upland counties (viz., Y 530 or less in 1995), and would alone be more than
sufficient to achieve the 8-7 Plan target for per capita income (of Y 500 in 1992 constant
yuan) for such families. Village interviews have revealed that, even without remittances
from migrants, the upland household benefits significantly from just the decreased demand
on its meager food supply.
2.28  The potential gains from labor mobility hide significant risks, which present special
challenges to certain groups of migrants from the project areas (such as women and poorly
educated migrants). Rural workers migrating through spontaneous channels often work in
coal mines, construction sites and assembly lines, and are increasingly vulnerable to illness,
accidents, sexual abuse, wages below legal minimums, and other forms of exploitation.
Accident rates, arbitrary payroll deductions and labor disputes are more likely, since
workers do not have the proper documentation and are poorly informed about their legal
rights. Growing urban labor markets in the Yangtze and Pearl River Deltas do need large
numbers of low-skilled labor for new and expanding plants, but the presence of millions of
migrants also increases the already severe strains on urban housing, water, sewer,
communications, transportation and other services in these areas. While they recognize the
economic benefits of migrant workers, municipal authorities in many cities are concerned
with the risk of large and expanding slums in urban and periurban areas.
2.29  Microfmance. Despite the restructuring of the financial sector in the early 1990s,
China's mainstream rural financial institutions remain completely state-owned and offer a
narrow range of basic financial services to state agencies for mandatory crop programs,
rural collectives, and state-owned enterprises. Rural credit cooperatives collect savings, but
do not provide a significant amount of working capital, investment credit or consumption
loans. Informal financial arrangements are growing rapidly, but they remain expensive,
localized, and seasonally limited. Generally, due to their lack of collateral, low literacy, and
physical isolation, very poor households cannot obtain loans from formal providers.
Informal providers do offer loans to poor households, but at very high cost. In practical
terms, two elements of rural finance stand out: (a) the formal financial sector does not have
sustainable institutions serving rural areas, and (b) most rural low-income households and
microenterprises are (i) excluded from the formal financial system and (ii) inadequately
served by the informal financial system.



-22-
E. POVERTY MONITORING
2.30  An independent and effective poverty monitoring system is vital to obtaining an
accurate identification of the poor, in analyzing the accuracy of targeting benefits, and in
assessing the impact of poverty reduction activities. Unfortunately, much work has yet to
be done to establish reliable and comprehensive estimates of poverty. Strategies found that,
depending on the data source for per capita income, estimates of poverty incidence at the
provincial level can vary as much as 50 percent. While SSB administers a comprehensive
rural household survey that gathers data on provincial averages, it does not provide
infornation at the county level-an absolute necessity in identifying the poor and for
evaluating changes in poverty. It also does not include sufficient information on important
correlates of poverty such as household expenditures, education, health, labor mobility and
credit experience. While other sources of data exist that could augment information
obtained through the SSB rural household survey, some of that information is not collected
on a systematic basis and very little data exist on the characteristics of the bottom 5 to 10
percent of the income distribution.
F. SELECTION OF PROJECT COUNTIES, TOWNSHIPS AND VILLAGES
2.31  Selection Process. In order to be able to target meaningful levels of assistance to
the very poorest households in the project area, it was necessary during project preparation
to select only a limited number of project counties and a subset of townships and
administrative villages within those counties. All of the project counties are among the
nationally designated 8-7 Plan poor counties. Significant income disparities exist within
these counties, and a key activity during project preparation was to select the poorest
townships within the project counties for assistance under the project. The principal criteria
for the selection of project townships and administrative villages were below average per
capita income levels and grain production. As illustrated in IBRD Map No. 28214, an
effort was also made to select townships and administrative villages in continuous project
area blocks in order to improve ease of project implementation. Through this selection
process, the project will be able to concentrate an average investment of Y 1,300 per person
on the poorest fifth of the project counties' population.
2.32  Counties. About 6 million, or about one tenth, of China's remaining absolute poor
reside in Sichuan, Shaanxi and Ningxia. The 26 project counties are among the poorest of
the 8-7 Plan counties, with 1995 average rural per capita income levels ranging between
Y 586 and Y 634, and per capita grain production ranging between 206 kg to 365 kg in that
year. Poverty incidence, income levels and grain production for the project counties and
townships, the three project provinces, and China are shown in Table 2.1. These data show
that between one third to three quarters of the rural population of the project counties are
absolutely poor. This level of poverty is 6 to 10 times greater than the incidence of rural
poverty at the national level, and several times greater than the respective provincial
incidences. Average rural per capita income and grain production in the project counties are
also substantially less than the provincial and national averages.



- 23 -
TABLE 2.1: 1995 RURAL POVERTY INCIDENCE, INCOME AND GRAIN PRODUCTION
Incidence of   Rural per capita   Rural per capita
rural poverty      income        grain production
(%)          (1995 Yuan)          (kg)
National Average               7.6             1,578              543
Sichuan Average                8.9             1,158              465
Sichuan Project Counties      36.9               634              365
Sichuan Project Townships     85.8               551              293
Shaanxi Average               25.8               963              332
Shaanxi Project Counties      31.2               604              252
Shaanxi Project Townships     74.7               498              237
Ningxia Average               27.8               999              558
Ningxia Project Counties      72.5               586              206
Ningxia Project Townships     87.9               471              149
Source: Chinese Statistical Yearbook, 1996 and project area statistics.
2.33  Townships and Villages. The 26 project counties comprise a total of 1,285
townships and about 12,670 administrative villages. The project area includes the poorest
quarter, or some 361, of these townships, and about 90 percent, or some 2,941, of the
administrative villages in the project townships. (All natural villages in the project
administrative villages are included in the project.) The exclusion of nearly three quarters
of the townships in the project counties allows for the targeting of an adequate level of
investment to the very poorest villages (Box 2.1). The incidence of poverty in the project
townships ranges between 75 percent in Shaanxi and 88 percent in Ningxia, or between 9
and 12 times greater than the national average rate. The incidence of poverty within the
project townships is also several times greater than the respective provincial rates, and
significantly greater than the respective project county rates. Similarly, average rural per
capita income and grain production in these project townships are also substantially less
than the provincial and national averages.



- 24 -
Box 2.1: PROJECT AREA SELECTION-THE POOREST OF THE POOR
Similar to the other nationally designated poor counties in Shaanxi, Zhenan
County's average rural per capita net income in 1995 was Y 686, and average rural per
capita grain production was 275 kg. This level of income was less than half the national
rural average (Y 1,578) for that year, and about 70 percent of the provincial rural average
(Y 963). Conditions are even less favorable in the Zhenan County project townships, which
are located in the more remote upland areas of the county and have only three quarters of
the county average rural per capita income (see Map IBRD No. 28214).
Yuquan is a particularly poor project township in Zhenan. Located about 90 km
away from the county seat, the township's four administrative villages comprise 361
households scattered in a mountainous area with elevations ranging from 600 to more than
1,800 meters. The arable land area is extremely limited, and the township average rural per
capita net income was only Y 429 in 1995-or about one quarter of the national average-
and average per capita grain production was about 253 kg. Some 80 percent of the
population lives below the poverty line, and 75 tons of relief grain-or 60 kg per capita-
are brought into the area annually. The township seat can be reached by a rough dirt road,
but the township's villages are accessible by foot only. One small hydropower station
supplies electricity to a quarter of the households.
One of the villages without road access or electricity is Qianjin Village. Nearly all
of Qianjin's population are absolutely poor, and the extreme scarcity of flatland has forced
villagers to extend grain cultivation to higher elevations and steeply sloped hillsides.
Despite having extended grain cultivation to environmentally fragile hillsides, the villagers
still depend on relief grain for their survival. Due to Qianj in's isolation, poor infrastructure,
and limited resources, off-farm income-generating activities are extremely limited.
Villagers derive their meager cash incomes, which are generally less than Y 100 per capita,
from raising silkworm cocoons, collecting forest products, and small-scale livestock sales.
The lack of healthcare workers and adequate medical supplies has resulted in a hygienic
delivery rate of only 25 percent and an infant and child mortality rate of 18 percent. The
1995 village survey showed that among the village's 15-year-olds, only one quarter
graduated from primary school. Not surprisingly, the adult illiteracy rate is close to 80
percent, and there is no agricultural or other technician in the village and few training or
extension activities. The village population stood at 1,317 people in 1994. Following 12
births, 10 deaths, and 9 out-migrations, the village population declined by 7 in 1995. Due
to the extreme poverty, few women are willing to marry village men and, as a result, the
adult male to female ratio is at present 2 to 1.



- 25 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
3.1   The principal objectives of the project are to: (a) demonstrate the effectiveness of a
focused multisectoral rural development project approach to poverty reduction, (b) facilitate
a "market-friendly" increase in labor mobility from the poor areas to better-off rural and
rapidly growing urban areas, (c) upgrade poverty monitoring at the national and local levels,
and (d) significantly reduce absolute poverty in 26 of the very poorest counties in the Qinba
mountains region. The project would also stabilize or even reverse upland environmental
destruction through land and pasture improvement and soil conservation works, and
encourage greater local community participation by enabling households to make key
decisions during project design and implementation.
3.2   At present, the LGPR system  at the central, provincial and local levels
(a) administers a large program of official development assistance (grants, credit and
standard loans) through the national banking system and (b) coordinates a very wide variety
of special poor-area projects and specially funded programs supported by each of 27 central
ministries and agencies (paras. 1.9 and 1.10). These existing poverty reduction programs
include nearly all sectors and known approaches to poverty reduction. However, the
various approaches have rarely been integrated at the local level, and the effectiveness of an
integrated multisectoral package of poverty reduction initiatives has only been tested on a
large scale in the very poorest upland areas of China through SWPRP. Though much
smaller in scale and more limited in content than the proposed project, a small number of
integrated multisectoral rural development projects have also been supported in China by
several international agencies including UNDP, IFAD, WFP and FAO. The successful
implementation and favorable impact of SWPRP and these smaller projects strongly
suggest that the proposed project's integrated multisectoral approach will, particularly for
the most severely affected resource-deficient areas, prove far more effective in achieving a
sustainable reduction of China's remaining absolute poverty than have most existing
unintegrated poverty reduction programs. The Bank Group-supported multisector rural
development project approach is now becoming the model for extension to China's other
poor areas and to the overall poverty reduction program.
B. DESCRIPTION
3.3   The project would comprise the following six components:
(a)   labor mobility, through a voluntary system of enhanced rural labor mobility
for the upland absolute poor, supported by skill training through an
enterprise reimbursement system, a computerized demand-driven job



- 26 -
placement system emphasizing local markets, monitoring of worker safety
and living conditions, and reporting of abuses and grievances;
(b)   rural infrastructure, including the labor-intensive construction of rural
roads, water supply systems, small-scale irrigation, agricultural drainage
works, biogas digesters, and rural electrification;
(c)   land and farmer development, using menus of crop and livestock activities
to increase upland agricultural productivity and reverse the trend of
environmental degradation through (i) extension of improved agriculture
and smallholder livestock management techniques and inputs, (ii) establish-
ment of tree crop nurseries and provision of saplings and tree crop
management extension, (iii) intensification of staple crop production on the
modest amount of available flatland, (iv) terracing for improved water and
soil conservation, and (v) the support of provincial and regional research;
(d)   TVE development, through support for TVEs consisting of investment
credit for labor-intensive commercially viable agroprocessing, mineral,
service and handicraft industries that have strong backward linkages to poor
households and meet environmental safeguards;
(e)   microfinance, through a cooperative structure organizing members into
five-member voluntary joint liability groups, to provide credit services to
poor households for production activities; and,
(f)   institution building and poverty monitoring, through (i) improving
FCPMC and PMOs' capabilities in project design and implementation,
procurement, accounting, and monitoring and evaluation, and (ii)
strengthening the poverty monitoring system for the project areas by using
improved SSB survey instruments to provide a credible and comprehensive
poverty profile, analyze the accuracy of the targeting of benefits to the
absolute poor, and measure and evaluate the impact of the project's
individual components.
In addition, two social services programs would be undertaken in parallel with the
project. The Qinba Education Program (QEP), supported under the Fourth Basic
Education Project (CN-PE-36952) that was presented to the Board in May 1997, would
increase the access and quality of primary education provided to the poor through facilities
construction, tuition payments, teacher and management training, and the provision of
textbooks and instructional equipment.  The Qinba Health Program  (QHP), to be
supported under the Eighth Basic Health Services Project (CN-PE-3566) that is scheduled
for Board presentation in FY98, would enhance the availability and delivery of primary
and curative health care to the poor through health clinic and township hospital renovation
and construction, the establishment of a village health cooperative fund, the strengthening
of public health programs in disease prevention and control and for improved maternal and
child health, and the enhancement of the management capabilities of health administrators
at the county and provincial level.



- 27 -
C. DETAILED FEATURES
Enhanced Rural Labor Mobility
3.4   The project would establish a voluntary labor mobility system  to provide
employment to about 155,000 upland surplus laborers over six years, and provide an
important testing ground for assisting the organized flow of rural laborers into China's fast-
growing cities. Project activities build on existing institutional arrangements and systems
of the provincial Labor Bureaus, with adjustments to target upland poor surplus laborers.
The four elements of the labor mobility system are (a) village orientation, (b) on-the-job
training by enterprises on a cost reimbursement basis, (c) job placement, and (d) monitoring
worker rights, job safety and living conditions. County Labor Bureaus would target
project-area poor households with the most surplus labor. The county Labor Bureaus would
be encouraged to provide a representative share ofjob opportunities to women.
3.5   Special care would be taken to minimize the risks inherent to labor mobility (para.
2.28). Safety records and work conditions of joint ventures with fewer than 100 employees
would be reviewed before workers are placed, since these enterprises have the most
frequently reported cases of worker abuse and accidents. The provincial and county offices
of the All-China Women's Federation (ACWF) would provide the project's female migrant
laborers with a special orientation on the risks of labor mobility, including sexual
exploitation. The China Western Human Resource Development Center (CWHRDC),
which has already established a highly effective monitoring system focusing on fair
treatment of workers and workplace safety under SWPRP, would work with LGPR,
provincial Labor Bureaus and ACWF to monitor and evaluate labor mobility activities.
Monitoring indicators would include (a) wage and remittance levels, (b) job safety records,
(c) dormitory conditions, (d) conditions faced by women workers, (e) resolution of labor
disputes involving migrants, (f) cost per job created, (g) contract completion rates, and
(h) cost recovery rates. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) labor mobility
would be strictly voluntary and undertaken on the basis of a program acceptable to the
Bank Group, (b) a monitoring and reporting system satisfactory to the Bank Group (such as
that established by CWHRDC for SWPRP, focusing on fair treatment of workers and
workplace safety) would be finalized and implemented at the provincial and national levels
no later than September 15, 1997, and (c) the Borrower, as part of its overall project
monitoring (para. 4.17), would prepare and submit a detailed labor mobility component
monitoring report to the Bank Group by March 15 and September 15 of each year.
3.6   Cost recovery through payroll deductions and remittances would contribute to a
sustainable labor mobility system. The project would conduct village visits to ensure that
these mechanisms do not cause undue hardship on upland households. Provincial and
county Labor Bureaus estimate that costs will range from Y 1,100 per job for
intraprovincial placement to Y 2,000 for distant markets with slightly greater skill training
requirements. Fixed-cost investments would amount to only Y 100 per migrant for the first
six years.



- 28 -
3.7   The project would establish a computerized management information system to
match surplus laborers with job opportunities. This information system would enable
FCPMC and MOL to spearhead labor migration from the poor project counties to fast-
growing, highly competitive markets such as Shanghai and Guangzhou. County Labor
Bureaus and TVE Bureaus would ensure that TVEs supported by the project would hire
low-skilled workers through the labor mobility system. CWHRDC would be responsible
for developing a job placement system for interprovincial labor mobility, and would
provide semiannual analytical reports with statistical summaries, patterned after the
SWPRP labor mobility component's monitoring reports. Based on existing systems
already tested during implementation of SWPRP, CWHRDC would train project county
labor bureau staff in all necessary activities (from village promotion, with targeting of
poor households with the greatest number of surplus laborers, to data collection,
orientation, staff training and village-level household monitoring). The county labor
bureaus would be responsible for labor mobility placement and monitoring for surplus
workers sent to enterprises within the province, using the same standards and systems as
CWHRDC. The project would also provide for construction and equipping of office and
training facilities for this program.
3.8   A one-year pilot phase would test labor mobility strategies in provincial and distant
markets before large-scale operations are undertaken. The project would evaluate the use of
groups, alternative remittance channels to ensure the safe transfer of remittances, payroll
deductions to cover costs, and the effectiveness of monitoring techniques and remedies.
Rural Infrastructure
3.9   The project would support the construction of rural roads, water supply systems,
small-scale irrigation, rural electrification and biogas digesters.
3.10  Roads. The project would construct about 892 km of all-weather gravel roads in
order to link 780 administrative villages in remote mountainous areas to the existing
network of county and township roads. These roads would be constructed to Class IV road
standards, with a minimum formation width of 4.5 m and a 3.5 m wide carriageway
designed for 10-ton vehicular loading on bridges and culverts.
3.11  Water Supply. Low-cost water supply facilities would be provided to about
466,000 people in 1,680 villages.  The facilities would tap from  springs, utilize
groundwater, and divert or pump from streams, and would include piped systems with
public hydrants, rain collectors serving individual households or several households, and
shallow wells. Water storages would sustain supply for up to 60 to 70 days in Sichuan and
Shaanxi and for up to 100 days in Ningxia during the dry seasons. Facilities would be
designed to supply 15 to 35 liters of water per capita per day, and would meet current water
quality standards for rural water supply in China. Drinking water for animals would also be
provided in areas where water sources are sufficient and marginal construction costs are
reasonable.
3.12  Irrigation. The project would also construct and improve small-scale irrigation
works for 8,900 ha of existing and new rice paddy and upland grain crops in Sichuan and



- 29 -
Shaanxi. The irrigation works would include 1 small reservoir storage scheme, 530
irrigation ponds, 7 small pumping stations, 965 on-farm water cisterns, 43 diversion weirs,
and 640 km of lined canal. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that all dams
rehabilitated under the project would be maintained and inspected annually in accordance
with sound engineering practices, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group. In
the semiarid areas of Ningxia, the project would construct individually operated
microirrigation systems with water supplies drawn from shallow wells and small cisterns.
About 15 tube wells, 2,000 shallow wells, and 21,600 cisterns for rain harvesting would be
constructed to serve about 5,355 ha of cropland. Some 650 ha of river beach land would
also be reclaimed in Ningxia for crop production.
3.13  Rural Energy. The project would also address the power needs of the project area
by increasing access to electricity and alternative forms of energy. To satisfy power
requirements for agroprocessing, other light industry, mining, and some household use,
75 km of 35 kilovolts (kV) and 669 km of 10 kV overhead power transmission and
distribution lines would be installed. Eight minihydro plants with a total installed capacity
of 2.2 megawatts (MW) would also be constructed. About 1,830 biogas digesters for
cooking and lighting would be provided to reduce dependence on scarce fuelwood in some
project counties in Sichuan.
Land and Farmer Development
3.14  Strategy and Farmer Participation. The primary objective of the land and
farmer development component is to create a substantial and sustainable increase in the
agricultural productivity and incomes of the 574,000 project households. This objective
would be reached through the improvement of, and investment in, integrated land use
systems specific to the Qinba mountains in Shaanxi and Sichuan and to the loess hills in
Ningxia. In Shaanxi and Sichuan, households would improve grain crop, cash crop and
feed production on their terraced land, and expand forestry and animal-raising activities
on their steeply sloped land. In Ningxia, project farmers would construct new terraces,
establish microirrigation facilities, and adopt appropriate water-saving technologies.
These and other investments would significantly reduce the adverse impact of spring
drought on wheat yields, and substantially increase grain and fodder resources for
livestock. In the context of these improved integrated land use systems, the project
would offer households in all three project provinces (a) the capacity to intensify
production on the terraced portion of their cultivated land, (b) a variety of alternative
income-generating activities in animal, crop and tree production, and (c) increased access
to training, extension and other agricultural support services.
3.15  Beneficiary villages and households have participated in the determination of a
"menu" of alternative land and farmer development component activities, and they will
play the key role in the actual selection of these activities during implementation. This
menu includes 62 different agricultural activities, 25 of which are adapted to more
difficult environments with higher elevation. The development of several activities by a
single household or in a single village would promote the improvement of households'



- 30 -
integrated land use systems. The menu of activities includes both short-term and longer-
term investments, such as animal production and tree crop development (respectively),
and will help to better integrate animal production with crop production. The project
merges these activities into individual village development plans, and the design of these
village plans has reached an advanced stage of preparation. The average investment per
household is sufficient to give each household in each of the 2,941 project villages the
opportunity to take part in the component activities. An upper limit to the investment per
household has been established to further ensure access to project benefits by all
households.
3.16 Land Development and Microirrigation. Land development activities would
target all villages and most households, and would increase the proportion of arable
flatland from 28 percent at present to 47 percent at full development. The project would
build about 65,080 ha of new terraces, including 26,755 ha of stonewall terraces and
2,760 ha of earthwall terraces in the Sichuan and Shaanxi mountains, 15,580 ha of
earthwall terraces in the Sichuan hills, and 20,000 ha of mechanically built loess terraces
in Ningxia. In addition, the project would construct and improve small-scale irrigation
and drainage works for 8,300 ha of waterlogged paddy fields in the Sichuan hills. First-
year applications of phosphate and nitrogen fertilizer (and potassium in Sichuan) would
be provided on newly developed land.
3.17  Food and Cash Crops.  The project would promote improved technology
packages for the 73,390 ha of newly built terraces in the three provinces and the newly
drained paddy fields in Sichuan. These packages would support hybrid corn in Sichuan
and Shaanxi, microirrigated corn in Ningxia, and improved varieties and technologies for
the other major grain and oilseed crops. The project would supply households with one
year of quality inputs (seeds, plastic mulch, and pesticides) for corn (33,300 ha), wheat
(14,300 ha), potatoes (14,800 ha), linseed in Ningxia (1,800 ha), and rapeseed in Sichuan
(150 ha). Sets of basic tools, including hoes, sickles and manual cornstalk choppers,
would also be provided. The project packages would combine these external inputs with
the extension of improved practices to enhance long-term soil fertility and water
efficiency. Such practices include sowing along contour lines, and balanced applications
of organic manure and chemical fertilizers. Five species of medicinal plants and tubers
would be introduced in project villages on 8,630 ha (mostly in Shaanxi), and 1,500 ha of
commercial vegetables would be developed. Among these cash crops species, Shaanxi
plans to develop 5,500 ha of peltate yam, a tuber used by the pharmaceutical industry. It
is expected that 20 percent of project households would take part in the development of
these cash crops.
3.18  Animal Production. Nearly half of project households in Sichuan and Shaanxi,
and about 90 percent of project households in Ningxia, would invest in raising additional
goat and sheep (345,500 head), pigs and sows (312,500 head), cattle (62,100 head),
poultry and other animals. The investment would include young animals, simple
upgrading of animal housing, and feed additives for the first year. The expansion of
animal numbers would increase current animal feed requirements by about one third.



- 31 -
Project-supported fodder development activities would focus on improving winter fodder
resources and feeding practices. In Ningxia, an increase of 2,800 ha in the area of cut-
and-carry alfalfa, and the introduction of corn on 7,100 ha, would provide 40 percent of
the requirements of additional animal numbers. The remaining 60 percent would be
provided by natural rangeland at higher elevations and by resources made available by the
expected out-migration of about one third of project-area households. In Sichuan and
Shaanxi, fodder development would comprise the introduction of cut-and-carry fodder
species, such as ryegrass and clover, on 6,500 ha, and the extension of hay technology
and cornstalk manual chopping. In the three provinces, a total of 60,400 ammoniated
straw tanks would help improve the efficiency of feeding systems based on straw and cut-
and-carry fodder. Incremental pig feed requirements would be met by increases in the
yields of sweet potatoes, potatoes and rice bran on newly developed land, and the
extension of arrowroot.
3.19 Perennial Crops. In Sichuan and Shaanxi, about 15 percent of households would
initiate the production of silkworm cocoons or expand their current production. They
would plant the equivalent of 4,100 ha of mulberry, and rehabilitate 800 ha through the
grafting of existing plantations. Most mulberry trees would be interplanted on terrace
edges. Some 5,200 ha of cultivated land, mainly lower-yielding land, would be converted
into plantations of tea (1,900 ha) and seven fruit tree species. About one third of project
households would develop nontimber forest product species on 19,200 ha. The 10
species to be developed are mainly chestnuts and walnuts (10,000 ha), and species
yielding medicinal products including Eucommia (3,800 ha) and gingko (2,500 ha).
Some 1,800 ha of timber (regeneration of oak, and plantation of timber species) would
also be developed. In Ningxia, some 700 ha of microirrigated orchard would be
developed by individual households. The equivalent of 1,200 ha of antierosion belts
would be planted along terrace edges. The main species would be Caragana microphylla,
a leguminous bush yielding both fodder and fuelwood. Technical packages for each
perennial crop variety comprising varieties, interplanting schemes, pruning, fertilizer
application rates, pesticides, on-farm storage and packaging have been designed in each
county (with provincial support) in accordance with local environmental conditions and
long-term market needs and risks. The project would closely supervise the provision of
certified quality seedlings, and provide annual requirements of quality chemical fertilizers
and pesticides until the first year of production (that is, for a period of 2 to 5 years).
3.20  Land Use Rights. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the project
provinces would ensure that project households would receive individual land use rights
for a term of not less than 30 years for the land they terrace, irrigate, drain, or plant to
perennial crops under the project. Land development would be a household-based
activity and would take place in locations that individual households consider to best fit
their land use systems. Plantations of perennial crops would be established and managed
by individual households. Households would retain the right to plant perennial crops
developed under the project either in their homeplots, on field edges, in their individual
forest and wasteland areas, or on forestland under the control of Forestry Bureaus. In



- 32 -
townships under the Yangtze watershed forestry program in Sichuan and Shaanxi, the
project would facilitate the implementation of this program on a household basis.
3.21  Training, Extension and Support Services. During the first years of the project,
more than 355,000 farmers would attend an average of four days of training. Training
contents would comprise a wide range of technical and economic management skills.
Activities would be specifically focused on illiterate women farmers in Ningxia. The
project would provide 166 small pickups, 182 motorcycles and 300 sets of extension
equipment to enable township technicians to increase their visits to project villages.
Township veterinary services would be strengthened, and a total of 130 sets of small
equipment would be provided for township and village veterinarians.  A budget
equivalent to one year of vaccination costs for all additional animals would be made
available to township veterinary stations. In Ningxia, township artificial insemination
services for cows would also be strengthened.
3.22  The project would promote greater household participation in agricultural
extension and support services. About 2,900 village farmer-technicians would join
annual five-day training sessions. In Sichuan and Shaanxi, farmer-technician training
would focus on training lead farmers, both young farmers and women farm heads. In
Ningxia, the project would build a network of demonstration sites located along
countryside roads, with two demonstration farmers in each project village. Other skilled
households would become suppliers of tree seedlings and grow a total of 237 ha of
nurseries (Sichuan and Shaanxi), provide services for pesticide spraying and portable
pumps (Sichuan hills), mechanized cornstalk shredding and husking (Sichuan and
Ningxia), potato starch extraction (Ningxia), crossbreeding of local pigs and goats with
improved breeds (Sichuan), and cash crop seed production (Shaanxi). In addition, seed
companies would expand their multiplication area of virus-free potatoes, corn, hybrid rice
and wheat seeds by 2,800 ha.
3.23 Applied Agricultural Technology Program (AATP). The project would
employ provincial research institutions to initiate applied agricultural research tailored to
the project area needs. Priority research needs have been selected by the provincial
PMOs (a list is provided in Annex 3) and research contracts are being drafted. The
transfer of research and technical assistance outcomes to extension agents and farmers
would take place during project implementation.
TVE Development
3.24  TVEs are a cost-effective means of creating stable jobs for unskilled workers and
spurring economic development in small towns and rural areas. All TVE investments
provisionally accepted for inclusion in this project were proposed, and are sponsored by,
local governments in the project provinces, counties, townships, and villages. They were
subjected to five selection criteria to maximize benefits to the poor: (a) cost per job created,
(b) commercial feasibility, (c) worker safety and environmental risks, (d) skills training, and
(e) backward linkages to products produced by project households. Selected TVEs would



- 33 -
add significant local value to existing and planned agriculture and mineral production.
Commercial feasibility has been analyzed by reviewing trends in demand and prices in
local, regional and national markets. A number of proposed TVEs did not meet the five
criteria and were rejected, and others were modified during project preparation. TVE
subprojects to be implemented by enterprises (as opposed to government units) would be
financed under subloans made by the project provinces on ABC's standard interest terms
for similar activities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) the project
provinces would be required to complete appraisal of the TVE activities in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the Bank Group, (b) these activities would be included in the
project subject to the Bank Group's final approval, and (c) for TVE subprojects
implemented by enterprises, the enterprise would have to demonstrate its creditworthiness
and Bank Group funds would be onlent on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
Group.
3.25  TVE Portfolio Composition. The TVE component is expected to support 171
enterprises, including the expansion or creation of 125 agroprocessing firms, 16 mining and
construction materials operations, 9 handicrafts manufacturers, and 21 farmers' markets,
creating about 33, 850 low-skill jobs in local towns. Agroprocessing activities include
forest products, tea, fruits and vegetables, animals, and a wide range of local food and
medicinal products. The average TVE investment would be Y 3.2 million, and would
provide employment for 225 upland migrants, at a cost of Y 15,000 ($1,800) per job.
Women would make up at least 80 percent of the labor force in some sectors, such as carpet
weaving, embroidery and fruit processing.
3.26  The farmers' markets would be established to provide poor farmers in project areas
with affordable access to inputs and profitable outlets for products. The location of farmers'
markets would be linked to rural road construction. Each province has selected three
farmers' markets for the one-year pilot phase, which would be evaluated based on the
following: (a) access to affordable inputs by poor households, (b) market prices for
products made by poor farmers, and (c) market occupancy rates and financial sustainability.
Based on an evaluation of the nine pilot farmers' markets, adjustments would be made to
the design, number and location of the remaining markets in latter years of the project.
3.27 Worker Safety and Environmental Risks. All TVEs would meet existing
national environmental standards for water, soil, and air quality and noise pollution. The
TVE feasibility studies include assessment of environmental risks and risk abatement
measures. The studies will be reviewed by the provincial and county Environmental
Protection Bureaus (EPBs), which must approve new and expanded TVE facilities under
national regulations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, as a prerequisite to
inclusion of a TVE activity, the provincial EPBs would (a) determine whether the TVE
would require effluent treatment facilities, (b) review and approve the final designs of the
necessary effluent treatment facilities prior to beginning construction, and (c) supervise the
plant's implementation and maintenance of effluent monitoring and treatment systems. Key
monitoring indicators include wage and remittance levels, enterprise profitability and
worker safety records. In addition, in cases in which land acquisition is required for TVE



- 34 -
development, the payment of timely and adequate compensation will be monitored, based
on Chinese regulations and Bank Group policy. Food processing TVEs would be subject to
regular sanitary inspections by local health authorities.
Microfinance
3.28  The microfinance component would establish a sustainable financial system to
provide working capital loans to microenterprises run by poor households in project
areas. After initial support from the Qinba project, the loan portfolio would be largely
financed by loan installment repayments, available local funds (such as poverty
alleviation funds), fees and savings generated by poor households. The component would
finance loans made by two autonomous cooperatives in Langzhong County (Sichuan) and
Ankang City (Shaanxi), and provide technical assistance to these entities. Over a six-year
period, 16,000 households would receive working capital loans and establish savings
accounts.
3.29 Methodology and Organization. The cooperatives would apply an adaptation of
the Grameen Bank model, which uses a joint liability group lending methodology. The
branches would be profit centers, and loan officers would receive incentives based on the
performance of their individual and the branch loan portfolio. By the end of the sixth
year, the average loan officer would serve 300 clients. Loan officers would help the
group to obtain technical assistance from relevant county bureaus. The cooperative
would use "portfolio-at-risk" to track portfolio quality, classifying each loan with one
installment more than one day late as an overdue loan. There would be regular internal
and annual external audits.
3.30  The cooperative would encourage poor households to form voluntary groups of
five members, who provide a joint guarantee for working capital loans as an alternative to
physical collateral. Participating households that receive loans would already have
experience in at least one productive activity, be self-sufficient in grain production, and
be deemed creditworthy by other members in the group. The majority of group members
would be women. Groups would approve the loan application by individual members,
select the order in which members receive loans, maintain financial records on loans,
savings, and repayment, participate in production training sessions, and would be jointly
responsible for on-time repayment of loan installments. Average loan processing time
(from application to disbursement) would be less than two weeks. Larger loans would be
offered once all members have repaid every installment on time.
3.31  Financial Services. The cooperative would offer working capital loans based on
the cashflow generated by an activity, and the initial loan would be between Y 400 to
Y 700. Loans would be one year in duration, including a two-week grace period and 34
equal 10-day installments of principal, interest and compulsory savings. Borrowers
would select their investments based on a wide menu of technically viable productive
activities, such as agricultural processing (including oilseed and fodder), animal
husbandry (such as pigs, sheep, oxen), cash crops (such as traditional medicines and tea),



- 35 -
small stores, trade, and small service businesses (such as food preparation, and electrical
and agricultural appliance repair). Group members would approve the application before
it is submitted to the loan officer. The loan officer would review the proposed activity to
ensure that it can generate adequate cashflow to cover the loan installments.
3.32  Based on local demand, up to 10 percent of a branch's outstanding loan portfolio
could be used for larger loans to established microenterprises in Langzhong and Ankang
project areas that need to purchase equipment. These would be individual loans with a
physical collateral guarantee, and would not exceed Y 8,000. Approval criteria for these
loans would include the generation of cashflow to cover loan installments, commercial
viability and jobs creation for surplus laborers from project-area poor households.
3.33  For both types of loans, the effective interest rate and application and other fees
charged would be sufficient to cover all operational costs and the unsubsidized cost of
funds. Poverty-related research expenses and social welfare services would not be carried
out directly by the loan staff of the cooperative and would not be included in the
calculation of the interest rate. Assurances were obtained that Bank Group proceeds
would be onlent to the cooperatives (a) by the project provinces for 15 years, including 5
years of grace, at an annual interest rate of at least 2.88 percent, and (b) on conditions
acceptable to the Bank Group, including that the cooperatives have adopted an
acceptable operating manual governing their lending operations.
Institution Building and Poverty Monitoring
3.34 Institution Building. With the exception of SWPRP, the LGPR system has only
limited experience with the detailed design and implementation of large multisectoral
projects. There is a need, therefore, to enhance the capacities of the LGPR system,
including the three project provincial PADOs and the county- and lower-level PMOs, in
project planning, design, management and monitoring. The institution-building component
will better equip the provinces and counties to meet the formidable challenge of integrated
upland area development.   The institution building component would include:
(a) institutional design, including the design of organizational setup, definition of functions
and establishment of project implementation and management procedures; (b) human
resource development, including training and technical assistance; (c) provision of facilities,
including office space, office furniture and equipment, and vehicles; and (d) development of
a computer-based information system to facilitate project management and monitoring.
Due to the program-lending nature of the project, special attention would be paid to
upgrading the PMOs' abilities in development planning, project selection and appraisal, and
monitoring and evaluation of project implementation.
3.35  Research, Training and Technical Assistance. The project would fund research,
local and overseas training, study tours and technical assistance comprising both foreign
and local consultants. Each project component (except for rural infrastructure and TVE
development) includes research, training and technical assistance. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that FCPMC would provide an annual plan to the Bank Group by



- 36 -
December I of each year that would include a list of proposed research, training, study
tours and technical assistance under the projectfor the coming year.
3.36  Poverty Monitoring. The establishment of an objective poverty monitoring system
is essential to achieving the project's principal objective of demonstrating the effectiveness
of a focused multisectoral rural development project approach to poverty reduction. In
collaboration with ongoing Bank work with SSB (para 1.8), the project would develop such
a system for the project area using improved survey instruments based upon similar
activities under SWPRP. The system would provide a credible and comprehensive poverty
profile for the project areas, analyze the accuracy of targeting benefits to the absolute poor,
and measure and evaluate the impact of the project's individual components. It would
provide an important testing ground for assisting the establishment of a national poverty
monitoring system that would, in turn, serve as an important underpinning of the
Government's overall poverty reduction program.
3.37  The four main elements of this project component would be to (a) upgrade the
existing poverty monitoring system developed under SWPRP in order to adapt it to the
conditions of the Qinba mountains region and more fully exploit the potential of the survey
instruments for project evaluation, (b) undertake baseline and annual follow-up surveys,
(c) process and analyze the collected survey data, and (d) disseminate findings and
information. The project poverty monitoring system has been built upon SSB's existing
rural household survey instruments, with appropriate adjustments to cover the project area,
decrease the number of questions, and improve the individual and community modules to
incorporate important questions on household expenditure, education, health, labor mobility
and credit experience. For the baseline and annual follow-up surveys, SSB would design,
test and modify questionnaires during the first half of 1997. The baseline survey would be
undertaken in December 1997 and follow-up surveys would be carried out annually in
December for the duration of project implementation. FCPMC and SSB would collaborate
on data processing and analysis, and the publication of an annual summary report.
Social Services
3.38  In addition to the six project components, two social services programs would be
undertaken in parallel with the project (para. 3.3). QEP and QHP would facilitate the
development of locally funded and managed education and health systems for the absolute
poor at the village level. The education and health programs concentrate investment in
village-level basic infrastructure, upgrading the quality and reliability of services, and the
development of mechanisms to ensure access to social services by the absolute poor. QEP
and QHP include mechanisms to ensure sustainability.
3.39 Education Program. Consistent with national plans for six-year UBE by 2000 in
China's poor areas (para. 2.11), QEP would address low educational attainment among the
poor in the project areas by enhancing the delivery of primary education through
(a) renovation and construction of school buildings and facilities, (b) provision of tuition
assistance for poor students, (c) provision of textbooks, instructional equipment and



- 37 -
furniture, and (d) teacher and management training. Due to the disproportionately low
levels of female enrollment and retention (para 2.12) in the project area, the project's target
of six-year UBE strongly favors girls' education. In addition, a special effort would be
made, over both the short and long term, to attract qualified female teachers who would
serve as role models to encourage the education of girls. The education program would be
funded and implemented under the Fourth Basic Education Project (CN-PE-36952). An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that each project province would implement an
education program acceptable to the Bank Group.
3.40 Health Program. QHP would strengthen the health network by increasing the
accessibility and enhancing the quality of health services provided to the poor at the village
and township level. This would occur primarily through (a) construction of health facilities,
(b) establishing a village cooperative medical fund, (c) upgrading and provision of essential
equipment, (d) enhancing the stability and quality of the rural health work force through
training and salary assistance, (e) strengthening public health programs in disease
prevention and control and maternal and child health care (MCH), and (f) increasing the
management capabilities of health administrators at the county and provincial level. The
health program is expected to be funded and implemented under the Eighth Basic Health
Services project (CN-PE-3566). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that each
project province would implement a health program acceptable to the Bank Group, and to
this end, they would furnish to the Bank Group by December 1 in each year (commencing
December 1, 1998) its annual plan for health activities for the following year (including a
budget and financing plan) and carry out such plan as would be agreed with the Bank
Group.
D. STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.41  Feasibility studies have been completed for the three provinces and all 26 project
counties, including representative designs for all the subprojects, and comprehensive
development plans for selected administrative villages. The three provincial studies and 26
county studies have been thoroughly reviewed by the Bank (6 counties) and by FCPMC and
the provincial PMOs (all counties) prior to and during appraisal. Extensive revisions have
been made in accordance with the recommendations of these reviews. Implementation of
(a) pilot programs for the labor mobility, microfinance, and social services components,
(b) several of the comprehensive village development programs in each county, (c) the full
range of project components in Wangcang, Xuanhan, Zhenan, Ankang, Xiji and Tongxin
counties, and (d) institution building at the provincial and county levels began in January
1997. During the early stages of implementation, and in accordance with the Government's
basic investment project review and approval process and Bank Group requirements,
detailed implementation plans and engineering designs for each project component would
be carefully reviewed by the PMOs at all levels and concerned technical departments.
E. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.42  The project would be implemented during a period of six years beginning in August
1997, with completion in July 2003. All components would take the full span of six years



- 38 -
to implement. For the labor mobility component, orientation training would precede the
placement of workers in new jobs. Operations would be modest in scale in the first year,
but would increase in the second and following years. For the land and farmer development
component, due to the comparatively long growth period before maturation, fruit crops
would be established during the first four years of the project. Terracing would be followed
by crop establishment on newly terraced land.  Farmers' training would also be
concentrated in the first three years. Implementation of cash crop and livestock activities
would be undertaken over the full six-year period. For the rural infrastructure component,
rural energy in Sichuan and microirrigation systems in Ningxia would be completed in the
four years beginning 1997. All other subcomponents would scheduled over the full six-year
period. For the TVE development component, the farmers' markets subcomponent would
be implemented through a phased approach (para. 3.26). Other TVE subcomponents,
including agroprocessing and various light industrial development projects, would be
scheduled over a five-year period due to the flexibility needed to respond to the changing
market situation. The microfinance component will be implemented in several credit cycles
over five years.
F. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.43  Costs.  The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at Y 2.99 billion ($360 million). The foreign exchange costs are estimated to be
Y 896 million ($108 million), or 30 percent of the total. Taxes and duties are not included
in the estimated costs. The cost estimates are based on unit prices currently prevailing in
the project area and derived from typical designs. Base cost is expressed in late 1996
prices. Physical contingencies average about 5 percent of base cost. Price contingency
estimates average 25 percent of base cost, and have been calculated for both foreign and
local costs using the Bank Group's estimated annual escalation factors. Physical and price
contingencies amount to Y 683 million ($82 million).  Estimated project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 5.
3.44 Financing. The proposed IDA (ITF) Credit of SDR 108.5 million ($150 million
equivalent), which would be funded under the Interim Trust Fund (ITF) as administered by
IDA, and IBRD Loan of $30 million would cover 50 percent of total project costs and all of
the foreign exchange component. The remaining project costs would be financed by central
and local governments and the beneficiaries as detailed in Table 3.2.



- 39 -
TABLE 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Percent
Y million                   $ million           Share of  Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign   Total    Base Cost Exchange
Labor Mobility                           214.7    92.0   306.8        25.9    11.1    37.0        13.3      30
Rural Infrastructure                     178.6    76.6   255.2        21.5      9.2    30.7       11.1      30
Land & Fanner Development                869.3   372.5  1,241.8      104.7    44.9   149.6        53.9      30
TVE Development                          274.8   117.8   392.6        33.1    14.2    47.3        17.0      30
Microfinance                              18.7      8.0    26.7        2.2      1.0     3.2        1.2      30
Institution Building & Project Management  45.4    19.5    64.9        5.5     2.3      7.8        2.8      30
Poverty Monitoring                        11.3      4.9    16.2        1.4      0.6     2.0        0.7      30
Total Base Cost                      1,612.9   691.2  2,304.1     194.3    83.3   277.6       100.0      30
Physical Contingency                      79.8    34.2   114.0         9.6     4.1    13.7         4.9      30
Price Contingency                        398.9   171.0   569.9        48.1    20.6    68.7        24.7      30
Total Project Cost                   2,091.6   896.4  2,988.0     252.0   108.0   360.0       129.7      30
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
TABLE 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
$ million                     Percent
IDA  (ITF)                                                         150                          41.7
IBRD                                                                30                            8.3
Provincial Governments                                             142                          39.5
Prefectural and Local Governments                                   17                            4.7
Beneficiaries                                                       21                            5.8
Total                                                         360                         100.0
G. PROCUREMENT
3.45    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.
3.46    The Bank's Procurement Guidelines, dated January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, will be applied to all Bank-financed procurement of goods and works.
The Model Documents that have been agreed between the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
and the Bank Group in July 1996 would be adopted for all international competitive
bidding (ICB) and national competitive bidding (NCB) for civil works and goods, and the
Standard Bid Evaluation Form would be used. Procurement of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the ITF Credit would be subject to the special eligibility requirements
applicable to ITF Credits.



- 40 -
TABLE 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS La
($ million)
Procurement Method
ICB      NCB    Others /b  NBGF L    Total
Civil Works                   -        27.7     84.9        -      112.6
(9.7)    (29.1)             (38.8)
Crop Establishment            -         -       37.7        -       37.7
(13.2)             (13.2)
Livestock Maintenance         -         -       46.2        -       46.2
(16.2)             (16.2)
Equipment                     2.8      23.9      2.0       0.1      28.6
(2.8)    (17.9)    (1.5)     (0.1)    (22.2)
Vehicles                      5.3       0.3      0.1        -        5.6
(5.3)    (0.2)     (0.1)               (5.5)
Construction Materials        -         -        3.6        -        3.6
(2.7)              (2.7)
Agricultural Inputs          31.9       -        6.6        -       38.5
(31.9)              (5.7)              (37.7)
Labor Placement               -         -       43.4        -       43.4
(21.7)             (21.7)
Microfinance Subloans         -         -        3.6        -        3.6
(1.8)              (1.8)
TA, Research & Training       -         -        11.0       -       11.0
(1 1.0)            (1 1.0)
Management & Supervision      -         -        10.7       -       10.7
(5.4)              (5.4)
Other                         -         -        4.3      14.1      18.4
(3.9)    (0.0)     (3.9)
Total                     40.0      51.8    254.1       14.1    360.0
(40.0)    (27.8)   (112.2)    (0.0)   (180.0)
La Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Group.
Lb Includes force account, limited international bidding, national shopping, direct
purchase, etc.
LQ Not financed by the Bank Group.
3.47  Works. Civil works worth about $197 million would be required for the project
including earth and stone work, structures for irrigation and rural water supply systems,
roads and rural energy, buildings, crop establishment and livestock maintenance. These
works would be scattered over 26 counties and carried out over five years, and would be too
dispersed to be of interest to international construction companies. As a result, no
procurement of works through ICB is planned. Instead, about $27.7 million of civil works
would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank Group for rural
electricity, larger structures and buildings, and farmers' markets. The maximum size of
contract to be let through NCB would be no more than $2.5 million. Other civil works, not



- 41 -
exceeding $100,000 each in value and with an aggregate value of about $84.9 million,
comprising land development, minor structures and buildings, and village roads, would be
too small, widely scattered and labor-intensive to be suitable for competitive contracting,
and would be undertaken with the Bank's prior consent through force account by local labor
forces (mostly farmers) mobilized by counties and townships. Crop establishment ($37.7
million) and livestock maintenance ($46.2 million) works would be undertaken through
force account by participating farmers.
3.48  Goods. Goods worth about $76.3 million would be required for the project. ICB
procedures would be used for fertilizer, plastic sheeting, vehicles, computers and office
equipment amounting to about $40.0 million, or more than half of all goods. Qualified
domestic bidders competing under ICB will be eligible for a 15 percent preference in bid
evaluation, or customs duties and import tax payable by a nonexempt importer, whichever
is less. ICB contracts would be grouped into packages of $200,000 or more. Pesticides
amounting to $3.2 million would be procured through limited international bidding as there
are only a limited number of suppliers of such specialized items who could offer
competitive prices.
3.49 NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank Group, in which foreign suppliers may
participate, would be used to procure contracts under $200,000 totaling about $24.2 million
worth of goods including office equipment, small agricultural and agroprocessing
machinery, equipment, and motorcycles. All contracts under $50,000 for goods would be
procured through national shopping in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group. National shopping would total $8.9 million and would cover small irrigation pumps
and pipes, and small quantities of equipment, instruments and miscellaneous goods.
3.50  Other Procurement. Labor training and placement ($43.4 million), and research,
training, and technical assistance ($11.0 million) would be carried out based on programs
agreed with the Bank Group. Goods and works required for microfinance subloans, which
would not be expected to cost more than $1,000 per subproject and total $3.6 million in
aggregate, would be procured by farm households at reasonable price and taking account of
quality and reliability. Certain incremental recurrent operating costs of project management
would be paid against an agreed schedule of costs. Consultants would be employed in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.8 All consultants
required for the project are expected to be individuals who would be employed in
accordance with the procedures applicable to individual consultants. In the unlikely event
that a firm were to be hired, Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would
be followed.
3.51  Review of Bid Documents and Contracts.  Bidding documents for works
contracts estimated to exceed $2.5 million in value and goods packages in excess of
$200,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank Group. This would cover
8 "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 and
the Model Contract Documents for Consultant Services.



-42 -
approximately 20 goods packages over the six-year implementation period. Consistent with
the relatively small size and diverse nature of the goods, this would represent about 30
percent of total goods in value. Bidding documents for the first three works and the first
three goods contracts to be let through NCB in each province, and consultants' contracts
estimated to exceed $100,000 in the case of firms and $50,000 in the case of individual
consultants, would also be subject to prior review by the Bank Group. Other contracts
would be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions. During the first year of
implementation, the ex-post review target would be 1 in 20 contracts. Based on experience
in the first year, the target ratio would be adjusted. Standard bidding documents approved
by the Bank Group would be used.9 Other contracts would be subject to selective review
after bid awards. MIN-METALS International Tendering Company and the CNCCC
International Tendering Company have been appointed procurement agents for the project.
H. DISBURSEMENTS
3.52  Proceeds of the IDA (ITF) credit would be disbursed as summarized in Table 3.4.
Disbursement for vehicles, computers, equipment for agroprocessing and other TVEs,
fertilizer, pesticides, and plastic sheeting would be at 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs of imported items and 100 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
items. Disbursement for other goods procured locally would be 75 percent of local
expenditure. Disbursement for overseas and domestic training and study tours, technical
assistance, international and domestic consultants services, and applied agricultural research
would also be at 100 percent of total costs. Disbursement for labor training and placement
under the labor mobility component, and operating costs for project management and
supervision would be 50 percent of total costs. Disbursement for crop establishment,
livestock maintenance, terracing, rural roads, water supply, irrigation works and energy, and
other works would be at 35 percent of total expenditures. Disbursement for subloans under
the microfinance component would be 50 percent of amounts paid by the cooperative.
3.53  Disbursement for the first three contracts for goods and works under NCB for each
province, for works contracts of $2.5 million equivalent or more, for goods contracts of
$200,000 equivalent or more, and for consultancy contracts of $100,000 equivalent for
firms and $50,000 equivalent or more for individuals, would be made on the basis of full
documentation. Disbursement for contracts for works, goods, and consultant contracts
below those amounts, and all training would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Disbursements would also be made against SOEs in the case of labor training and
placement, subloans under the microfinance component, and research, study tours, and
works carried out by force account. SOEs would be supported by progress reports showing
physical quantities and unit prices (the latter would be updated annually by FCPMC and the
provincial PMOs and reviewed by the Bank Group). Supporting documentation would be
9 Includes prequalification, notice of invitation to bid, bid documents, bid evaluation forms, and contracts.



- 43 -
retained by the PMOs and made available to local audit bureaus and to Bank Group
supervision missions, which would both randomly field check such physical records from
time to time.
TABLE 3.4: DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Amount
Disbursable
Category                      ($ million)       Percentage Disbursable
Works, Crop Establishment, and   68.1    35% of total expenditure
Livestock Maintenance
Goods                            68.1    100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of
local expenditure (ex-factory); 75%
for other goods procured locally
Labor Training and Placement     21.7    50% of total expenditure
Microfinance Subloans             1.8    50% of amounts paid under subloans
Consultant Services & Training   13.0    100% of total expenditure
Operating Costs                   3.4    50% of total expenditure
Unallocated                       3.9
Total                         180.0
3.54  The project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2003 and the closing date would
be January 31, 2004. China enjoys a favorable record in project implementation and
disbursement that is superior to Bank Group and Asia averages. The project disbursement
profile is consistent with other rural development projects in China. The estimated
disbursement schedule is given in Annex 8.
3.55  Special Account. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be established
in a bank acceptable to the Bank Group. The Special Account will have an authorized
allocation of $10 million, which is equal to its estimated four-month average disbursement.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or
whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
3.56  Retroactive Financing.  Due to the need to establish implementation and
coordination procedures for this complex project in advance of full implementation,
retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures incurred for (a) initiating the labor
mobility, microfinance, and institution building components, (b) establishing tree nurseries
and terracing, and (c) commencing the full range of activities in selected "prototype"



- 44 -
counties (para. 3.8) and the village comprehensive development programs in all counties.
Retroactive financing would be for expenditures incurred after February 1, 1997 and before
the date of signing of the Loan and ITF Credit Agreements. The total disbursable amount
would be up to SDR 13 million equivalent.
I. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
3.57  The provincial and county PMOs would maintain records of all project component
expenditures. These records would be forwarded regularly to FCPMC for consolidation,
review, and audit. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that consolidated accounts
would be maintainedfor annual auditing by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and
that the audited accounts, including the Special Account, together with the auditor's report
would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Audited accounts would include details on the use of the Special Account, withdrawals
from the Loan and Credit account made on the basis of SOEs, including actual physical
completion of claimed works to agreed standards, and the auditors' opinion as to whether
such withdrawals were made against expenditures eligible for Bank Group disbursement.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT
3.58  Overall, the project is expected to have a favorable environmental impact. The land
and farmer development component would make significant contributions to the mitigation
of the existing environmental problems in the project areas of severe soil erosion and
degraded vegetative cover (AnnexI3). To limit any potential negative environmental
impacts of project activities, assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) pesticides to
be provided under the project would be approved by the Bank Group and would be stored
and handled in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank Group, and (b) all
project activities would comply with sound environmental standards, and necessary
mitigation actions to fulfill the recommendations contained in the Environmental
Assessment Report would be included in the annual work programs forwarded to the Bank
Group.
3.59 Other components would take all necessary actions to minimize negative effects on
the environment. One of the five TVE selection criteria is the likely environmental impact,
and several proposed enterprises were eliminated on this basis. Project TVEs would
address environmental issues during the design stage, and would submit plans to the
provincial and county EPBs in conformance with national pollution control requirements.
During this review process, special attention has been and would be given to controlling
emissions and effluents, which are by-products of production processes. Food processing
TVEs would also be subject to regular sanitary inspections by local health authorities.
3.60  TVE establishment and expansion, road construction, and other project activities
would require acquisition of less than 130 ha of cultivated land. Under current land
acquisition plans, about 2,570 persons would be affected, though none would lose their
homes. Resettlement planning principles and policies, and a resettlement action plan (RAP)
acceptable to the Bank Group, have been prepared. Assurances were obtained at



- 45 -
negotiations that (a) resettlement required under the project would be carried out in
accordance with this RAP, and (b) any currently unanticipated resettlement would be
carried out in accordance with a RAP developed on the basis of these principles and
policies and approved by the Bank Group.
3.61   Social Aspects. The project components directly address the fundamental social
problems in the project area of grossly inadequate educational attainment, excessive
morbidity and mortality, severe underemployment, and the lack of access to roads, safe
drinking water and electricity. During project preparation, there has been careful targeting
of the poorest upland counties, townships and villages (paras. 2.31 to 2.33). The education
program includes the recruitment of women teachers and administrators and strongly favors
girls' primary education, and the health program would reduce maternal and child
morbidity and mortality.
3.62  The most significant social risks are related to the participation of large numbers of
women in the innovative labor mobility component. Special attention has been given to the
enterprise selection process and orientation of voluntary migrants, and an important role has
been defined for the ACWF in this process. In coordination with local Labor Bureaus, all
new low-skilled jobs created by project would be filled in large part with women. This
affirmative action approach would not have negative effects since many sectors, such as
handicrafts and agroprocessing, tend to have 60 to 80 percent female staff.



- 46 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1   Summary. LGPR and its Foreign Capital Project Management Center (FCPMC)
would have principal responsibility for overall project implementation. At the provincial
level, Project Leading Groups (PLG) have been set up to (a) mobilize institutional,
technical and financial resources and support for the preparation and implementation of
the project, and (b) provide a critical coordination and monitoring function. In addition,
Project Management Offices (PMO) have been established to ensure effective and timely
implementation of the project. The complexity of the project requires that FCPMC and
the provincial PMOs be greatly strengthened. An institutional development program to
strengthen FCPMC and the provincial PMOs would be implemented as an integral part of
the project (para. 3.34). At the county level, PLGs and PMOs have also been set up. The
several county-level technical bureaus directly involved in the project would, in close
cooperation with the participating township governments and their offices at the
administrative village level, play a key role in the day-to-day implementation of the
project. At both the central and provincial levels, Technical Advisory Groups have been
set up to provide technical support for project implementation. The general organization
of the project is shown in Chart 1.
4.2   Central Level. The project is an integral part of the Government's 8-7 Plan, and
LGPR would be the decision-making body for the project with full responsibility for
coordinating the various government agencies involved in project implementation.
4.3   FCPMC would serve as the secretariat for LGPR on all project-related matters,
and would be responsible for the management of overall project implementation.
FCPMC would provide guidance and assistance to the PMOs at lower levels in subproject
selection and appraisal, and would have responsibility for overall project monitoring and
evaluation.  It would also be directly responsible for the implementation of the
interprovincial part of the labor mobility component and part of the institutional
development component of the project. FCPMC's other responsibilities would include:
arranging combined procurement under ICB and international shopping; reviewing
applications for withdrawals from the credit and loan proceeds; preparing consolidated
accounting, auditing and progress reports, including the implementation completion
report; coordinating institutional development aspects, particularly overseas training,
study tours and technical assistance; and providing liaison with the Bank Group. During
the course of SWPRP project preparation, FCPMC was established with bureau-level
status and approved for 30 professional-level staff positions. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that FCPMC would be staffed at levels, and maintained with functions
and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group.



- 47 -
4.4   Two Technical Advisory Groups (TAG) have been set up at the national level to
provide technical support to LGPR and FCPMC. Comprised of senior staff of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, one TAG provides support on key technical issues for
project preparation and implementation. The other TAG, which is primarily staffed with
senior consultants with a great deal of experience in the preparation and implementation
of the Bank Group's projects in China, provides support on detailed technical issues and
issues related to the organization of project implementation. In addition, at least one staff
member of a provincial scientific research institution, university or college has been sent
to each of the 26 project counties to advise on project technical issues. In addition, in
close collaboration with FCPMC, SSB is directly involved in the design and
implementation of the project's poverty monitoring subcomponent (paras. 3.36 and 3.37).
Lastly, FCPMC's existing environmental assessment and monitoring unit (EU) would
orchestrate the work of the EUs to be established within the provincial PMOs. Prior to
the provision of funding for individual project TVEs, the provincial EUs would confirm
that the appropriate EPB has issued full environmental clearances for the proposed
enterprise.
4.5   CWHRDC and the provincial PMOs and related Labor Bureaus would manage
the labor mobility component. CWHRDC would (a) establish a job placement system for
interprovincial labor mobility, (b) provide provincial and county Labor Bureau staff with
management training, and (c) have responsibility for completing semiannual labor
mobility monitoring reports (para. 3.7). A separate consultative body, consisting of
representatives of the ACWF, the Public Security Bureau, the Ministry of Light Industry,
and external consultants, would be established to provide independent review of the labor
mobility component.
4.6   Provincial Level. PLGs have been established in each of the three project
provinces. The provincial PLGs are headed by a vice governor in charge of poverty
reduction and assisted by representatives from the provincial PADO, Planning
Commission and Finance Bureau, the several technical Bureaus directly involved in the
project (including the Agriculture, Forestry, Health, Education, Labor and Statistical
Bureaus), ACWF, and ADBC. The main responsibilities of the PLGs are to formulate
project-related policies and plans, approve subproject designs, and mobilize institutional,
technical and financial resources and support for the implementation of the project. The
PLGs would also provide a critical coordination function.
4.7   Similar to FCPMC at the central level, PMOs have been set up at the provincial
level. Under the leadership of the provincial PADOs, the provincial PMOs would
manage the implementation of the project in their corresponding provinces. The
provincial PMOs would (a) review feasibility studies prepared by the project counties,
(b) draw up annual work programs and budgets, (c) review and approve lower-level PMO
work plans, (d) review and forward disbursement of Bank Group and government funds
to local government accounts, (e) prepare and submit to the central project office detailed
project accounts, audits, withdrawal applications and progress reports, (f) arrange
common procurement, and (g) undertake project monitoring of physical and financial



- 48 -
progress and evaluations of project impact. The provincial PMOs would also directly
implement the provincial part of the institutional development component and coordinate
the research program of the land and farmer development component (para. 3.23).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the provincial PMOs would (a) be staffed
at levels, and maintained with functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank
Group, and (b) prepare and furnish a detailed annual budget and work plan, including
training, acceptable to the Bank Group, by December I of each year, for project
implementation the followingyear.
4.8  In order to take full advantage of MOL's existing information network and
nationwide hierarchy of Labor Bureaus, the provincial Labor Bureaus would assist the
PMOs with the final preparation and the implementation of the labor mobility
component. Similarly, the provincial Health and Educational Bureaus would also take a
leading role in the preparation and implementation of the social services programs. For
the project's other components, the chain of command would directly link the provincial
PMOs with county-level organizations (instead of going through provincial bureaus) in
order to ensure adequate coordination at the county level and below. Support from all
provincial agencies would be secured through the function of the provincial PLGs. To
provide technical support to the provincial PLGs and PMOs, TAGs comprising experts
and senior consultants in various fields have also been set up at the provincial level.
4.9   County Level and Below. PLGs have also been established at both the county
and township levels in order to fully mobilize existing institutional resources and
guarantee coordination among various agencies and units. Chaired by the county
magistrate, the county PLGs would take full responsibility for project implementation in
their respective county. County PMOs, chaired by deputy county magistrates responsible
for poverty reduction, have also been set up. The county PMOs function as the
secretariat for the county PLGs, and serve as the contact with project organizations at
higher levels. The county PMOs would also be responsible for project monitoring and
evaluation, financial management, arrangement of common procurement and distribution
of goods and services procured, and common training components in conjunction with
line agencies at the county level.
4.10  County technical bureaus directly involved in the project would, in close
cooperation with Township Project Work Stations (TPWS) and Village Project Execution
Groups (VPEG), be responsible for the day-to-day execution of the project in their
corresponding area. Township Extension Stations would be comprehensive technical
units integrating crop production, animal husbandry, forestry and other technicians. In
addition to members of the village committee and the ACWF representative, VPEGs
would also include at least one household representative. Under the leadership of the
county PLG and PMO, the Health and Education Bureaus would be responsible for the
social services programs; the Labor Bureaus for the labor mobility component; the
Agriculture, Water Resources, Animal Husbandry and Forestry Bureaus for the land and
farmers development component; and the Power, Transportation, and Industry and
Commerce Administration Bureaus for the rural infrastructure component. Execution of



- 49 -
the TVE development component would be the responsibility of the county TVE Bureau
and several other bureaus with responsibility for rural industry. These implementing
agencies' responsibilities include planning, financial management, procurement,
disbursement, quality control, monitoring and evaluation, and encouraging farmers to
participate in the project. Local nongovernmental organizations, such as ACWF, would
also be involved in the implementation of the project in activities such as farmers'
training and monitoring and evaluation. The project would provide the TPWSs and
VPEGs with a yearly budget of Y 3,600 and Y 480, respectively, to allow project staff to
carry out frequent follow-up activities for individual village development plans.
4.11  Various economic entities would be engaged in the implementation of the project.
In addition to individual project farm households, joint household entities with various
forms of ownership would be engaged in more commercially oriented agriculture and
forestry activities, e.g., fruit production. Joint ventures, between farmers and local
businesses, would also engage in conmmercially oriented production.  For project
activities in mining, manufacturing, processing and service industries, TVEs with various
forms of ownership would play a dominant role.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
4.12 Flow of Funds. MOF would make the proceeds of the IBRD Loan and IDA
(ITF) Credit available to the governments of the three project provinces. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that (a) MOF would make the proceeds of the IBRD Loan
and IDA (ITF) Credit available to the three project provinces at 2 percent interest rate
per year with a repayment period of 17 years, including a 5 year grace period, and
(b) the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the provincial governments. A portion
of the Bank Group funds made available to the provinces would be used directly by the
provinces to cover the costs of institutional development, research, technical assistance,
training, equipment, management expenses and labor mobility activities. The provincial
Finance Departments, representing the provincial governments, would channel the
remaining funds successively to prefecture, municipal, county and township governments
through their internal financial system. Onlending to farmers and enterprises would be
only for activities that have been appraised and approved by the project implementing
agencies.
4.13  Reimbursement Procedures. MOF, FCPMC, and the PMO and technical bureau
staff at all levels would be involved in the preparation and review of reimbursement
applications. Reimbursement documentation would be prepared by the county PMO and,
with the review and signature of the county Finance Bureau, be sent to the provincial PMO.
At the provincial level, the documentation would be reviewed and approved by the
provincial PMO. With the review and signature of the provincial Finance Bureau, the
docunentation would then be sent simultaneously to MOF and FCPMC. FCPMC would
have a five-day review period to comment on, or object to, the documentation (except for
reimbursement documentation for labor mobility, which could take more than five days).
MOF would not process the reimbursement application until any FCPMC comments or



- 50-
objections were resolved. However, MOF would process the application if it does not
receive comments from FCPMC within the seven-day review period.
C. EXECUTION OF PROJECT WORKS
4.14  Construction of minor works would be undertaken by participating poor farmers or
contracted out to construction enterprises depending on the component and local
circumstances. Land development and crop establishment would also be carried out by the
farmers participating in the project. Work teams from participating villages would be
organized to carry out labor-intensive works such as terracing and some road construction.
Larger works, such as large structures for rural infrastructure and larger buildings, would be
contracted to construction companies. For the labor mobility component, employment
agencies of various kinds would carry out activities such as collection of employment
information, market promotion, and training and placement of the laborers. Provision of
initial training and monitoring of the employment conditions would be the responsibilities
of CWHRDC, FCPMC, the provincial and county PMOs and Labor Bureaus, and ACWF at
various levels. The institutional development component and the centralized training and
technical assistance (TA) activities would be carried out by FCPMC and the provincial
PMOs.
4.15  Prior to implementation, the provincial PMOs would further evaluate all the county-
level project feasibility studies (including representative designs for various types of
subprojects) to ensure that they are consistent with overall project objectives. Criteria
designed during appraisal would be followed in the evaluation. Provincial line agencies and
the TAGs would be mobilized to provide technical inputs in the reviewing process.
FCPMC would (a) provide overall guidance and undertake a final quality check as part of
the evaluation, and (b) present a summary of the outcome of the review process to the Bank
Group before September 1997. Detailed planning and design of subprojects would be
carried out by the respective implementing agencies and qualified design institutes at
various levels and reviewed according to domestic procedures. The provincial PMOs
would review at least two designs for each subproject in each project county. Annual work
programs and budgets would be prepared based on the detailed designs and sent to the Bank
Group for review before December 1 of each year. To achieve the necessary flexibility in
project design and implementation, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
Borrower, through FCPMC, and the project provinces, through their provincial PMOs,
would prepare for the Bank Group a mid-term report of the project by June 30, 1999.
D. PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP
4.16  To organize and initiate project implementation, the Bank Group and FCPMC
would conduct a Project Launch Workshop in China for staff of the provincial and county
PMOs and related Bureaus. The purpose of the workshop would be to review the total
program for implementation and to clarify tasks and responsibilities at each level. Topics
would include Bank Group guidelines and procedures for procurement and disbursement,
financial management, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, computerized project



- 51 -
planning and management, and inspection and acceptance procedures ("yanshou") for
project works.
E. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING
4.17  FCPMC and the provincial and county PMOs would monitor the project's overall
progress and impact, and evaluate the economic and financial benefits from each
component. Current accounts of physical and financial process for each component would
be kept to allow comparisons with management projections. The project's impact on the
incomes and physical well-being of project farmers would be systematically monitored
under the project's poverty monitoring component. Special attention would be given to the
effects of project activities on women. A vision of what a project community would look
like after project completion, a list of key monitoring indicators for physical progress and
project expenditures, and a plan for Bank Group supervision are given in Annex 10.
Reporting information would be submitted by county PMOs to the provincial PMOs, and
then to FCPMC, which would prepare consolidated semiannual progress reports for
submission to the Bank Group. In addition to routine reporting, FCPMC and the PMOs
would undertake on-site supervision at least twice a year. Findings of this on-site
supervision, including problems identified and corrective actions required, would be
presented in the semiannual progress reports. Project completion reports would be prepared
for each component as they are completed. FCPMC would prepare, and submit to the Bank
Group no later than three months following the closing date, a final implementation
completion report for the whole project based on the county and provincial completion
reports.
4.18  Performance Monitoring. Performance monitoring would include a detailed
baseline sample survey with annual follow-up surveys, and monitoring by FCPMC and
the three provincial PMOs of a detailed listing of performance indicators. SWPRP has
established models for both the survey work and the listing of performance indicators.
Throughout implementation, the Bank will focus on a subset of about 15 indicators,
including: inputs-counterpart funding, and staffing of the provincial and lower-level
PMOs; outputs-elementary school attendance rates, number of treatments provided by
village level health care funds, number of upland poor placed in off-farm jobs, kilometers
of rural roads built, land area adopting project agricultural activities, and jobs created in
project rural enterprises; outcomes-completion rate at sixth-grade level, migrant
laborers' income levels and remittances, and number of project beneficiaries with
improved access to safe drinking water; and impact-infant mortality rate, incidence of
absolute poverty in the project areas, knowledge of and access to off-farm employment,
and adoption of a focused rural development project approach to poverty reduction in
nonproject counties. The full list of key monitoring indicators is provided in Annex 10.



- 52 -
5. PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
A. PRODUCTION
5.1   Incremental production under the project (Table 5.1) would derive from (a) more
intensive cropping with increased use of modem inputs (such as quality seeds and
fertilizers) on newly or improved terraced, irrigated and drained land, resulting in more
stable and increased yields and increased cropping indexes, (b) the introduction of new cash
crops, (c) the expansion of tree crops planted on underutilized lands and intercropped on
cultivated land, (d) greater livestock production through an increase in fodder resources, (e)
the design and extension of appropriate technology packages and the delivery to farmers of
training, veterinary and processing services, (f) increased labor productivity allowed by the
construction of rural roads and other infrastructure and the development and provision to
farmers of small tools, and (g) increased availability of financial resources and improved
technologies for TVEs.
5.2   Food and Cash Crops. The project would significantly increase yields and output
of grain, fodder, and cash crops. Terracing, supplementary irrigation, improved seeds,
fertilizers, and other inputs, and training and extension programs would be the main
contributors to the expected yield increases of 35 percent for corn, 40 percent for wheat, 20
percent for potato, 35 percent for cornstalk fodder, and 90 percent for cut-and-carry fodder.
These yield increases would more than offset a modest reduction in the area sown to grain
crops and, at full development, annual incremental output would comprise more than
70,000 tons of corn, 70,000 tons of wheat, and 190,000 tons of potatoes and sweet potatoes.
Increased corn production would also bring about a 40 percent increase in cornstalk for
fodder use-from about 260,000 to 365,000 tons. The project would also support the
development of more than 25,000 ha of annual cash crops, including medicinal tubers and
herbs, vegetables and oilseeds.
5.3   Economic Tree Crops. The project would assist about 16,200 households to plant
new or rehabilitate existing mulberry on 4,900 ha. Under the project, the quality of silk
cocoon would be improved and yields would triple-from 300 kg to 1 ton per ha. This
would be achieved by using improved mulberry graftings, improving household-level
management and silkworm-raising facilities and tools, and supporting sericulture training
for farmers. Most project households would take part in the development of a wide variety
of tree and bush crops on about 24,500 ha of sloped terrain. The introduction of higher-
quality seedlings, balanced fertilizer applications, supplementary irrigation, and improved
postharvest practices under the project would greatly increase yields of marketable
medicinal tree crop products, fruits, and nuts. At full development, annual incremental
production would include about 12,700 tons of medicinal tree products and resins, 44,000



- 53 -
tons of walnuts and chestnuts, and about 65,400 tons of kiwifruit, pomelo, apple, pear, and
other fruits.
TABLE 5.1: ANNUAL PRODUCTION AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Without Project                            With Project                 Incremental Production and Yields
Area!                                     Area/                                    Area/
Production Activities         Number        Yield         Total         Number         Yield         Total       Number        Yield      Total
Grain and Fodder                (ha)       (tons/ha)      (tons)          (ha)       (tons/ha)       (tons)        (ha)      (tons/ha)    (tons)
Wheat                        98,000        1.30        127,800        107,760        1.84         197,882         9,760      0.53      70,082
Com                          92,000         1.87       171,860         95,835        2.53        242,882          3,835       0.67     71,022
Potato/Sweet Potato          84,000        8.66        727,500         88,802       10.34        918,641          4,802       1.68     191,141
Rice                         37,000        4.80        119,400         37,000        5.09         188,374             0       0.24       8,974
Other grain/legumes          19,000         1.41        26,700         19,000        1.49          28,300             0       0.08       1,600
Com stalk as fodder          92,000        2.82        259,070         95,835        3.80         364,323         3,835       0.99     105,253
Cut-and-carry fodder          4,700        5.96         28,000         13,982       11.52         161,038         9,282       5.56     133,038
Cash Crops                      (ha)       (tons/ha)      (tons)          (ha)        (tons/ha)      (tons)        (ha)      (tons/ha)    (tons)
Medicinal tubers                                                        8,317       10.00          83,170         8,317      10.00      83,170
Medicinal plants                                                        3,270        1.15           3,571         3,270       1.15       3,571
Vegetables                   16,800       16.43        276,000         25,651       17.06        437,515          8,851       0.63     161,515
Oil crops                    35,100        1.02         35,740         39,936        1.12          44,739         4,836       0.10       8,999
Tree Crops                      (ha)       (tons/ha)      (tons)          (ha)       (tons/ha)      (tons)         (ha)      (tons/ha)    (tons)
Mulberry (silk cocoon)        6,900        0.30          2,070         11,814        1.00          11,825         4,914       0.70       9,755
Tea                           1,600        0.40            640          3,046        0.89           2,696         1,446       0.49       2,056
Fruit                         3,400        2.71          9,200          7,462       10.00          74,620         4,062       7.29     65,420
Walnut/Chestnut              20,000         1.09        21,250         30,027        2.18          65,562        10,027       1.12     44,312
Medicinal tree crops         20,650        0.30          6,195         27,930        0.35           9,776         7,280       0.05       3,581
Resins and other trees       20,650        0 43          8,895         22,750        0.79          17,976         2,100       0 36       9,01
(ba)       (m /ha)        (m )            (ha)        (m'/ha)       (n )           (ha)       (m3/ha)      (m )
Timberforest              1,139,500        0.99      1,130,000      1,141,914        1.00       1,141,914         2,414       0.01      11,914
Fuelwood forest             210,500        0.48        100,500        213,703        0.49         104,176         3,203       0.01       3,676
Livestock                      (head)     (tons/head)     (tons)         (head)     (tons/head)     (tons)        (head)   (tons/head)   (tons)
Cattle (beef)                64,080        0.25         16,020         95,154        0.30          28,546        31,074       0.05      12,526
Pig (pork)                  611,150        0.07         42,781      1,033,324        0.08          82,666       422,174       0.01     39,885
Goat and sheep (meat)       320,810        0.03          8,020        650,768        0.03          20,754       329,958      0.01       12,734
Sheep (wool)                100,000        0.0005           50        199,257        0.0005           100        99,257                    50
Chicken (meat)            4,450,600        0.0010        4,451      5,428,534        0.0010         5,429       977,934                   978
Chicken (eggs)                                                         18,570        0.0040            74        18,570                     74
Rabbit (hair)                                                          12,258        0.0005             6        12,258                      6
Total grain (tons) La                                    651,260                                   841,166                               189,906
Grain production per capita                                  250                                       323                                   73
(kg)
LA   Grain comprises wheat, com, rice, other grains and legumes, and potato/sweet potato. Potato and sweet potato are expressed as dry grain equivalent
(one fifth their wet weight).
5.4    Forestry and Fodder Development. Household-based timber afforestation would
take place on underutilized land with an estimated incremental output of about 12,000 cubic
meters (mi3) of timber. In Ningxia, fuelwood afforestation would help overcome the serious
shortage of fuel for heating and cooking, and protect the newly terraced land from erosion.
The newly developed cut-and-carry fodder area of 9,300 ha would yield about 133,000 tons
of forage annually.
5.5    Animal Husbandry. The project would support smallholder activities in breeding
or fattening of an incremental 62,000 cattle, 336,000 goats and sheep, and 312,400 pigs to
provide income, and organic fertilizer for crops, for nearly two thirds of project households.
About 70 percent of forage resources are to be produced on farm, including a wide range of
both local and introduced forage species, and more efficient use of crop residues (para.
3.18). Improving animal feeding practices-and reducing the winter deficit of feed
resources in particular-and using improved breeds and feeds, the incremental production
of beef, pork and mutton would reach about 12,500, 40,000, and 12,750 tons, respectively.



- 54 -
In addition, the project would support the annual incremental production of 50 tons of sheep
wool or angora wool, nearly 1,000 tons of chicken and duck meat, and 74 tons of eggs.
5.6   Township and Village Enterprises. Under the project, agroprocessing plants
would produce about 32,500 tons per year of starch, wheat flour, dried mushrooms and
amorphophallus, and canned beans. Sixteen upgraded tea factories would process about
2,200 tons of high-grade teas, and 12 fruit processing plants would produce about 6,400
tons per year of canned fruit and juices, and dried or processed walnuts and chestnuts.
Another 35 TVEs would also process or produce 110,000 tons of ginkgo leaves, bamboo,
galinut and wood, 158,000 square meters of carpets, tapestry, and other products, and 70
tons of raw silk. Livestock processing plants would produce about 56,000 tons of meat
products, and feed processing plants would produce 600 tons of feed. In addition, 16 TVEs
would produce marble, granite, bricks and other construction materials for local sale. The
21 farmers' markets would provide improved market access to farmers in the project areas.
B. MARKETS AND PRICES
5.7   During the past decade, government reforms have greatly liberalized most
marketing channels. As a result, nearly all agricultural commodities produced under the
project are now largely deregulated and, at least in part, traded via relatively free markets.
Project farmers would be able to sell their products to (a) vendors and households at local
farmers' markets, (b) private traders, (c) agents from government marketing enterprises, and
(d) local agroprocessing industries.  The reforms have also freed many agricultural
commodity prices from State control, and increased the procurement prices of those goods
still subject to State marketing channels. Currently, most agricultural commodity prices in
the project area reflect market supply and demand and are broadly consistent with world
market prices.
5.8   The project would produce a large range of crops across a widely dispersed
geographic area, and the project's total incremental production of each crop would account
for only a fraction of total provincial production. Consequently, local demand is expected
to absorb all of the project's grain, fodder, and timber production, and most of the orchard,
livestock, and sericulture production. A small balance would be exported to other parts of
China.
5.9   Grain and Other Staple Crops. The project area is chronically deficient in the
production and availability of most basic food crops and products, including grain,
vegetable oil, and meat, and critically depends on continued government supplies of relief
grain (para. 2.7). Previous policies have emphasized food self-sufficiency, but have largely
failed to achieve the desired effect in poor upland counties where farmers attempt to
produce grain on unsuitably steep and rocky land. Therefore, local demand (for direct
consumption and for use as animal feed) will more than match the project's incremental
grain production of about 190,000 tons (or 73 kg per capita in the project area).
5.10 Cash Crops, Economic Tree Crops and Forest Products. The market prospects
for project cash crops, economic trees, fuelwood and timber are also favorable since (a) fruit



- 55 -
and nuts have very high income elasticities of demand, (b) national shifts in the location of
orchard crops and mulberry favor production in the project areas (since urbanization and
industrialization continue to increase factor prices for production in coastal areas), (c) the
project area's climate and soil are well suited to temperate zone nuts, fruits, and medicinal
herbs and trees, and farmers are skilled in their cultivation as sideline crops, and (d) there is
a chronic shortage of fodder, timber, and fuelwood in the project area.
5.11  China produced 776,900 tons of silk cocoon in 1994, and is moving from heavy
reliance on raw silk exports to processed goods that capture additional value added from
domestic manufacturing. At present, China's total silk cocoon production accounts for
about two thirds of the world production, and Sichuan alone, about one fifth. As land and
labor are becoming more expensive in coastal areas, the increased market shares of silk
cocoon for inland provinces are consistent with their significant comparative advantage in
land and labor, and their long tradition of mulberry cocoon production and silk reeling
(particularly in Sichuan and Shaanxi). Project incremental production, which would
amount to less than 2 percent of China's current production, would be sold primarily to the
prefecture- and county-level branch offices of the China National Silk Import and Export
Corporation (CNSIEC), which in turn would sell most of the product to local silk reeling
factories.
5.12  China's chestnut accounted for about 22 percent of the estimated world production,
about 450,000 tons, in 1995. About 30 to 40 percent of China's production has been
exported mainly to Japan and other Asian countries. Due to rising domestic demand, the
average market price for dried chestnuts increased by more than 20 percent annually during
1986-96. Similarly, walnut has also enjoyed strong market demand. Its oil and fruit are
nutritious and can be processed into a variety of products, and its wood is highly valued for
furniture and other uses. Most walnut production would be sold on the domestic market for
processing, though a small share would be exported. At present, Sichuan and Shaanxi
produce about 4 percent of China's total chestnut and walnut output, and project production
would double current output in the two provinces. Although international and domestic
demand is increasing for both products, further market analysis should be carried out. Tea
production in the project area would target the high quality and specialty brands end of the
domestic market. No market difficulties are anticipated for these preferred teas, which are
currently in short supply. At present, annual world production of ginkgo nuts amounts to
6,000 tons, of which about 80 percent is produced in China. Given the estimated domestic
demand of 50,000 tons, all ginkgo nuts produced under the project would be sold on the
domestic market for fresh consumption and processing. Gingko leaves would be sold on
the domestic market for medicinal compound extraction, which would in turn be sold in
both domestic and export markets. Gingko wood, used for high-quality furniture and art
works, would be sold domestically. Incremental Eucommia production under the project
would amount to less than 17 percent of the total current production in the two provinces.
Although total supply is projected to increase quickly enough to reduce real prices over
time, it would still provide a reasonable margin for local growers.



- 56 -
5.13  A variety of project medicinal or nutritional cash crops would exploit market niches.
Extracts of Peltate yam-which is best grown in southern Shaanxi-are in high demand as
key ingredients for many pharmaceuticals. Due to increased export opportunities, the
domestic market price rose from Y 270,000 per ton in 1992 to Y 480,000 in 1995. Chinese
goldthread and Gastrodia are widely used traditional Chinese medicines. Project output of
these products would comprise a very small fraction of the total market. The starch from
Amorphophallus-used traditionally as a food supplement-has been exploited by both
domestic and other Asian markets for its nutritional value. Its price climbed from Y 8,000
per ton in 1992 to Y 13,000 in 1995. About half the project output would be marketed
domestically, and the other half would be exported to established markets overseas.
Shaanxi has a long tradition in cultivating edible fungi, which are highly preferred for their
nutritional and medicinal values. Under the project, farmers would also produce a wide
range of other cash crops (such as assorted medicinal herbs and vegetables) and tree crops
(including a wide variety offruits). The incremental production of these products would be
small, and mainly targeted at local markets. The incremental production of fodder,
fuelwood, and timber would be marketed within the project areas or consumed on-farm.
5.14  Livestock Products. Increasing demand for livestock products has accompanied
rising incomes, and China's livestock subsector has undergone rapid growth during the past
18 years. By world standards, however, current output levels remain modest when assessed
on a per capita basis. In the project areas, furthermore, current per capita production of
meat and eggs is only about half of the national average. Local demand is therefore
expected to more than match project incremental production of meats and eggs.
5.15  TVE Outputs. All agroprocessing feasibility studies would include a review of
commercial viability, and it is expected that incremental production would be absorbed
without difficulties through existing domestic and export markets. Given the high income
elasticity of demand for processed fruit, vegetables and meat, expected growth in per capita
income would lead to increased sales of processed goods from local TVEs. While most
TVE production will meet local demand, small amounts of fruit, silk and medicinal herbs
would be exported through existing channels. Construction materials would be largely
absorbed by strong local demand from the construction industry.



- 57 -
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
6.1   The project would improve the income levels and well-being of about 2.3 million
absolute poor. The main project benefits would be (a) increased income levels by
improving upland agricultural productivity, (b) better access to off-farm employment
opportunities through the development of TVEs and labor mobility, (c) improved access
to social and other basic services by increasing access to markets, safe drinking water,
electric power, education, health and other social services, (d) stabilization and reversal of
upland environmental destruction through land improvement and natural resource
conservation works, and (e) improved (i) poverty project design and implementation
capacity and (ii) poverty monitoring at the project and national levels.
6.2  Increased Income and Employment. The project would directly increase
beneficiaries' incomes through (a) increasing production of grain, cash and tree crops and
livestock, and (b) providing greater opportunity for off-farm employment in local TVEs
and more distant job markets. Farm productivity increases would derive from the
combined effect of a variety of specific investments and improved technologies
implemented through integrated village development programs. Off-farm employment
opportunities would be provided to about 188,500 upland poor in rural enterprise within
their counties (33,850 jobs) through the TVE development component, and within
(36,000 jobs) and outside their provinces (118,700 jobs) through the labor mobility
component. These jobs would provide annual net incomes per worker of at least Y 900,
Y 1200, and Y 1800, respectively. In combination with expected increases in on-farm
family income, it is estimated that average annual per capita income in the project areas
would double in real terms at full development.
6.3  Improved Social and Other Basic Services. QEP would directly improve
primary education for most of the 330,000 school-age children in the project areas.
Tuition assistance would enable about 34,000 absolutely poor children per year to enroll
in schools and complete their primary education, leaving about 30,000 children without
access. Similarly, village health care funds under QHP would greatly augment the
delivery of basic health services to project area children and adults. It is expected that
infant mortality rates would be reduced from more than 10 percent at present to less than
4 percent at full development, and maternal mortality would be reduced by more than 50
percent. The incidence of endemic diseases, such as iodine deficiency and fluorosis,
would also be significantly reduced. Gravel roads would link 780 project villages to the
existing network of county roads. In addition to providing job opportunities to local
inhabitants, the construction of these rural roads would provide isolated villages much
improved access to markets, which will encourage and support higher levels of



- 58 -
agricultural production and marketing. Provision of safe drinking water to some 466,000
project beneficiaries would reduce the incidence of diarrheal and other water-related
diseases, and would reduce the time and labor women are required to spend supplying
water for their families and livestock.
6.4   Enhanced Beneficiary and Community Participation. From the outset of
preparation, the project adopted a participatory strategy in which upland farmers helped
design a menu of options to address their development needs. By emphasizing integrated
village development and household training, the project would demonstrate and
strengthen the capacity of village organizations to manage their own resources and
development activities. The integrated village production system, once established,
should become a key factor in sustaining land and farmer development. Particular
attention has also been given to ensuring that women are actively involved in the project
and derive positive benefits.
6.5   Environmental Protection. The project would have a positive effect on the
environment through subproject investments in land terracing works, water storage,
agroforestry, and other on-farm soil conservation works. Most importantly, project
households would take part in planting and maintenance of tree, bush and pasture species
on more than 40,000 ha of steeply sloped hillsides and wastelands. Together, these
investments would reverse further degradation of the fragile ecosystem, reduce runoff and
soil loss, and contribute to the rehabilitation of degraded grassland and forest areas.
B. COST AND RENT RECOVERY
6.6   Cost recovery for the land and farmer development component would involve
several elements. The cost of chemical fertilizer, seeds, agrochemicals, animals, feed and
other agricultural and livestock inputs would be recovered by payments from
beneficiaries. Some of the costs of research and training would be recovered either by
fees levied directly on beneficiaries or through taxes paid on project production. Services
provided by veterinary and other agricultural services support staff would be recovered
through service fees. The costs for the labor mobility component would be recovered
through wage deductibles paid by those laborers successfully placed under the project.
The cost recovery analysis of the representative villages shows that, at present tax rates,
project charges would be sufficient to cover project costs with a recovery index of 100
percent.  Rent recovery averages 42 percent at full development and 78 percent
discounted over the life of the project (Annex9).
C. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.7   Financial and economic analysis for the project was undertaken on the basis of an
analysis of a representative village program (including labor mobility activities) and
selected representative TVE subprojects. The village program is representative of the
mountainous project area of Sichuan and Shaanxi. Financial and economic rates of return
were estimated for the village program and for individual project activities under the
program. Farm model analysis was also carried out to assess the financial impact of the



- 59 -
program on the farm households. The selected TVE investments include tea, potato, taro
and mineral processing subprojects.
6.8   Financial Analysis. The analysis indicates that the financial rate of return (FRR)
for the village program is about 38 percent, with FRRs for various activities ranging from
12 to 67 percent (Ann=.2). The financial return of the village program would provide
adequate incentives for farmers to adopt the strategies proposed by the project. Farm
model analysis for the program illustrates that with an average investment of about Y 500
per person, farmers' per capita annual grain production would increase to about 360 kg at
full development. During the same period, it is expected that farmers' annual per capita
net income would double in real terms. The farm model analysis also illustrates that the
project's village programs would be financially sustainable since, even in the early years
of the project, net cash income generated by the labor mobility, livestock and cash crop
activities would be more than enough to meet cash requirements of intensified grain
production.
6.9   The financial analysis indicates that the FRR for the labor mobility component is
about 34 percent, even after assuming a full year postponement of the revenue stream,
very conservative estimates of the job retention rate (viz., 60 percent by the fourth year of
employment), and generous living expenses (50 percent of the total wage income). The
strong FRR is consistent with the extreme wage rate differentials between poor rural
areas and more prosperous urban and rural areas (para. 2.27). For the TVE component,
enterprise FRRs range between 22 and 30 percent. These returns would be adequate to
meet interest and loan repayment obligations and guarantee attractive rates of return to
equity investors. Sensitivity analysis shows that most FRRs are relatively robust to wide
changes in input and output prices (Annex9).
6.10 Economic Analysis. Economic farm-gate prices are calculated for tradable
commodities and inputs using border prices as reported in the Bank Group's commodity
price forecasts, adjusted for transportation and marketing margins. For nontradable
items, financial farm-gate prices were assumed to represent economic prices where
markets are not regulated. The shadow wage rate for unskilled labor has been estimated
at Y 6 per day, reflecting high unemployment in the project area. Investment costs are
expressed in economic values through the application of conversion factors.  All
economic values are converted to local currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of
Y 8.3.
6.11  The projectwide economic analysis excludes the education, health, rural
infrastructure, institution building and poverty monitoring activities because it is
impractical to quantify their benefits. However, these activities are essential to the long-
term success and sustainability of the project and no doubt have very high economic and
social returns. Estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) for the project's other
activities are about 43 percent for the village program, 43 percent for the labor mobility
component, and 47 to 71 percent for the subprojects under the TVE development
component. For the project as a whole, the ERR is estimated to be at least 40 percent.



- 60 -
Sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERRs are relatively robust to wide changes in input
and output prices (Arn&2).
D. RisKs
6.12  Complexity. The project addresses problems of chronic absolute poverty and
natural resource degradation in an area where previous single-sector interventions have
not led to sustainable reductions in poverty. The greatest strength of the project-its
focused multisectoral rural development approach-comes at the inherent cost of greater
than average complexity and greater difficulties in implementation. This risk was
acknowledged prior to the outset of project preparation, and has been effectively
countered by (a) the project's unique organizational and management structure, (b) a
strong institution and implementation capacity building program, and (c) the full
involvement of the beneficiaries and village communities in the design and
implementation of the project. In addition, the project relies on an integrated package of
proven technologies and interventions. County-level governments, where leadership
required for effective implementation is more sustainable due to the local importance of
the project, have extensive experience with these technologies and interventions.
Successful implementation of SWPRP during 1995-96 appears to have confirmed that
this unique organizational and management structure can overcome the concerns of above
average complexity and implementation capacity requirements.
6.13  Component-Specific Risks.  The individual project components also have
specific associated risks. For the land and farmer development component, there is a risk
of slower-than-expected adoption of improved farming practices, resulting in slower
realization of economic and environmental benefits. However, the improved techniques
would (a) be integrated with existing local farming practices, (b) require limited material
inputs, and (c) be introduced, in some cases, on a pilot basis. The project's emphasis on
strengthening the extension service through technical assistance and provision of required
subject-matter specialists, and training of farmer-technicians and demonstration
households is also designed to minimize these risks. The project's participatory approach
is designed to gain the trust and involvement of beneficiaries and to generate a sense of
ownership in project activities. There are significant market risks for several of the cash
and economic tree crops, but these risks are considered to be acceptable (paras. 5.10-
5.13). Several activities (such as terracing, etc.) under the land and farmer development
component would directly mitigate the risks of drought.
6.14 The labor mobility and TVE components face the risks of weak monitoring of
worker conditions and sudden changes in market conditions. CWHRDC, which has
already established a highly effective monitoring system, would work with LGPR, the
provincial Labor Bureaus and ACWF to monitor and evaluate labor mobility activities.
A pilot-phase evaluation would also identify operational issues, and make necessary
adjustments. The diversified portfolio of small-scale TVEs has been developed with
attention to commercial viability. While specific TVEs face higher demand and price



- 61 -
fluctuations (notably silk reeling and tea processing), the majority of products are
intended for use in growing local and provincial markets.
6.15  Sustainability. The conception and preparation of this project have benefited from
a high degree of Government commitment and from LGPR's experience with the
Government's poverty reduction efforts since 1985. Project planning and implementation
capacity of FCPMC and the PADOs in the project areas would be strengthened through the
institution-building component, which would also attach great importance to project
monitoring and evaluation. The sustainability of the project would depend heavily on the
full participation of rural communities, including the integration of women in project
activities. By promoting and strengthening village-level organizations, putting more
emphasis on grassroots participation, and building local PADOs' project implementation
capacity, the project is expected to ensure sustainability. To assess progress toward
implementation, not only information from project monitoring and evaluation would be
used, but also the comprehensive poverty monitoring reviews organized by SSB using
annual surveys.



- 62 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a)   (i) labor mobility would be strictly voluntary and undertaken on the basis of
a program acceptable to the Bank Group, (ii) a monitoring and reporting
system satisfactory to the Bank Group (such as that established by
CWHRDC for SWPRP, focusing on fair treatment of workers and
workplace safety) would be finalized and implemented at the county,
provincial and national levels no later than September 15, 1997, and (iii) the
Borrower, as part of its overall project monitoring (para. 4.17), would
prepare and submit a detailed labor mobility component monitoring report to
the Bank Group by March 15 and September 15 of each year (para. 3.5);
(b)   all dams rehabilitated under the project would be maintained and inspected
annually in accordance with sound engineering practices, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 3.12);
(c)   the project provinces would ensure that project households would receive
individual land use rights for a term of not less than 30 years for the land
they terrace, irrigate, drain, or plant to perennial crops under the project
(para. 3.20);
(d)   (i) the project provinces would be required to complete appraisal of the TVE
activities in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank Group,
(ii) these activities would be included in the project subject to the Bank
Group's final approval, and (iii) for TVE subprojects implemented by
enterprises, the enterprise would have to demonstrate its creditworthiness
and Bank Group funds would be onlent on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank Group (para. 3.24);
(e)   as a prerequisite to inclusion of a TVE activity, the provincial EPBs would
(i) determine whether the TVE would require effluent treatrnent facilities,
(ii) review and approve the final designs of the necessary effluent treatment
facilities prior to beginning construction, and (iii) supervise the plant's
implementation and maintenance of effluent monitoring and treatment
systems (para. 3.27);
(f)   Bank Group proceeds would be onlent to the microfinance cooperatives
(i) by the project provinces for 15 years (including 5 years of grace) at an
annual interest rate of at least 2.88 percent, and (ii) on conditions acceptable



- 63 -
to the Bank, including that the cooperatives have adopted an acceptable
operating manual governing their lending operations (para. 3.33);
(g)   FCPMC would provide an annual plan to the Bank Group by December 1 of
each year that would include a list of proposed research, training, study tours
and technical assistance under the project for the coming year (para. 3.35);
(h)   each project province would implement an education and a health program
acceptable to the Bank Group (paras. 3.39 and 3.40);
(i)   consolidated accounts of all components would be maintained for annual
auditing by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and the audited accounts,
including the Special Account, together with the auditor's report, would be
submitted to the Bank Group within six months of the close of each
financial year (para. 3.57);
(j)   pesticides to be provided under the project would be approved by the Bank
Group and would be stored and handled in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 3.58);
(k)   all project activities would comply with sound environmental standards, and
necessary mitigation actions to fulfill the recommendations contained in the
Environmental Assessment Report would be included in the annual work
programs forwarded to the Bank Group (para. 3.58);
(1)   (i) resettlement required under the project would be carried out in
accordance with the RAP, and (ii) any currently unanticipated resettlement
would be carried out in accordance with a RAP developed on the basis of
the principles and policies established in the RAP and approved by the Bank
Group (para. 3.60);
(m)   FCPMC would be staffed at levels, and maintained with functions and
responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 4.3);
(n)   the provincial PMOs would (i) be staffed at levels, and maintained with
functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group, and (ii) prepare
and furnish a detailed annual budget and work plan, including training,
acceptable to the Bank Group, by December 1 of each year, for project
implementation the following year (para. 4.7);
(o)   (i) MOF would make the proceeds of the IBRD Loan and IDA (ITF) Credit
available to the three project provinces at 2 percent interest rate per year
with a repayment period of 17 years, including a 5 year grace period, and
(ii) the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the provincial governments
(para. 4.12); and,



- 64 -
(ii) the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the provincial governments
(para. 4.12); and,
(p)   the Borrower, through FCPMC, and the project provinces, through their
provincial PMOs, would prepare for the Bank Group a mid-term report of
the project by June 30, 1999 (para. 4.15).
7.2   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $30.0 million for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans,
and an IDA (ITF) Credit of SDR 108.5 million ($150 million equivalent) on standard
terms, with 35 years maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Provincial, County, and Project Area Statistics
Table 1:   Demographic Statistics
Project Counties \A                                                       Project Townships \_                            Project Villages \_
PROVINCE              Total   Administrative   Natural     Rural        Rural        Total   Administrative  Natural    Rural     Rural     Administrative  Natural    Rural     Rural
County           Townships   villages      villages    households   Population  Townships   villages     villages  households Population    villages    villages  households Population
1          2            3           4            5             6           7          8          9         10            11          12        13         14
SICHUAN                   701         7.934      29.004    2.653.885    9.067.726        129         1.213     4.743   305.317  1.133.317           1.194     4.608   295.905  1.117.664
Xuanhan                 74          769         769      281,795     1,003,896         15           121       121    29,561    110,027            121        121    28,263    110,027
Cangxi                  56          734        4,982     215,622      697,879          10           100       703    26,312    93,343             100       703    26,312    93,343
Chaotian                25          214         214       50,460      189,290          10           81         81    14,664    57,963              81        81    14,655    57,963
Tongjiang               77          424         524      169,795      609,789           9           80         80    22,617    92,121              80        80    22,617    92,121
Wangcang                35          954         862       93,290      342,941          13           116       862    23,232    89,035             116       862    23,232    89,035
Guangan                 45          358         858      311,262     1,020,767          6           81         81    24,636    86,773              81        81    24,323      86,773
Yilong                  60          844         844      257,310      912,800           9           114       114    28,356   102,392             114        114    27,895    102,392
Quxian                  86          694        6,605     330,851     1,163,555         11           86        780    31,173    115,975             86       780    30,974    115,975
Langzhong               59          772        6,268     258,102      759,870           8          106        731    31,167   103,158              92       640    26,571      88,405
Nanjiang                74          526         526      147,229      524,900          24           116       116    23,250    88,300             116        116    22,188    88,300
Jialing                 37          557        5,464     180,343      664,039           7           98        960    26,936   100,197              93       916    25,940    99,297
Nanbu                   73         1,088       1,088     357,826     1,178,000          7          114        114    23,413    94,033             114        114    22,935    94,033
SHAANXI                   516         3.913      23.856     800.885     2.842.873        201         1.547              242.839   966.62            1.547             233.441   966,620              1
Ziyang                  61          551                   75,200      306,532          22          205                27,710    109,566           205               27,710    109,566            @
Ningshan                28          144                   19,500       63,046          12           56                 7,613    28,441             56                6,852    28,441              1
Hanyin                  41          263                   76,500      259,530          12           73                13,345    51,133             73               13,139    51,133
Ankang                 101          879                  229,930      749,163          39          319               52,928   217,709             319               51,983   217,709
Zhengba                 48          474                   70,910      252,608          22          247               34,490   131,917             247               33,180   131,917
Xixiang                 48          350                   89,502      358,036          18          136               24,686    99,383             136               24,686    99,383
Lueyang                 41          260                   48,375      150,144          15          105                12,292    54,201            105               11,139    54,201
Ningqiang               54          366                   81,590      295,494          20          132               28,309   107,933             132               25,881    107,933
Zhenan                  58          421                   68,721      266,333          24           176              27,145    110,454            176               25,787    110,454
Zhashui                 36          205                   40,657      141,987          17           98                14,321    55,883             98               13,084    55,883
NINGXIA                    77          812        4.202     212.780     1094.f801         31          335      1.636    74.875   402394              2_        96      44.814   235.597
Jingyuan                 9          105         421       21,000       95,000           5           47        214     9,090    45,123              41       180      7,674    37,593
Tongxin                 18          238         867       56,438      279,615           8          124       403    26,113   133,228               61       235     13,450    67,167
Haiyuan                 24          166        1,104      57,062      316,727           9           65        349     16,926    93,109             50       249     12,804    67,977
Xiji                    26          303        1,810      78,280      403,459           9           99       670    22,746    130,934              48       302     10,886    62,860
TOTAL                   1,294        12,659      57,062    3,667,550    13,005,400       361         3,095     6,379   623,031  2,502,331          2,941      5,574   574,160  2,319,881         .  >
0Q P
\l Total number of townships, administrative villages, natural villages, households, and population in theproiectcounties.
\_ Total numberof proiect townashi  and the total numberofadministrative villages, natural villages, households, and population in theseprojeet townshins.
\_ Total number of Drojct administrative villages, and the total number of natural villages, households, and population in these Droiect administrative villaises.



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Provincial, County. and Project Area Statistics
Table 2:   Access to Social Services and Rural Infrastructure
Provinciad Avr.                    Psimay Education           Adult    Maternal  Underfive   Florosis   Iodine      Clean      Per capita    No. of villages  No. of villages  No. of villages
Proi county avg.         NER      Drop-out   OTGR    illiteracy   mortality   mortality  incidence  deficiency   deliveiy   medical ex,p. \   with access to   with access to   with access to
Project fship\a     (/)      rate (%)     (/6)    ratel(.)    (li/e)    (el.s)     (eal)      ('(in)     (/.)        (yuan)          roads      drinking water    electticity
(1)       (2)        3.0       (4)        (5)        (6)        7.0       (8)        (9)         10.00          (I1)           (12)           (13)
SICHUIAN                          9.4         1.4      92.L        5.0      l21       76.07        1A       60.1S      65.2           5.78         61H698         61.819         6S29
Proj. counties avg.         91.6        6.0       S6.3       12.2                            11.0                               3.17           5,S81          4,897          7,414
ProieeT'shibi          NA.        101       77.1       15J9       R.R,       81.       16.4       18.                      2.16            643            497          i
Xuanhan                67.4        6.8      87.4       14.2       2.60     80.10        0.0      92.00      60.0           0.41             52             27             90
Cangxi                 81.1        5.1      77.0       21.4       1.42     7200         0.0      60.00      85.0           1.07             94             49            100
Chaotian               80.6       10.5      76.4       23.5       2.50     88.00       21.1      43.00      53.0           3.50             26             16             75
Tongiiang              84.6       14.1      689        14.7       1.81     65.50        0.0      32.60      450            1.40             55              3             49
Wangcang               90.9        7.4      84.9       14.0       3.14     8435         4.7      56.00      78.1           196              62             60             58
Guangan                88.1        68       88.3        9.8       1.31     68.53        0.0                 61.0           0.64             35             25             81
Yilong                 87.8       15.9      84.1       17.8       1.43     73.40        0.0     73.30       80.5           3.55             55             26            114
Quxian                 74.0       10.7      68.0       14.5       151      57.20        0.0      95.00      65.0           2.16             35             50             62
Langzhong              83.8       128       82.2       22.7       1.30     50.00        0.0     44.00       60.0           0.46            34              39             99
Nanjiang               86.0        7.3      77.0       12.1       2.15     56.00        0.0      67.00      58.0           0.61             76             73             94
Jirding                76.0        9.5      74.0       15.8       1.56     76.00        0.0      80.00      61.7           1.05             45             28             93
Nanbu                  85.3       15.2      81.2        9.8       1.53     72.00       69.0      79.30      75.3           9.00             74            101            107
SHAANXI                                                                               4S S0        4.5       231       90.0
Proj. counties avg.                                                                                                                                                                                            a%
Proiet T'hi            84.4                                                                                                               74                             tl71
Ziyang                 90.0                                                55.50        6.6       1.84      43.7                           81                            105
Ningshan               81.3                                                65.80                  2.00      63.7                           24                             30
Hanyin                 S0.4                                                52.00        2.9      1.15       67.4                           45                            35
Ankang                 89.0                                                71.80        39        1.65      45.0                          132                            187
Zhengba                89.9                                                84.60        6.2      210        60.3                           97                            97
Xixiang                85.7                                                79.20                 1.75       65.1                           69                            21
Lueyang                88.0                                                99.60                 1.56       62.2                           33                            58
Ningqiang              86.5                                                67A10                  180       65.5                           92                            76
Zhenun                 83.4                                                7210                   1.70      61.7                           94                            139
Zhashui                80.2                                                68.80                  1.65      50.4                           67                            69
NINGXIA                            2          3.0                                                            L00                     23.60          2.310          21             2A6
Proj. counties avg.          89.8       5.8                  19.7                            0.1       7.48                     7."             650            890            812
Proict T'shi           "A 7. 3                         21.2 0a.2                       S 00  L9g0                          U              231            165            335
Jingyuan               905         7.2                 28.6                5460         0.0      14.00      63.5           3.16            39             30             47
Tongxin                85.1        6.2                 25.3                45.90        0.0      2.40       29.6           1.88            79             52             124
Haiyuan                83.5        5.6                 14.3                58.53        0.0      6.80       429            1.33            47             45             65
Xiji                   86.0       8.2                  24.5                59.56        0.8      9.60       49.0           1.62            66             38             99
Note:     \_ Project townships, unless indicated otherwise, always include all the project administrative villages.
\b NER (net enrollment rate) is the proportion of school-age children (ages 7-13) enrolled in school.                                                                                            ID   )
OTGR (on-time graduation rate) is the proportion the age 15 children graduated from primaty school                                                                                                 X
Drop-out rate is the proportion of school children that dropped out during the past year.
\_ Per capita medical expenditure is the average rural per capita govemment expenditure on health care calculated at the county level.                                                           o
t-h
.ls



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Provincial, County, and Project Townships Statistics
Table 3:   Proiect Area Basic Production and Income Statistics
1. Cultivated Land                2.              3. Forestry                Sown Area
PROVINCE              Total               Basic   of which:  Grassland           Forested  of which:              Grain     Grain   Livestock/  % pop       % pop.
Proj. Counties     land area   Subtotal  Farm land   Paddy   area    Subtotal    Area   Tree crops    Subtoal  sown area production Meat prod. with grain with net income
p.T'AhiV        ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)   ('000 ha.)  ('000 ha.)  ('000 ton)  (ton) \a   <160kg  <Y320
SICHUAN
Proj. counties        2,949       525      233        255       506      1,031      742       n.a.       1,087      867      3,448   494,441      12.7          28.3
Proiect T'shi         574       i7        26         _        108       25        157        21 1u               105       341    35.73          29          84.8
Xuanhan             83.51      7.12      2.24       3.16     15.75     43.35     32.37      2.92       11.81      9.13     30.57     3,200      48.6          71.0
Cangxi              35.64      5.02      2.46       2.48      5.41     17.85      6.60      0.63        8.63      7.18     28.98     3,317      22.8          98.7
Chaotian            51.22       5.34     1.55       0.23     23.44     16.35      9.52      2.87        8.55      7.46     16.81     1,391      30.0          90.0
Tongjiang           69.87      6.19      1.53       3.01     10.12     39.33     28.54      5.11       11.90      9.52     26.42     2,873      58.8          84.0
Wangeang            116.04     6.76      2.77       1.20     23.03     62.29     28.91      2.65        9.09      8.69     26.87     4,363      17.2          78.5
Guangan              16.38     4.79      1.71       2.75      0.24      3.10      2.33      0.71        8.45      8.45     28.59     2,676      50.4          63.5
Yilong              23.35      5.45      2.62       2.83      2.66      8.57      6.13      1.21        8.02      7.91     29.65     2,321      27.7          75.4
Quxian              24.79      7.33      4.08       5.83      0.63      2.97      1.41      0.37       21.04     10.55     39.43     4,365      26.4          92.1
Langzhong           23.68      5.32      0.38       1.86      1.00     11.33      6.94      0.01        8.69      8.55     31.15     1,973      32.3          84.0
Nanjiang            90.73      6.76      1.20       2.60     24.80     41.70     25.20      3.00       10.70      8.67     25.86     3,058       8.8          94.1
Jialing             20.63      7.73      2.36       2.68      0.52      2.03      2.98      0.49       14.50     11.54     29.73     4,217      10.4          88.5
Nanbu                17.69     5.37      2.68       0.84      0.13      4.93      6.40      1.38       10.21      7.68     26.99     1,984       9.0          80.0
SHAANXI 
Proj. counties        2,952       284      n.L        S.        324      1,789     1,222      n.a.        491       423       830    90,554       21.9          36.0
Proiect T'shii       121        115       47         ..       163       767       399       ns.         198       lo          4    23,070       60.9          74.7
Ziyang              97.79      15.40     6.44                36.50     23.66     11.96                 30.79     24.02     34.89     2,736      39.2          72.7
Ningshan            133.28     3.20      1.25                 5.14    117.27     91.47                 6.94       6.37      7.71      733       40.0          67.0
Hanyin              44.85      6.60      2.63                 6.26     29.19     10.01                 9.70       8.49     15.84     1,017      30.8          73.2
Ankang              183.56     19.75    10.21                42.58     97.36     43.64                 36.50     33.23     55.67     4,434      79.3          74.2
Zhengba             157.65    25.17      7.50                22.72     89.03     22.72                 28.49     25.48     40.11     3.350      38.1          71.0
Xixiang             139.80     8.28      4.87                10.34     93.78     17.83                21.26      13.57     31.41     2,450      64.6          78.0
Lueyang             91.42      8.39      2.28                13.26     45.33     27.85                 13.20     12.69     17.74     1,350      41.5          81.0
Ningqiang           116.35     11.04     1.89                 9.86     70.34     57.18                 19.07     17.04     29.33     2,600      45.6          38.2
Zhenan             148.11      10.16     6.54                10.97    100.57     62.34                 23.90     19.93     31.23     2,950      65.8          80.1
Zhashui             118.44     6.92      3.33                 5.43    100.16     53.51                  8.10      7.23     10.30     1,450      88.1          73.8
NINGXIA
Proj. counties        1,782       300      102                  785       125        85         4         308       253    226.26    36,038       64.8          68.0
ProjiectT'ship        711       1i1       34                  301        33         Z       0.6         121        99        60    14.887       80.3          87.9
Jingyuan            41.82      9.97      0.52                16.46      3.52      3.95     0.00        10.61     7.89      12.30     1,050      52.8          92.0              '>
Tongxin            285.20     50.39     17.00               160.87      1.13     0.91      0.48       44.87     36.04      14.37     5,646      88.0          93.8
Haiyuan            259.60     30.30      3.63               100.01      1.23      1.05     0.01       25.13     20.16      12.09     3,248      83.0          81.6             tD (D
Xiji                124.03    40.65     13.20                23.70     26.77     16.06     0.09       40.36     34.72     21.04      4,943      80.0          86.0
0
\a Beef, pork, mutton, chicken.



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Provincial, County, and Project Area Statistics
Table 4:   Project Area Averaee Climatological Data
Temperature (C)                                        Elevation            Frost-free
PROVINCE                             Absolute  Absolute  Rain fall  Evaporation   Average    Min.     Max.       days
County                 Mean      Max.      Min.    (mm)          (mm)        (m)       (m)        (m)      (day)
SICHLUAN                        16.7     41.7       8.5     L9            1J.15      892       207      2-507       286
Chaotian                  15.2      40.2      -8.5     1,000          985      1,232      475      1,988       230
Wangcang                  16.1      39.8      -7.9     1,172         1,378     1,378      380      2,281       276
Cangxi                    16.8      39.6      -4.6     1,039         1,455      867       357      1,378       288
Tongjiang                 16.7      40.4      -6.2     1,108         1,165     1,199      308      2,089       281
Nanjiang                  16.1      40.3      -7.1     1,188         1,276     1,438      370      2,507       259
Xuanhan                   16.6      39.2      -4.3     1,215         1,084      950       278      2,458       292
Quxian                    17.7      41.7      -3.2     1,171         1,206      704       212      1,196       327
Yilong                    15.6      37.1      -5.7     1,140         1,202      550       309        793       299
Langzhong                 17.1      38.6      -4.1     1,013         1,175      608       328        888       287
Nanbu                     17.2      39.9      -5.0      976           994       562       298        826       285
Jialing                   17.4      41.2      -2.8     1,070         1,129      364       248        480       299                                   1
Guangan                   17.6      41.0      -1.5     1,000         1,050      852       207      1,495       310                                   Os
co
SHAANXI                        13.8      41,7    -17.5        944         1.876     1.074        6      2.965       218
Ankang                    15.7      41.7      -9.5      846           853       750       216      2,141       252
Hanyin                    15.1      40.1     -10.1      892          1,030      550       296      2,128       258
Ningshan                  12.3      36.2    -13.1       925           802       899       540      2,965       215
Ziyang                    15.1      41.3      -7.6     1,128          630      1,261      277      2,522       268
Zhengba                   13.8      38.0    -10.0      1,786         1,053     1,231      425      2,534       239
Ningqiang                 12.9      36.7    -11.6      1,178          823       858       502      2,104       200
Xixiang                   14.5      39.7    -10.6       958           910       916       410      2,413       245
Lucyang                   13.2      37.7    -11.2       860           909      1,148      587      2,425       236
Zhenan                    13.3      39.6    -13.7       804          1,301     1,473      344      2,602       231
Zhashui                   12.2      38.4    -17.5       646          1,465     1,656      541      2,802       209
NINGXIA                         7_0      38.0    -32.0       434          1.84      1.88      1.260     2.955       150
Xiji                       5.3      32.6    -32.0       417          1,504    2,160      1,688     2,633       130
Haiyuan                    7.1      34.2    -25.8       389          2,269     1,773     1,336     2,955       165
Tongxin                    8.4      37.9    -27.3       278          2,326     1,344     1,260     2,625       151
Jingyuan                   6.2      31.6    -26.3       651          1,440     2,275     1,608     2,942       132
(D M
0



Annex 2
- 69 -
Annex 2
Rural Infrastructure Component
Background
1.     The Qinba Mountains and the Loess Plateau are two of the regions in which the
present 58 million absolute poor in China are distributed. The former includes the two
roughly parallel mountain ranges of Qinling and Dabashan within which are located the 12
project counties in Sichuan and 10 project counties in Shaanxi, while the four project
counties in Ningxia are situated in the western part of the Loess Plateau.
2.     Lofty mountains, with frequent rock outcrops and dissected by numerous deep
valleys, characterize the Qinba Mountains project area, and the rugged terrain is one of
considerable precipitousness. Arable land is scarce. A large part of the annual moderate to
high rainfall (700-1,600 mm) is concentrated in the months of June-September, and gives rise
to severe soil erosion. The Loess Plateau, on the other hand, is characterized by low annual
rainfall, low temperature and a short frost-free period, which all adversely affect crop yields.
In this ecologically degraded and resource-deficient environment, grain production often fails
to reach the level of subsistence requirements. This situation is exacerbated by inadequate or
complete absence of rural infrastructure such as water supply, road, electricity, and irrigation
facilities, as is the case for many remote and isolated villages in the project area: about 47%
of administrative villages are still not connected to the existing network of roads, 16% of
administrative villages are still not served by any form of electricity supply, and 30% of the
population have no access to safe drinking water. Less than 10% of cultivated land is
irrigated for stabilized grain production. The absence of basic facilities makes living
conditions harsh and arduous. To reach the nearest water source the villagers have to cover
long distances by foot and labour through steep terrains, and the nearest dirt roads are
reached only after some kilometers of steep climb and descent by jungle tracks.
Considerable labor and effort are thus expended by villagers to bring what small amount of
forest or agricultural products they produce to the nearest farmers' market. Furthermore,
there are only very limited means of obtaining help from the outside world in the event of an
emergency.
Component Description
3.     The rural infrastructure component forms an integral part of the multisectoral
developmental approach to attacking rural poverty and is formulated with the view to
ameliorating living conditions in the hitherto remote and isolated villages.



Annex 2
- 70 -
Targets
4.     The specific targets for the rural infrastructure component would be to increase the
rural road coverage at the administrative village level to 80%; to extend potable water
facilities to cover about 90% of the population in the project area; to provide rural electricity
to meet the requirements of agroprocessing, mining and other industries in the project area;
and to construct irrigation and land reclamation works for about 13,900 ha of paddy and
upland crops.
Rural Roads
5.     To extend the coverage of rural roads in the project area, 892 km of all- weather
gravel roads would be provided, linking 780 administrative villages to the existing network
of county roads. Selection criteria would include: (i) roads which would serve a number of
villages with a sizable population, and (ii) roads which would serve areas with farmers'
markets, rural enterprises, and a concentration of project activities where sufficient
generation of traffic volume is expected. The roads would be constructed to Class IV road
standards, with the following minimum technical requirements:-
Design speed                          20 km/hr
Width of formation                    4.5 m
Width of carriageway                  3.5 m
Radius of road                        15 m
Stopping sight distance               20 m
Maximum grade                         11%
Minimum depth of roadside drain       0.6 m
Design Load for bridges/culverts      10 t
Rural Water Supply
6.     The rural water supply subcomponent would provide safe drinking water to 466,000
persons in 1,680 villages. Selection criteria would include: (i) villages suffering from
seasonal water shortages exceeding 60 days in duration, (ii) villages where the water source
is more than one km away or where the elevation difference between the water source and the
place where the inhabitants reside is more than 100 m; and (iii) villages where the existing
water source is unacceptable, such as water sources containing a high level of fluoride and
villages susceptible to epidemic and endemic diseases.
7.     Water supply systems would be low-cost. Systems would be designed for daily
consumption of 15 to 35 liters per person and would meet current water quality standards for
rural water supply in China. Facilities would tap from springs, utilize ground water, divert or
pump from streams and would include piped systems with public hydrants, rain collectors



Annex 2
- 71 -
serving individual households or several households, and shallow wells. Water storages
would be provided to sustain supply up to 60-70 days in Sichuan and Shaanxi and 100 days
in Ningxia in the dry seasons. Shallow wells would be equipped with hand pumps to prevent
contamination. Where sources of supply are adequate and marginal cost within reasonable
limits, the facilities would also allow for drinking water for animals.
Rural Energy
8.     Seventy five km of 35 kV and 669 km of 10 kV overhead transmission and
distribution lines and eight mini-hydro power plants with an aggregate installed capacity of
2.2 MW would be installed to increase power supply to the project area. Power facilities
would meet primarily the requirements of agroprocessing plant and light industries financed
under the project, the needs of other non-project enterprises in the project area, and the
domestic requirements in villages located in the vicinity of power lines. About 116,000
households in 786 villages would be served by the project rural electrification schemes.
Technical criteria for selection of mini-hydro schemes would include (i) good hydraulic head
and dependable run-of-river flow; (ii) short distribution lines from plant to demand centres;
(iii) for stand-alone plants (that is, plants not connected to the power grid), compatibility of
characteristics of demand load and power generated. Electrical works would conform to
national technical standards currently in force.
9.    In some areas of Sichuan Province where there is a chronic shortage of fuelwood due
to land degradation and progressive depletion of vegetation and where forest is closed to
further exploitation, biogas digesters as a practical means of providing an alternate source of
energy would be provided. The rural energy subcomponent would include the installation of
1,828 units of biogas digesters.
Water Conservancy Works
10. A variety of small-scale irrigation works would be constructed in Sichuan and Shaanxi
to provide supplemental irrigation for about 8,900 ha of existing and new paddy and upland
crops. The proposed works would include one small reservoir storage scheme, 530 irrigation
ponds, seven pumping stations, 965 on- farm water cisterns, 43 diversion weirs and 640 km
of lined canals. In addition, the project would provide, in the semi-arid area in Ningxia,
individual household operated microirrigation systems with supplies drawn from wells and
small cisterns. 15 tube wells, 2,000 shallow wells and 21,600 cisterns for rain harvesting
would be constructed to serve about 4,300 ha. Some 650 ha river beach land would also be
reclaimed in Ningxia for crop production.
11. Schemes would be designed to meet irrigation requirements in three out of four years.
For storage schemes, runoff coefficients used for computing inflow should be based on
reliable data. Availability of ground water for shallow well and tube well microirrigation



Annex2
- 72 -
should be confirmed, and care taken to prevent over-exploitation. In canal schemes, offtakes
with simple flow measuring devices such as the "V-notch" would be provided for proper
water control and delivery at the farm level.
Preparation and Review of Schemes
12.  Proposals for the rural infrastructure schemes have been compiled by the three
provincial PMOs on the basis of submissions by county Water Conservancy and Electric
Power Bureaus (for water conservancy, rural water supply and rural electrification schemes),
county Electricity Supply Bureaus (for rural electricity schemes in Shaanxi) and county
Communication Bureaus for rural road schemes). The great majority of the schemes
proposed require further preparation and review prior to implementation. In order to insure
that each scheme proposed for implementation under the project is technically feasible and
economically viable, and that engineering designs for these are prepared to a uniformly high
standard, provincial PMOs should ensure that schemes prepared by county technical bureaus
are reviewed and approved for implementation. Project schemes should conform to the
selection criteria and technical standards.  Rural road, rural electrification and water
conservancy schemes should have a minimum estimated economic rate of return of 10%, and
unit investment costs for individual rural water supply schemes should not exceed RMB
Y350 per capita including contingencies. All dams rehabilitated under the project would be
maintained and inspected annually in accordance with sound engineering practices, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Operation and Maintenance
13.  Adequate arrangements would be made for the operation and maintenance of rural
infrastructure schemes completed under the project to ensure that the facilities remain in
good serviceable conditions during the project implementation period and thereafter.
14.   Rural roads constructed to Class IV road standards and certified as such by
Communication Bureaus would either be included in the county annual road maintenance
programmes or be placed under the charge of township Communication Stations concerned.
In the latter case an annual routine maintenance subsidy would be granted by Communication
Bureaus with beneficiary villagers providing duty labour for periodical or major repair work.
15. Village committees would be responsible for organizing operation and maintenance of
rural water supply systems with full village participation. Normal upkeep and major repair of
the completed facilities, operation for daily water supply and water rationing in times of
shortage would be discussed by beneficiary villagers prior to implementation. Management
committees would be formed and persons appointed to be responsible for looking after the
facilities. A water fee would be collected either in cash or in kind to cover full operation and
maintenance costs. Villagers would contribute duty labour for major repair work.



Annex 2
- 73 -
16.   Rural electrification schemes, completed according to technical standards and
specifications, would be turned over to county Electric Power Companies. These electric
power companies operate as independent enterprises and would recover full costs including
costs of operation and maintenance, major repair and capital recovery through tariffs for
electricity supply.
17. Operation and maintenance of the water conservancy works completed under the project
would be arranged by county Water Conservancy Bureaus.  A water fee would be
progressively increased to recover full operation and maintenance cost.



ANNEX 2
TABLE 1: RURAL ROAD PROGRAMME
(Cost figures shown are base costs)
County      Scheme   Quantity       Unit   Rate (Y)   Amount (Y) Township   Village         Population   Cost/Person (Y)
Sichuan
New Roads       Cangxi         6          47.4        km      84,330     3,997,242       5         18          16,977         235
Chaotian       5         30.0         km    102,539     3,076,165       5         15          16,075          191
Guangan       10         48.6         km     84,125     4,089,310       6         23          86,773           47
Jialing        7         51.3         km     87,504     4,488,950       7         29          62,744           72
Langzhong      6         25.0         km     95,067     2,376,666       8         22          18,463          129
Nanbu          3         41.7        km      93,508     3,899,299       5         29          37,523          104
Nanjiang       2         29.5         km     95,054     2,804,092       6         18           7,660          366
Quxian         7         34.1        km      91,747     3,127,090       8         36          40,752           77
Tongjiang      4         27.1        km      95,109     2,579,365       4         16          13,868          186
Wangcang       2         40.0         km    103,443     4,137,704       3         14           9,008          459
Xuanhan       It         40.0         km     95,132     3,805,299      10         26          21,980          173
Yilong         7         34.0        km      92,308     3,138,472       7         30          29,132          108
Sicuhun  Total                70         44.7         km     92S30    41.519.654       74        276         360.955          115
4.4
Shaanxi
New Roads       Ankang         7          76.0        km     96,771      7,354,596      7         69          34,066          216
Hanming        4         37.0         km     96,771     3,580,527       9         35          25,228          142
Lucyang        2         23.0        km      96,771     2,225.733       7         57          25,590           87
Ningqiang      5         74.0        km      96,771     7,161,054       5         16           9,600          746
Ningshaan      2         15.0        km      96,771      1,451,565      2          9           3,741          388
Zengan         3         36.0        km      96,771     3,483.756       4          9           4,378          796
Zhashui        1         22.0         km     96,771     2,128,962       4         24          11,270          189
Zhiyang        6         41.0         km     96.771     3,967,611       6         25          14,526          273
Jmpred          Xixiang        6          36.0        km     54,647      1,967,292      9        114          44,413           44
Roads           Zengba         2          83.0        km     54,647      4,535.701     13        146          80,081           57
Shaanxi Total                 L         443.          km     85.456    37 S56.797      _         5e4         252.893
Project tobl                  108        891.7        km      89,016    79376.451      140        780        613848           129



ANNEX 2
TABLE 2: RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROGRAMME
(Cost figures shown are base costs)
Service
County      Quantity      Unit   Rate (Y)  Amount (Y  Township   Village        Coverage 1
Sichuan           Cangxi        28,810      person    144       4,153,492      10         100         100 %
Chaotian      18,353      person    164      3,017,810      10          81          96 %
Guangan       15,200      person    137      2,081,487       6          81          80 %
Jialing       23,472      person    145      3,401,683       7          35          87 %
Langzhong     16,977      person    140      2,376,664       8          69          81 %
Nanbu          8,648      person    144      1,245,410       6          62          85 %
Nanjiang      29,810      person    168      5,009,473      17          83          83 %
Quxian        28,000      person    123      3,431,793      11          86          95 %
Tongjiang     24,490      person    172      4,203,612       9          76         100 %
Wangcang      15,350      person    164      2,516,105      13          61          83 %
Xuanhan       29,310      person    144      4,222,072      15         121          81 %
Yilong        24,987      person    157      3,929,197       9         114         100 %
Sichuan Total                  263.407      person    150     39.588.798     121         969          92 !
Shaanxi           Ankang        33,938      person    162       5,485,289     39         121          95 %
Hanming        4,724      person    220      1,039,490      12          37          97 %
Lucyang       17,400      person    122      2,121,724      15          73          90 %
Ningqiang      3,224      person    237        764,915       7          18          98 %
Ningshaan      2,677     person    103         274,803       3           6          81 %
Xixiang       27,890     person    172       4,784,566      15          80          95 %
Zengan        36,052      person    163      5,860,509      24         119          89 %
Zengba        37,100      person    101      3,748,182      22         120          93 %
Zhashui       14,850      person    103      1,536,575      14          38          82 %
Zhiyang       14,793      person    153      2,267,386      21          87          95 %
Shaanxi Total                  192.648      person    145     27.883.440     172         699          22 No
Ningxia           Jinyuan         3,667     person    248        909,400        3          3         100 %
Xiji           6,185      person    126        780,547       3          10         100 %
Ningxia Total                    9.5        person    172      1.689.947       6          13         100  A
Project Toal                   465.907      person    148      69.162.185    299        1.681
1/ Coverage as a result of project



ANNEX 2
TABLE 3: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND RtURAL ENERGY PROGRAMME
(Cost figures shown are base costs)
County                   Quantity  Unit  Rate (Y) Amount (Y)  Townshi  Village         Population   Cost/Pers
A. Rural Electrification
Sichuan   Mini-hydro station
Nanbu                      320       kW    3,697   1,183,024        2        21          7,173           165
Nanjiang                   520       kW    2,623   1,364,154        2        19          5,861          233
S840      kW    I=2    2.547.178        4        40          13.034
35 kV Transformer station
Quxian                    2000      kVA      469    938.400                  24         31.570            2
35 kV transmission line
Quxian                      13        km   59,048    767,622        8        24             n.a           n.a
Yilong                       12       km   57,908    694,899        6        77         72,439            10
Sub-total                  X22        km   58.501   1.462.521      IA       101
10 kV distribution line
Quxian                       10       km   25,817    258,172        8        24             n.a          n.a
Tonjiang                    109       km   25,309   2,770,614       6        22         25,555          108
Yilong                       85       km   25,318   2,140,091       9       144        102,392           21
Sub-total                  204        km   25.338   5.168.877      23       190
0.4 kV distribution line
Quxian                       _        km   15300    306000          _        24
Sichuan Total                                                 10,422.976      Q        2X         244.990           43
* Includes costs of all transmission and distribution lines for Quxian
x



ANNEX 2
TABLE 3: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND RURAL ENERGY PROGRAMME
(Cost figures shown are base costs)
County                    Quantity  Unit  Rate (Y) Amount (Y)  Townshi  Village         Population    Cost/Pers
(Continued...)
Shaanxi   Mini-hydro station
Ningqiang - Shiyang          75       kW    5,000     375,000        1         2           2,200          170
Zengan - Xiangyuan           20       kW    5,000      100,000       1          1           500           200
Zengan - Dayan               20       kW    5,000      100,000       I          1           500           200
Zengan - Yuchuan             20       kW    5,000      100,000       1         2            600           167
Zengba - Yuchuan            400       kW    5,000   2,000,000        1         10         10,800          185
Zhiyang - Baihokou          800       kW    5,000   4,000,000        2         15         16,000          250
Sub-total                 I.335       kW    5.000   6.675.000        7        31          30.600        1172
35 kV transmission line
Xixiang                      50       km   50.411   2.520.550        6        50          30.000           84
10 kV distribution line
Ankang                      110       km   26,000   2,860,000       13        98          49,021           58
Hanming                      26       kmn  26,000     676,000        3         14          9,370           72
Lueyang                      31       km   26,000     806,000        4        35          17,140           47
Ningqiang                    45       km   26,000   1,170,000       14        88          82,811           14
Ningshaan                    33       km   26,000     858,000        2         9           4,388          196
Xixiang                      10       km   26,000     260,000        3        25          17,920           15
Zengba                      100       km   26,000   2,600,000        8        52         48,176            54
Zengan                       50       km   26,000   1,300,000        8         12          7,743          168
Zhashui                      31       km   26,000     806,000        5        14           1,583          509
Zhiyang                      29       km   26,000     754,000        6        51          35,156           21
Sub-total                   465       km   26.000  12.090.000       66       398        273,308            44
Shaanxi Total                                                   21,285.550      79       479        333                64
B. Rural Energy - Biogas Digester
Sichuan   Cangxi                     1.828        no     799   1.460.572        1                     6.44



ANNEX 2
TABLE 4: WATER CONSERVANCY PROGRAMME
(Cost figures shown are base costs)
Cost/
County      Quantity  Unit  Rate (Y) Amount (Y  Township  Village          Population   Person (Y
Sichuan
(a) Pumping Station      Yilong         100       ha     5.289     528.930       5          5          2.500         212
(b) Irrigation Pond      Guangan         85       ha     7,342     622,616       3         36         38,391          16
Jialing        234       ha    10,129   2,370,108       7         73         65,000          36
Langzhong      184       ha     6,048    1, 112,855     8         54          3,892         286
Quxian         134       ha     9,113   1,224,843      11         86          4,277         286
Xuanhan        234       ha     3,970     928,871      12         74         53,280          17
Subltotal      871       ha     7.185   6.259.293      41        323        164.840          38
(c) Diversion Weir       Guangan         15       ha     3,125      45,940       3         15         12,742           4
Jialing        715       ha     1,171     837,438       7         18          9,003          93
Quxian          29       ha     1,715      49,023       6         15           861           57
Subtotal       758       ha     1.230     932.401      16         48         22.606          41]
(d) Cistemn              Langzhong      105       ha    14,911    1,565,662      8         60          4,864         322
Nanbu          795       ha     1,907    1,515,726      5         30         11,780         129
Quxian           5       ha    15,819      75,933      10         36           578          131
Sub-total      905       ha     3.490   3.157.321      23        126         17.222         183
(e) Canal               Guangan        1,044      ha     1,607    1,676,766      3         19        30,290           55
Langzhong      327       ha     1,500     490,369       8         29         9,775           50
Nanbu          643       ha     3,009    1,934,968      1         16          7,565         256
Wangcang       639       ha     4,531    2,893,520     12         22         11,201         258
Quxian         633       ha     2,659    1,682,433      8         86        20,246           83
Xuanhan        980       ha     3,182   3,118,049       9         48        33,600           93
Sub-total    4.265       ha     2.766   11.796.105     41        220        112.677         105
(ft Small Reservoir      Guangan        107       ha     2428      259.788       1          4         3.328           78
Sichuan Total                         7,006       ha     3.273  22.933.838     127        726       323.173           71
N'



ANNEX 2
TABLE 4: WATER CONSERVANCY PROGRAMME
(Cost figures shown are base costs)
Cost/
County      Quantity  Unit  Rate (Y) Amount (Y  Township  Village          Population   Person (Y
(Continued...)
Shaanxi
(a)Canal                 Ankang         979       ha     4,520   4,425,100      34        180        114,330          39
Ningqiang      252       ha     4,520    1,139,000      8         20         10,040         113
Zengba         503       ha     4,520   2,273,600       2         10          3,230         704
Zhashui        151       ha     4,520     682,500       6          8         21,290          32
Shaanxi Total                          1.885      ha     4.520   8.520.200      50        248        148.890          57
Ningxia
(a) Micro-irrigation     Haiyuan       1,200      ha     8,708   10,449,000      6         46         44,713         234
(cistern)             Tongxin       1,675      ha      8,708   14,589,126      8        61         61,249          238
Suilkotal    2.875       ha     8.708  25.038.126      14        107        105 962         236
(b) Micro-inigation      Xiji          1 333      ha     1.977   2.636.000       4         19         27410           96
(shallow well)
(c)Micro-irrigation      Haiyuan        125       ha    10i404    1.300.51S      5         12          5.413         240
(tube well)
(d) River Beach Land     Jinyuan        654       ha     9.338   6.102.424       _                    13.828         441
Reclamnation
Nngxia Total                          4.987       ha     7.033  35.077.065      27:       151        152.613         2
Proiect total                        13.879      ha      4.794  66.531.103     204      1.1 2       624.676          107
CD



Annex 3
-80-
Annex 3
Land and Farmer Development Component
Introduction
1.    Land and Farmer Development. The common name of the agricultural components of
the Qinba and Southwest Poverty Reduction Projects underlines their common overall
objective. The project helps households in the project villages to create and maintain a
substantial increase in their agricultural incomes, through integrated improvements in land
use systems. The approach in both projects is (a) to ensure the targeting of the poor by
geographically concentrating the agricultural investment in project villages, (b) to integrate at
the administrative village level various development activities which government agencies
are experienced in, and (c) to improve poor farmers' access to markets and services.
2.    New Features in the Oinba Design. For the Qinba project, the SWPRP component
design has been refined in three areas: (a) a strategy for land use improvement has been
defined for Sichuan and Shaanxi mountains, and for Ningxia (paragraphs 2.8-2.10 in the
main report), (b) the component would be implemented in the form of individual village
development plans; these plans are not only planning tools which improve household
targeting, but also a set of community activities to support the agricultural development
process, and (c) an action plan has been set up to improve the design and delivery of
agricultural technology packages.
Improvement of Land Use Systems
3.    Strategy. The Qinba land use strategy for poor mountain households is based on three
principles.  First, the project does not design improved land use systems, but helps
households improve their own systems. Agricultural land use throughout the project area is
already centered around intensively managed terraces. As a result, the project's strategy is
based on expanding terraces. The investment includes terracing costs and one year of crop
production inputs. The integration of crops, trees and animals is also an existing feature in
land use. The project aims at enhancing current integration patterns. Second, small-scale
schemes, whether terracing, fodder development or tree plantations, would make better use of
soil and climate micro-level diversity, and generally increase the efficiency of household
labor. Households would be the main decision-makers for the location of these works, and
large scale ones would be avoided. Third, the strategy aims at reversing environmental
degradation trends on slopes.
4.    Expansion of Terraces in Sichuan and Shaanxi Mountains. Building stone-walled
terraces has long been recognized in project villages as a labor-intensive but low external-
input intensification means. With labor and soil fertility concentrated on terraces close to
houses, the productivity of both land and labor is boosted. Grain crop yields become more



Annex 3
- 81 -
stable. Two or three crops are relayed-cropped every year instead of a single crop on slopes.
In addition, trees are interplanted on terrace edges, while more fodder is obtained from crop
residues. However, households need financial support to pay for skilled local workers for the
stone works, dynamite, cement and tools. Government organizational support is also useful,
since the amount of manual labor (more than 800 days per hectare) is often supplied through
large-scale labor exchange among farmers.
5.    Expansion of Terraces in Ningxia. In areas with more than 400 mm of annual
rainfall, terrace expansion is key to the proposed increase of corn in cropping patterns (and of
other high biomass-producing crops such as sorghum). Since it takes about 5 years for the
organic matter content to build up, corn would at first replace potatoes and other summer
crops on older terraces, while summer crops less demanding than corn would be grown on
new terraces. Water-harvesting cisterns will be built on part of the terraces. This will ensure
a more stable corn output, and may allow some farmers to shift to micro-irrigated cash crops.
During the last two decades, few terraces had been built in the project villages due to
insufficient labor (manual terracing can only take place after harvest and before the beginning
of in-depth soil frost). Mechanization now offers a new opportunity to expand terraces.
Actual construction works will be carried out in accordance with the precise specifications of
the Three "Xi" Commission (that is, the Sanxi Commission). Terraces would be completely
leveled. The more fertile topsoil would be preserved and put back into place. In the semi-
arid areas below 400 mm of rainfall, land development consists of building microirrigation
cisterns and wells. Small areas of flatland will be mechanically leveled and plowed.
6.    Slope Land Use in Sichuan and Shaanxi Mountains. The expansion of terraces would
reduce corn cultivation on steep slopes (which is often done by bush fallowing). Bush
fallowing is a non sustainable practice at 330 of North latitude, because of slow vegetation
growth during fallow, which farmers only retain when they have no other option for food
production. The reduction of cultivation on steeply sloped land would release a substantial
amount of household labor for more productive activities, and have a substantial positive
impact on the environment. The erosion hazards created by cultivation of steeply sloped
fields would be reduced. Encroachment on the forested area would be halted in a region
where timber has an important economic potential, and where current encroachment
particularly impacts the valuable spontaneous oak forest. Moreover, the project area in the
Qinling mountains surrounds several national protected forest areas (supported under World
Bank's Forestry Resource Development and Protection Project). As a result, some 30
hectares of abandoned fallows will grow on average in each project village, and form a mixed
grass and bush vegetation cover adequate for goat and cow grazing. This is equivalent to 10-
15% of the present grazing area. As far as tree crop development is concerned, the project
would develop an average 12 ha per administrative village. Two to four ha would consist in
mulberry and fruit trees in Sichuan, mostly planted on terrace edges. The remaining 8-10 ha
is a small area compared to the 150-200 ha of forest land awaiting afforestation and the 20-40
ha of barren individual wasteland. It would be planted on slopes on either type of land.
Finally, the development of cash crops on steep slopes (particularly those previously planted



Annex-3
- 82 -
to food crops) would be avoided. Tuber crops such as yam would be specifically located on
mild slopes. No processing facilities for commercial corn are funded under the project.
7.    Slope Land Use in Ningxia. Project area sloped land bears the combined pressure of
population increase which leads to the expansion of the wheat area, and of the rapid increase
of the goat and sheep population. Goat and sheep numbers have doubled since 1980, while
wheat has increased from one third to some 40% of the cropped area. The resulting
overgrazing is a factor triggering gully erosion in watershed heads, and creates annual feed
deficits in early spring. It will be difficult to reduce the current pressure on grasslands. First,
the expansion of terraces would not directly reduce slope cultivation. Intensive cash and
fodder crops would be developed on terraces, but the extensive cultivation of wheat would
only decline very gradually. Second, a 90% increase in goats and sheep raised by project
households is planned under the project. This is necessary to create herds of adequate size,
so that households derive cash income from animal sales on years of wheat crop failure while
retaining breeding animals for reproduction. A large-scale accompanying resettlement
program would partly compensate this expansion of animal numbers (the resettlement
program is not supported by the project). One third of the population of project villages is
planned to resettle between 1998 and 2001 to the Hongshibao irrigated area which is
currently under construction. Nevertheless, the overall animal pressure on grasslands would
still increase, whereas the reduction of grazing intensity is a prerequisite to improved
grassland management. Neither the allocation of grassland use rights to individual villages in
1986, nor the support of rotational grazing and other improvement measures by county
grassland stations have shown substantial impact on grassland rehabilitation in the current
context of excessive animal pressure. Reducing the grazing pressure would only be achieved
after households, in addition to devoting more fertile land to alfalfa, have adopted both corn
cultivation and in-shed feeding of sheep and goats.
8.    Fodder Development. Fodder resource balances have been carefully reviewed during
preparation in order to (a) prioritize fodder development actions, and (b) locate fodder deficit
problems. At full project development, pigs will consume 55% of overall fodder resources in
Sichuan, while cows will be the larger consumers in Shaanxi and even in Ningxia, where
they will consume some 50% of the resource. Fifty to 75 percent of the incremental fodder
needs would be fulfilled by straw and other grain by-products, 10 to 20% being brought by
straw ammoniation. In Ningxia, the key to maintaining fodder balance is, again, the
sustained adoption of corn production, and of corn stalk ammoniation. Expanded and
improved cultivation of alfalfa is expected to contribute equally with improved grassland
management, but these would altogether provide only 25% of incremental needs. In Sichuan
and Shaanxi, the increased use of straw (based on improved storage and simple chopping
tools) would make the main contribution to fodder resource development, followed by the
yield increases resulting from the adoption of hybrid corn varieties and of virus-free potato
seed. Both provinces would also need to extend cut-and-carry artificial pasture, and related
hay storage. Such technology has already been successfully developed but has remained on a
small scale. Through these various actions, the fodder resource surplus at full project



Annex 3
- 83 -
development would remain stable compared to the present situation in Shaanxi, and decrease
but remain positive in Sichuan and Ningxia. However, current surplus margins in fodder
balances at the provincial level are assessed to be only 30%, 20% and less than 5%,
respectively in Shaanxi, Sichuan and Ningxia. This calls for careful implementation of
fodder development plans, and for activities focused on deficit areas. Neighboring villages
have highly variable fodder resources, and carrying out village resource surveys to assess the
fodder balance is not feasible since the fodder systems are too complex. These systems
include a range of by-products, and plots are scattered in a mountainous environment. As a
result, village conmmunities themselves might be in the best position to assess the optimum
numbers of animals they could raise (paragraph 13).
9.    Tree Crop Development. In Ningxia, an agroforestry design (tested by Beijing
Forestry University in Xiji county) would be extended. Terrace walls would be milder
gradient slopes, and would be planted with 2 rows of bushes and 1 row of trees. Households
would manage personally the perennials planted on the side of their individual terraces. This
would help solve the problem of non-sustainable collective management of fuelwood
plantations. In the semi-arid areas in Ningxia, newly micro-irrigated areas would be
surrounded by a network of mixed bush and tree hedges to create an oasis effect. Orchard
development would be limited to Haiyuan county which is getting involved in the fruit
market. In the Sichuan and Shaanxi mountains, the direct increase of tree crops in land use
would be modest, but significant indirect improvements might result from the village-based
nurseries, household training in practical skills, and township training in participatory
forestry planning supported by the project. In the present situation, households tend to
concentrate tree planting on fertile terraces even for forestry species, putting their food crop
balance at risk over the medium term. The project would both extend interplanting schemes
with reasonably low densities, and give households increased confidence to plant trees on
slopes.  During the project, close collaboration with the on-going Yangtze watershed
reforestation program would be sought. Village development plans would carefully balance
forestry with animal husbandry development. Village consultation would be a prerequisite to
any operation of forestry aerial sowing. Poor households would be given equal opportunity
in contract awards of new timber plantations.
Village Development Plans
10.   Targeting Tools. The project will allocate a total agriculture investment budget to
each administrative village. The average agriculture investment per capita is consistent with
the provincial average of Y 490, 430 and 790 respectively in Sichuan, Shaanxi and Ningxia
(in base cost, minus training, extension and services). The plan format is basic, with one
table for numbers of households and scale of activities, one map showing natural villages and
the location of activities, and one page of description of activities. This simple format has
several advantages. First, it draws attention to numbers of beneficiary households, and to
equity in the distribution of activities among natural villages, an important factor due to
income differentials between neighboring natural villages. Second, in most townships,



Annex 3
- 84 -
project staff have been able to master this planning tool after initial training, and have taken
part in the design of plans (there are 5 to 10 administrative villages per township). Third,
maps and tables of on-going activities are openly posted at township project office, allowing
some public control. Finally, counties can easily assemble all planned and completed
village-level data. As a result, administrative village data is accessible to counties and upper
levels. This is an improvement compared to the traditional pyramidal reporting structure in
which each administrative level only obtains data from the immediate lower level.
11.  Investment Distribution to Individual Households. There is an investment ceiling of
twice the average investment for the total investment of participating households. All
households may take part in the agricultural investment if they are willing to, within this
ceiling and within the framework of the development plan. The actual investment of
individual households is best determined by their demand.
12.   Participatory Agricultural Development. Past government programs have advocated a
trickle-down approach, in which support is concentrated on a small number of focus villages
and farmers, often better-off ones.  In contrast, village development plans will be
implemented in each of the 2,941 project villages. They address the entire village population
in its social and gender diversity, both at collective and individual level. This should create a
positive dynamic and trigger farmers' capacity to take initiatives in their farming activities. A
variety of actions have been taken to enhance this positive dynamic. In addition, agricultural
extension workers would pay regular visits to each village during project implementation,
and more than half of households would take part in the agriculture component's training
activities. Finally, the potential for initiative taking of the few better-off, better-educated
households would be tapped. This category of farmers is a distinctive feature of Sichuan and
Shaanxi mountain villages. These farmers will have access to loans to develop service
activities within the village. Various types services have been identified so far, ranging from
tree nurseries to animal breeding or feed grinding.
13.   Community Resource Management. The component's land use strategy would require
a resource management approach, in which project staff would help village communities
improve the spatial distribution and balance of terraces, trees, fodder production and water
resources. Unfortunately, this approach would necessitate a level of outside technical support
incompatible with the large number of project villages, particularly in the complex mountain
environments in Sichuan and Shaanxi. The approach would be only tested in a few villages
under the AATP. Except for these villages, village communities would be the main
designers of their land use improvements (the only exceptions will be mechanized terracing
in Ningxia, and larger-scale paddy drainage works in the Sichuan hills). Project staff would
give villages some support to help prevent conflicts on resource use among households, and
avoid technically inadequate choices. For example, Ningxia villages would be asked to hold
annual meetings to decide how many animals their current fodder resources allow them to
purchase.



AnneO 
- 85 -
14.   Quality of Implementation. The implementation of village development plans will be
monitored by county and province project staff. Monitoring will consist of identifying and
addressing problems not only in household targeting (as is being done in SWPRP), but also
in the various aspects of village-level project work described above. Two monitoring tools
have been prepared. One county table shows completed total investment, subproject scale
and number of beneficiaries for each village, and sets of minimum quality requirements
would be used as checklists (see Attachment L to this Annex).
Agricultural Technology
15.   Selection of Technical Packages.  The identification of best-practice agricultural
technology faces important problems which reflect the lack of focus of research and
extension on mountain areas. First, basic data is often lacking. For exarnple, soils in the
Daba mountains are considered to be deficient in potassium in Sichuan but not in Shaanxi.
Interactions between traditional farming practices and the use of external agricultural inputs
are not well understood. In particular, crop and tree cultivars adapted to higher elevations
need to be further identified. Second, counties do design some appropriate technology, but
little exchange takes place between counties. The land and farmer development component
would use the following approach to address these problems: (a) all technical activities under
the component would focus on key technical issues; these issues are key ones both for the
technical viability of the investment and for the overall improvement of farming practices;
(b) counties' technical bureaus have designed their own technical specifications with the
support of provincial technical groups; (c) the component supports household-based
agricultural extension and on-farm applied research; extension agents and researchers would
not only provide technical back-up to villages, but also transfer back to the extension system
information useful to refine the technical recommnendations; (d) the adjustment of the initial
technical specifications would be organized regularly during the project, on the basis of
implementation results and of applied research outcomes.  Provinces are preparing
implementation quality requirements regarding each of these steps, as well as the quality of
works and agricultural inputs. (Attachment 1).
16.   Key Technical Issues. Five technical issues need further consideration for the three
provinces:
* increasing and sustaining soil fertilita on newly developed land. Only one year of
agricultural inputs is provided for new terraces. Successful development will
depend on a range of interventions, including organic fertilizer use or crop
rotations, during several years. Besides, improved seeds can only be used on the
first year after terrace construction if soil fertility is rapidly enhanced.
* developing winter fodder resources. Solving the winter fodder gap would not only
improve the condition of the reproductive and draft animals, but also develop the
more profitable winter and spring animal sales. The technical support system



Annex 3
- 86-
would shift its focus from veterinary and breeding to animal feeding, and from a
single innovation, straw ammoniation, to a range of improvements.
improving the quality of seeds, seedlings and animals. This includes strengthening
quality control of the inputs supplied by the project, refining recommendations on
varieties and breeds, and improving the quality of the seed production, tree nursery
and animal breeding services funded under the project.
* ensuring successful tree establishment. Technical packages from soil preparation
to post-planting management would not aim at shortening the number of years
before first harvest, but would ensure successful establishment and long-term
sustainability of yields.
*  ensuring the marketing viability of cash and tree crop products. Varieties need to
be selected and updated in accordance to market needs. Technical support services
would be extended to post-harvest, including on-farm storage, packaging, and
primary processing for some products as tea.
17.   Unit Cost Table. One unit cost table has been prepared jointly with each provincial
PMOs for each of its subprojects. The tables detail annual quantities of inputs and specify
purchased inputs and on-farm produced ones. These tables outline several important
recommendations: (a) inputs would be always provided in the form of complete technical
packages, (b) nitrogen and phosphate (and potassium in Sichuan) fertilizers would be applied
in balanced quantities; fertilizers would be supplied every year until the first year of harvest;
more would be applied at planting time than during pre-harvest years for tree crops; organic
fertilizer applications should not decrease following the increased use of chemical fertilizer;
(c) tree densities would be reduced, but additional plantings would take place on the second
year to actually reach these densities; (d) pesticides would be made available, but their use
would remain carefully limited, (e) balanced animal feed would be recommended, including
grain-by product, protein feed and minerals; the first three products would be primarily self-
produced, (f) animal sheds would be built by households using simple material, or existing
sheds would be used, and (g) each unit cost sets aside a small portion of the investment for
basic farn tools.
18.   Small Farming Tools. The investment in tools is very small, but it could play an
important role in the improvement of farming practices. First, households do lack tools. In
Ningxia, harrows are still made of woven branches, and no yoke is used to harness pairs of
draft cattle. In the Sichuan mountains, a household may possess as little as one hoe and one
knife for all farm operations. Second, awareness about the importance of tools as a
production factor would increase among government technical agencies. This could lead to
recommend improvements in the use of these tools, or in tool design.
19.   Training and Extension Network. The project primarily funds extension activities
carried out in project villages. County and township-level activities would be limited to
training the technicians which take part in village activities. Four types of extension channels
would be supported, because there are existing and potential human resources in each of



Annex 3
- 87-
these channels: (a) county and township technicians paying scheduled visits to villages, (b)
fanner-technicians within project villages, (c) demonstration households, and (d) household
training. Technicians, from the village to the county level, would both carry out the daily
tasks of project implementation and provide technical back-up. A variety of extension
methods would be used in each of the three provinces. In Ningxia, with lower education
levels, but comparatively easier communication, and more technical recommendations
generated by the extension system, the core technical follow-up activities would be in the
form of frequent visits by township specialized technicians to a network of village
demonstration households.  Seasonal advice would be adjusted to annual climatic
circumstances. The seasonal visits of demonstration sites by township technicians would
also be the main media in household training. In Sichuan and Shaanxi, literacy levels in the
adult population are comparatively higher, but most villages are only accessed by walking,
and few mountain-specific technical recommendations are readily available for extension.
Technicians in township project stations would evolve into project staff with comprehensive
basic technical knowledge. The logistics of township staff undertaking work in project
villages, which is key to both the component's physical implementation and to successful
technical extension, would be carefully organized (paragraph 24 of this Annex). Sichuan has
larger villages (250 households per village or 2,300 per township, versus 150 per village and
1,200 per township in Shaanxi). In Sichuan, one demonstration household and two farmer-
technicians on average would be active in each village. In Shaanxi, three demonstration
households on average would operate in each township, and township technicians would be
the key technical staff. In both Sichuan and Shaanxi, household training methods would
combine field days and specific written material. Training would be prepared with domestic
technical assistance in adult training methods.
20.   Applied Agricultural Technology Program (AATP). The AATP research investment
aims to initiate applied on-farm research in the project area, and to support innovations into
project implementation. Priority research needs have been carefully analyzed, through
discussions involving project staff from the national and county levels, and with provincial
researchers (see Attachment 2 to this Annex). Following project appraisal, the provincial
PMOs have started to identify research teams interested in each topic. The contracts set up
would include several conditions, such as carrying out all field research on project household
farms and only undertaking short-term research. Research budgets would include the costs of
extending outcomes to at least one project county. The three provinces face different
problems in linking up with researchers. Research on rainfed agriculture relevant to southern
Ningxia is mainly carried out in neighboring provinces, or is limited to adaptive trials
undertaken by individual counties. The Sichuan project areas are and will remain marginal in
the provincial research system. The Sichuan mountain area would develop linkages with
Shaanxi (e.g., for potato varieties), while technologies primarily developed for the Sichuan
lowlands would be systematically screened in the project area. In Shaanxi, the program
would aim to involve provincial researchers in specific research for high-elevation areas,
which are not marginal in the province. One fifth of the AATP budget would be set aside for
technical exchanges between researchers of different provinces, for the larger extension of



Annex-3
- 88-
research outcomes, and for domestic technical assistance. The domestic technical assistance
program would be finalized during the first year of the project. Foreign technical assistance
would be extremely useful to the AATP in two fields: introduction of genetic material
adapted to mountain environments, and farming system research and extension. The latter
field includes economic and marketing analysis as well as appropriate technology design.
The establishment of direct links with foreign research teams would be sought.
21.   Technical Facilitation. Provincial project staff in charge of the component would
divide their time into first, planning, supervision and monitoring and, second, technical
facilitation. The latter would consist in (a) monitoring technical implementation through
regular field visits, (b) working with the project's province and county technical groups to
identify and address technical problems during implementation, and (c) facilitating
information flow on new technology, and coordinating extension and training activities.
Major Risks and Preventive Steps Taken
22.   Ningxia. Climatic risks, resource base imbalances and current poverty levels create
several major risks: (a) should a major drought year occur during the early years of the
project, households would have to sell the animals provided under the project for lack of
water and fodder, and in order to buy wheat, (b) any delay in the voluntary resettlement
program would slow down implementation of the animal husbandry investment, (c) the
project area is one of the last regions in northern China having retained a millet-based
summer cropping pattern despite 10 years of government-sponsored corn production
programs, so it is anticipated that the adoption of corn cultivation may be slow, (d) if wheat is
not readily available in remote markets, households will not transfer part of their wheat area
into summer crops, and (e) Hui indigenous farming practices may not be fully compatible
with some of the technology packages to be extended (e.g., intercropping). All these
problems have been thoroughly discussed during preparation. The provision of animals to
individual project villages would take place in spring, and be conditioned by both the
progress of the voluntary resettlement program, the amount of fodder stored at the end of
winter and the success of fodder development activities. Food crop improvement activities
have been balanced, with less corn, and more potatoes, wheat and linseed. Corn production
training would help households plan the yearly purchase of seed, fertilizer and plastic mulch.
Wheat prices on local markets would be monitored. The network of demonstration farmers
will operate at village level and be composed of Hui farmers in Hui villages. Finally, women
farmers will attend a specific number training days.
23.   Marketing. Marketing systems are underdeveloped in the project area, and the
awareness of market opportunities and risks for mountain agriculture is limited at all levels
from households to government agencies. A variety of steps have been taken to moderate
price and other marketing risks. Productions developed under the project will add diversity
to the existing production systems. The major tree crops to be developed, such as chestnut
and eucommia, are multipurpose trees, so that their secondary uses can buffer price problems



Annex 3
- 89-
for the main product. Several of the productions bearing higher risks, such as silk cocoon,
tea and peltate yam, are promoted by private sector entities, which will provide inputs and
technical support, process the products and market them. Farmers' specialized associations,
which play a facilitating role in marketing for productions ranging from nuts to medicinal
plants, would be encouraged to become active in the project area. Enhancing the marketing
quality of tree and cash crop products has been made one of the key technical topics, and
would be addressed by several applied research topics. Technician and household training
contents would include market access and risks.
24.   Village Access in Sichuan and Shaanxi. Access from the road to natural villages is
difficult in both the Sichuan mountain area and hills. Managing village development plans
and providing technical services will be difficult to organize and costly. In order to
overcome this problem, township and village-level technicians and farmer-technicians are
being specifically trained, and will spend a substantial part of their time in village visits.
Village-level work schedules including project management, household training and
technical follow-up are being carefully organized with the help of provinces and counties.
The cost of intervention at natural village level has been fully taken into account in the
component budget. Pick-up cars based in township stations will reduce the use of human
force in transporting agricultural inputs. Full-scale implementation of village development
plans in several administrative villages in each county during the Retroactive Financing
Program will provide additional experience on how to organize project logistics. Finally, the
relatively better-off households developing private services are expected to take part in the
project's support service network.



Annex 3
Attachment I
- 90 -
Annex 3
Land and Farmer Development Component
Attachment 1
GUIDELINES FOR ENHANCING IMPLEMENTATION QUALITY
A. QUALITY IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT
PLANS
A.1 Household Investment.
>The investment received by any beneficiary household for the overall component and for
the entire duration of the project should not exceed twice the provincial average household
investment (the county average investment is the component base cost minus extension,
training and services).
>Remote natural villages within an administrative village should take equal part in the
project.
>Each household in the village should have equal opportunity to take part in the component
(Shaanxi: the project's priority target consists in the 70% poorer households in project
villages). No household should be excluded from participating in tree crop or animal raising
activities because of insufficient education level, or of insufficient assets. No female-headed
household should be excluded due to insufficient labor.
>Households participate in the project to undertake agricultural activities by themselves. No
subcontracting other than technical management contracts occurs between households. Any
contract must be consistent with standard contracts prepared by provincial PMOs.
A.2 Project Activities.
>All project activities are consistent with the administrative village development plan: types
of activities are consistent with the village plan, and the scale should not exceed the village
plan.
>The village project team organizes annual consultation of households on requests for
adjustment of activities and transmits these requests to township project station. There is full
flexibility in implementation to take into account agricultural time schedules. For example,
in case of delay in planting time, one crop may be replaced by another one. When
adjustments in project activities occur, the village total investment is maintained to its initial
level.



Annex 3
Attachment I
- 91 -
>Reporting tables for village plan implementation should note the 6-year target and
completed scale, both for scale of activities and for numbers of beneficiary households. They
are (a) collected by township project stations and transmitted to county PMOs, (b) posted in
township project stations, and (c) updated twice a year.
>Only direct beneficiaries should take part in land development and tree planting works. No
labor contribution should be requested from non-beneficiary households. Work plans are
organized in order to minimize disturbance of farmers' seasonal off-farm migration.
A.3 Village Land and Resource Management.
>PMOs at all levels are responsible for ensuring the implementation of county policies on
stable long-term land use rights for all land developed under the project (50 years).
Households have the right to request a formal contract title from the PMO.
>The selection of optimum location within a village of newly developed land, of tree
plantations, of artificial pasture, and of water resource development involves both the
households, the village project team and the technicians in charge. Terraces are built on more
fertile land close to villages. Consensus on the management of animal grazing to prevent
damage to crops or trees should also be sought. Households should decide to include their
plots in land development or tree plantation activities on a voluntary basis.
>The development of drinking or irrigation water facilities should be planned at the village
level. Infrastructure development for individual households should not have any negative
impact on the water resources of neighboring households.
>Shaanxi: in villages under the Yangtze watershed reforestation program, tree crop
development by poor households should take place not only on wasteland and individual land
but also on forestry land. Animal grazing is regulated but not forbidden.
>The township project station should undertake (before year 3 of the project) an assessment
of the carrying capacity for grazing animals and of fodder development needs during the
project (Ningxia: during year 1).
>Ningxia: at the end of each year, the village project team should decide -- in consultation
with households -- the maximum number of animals to be purchased during the year on the
basis of fodder storage levels.
B. QUALITY OF AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY
B.1 Focus Technical Issues.
>County technical specifications, provincial PMO technical support as well as training,
demonstration and extension activities should focus on the following five issues: (1)



Annex 3
Attachment 1
- 92 -
increasing and sustaining soil fertility on newly developed land, (2) winter fodder resources,
(3) the quality of seeds, seedlings and animals, (4) successful tree establishment, and (5) the
marketing viability of cash and tree crop products.
B.2 County Technical Specifications.
B.2.1 Review and Updating.
>The component's unit cost tables describe average technical packages across the project area
in each province. Any substantial difference between county technical specifications and
these tables should be identified and reviewed by the provincial PMOs.
>Annual updating of recommended technology should take place through technical wrap-
ups, which should include exchanges between counties, and dissemination to counties of the
results of on-going activities under the Applied Agricultural Technology Program. Technical
specifications will be updated at project mid-term review.
B.2.2 Contents of Technical Specifications.
>Land Development. After terracing, the maximum slope of the planting area should be 1%
in Ningxia and 5 in Sichuan and Shaanxi. Key points in terrace design to insure long-term
viability (maximum height of wall, angle of wall, use of concrete in walled terraces, drainage
system) should be detailed. Ningxia: varieties and planting patterns of erosion control tree
and bush belts to be planted on the edge of all terraces should be listed. Yearly application
rates of organic and balanced chemical fertilizer, including N and P (and K in Sichuan) after
terracing should be specified.  Contour-line planting when using plastic mulch is
recommended.
>Food Crops. Corn, potato and wheat varieties should be listed with their respective
optimum sowing time. Varieties should be adapted to the project area and to households'
needs. (These varieties are those recommended in current extension plans.)
>Cash Crops. Varieties (cultivars) should be carefully selected for their commercial
viability. There should not be any negative impact of cash crop development on the
environment. Tuber crops should be planted on mild slopes. Neither planting material nor
harvested product should be collected from wild resources.
>Tree Crops. Tree varieties, both rootstock and graftings, should be quality varieties adapted
to local soil and climate conditions, and to market needs. The proportion of pollinating trees
should be specified for relevant species. In order to minimize the risk of erosion, the area of
vegetation cover disturbed at planting should be as limited as possible, provided that
sufficient space around seedlings is maintained free of weeds. Seedlings should be planted in
alternate rows, and contour-line trenches should be dug when necessary to improve drainage.
Both organic and chemical fertilizer should be applied in the planting pit. Fertilizer
application rates at the time of planting will be substantially greater than for subsequent



Annex 3
Attachment 1
- 93 -
years. Two intercropping patterns should be described, one with normal tree density, and the
other with low density. Tree management from planting to first harvest should be described,
including one pruning method for each species and recommended micronutrient applications.
Types of trees or sites not suitable for rehabilitation of mulberry or tea should be excluded.
On-farm storage conditions should be specified. Primary processing of tea should be done by
the households in villages which are too distant from the tea processing plant.
>Animal Raising. Households investing in animal raising must adequately develop their
winter fodder resources. A range of fodder resources (in addition to ammoniated straw)
should be recommended for each county. Species, harvesting calendars and yearly fertilizer
requirements of artificial pasture should be indicated. Balanced combinations of on-farm
feed resources, protein feed and purchased minerals and additives should also be quantified.
Sichuan and Shaanxi: the design of newly built animal sheds should allow for easy handling
of fodder. A design with earth ground floor and wooden upper floor is recommended.
Vaccination and preventive treatment schedules should be specified.
B.3 Timely Provision of Quality Inputs.
>All Inputs. Provision of inputs to villages should be done in a timely manner based on
sufficient storage of the inputs at the township. Households have the right to have and
express reservations when they doubt the quality of the inputs or their timely delivery.
>Fertilizer. The types of chemical fertilizers provided to households should be urea and DAP
(and potassium sulfate in Sichuan). Fertilizers should remain in their original bags which
should mention the certified nutrient content. Fertilizer quantities delivered to households
should be consistent with county technical specifications. Farmers should be provided with
fertilizer for tree crops for every year from plantation until: year 2 for Ningxia timber and
bushes; year 3 for mulberry and for Ningxia fruit trees; year 4 for other species except nuts;
and year 5 for chestnut and walnut.
>Seeds and Seedlings.  Varieties should be those mentioned in the county technical
specifications, and seeds and seedlings should have received certification through pre-harvest
inspection in accordance with national quality standards (class I and class II). All potato seed
should be virus-free (except Sichuan, for which all potato seed will be virus-free beginning in
year 4). In Ningxia, all corn seed will be pesticide-coated. Seed companies receiving project
investments should make annual plans to supply their best varieties to several project
counties. For grafted tree species (fruit, mulberry, and nuts), only grafted seedlings will be
provided (except for chestnut which is partially grafted after plantation, and for which special
grafting teams will be organized by the project). Nurseries receiving project investments
must arrange technical support contracts with a specialized technician. Nursery managers
and workers should undergo specific training. Seedlings will be sold primarily within the
project area, with careful organization of rapid transportation from nursery to the project
village. Project households may come to the nursery themselves to obtain seedlings.



Annex-3
Attachment 1
- 94 -
>Pesticides. Pesticides should be provided in their original containers, and must be covered
under the list approved by the World Bank.
>Plastic Mulch. Plastic mulch provided to project households should be of standard quality.
>Animals. In Sichuan, all pigs provided by the project should be Fl hybrids except in the
most remote (20%) mountain villages. For cows and goats, all animals provided to
households should be improved local breeds. For the pig and goat breeding service and for
Ningxia sheep/goats, male animals should be of pure improved breed. In Ningxia, artificial
insemination services should reach 80% of the number of cows provided by the project on an
annual basis. In Sichuan, animal breeders receiving project investments should primarily sell
their production to project households. Project animals should have been vaccinated at the
time of purchase. Lastly, the contents of mineral and feed additives and protein feed should
be specified on the bags provided to the households.
>Tools. Farmers should select the small tools they wish to purchase through the project.
County PMOs should maintain a record of the types of tools needed by households and
recommended providers of adequate quality tools. Small mechanized tools should be
operated by private households and service project villages.  Fees charged to project
households for mechanized tool services should be reviewed by the county PMOs.
B.4. Quality of Works
B.4.1 Land Development.
>Paddy drainage should follow the standards of the county soil and fertilizer station. The
station should prepare a detailed design map, and a copy of that map will be kept at the
township project station.
>Terracing works should be overseen by one village cadre and one farmer technician in each
village. These two staff should have undergone specific project training. Stone works should
be carried out by skilled workers. In Sichuan, hilly area land terracing operations should
always include some stone works for drainage. In Ningxia, works should follow the
standards specified by the Sanxi Commission. The detailed design map should specify the
area where top soil has to be set aside (in order to be put back after terracing). Works should
be overseen during operation by the 'design representative'.
B.4.2 Tree Planting.
>The adequacy of site (elevation, pH, drainage) should be checked by a township technician.
For each 50 to 100 hectares of plantations, at least one soil analysis should be made, and one
farmer technician should be trained in seedling handling and planting skills. The farmer
technician should take part in the planting operations.



Annex3
Attachment 1
-95-
>Adequate transport capacity for fertilizer should be organized for planting sites which are
distant from the village or the nearest road.
>Pit digging and planting schedules should be organized independently from inspection-and-
acceptance.
>All seedlings which have not survived should be replaced in the following year.
>For mulberry rehabilitation in Sichuan, grafting should only be done by skilled workers. A
township technician should designate trees fit for grafting. For tea rehabilitation in Sichuan,
a village situation map demarcating areas where rehabilitation is feasible should be prepared
by the county tea rehabilitation specialist.
C. QUALITY OF TRAINING AND EXTENSION
C.A Household Training.
>Training activities should be organized to cover a large audience in each village. Plans to
train a minimum of 30% of the households in each village and an optimum of 60% are
progressing on schedule (Ningxia: a minimum of 50% and an optimum of 100%).
>Trainers should be trained township technicians or county technicians. One training day
lasts at least 5 hours, and no more than 50 people at a time should attend a training day. Each
trainee attends on average 4 training days. Training activities include both in-door sessions
and seasonal visits of demonstration sites.
>Trainees should be provided with training materials. The training materials compiled by the
provincial PMO should be adapted to a semi-illiterate audience in its concepts, language and
sketch drawings. They should updated once at the project mid-term review.
>In Sichuan and Shaanxi, at least 33% of trainees should be women. In Ningxia, women will
be encouraged to take part in technical training sessions, and specific additional sessions will
be provided for women in each county.
>The county PMOs will keep records of training session attendance. These records will
include the time, duration, trainer, number of trainees, topics, training materials delivered,
and numbers of women trained.
C.2 Demonstration Households.
>Demonstration households will be selected on a voluntary basis in each administrative
village, and a substantial number should be the project area's poorest households.
Households should organize informal extension activities in the village during each year of
the project.  In 'Sichuan and Shaanxi, women farmers and young farmers should be
encouraged to become demonstration farmers. Technology packages used by demonstration



Annex-3
Attachment I
- 96 -
households should be similar to that of their neighbors, and demonstration fields should
include new terraces.
>Township technicians should visit demonstration households at least twice a year every
year.
>The county PMO should keep a list indicating village and demonstration household names.
C.3 Extension.
>Food crop, tree crop and animal raising extension activities funded by the project should
include: field visits of township and county technicians to villages and to households other
than demonstration households; preparation of and undertaking of visits by households to
demonstration sites (other than during household training days); soil analysis fees; and
printed materials distributed to households (other than training materials).
>County PMOs should organize work plans for the township technicians. The work plans
should specify the numbers of days spent in village visits and the numbers of visits per year
to each project village. In Sichuan and Shaanxi, crop, animal husbandry or tree crop
township technicians should spend a total of at least 9 days (other than household training
days) in each project village every year. In Ningxia, seasonal extension field days (4 days for
food crops and 4 days for animal raising) should take place in each project village each year.
In all three project provinces, one county technician will pay at least one visit to each project
village during the project. In Sichuan, the silk production support service should provide
project villages with services equivalent to those in lowland areas.
>Project vehicles will be small pick-ups for transportation of people and agricultural
supplies, and are to be used primarily for activities in the project villages. Individual items
for extension equipment remain below Y 1,000 (except refrigerators). No soil analysis
equipment will be procured (except simple pH measuring devices).



Annex3
Attachment 2
- 97 -
Annex 3
Land and Farmer Development Component
Attachment 2
Applied Agricultural Technology Program: Priority Research Needs
Land Development.
- Soil fertility on newlv developed land (Sichuan mountains and hills). Counties' technology
packages for newly-built terraces (in terms of soil tillage, chemical and organic fertilizer
applications, cropping patterns, types of varieties) need to be compared and improved to
ensure successful use of modern food crop varieties right after terrace construction.
- Micro-irrigation (Ningxia). The extension of micro-irrigation in the project area is just
starting. Water-saving irrigation practices, related crop technology packages and cropping
patterns need to be refined.
Winter Fodder Resources.
- Cows and goats (Shaanxi, and Sichuan mountains). Processing and storage methods other
than straw ammoniation need to be improved and extended. In Shaanxi, optimum species for
artificial pasture need to be identified. Animal feeding calendars would be studied in
Sichuan, fodder storage in both provinces.
- Non-grain pig diets (Sichuan hills).  Sweet potato leaves and tubers account for an
important share of pig diets in Sichuan. Alternative sources of non-grain fodder would
diversify and increase feed resources. A range of such sources have been identified among
which arrow-root, and enzymatic fermentation of paddy straw, but they need to be combined
with existing feed sources into balanced diets.
- Forage species (Ningxia). Artificial cut-and-carry pasture mainly consists in alfalfa and
fodder grain species (sorghum and oats) grown on fertile plots. Improved cultivars within
these species need to be identified. In addition, land is available to grow additional forage,
particularly on salinized soils around small gully checkdams, but tolerant varieties from both
China and abroad need to be introduced and screened.
Grain Crop Varieties.
- Corn and rice (Sichuan mountains and hills). Hybrid varieties are outdated, particularly in
terms of grain quality. The area is too marginal to justify specific variety selection. A
network of multilocal variety screening trials in the project area needs to be set up to
regularly test upcoming varieties.
- Com (Shaanxi). Available hybrids are too late-maturing for high elevations. A range of
existing commercial hybrids needs to be introduced and screened.



Annex3
Attachment 2
- 98 -
- Wheat (Sichuan mountains and hills). Modem varieties have not been adopted. Little is
known about the potential of modem varieties versus indigenous ones under the specifically
cold, damp but drought-prone local climate. Local and introduced varieties need to be
screened, and interactions between varieties, seed processing and fanning practices need to
be studied.
- Potatoes (Sichuan mountains). No virus-free seed multiplication network has been set up in
the province. Seeds could be supplied from neighboring Shaanxi. There is a need to link up
with southern Shaanxi potato seed system, and to screen available varieties.
Tree Crops.
- Gingko (Sichuan mountains). Yields are lower than in China's main production area. There
is a need to understand the relative impact on yield of site selection (soil and microclimate)
and of planting technology, and to identify optimum practice. This would require a
comparative survey of existing sites, locally and in main production area, and an assessment
of the impact of improved technology at planting time on early development (including
nursery quality, planting pattern, soil preparation and seedling handling).
- Chestnut (Sichuan mountains and Shaanxi) and walnut (Sichuan mountains). Existing
planting material has been selected for lower-elevation areas. In addition, there is no
established network for the selection and maintenance of quality planting material. There is a
need for introduction and early screening of material, and for technical assistance to set up a
parent material maintenance system.
- Eucommia (Sichuan and Shaanxi). Current bark peeling methods, as well as excessive
interplanting densities, reduce tree longevity. On-farm trials of short-term rotation and
regeneration are proposed Sichuan, while strip peeling would be tested in Shaanxi. There is a
need to design improved interplanting patterns.
Marketing Viability of Cash and Tree Crop Products.
- Peltate yam (Shaanxi). The economic viability of this crop is highly dependent on tuber
hormone contents. Interactions between these contents, parent material and crop technology
need to be better understood.
- On-farm fruit storage (Sichuan mountains or hills). The lapse of time between harvest and
delivery to purchaser justifies improved storage means.
- Silkworm production system (Shaanxi). The supply of healthy silkworms of improved
strains is essential to improve the quality of cocoons. This requires the introduction of
adequate parent material, and a multiplication support service adapted to mountain villages.



Annex 3
Attachment 2
- 99 -
Farming systems.
- Comparative assessment of technical recommendations (Sichuan mountain and hills). Past
extension programs have faced very low adoption rates by farmers. There is a need first to
compare yields obtained with recommended technology packages and those obtained with
farmers' traditional practices, then to identify other obstacles in the adoption of innovations.
This would require comparative on-farm trials, and household surveys.
- Appropriate technology for high-elevation villages (Shaanxi). Poor villages in high-
elevation areas feature specific farming systems, face specific and harder constraints, but
have not attracted attention from research programs. A comprehensive program of survey
and trials in one or a few villages would both provide benchmark information and allow
identification of a range of improvements. This would require a village-level research
program combining a comprehensive survey of present farming practices, and introduction,
design and test of improved technology.
- Reducing labor requirements of silkworm raising (Sichuan mountain and hills). Silkworm
raising is based on high inputs of female labor. Women's labor is limiting in poor
households, particularly as men increasingly outmigrate for off-farm work. Small tools and
other technology reducing labor requirements need to be researched (Sichuan mountains or
hills).
- Corn planting pattern (Ningxia). Plastic-mulch hybrid corn is the only technically feasible
package for corn with current varieties in the project area. The strategy in variety selection
has consisted in introducing later-maturing, low-density varieties. With these varieties,
plastic costs have become too high. There is a need to design lower-cost packages for
adoption by farmers. This includes intercropping corn under plastic mulch with another crop.
However, since intercropping may not be adapted to Hui farmers, other cost-reducing options
also need to be studied.
Other.
- Grain crop pests and diseases (Sichuan mountains). A few pests and diseases are specific to
the Daba mountains and have not been researched before despite their impact on yields.
- Potential cash crop and animal species (Shaanxi). Few agricultural income generating
options are available to high-elevation areas. Mushrooms and other wild plants, and wild
animals, are collected for sale, but resources are declining. The domestication of several
species would deserve research.
- Cultivation of edible mushroom (Shaanxi). Edible mushroom production is shifting from
the non-sustainable use of oak timber as substratum to substitute cultivation substratum.
Related technology needs to be refined.



Annex 4
-100 -
Annex 4
Qinba Microfinance Component
1.    This annex presents the following information concerning the microfinance
component: (i) background, (ii) objectives and legal status, (iii) methodology and
training, (iv) loan processing, interest rates and fees, (v) branch operations, (vi) financial
sustainability, and (vii) supervision.  These represent the central elements of the
operational manual provided by the cooperatives and the central project management
office in chinese to the Bank during appraisal. This operational manual includes policies
and procedures concerning provision of loans to groups of clients for specific types of
productive activities.
Background
2.    Low income households in China's rural areas lack access to credit. The formal
financial system provides only basic credit and savings services to well-connected
households in county seats and nearby rural areas. Most credit is provided through state
agencies (for mandatory crop programs), rural collectives, and state-owned enterprises.
A small proportion is lent to better-off families with physical assets to use as collateral.
While the formal sector is unresponsive to the credit needs of low income and poor rural
households, informal arrangements are growing. However, they are expensive, often
seasonally limited, and tend to miss poor areas. This credit shortage is one feature of the
local economy which keeps the majority of poor households with potentially profitable
economic activities below the poverty line.
3.    The Chinese government views microfinance as a promising solution to this
problem, and has encouraged several donor-supported microfinance experiments to
contribute to poverty reduction. The largest experiment is the action research initiative in
Hebei and Henan Province operated by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Rural
Development Institute and supported by the Ford Foundation. The pilot in the Qinba
project will make an important contribution to these lessons, particularly through
demonstration of practices necessary to ensure financial sustainability of microfinance
institutions. The Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP) has contributed to the
pilot design. Other microfinance pilots in nationally designated poor counties are
supported by the United Nations Development Program, GTZ, Canadian CIDA and
AusAid.
Objectives and Legal Status
4.    The pilot's primary objective is to provide credit and savings services to low-
income households with potentially profitable economic activities through two financially
sustainable cooperatives. The cooperatives have already been established in Ankang City



Annex 4
- 101 -
(Shaanxi Province) and Langzhong County (Sichuan Province) and are registered with
the County Bureau of Civil Affairs. Like other microfinance pilots, the cooperatives are
registered as "social organizations."
5.    Given the high minimum equity requirements and other regulations governing the
development of new Chinese financial institutions, the cooperatives would not become
full-fledged commercial banking institutions during the life of the project. However, it is
anticipated that the cooperatives could become trust and investment companies. The
cooperatives and the central project management office plan to actively pursue this
change in legal status. This change would subject them to formal regulation under rules
recently developed for non-bank financial institutions. Over a six year period, over
16,000 households would receive working capital loans and establish savings accounts.
Methodology and Targeting
6.    Methodolovgy. The cooperatives would be based on an adaptation of the Grameen
Bank (Bangladesh) model, which currently provides one-year working capital loans to 2
million poor borrowers using a joint liability group methodology. Joint liability groups
mutually insure the working capital loans of members, covering the payments of those
members who face unexpected repayment problems. This has proven to be an effective
substitute for physical collateral for low income households in a number of Asian
countries.
7.    Groups would be formed based on voluntary participation of low income
households with potentially profitable productive activities, reflecting microfinance
international best practice. Each group would consist of five members, who select a
leader. Group members would qualify for loans for productive activities in which they
have significant experience, and their creditworthiness would be judged by the group.
8.    Targeting. Households facing a chronic grain deficit would not qualify as group
members. Microfinance experiences show that placing such households in debt is
harmful for the households and endangers sustainability of the program. However, these
households would be eligible for other project activities to build assets so that they would
eventually qualify for group membership.
9.    The cooperatives held detailed discussions with a large sample of poor households
in project areas to identify production cycles, household cashflow patterns, and
transaction cost preferences. Based on these interviews, group meetings would be held
every ten days in the village to collect loan installments, interest and mandatory savings.
All requirements (such as the interest rate and fee structure, mandatory savings, and
group funds, which are a member-controlled form of collateral) would be presented in a
transparent manner to group members during orientation.



Annex 4
- 102-
10.  Interviews with poor households demonstrated the importance of keeping
transaction costs low. Training would be provided to groups in how to review loan
applications, conduct regular meetings, collect loan installments and interest, and enforce
loan contracts to lower these costs. Average loan processing time (from application to
disbursement) would be less than two weeks, thanks to group review of proposed member
investments. Significant participation of women in groups would raise the effectiveness
of the program. The number of groups is expected to expand slowly during the first two
years, providing the cooperatives time to understand clients' needs and group dynamics.
Loan Processing, Interest Rates and Fees
11.   The project would effectively target low income households by limiting initial
one-year loan to at most Y1000 (that is, an amount just less than twice the national per
capita poverty line of Y550/year). Subsequent loans would grow by no more than 30% at
the end of the one-year loan (that is, second loans would be at most Y1,300, and third
loans at most Y1,690). Loans will be repaid in 34 equal ten-day installments of principal,
interest and compulsory savings. Only groups with all members paying installments on
time and contributing mandatory savings would be eligible for subsequent loans.
12.    Productive investments would be decided by the households, based on a wide
menu of technically viable productive activities, such as agricultural processing
(including oilseed and fodder), animal husbandry (such as pigs, sheep, oxen), cash crops
(such as traditional medicines and tea), small stores, trade and small service businesses
(such as food preparation). Loan applications would be approved by the group members
and reviewed and approved by centers (consisting of 5-6 groups). Loan officers would
review the proposed activity to insure that it can generate adequate cashflow to cover the
loan installments.
13.   The nominal interest rate will be 8% (on the face value of the loan), with a 3%
upfront application fee, a mandatory 5% group savings fund, and installments every ten
days. This amounts to a real effective interest rate of 14. 1%. The interest rate would be
adjusted to reflect changes in the rate of inflation and commercial bank interest rates.
While this rate of interest may not be sufficient to cover all expenses during the set-up
stage, it would be adequate to insure financial sustainability with increased loan activity
in later stages of the project (after adjusting for the subsidized rate of interest set by the
ADBC and the Provincial Finance Bureau).
14.   Langzhong County will experiment with a specialized line of credit for existing
microenterprises, not to exceed 10% of the average annual outstanding loan portfolio
(with initial average loan size of Y1500 to Y2000). These microenterprises could provide
physical assets as collateral, and would be able to borrow individually or through joint
liability groups. Investment would be likely to include small scale transportation, service
and agricultural or mineral processing activities. Approval criteria for these loans would
include adequate cashflow to cover loan installments, demonstrated commercial viability,



Annex 4
- 103 -
and the potential for jobs creation for surplus laborers from project area poor households.
The interest rate structure would be the same as the group-based loan system.
Branch Operations
15.   Mature branch offices would be staffed by a manager, an accountant, an internal
auditor, a cashier and six loan officers. Centers (consisting of 5-6 groups) would be
headed by a director elected by the groups. All directors, managers, accountants and
auditors would have formal banking experience. Loan officers should have experience
working with poor farmers, some knowledge of agriculture and animal husbandry, and
basic financial analysis skills.
16.   One of the strengths of a group-based system is the number of borrowers that a
loan officer can serve, which contributes to low operating costs. For Ankang and
Langzhong, an experienced loan officer is expected to provide financial services to 300 to
360 group members. This is consistent with loan officer to client ratios in Grameen Bank
and other group-based models in Asia.
Financial Sustainability
17.   After initial support from the Qinba project, the loan portfolio would be largely
financed by loan installment repayments, available local funds (such as government
poverty alleviation funds channeled through the ADBC), fees and savings generated by
poor households. Based on conservative average loan size and loan portfolio projections,
the cooperatives should be financially sustainable by the end of the project, and able to
turn to commercially priced sources of capital for expansion into new communities.
However, there are broader financial sector policy issues which could affect the long term
sustainability of the cooperatives.
18.  In the start-up phase, both cooperatives need sufficient grant funding to ensure the
demand for new loans can be met. The Langzhong credit cooperative has mobilized grant
funds from Sichuan Province to begin operations. The Ankang cooperative has only been
able to mobilize loans from ADBC and the Provincial Finance Bureau. In the long term,
the Ankang cooperative is considering selling internally tradeable shares to members to
bolster the equity side of its balance sheet.
19.  In accordance with microfinance best practices, the loan portfolio will comprise
55% to 70% of total assets. The loan loss reserve is set initially at 5% of the average
outstanding loan portfolio, but could decrease substantially as groups prove their ability
to enforce loan contracts. The portfolio at risk method of calculating overdue loan
balances will be used, classifying each loan with one installment more than one day late
as an overdue loan. Partial payments by groups to the cooperative would be discouraged
in order to encourage group members to enforce the loan agreement as problems arise.



Annex 4
- 104 -
20.   Key financial performance ratios to be used to monitor the cooperatives would
include the following: (i) adjusted rate of return on average annual assets, (ii) portfolio at
risk, (iii) cost per yuan lent, and (iv) average initial loan size (to insure appropriate
targeting). The cooperatives would be trained in the CAMEL system, which includes
indicators on capital adequacy, asset quality, management and staff systems, earnings
(profitability), and liquidity management.  Liquidity management would play an
especially important role, given the reimbursement system employed by the Bank (at
50% disbursement based on the standard statement of expenses system) and the
expectations of clients that larger loans would be available within two weeks of the on-
time repayment of the final loan installment. The CAMEL system is used by a number of
successful microfinance institutions.
21.   During project preparation, the project management team enhanced its knowledge
of microfinance best practices. The Sichuan and Shaanxi project management offices
visited Chinese pilot microfinance projects and reviewed technical materials on Grameen
Bank and AIM (the Malaysian replication of the Grameen model). The staff also
participated in a one-week Microfinance Conference sponsored by CGAP, the Ford
Foundation and UNDP, and have been advised by a number of microfinance specialists.
Cooperative managers and loan officers staff received extensive financial training from
the central project management office
Supervision
22.   Supervision will take place on various levels including periodic reviews by (i) an
external management team (representing county and provincial PMOs, the municipal
government, and ADBC), (ii) an internal auditor, (iii) audits by the Provincial Audit
Administration and (iv) an independent auditor with experience in banking operations.
23.   The Bank would regularly review the progress of the component, based on site
visits (to insure accurate targeting of poor households and the effective use of groups as a
means of delivering financial services) and a review of key financial indicators (along the
lines of the CAMEL system, described above) and the reports issued by internal and
independent external auditors.



China: QINBA Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Annex 5 - Table 1: Total Project Cost
% of
Sichuan                  Shaanxi                 Ningxia                     Total      Total
1. Labor Mobility
Total Base                             177,183,415              129,586,677                                       306,770,092    13.5]%
Total Cost                             230,454.030              168,547.445                                       399.001.475    13.35%
2. Infrastructure
Total Base                             117,666,773               96,979,192             40,567,359                255,213,324    11.24%
Total Cost                             152.963.632              126.072.930             52.737.567                331.774.129    11.10%
3. Land and Farmer Development
Total Base                             607,171,130              460,576,648            160,755,398              1,228,503,176    54.09%
Total Cost                             790.083.329              600.649588             209.387.,906             1.600.120.823    53.55%
4. TVEs
Total Base                             193,386,923              180,786,194             18,429,407                392,602,524    17.29%
Total Cost                            251.402.998               235,022.052             23.958.229                510.383.279    17.08%
5. Institution Building, Project
Management & Supervision
Total Base                              23,421,935               20,935,435              7,153,385                 51,510,755     2.27%
Total Cost                             32.154.432                29,029.305              9.684.457                 70.868.194     2.37%
6. Microfinance
Total Base                              13,297,383               13,359,359                                       26,656,742      1.17%
Total Cost                              16.600.000               16.600.000                                        33.200.000     1.11%
7. Poverty Monitoring
Total Base                               5.395.000                4,1509000                415 000                 9,960,000      0.44%
Total Cost                              5.395.000                 4J150.000               415.000                  9.960.000     0.33%
Total Base Cost                             1.137522.559               906373.505             227.320549               2271216.613    100.00%
Unallocated                                    14.946579                15.128.680              2.616.841                32.692.100
Total Including Contingencies               1494.000.000              1.195200.000            298.800.000              2.988,000.000    100.00%            X
Table 1: I of I



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Colst by Province and Component (Yuan)
Annex 5 - Table 2: Labor Mobility Component
--------------- Sichuan ---------------------  --------------------- Shaanxi ---------------------   --- -------- Project Total ----------
UNIT      Quant.         Rate              Amt.    Quant.         Rate            Amt,    Quant.         Rate             Amt.
I. Building                                                                     S.740.000                             5.400.000                              14.140.000
Province                       m2          1,800        2,500          4,500,000     1,200       2,500        3,000,000     3,000       2,500         7,500,000
County                         m2          5,300         800           4,240,000     4,000        600         2,400,000     9,300         714         6,640,000
2. Vehicles (pick-up tnuck)                                                     1.300.000                              1.100.0                                2.400.000
Province                       no             1       100,000            100,000        I      100,000          100,000        2       100,000         200,000
County                         no            12       100,000           1,200,000       10     100.000        1,000,000       22       100,000        2,200,000
3. Equipment and Fumiture                                                       1.7S5.500                             R1129,500                               2.915,000
3 1 Center                                                                       2980000                                                                        298,000
Computer/printer               no             5        25.000            125,000                                               5       25,000           125,000
Photocopier                    no             1        30,000             30,000                                               1       30,000           30,000
Fax machine                    no             3        8,000              24,000                                               3        8,000           24,000
Telephone                      no             3         5,000             15,000                                               3        5,000            15,000                           a
Computer software              no            1 2        2,000             24,000                                              12        2,000           24,000
Overhead projector             no             I         8,000              8,000                                               1        8.000            8,000
Office fumiture                set           18        4,000              72.000                                              18        4,000           72,000
3.2 Province & County                                                           1.487.500                              1.129.50                               2617.
Computer/printer               no            16        25,000            400,000        14      25,000         350,000        30       25,000          750,000
Computer software
Province                set            2        2,000               4.000        2        2,000           4,000         4        2.000            8,000
County                  set           12         1,000             12,000       10        1,000           10,000       22        1.000           22,000
Photocopier                    no             1       25,000              25.000        1       25,000          25,000         2       25,000           50,000
Fax machine
Province                no             1        5,000               5,000        1        5,000           5,000         2        5,000           10,000
County                  no            12        5,000              60.000       10        5,000          50,000        22        5,000          11 ,000
Telephone
Province                no             2        3,000               6,000        2       3,000            6,000         4        3.000           12,000
County                  no            12        3.000              36,000       10       3,000           30,000        22        3,000           66,000
TV and video player
Province                net            2        6,000              12,000        1       6,000            6,000         3        6.000           18,000
County                  set           12        6,000              72,000       10       6,000           60,000        22        6.000          132,000
Sewing machine                 no           240          600             144,000      200         600          120.000       440         600           264,000
Filing cabinet                 no            58          350              20,300       50         350           17,500       108         350            37,800
x
t-J1
Table 2: I of 2



Anne 5 - Table 2: Labor Mobility Compoment
_------ -  iha --------------- iha... --- -- - ----  -  ----- Shaanxi --------- ------------   - ------- - ----- Project Total --- - ---- -------
UNIT      Quant.         Rate              Amt      Quant         Rate            Amt.    Quant.         Rate             Amt.
Office table and chair
Province                set           10          600               6,000       10         600            6,000        20          600           12,000
County                  set           48          400              19,200       40         400            16,000       88          400           35,200
Training desk & chair
Province                set          140          400              56,000      100         400           40,000       240          400           96,000
County                  set          660          200             132,000      500         200           100.000     1,160         200          232,000
Double-deck bed
Province                set          100          300              30,000       50         300            15,000      150          300           45,000
County                  set          400          200              80,000      250         200            50,000      650          200           130,000
Mattress and luggage
Province                set          250          300              75,000      100         300           30,000       350          300          105,000
County                  set          800          300             240,000      500         300           150,000     1,300         300          390,000
Thertnos
Province                no           200           25               5,000      100          25            2,500       300           25            7,500
County                  no           800           25              20,000      500          25            12,500     1.300          25           32,500
Kitchen utensil                set           14        2,000              28,000       12        2,000          24,000        26        2,000           52,000
4. TrainingandPlacement(RevolvingFund)                                        159.800.000                            117.200,tP    154.700                  277.000.000
0
4 1 Interprovincial                     pson      71,100        2,000         142.200000    47,600       2,000       95.200.000    118700        2.000      237.400 000
Center                         pson      71,100          850          60,435,000    47,600        850        40,460,000    118,700        850       100,895,000
Province                       p'son     71,100          300          21.330,000    47,600        300        14,280,000   118,700         300        35,610,000
County                         p'son     71,100          850          60,435,000    47,600        850        40,460,000    118,700        850       100,895,000
4.2 WithinProvince                      p'son     16,000        1,100          17.600.000    20,000      1,100       22.000.000    36.000        1,100       39.600,000
Province                       p'son      16,000         300           4,800,000    20,000        300         6,000,000    36,000         300        10,800,000
County                         p'son      16,000         800           12,800,000    20,000       800        16,000,000    36,000         800        28,800,000
5  Training and Management                                                      2.S39.441                             2.S42.103                               5.781.544
StaffTraining                  sum                                       300,000                               300,000                                 600,000
Seminars                       sum                                       300,000                               300,000                                 600,000
Technical Assistance           sum                                       500.000                                500,000                               1.000,000
Provincial Monitoring          sum                                       611,633                               562,080                                1,173,713
Fulian Monitoring              sum                                       400,000                               400,000                                 800,000
Independent Evaluation         sum                                       400,000                               400,000                                 800,000
Independent Auditing           sum                                       427,808                               380,023                                 807,831
Direct Base Cost                                                              174,564,941                           127,671,603                             302,236,544
Administrative fee                      0                                       2,618,474                             1,915,074                               4.533,548
Total Ban Cost                                                                177.183.415                           129.586.677                             306.770.092
Contingencies                                                      Q           53,270,615                   0        38,960,768                     Q        92,231,383
Total Including Contingencies                                                 230,454.030                           16S.547.445                             399.001.475                          x
Table 2 2 of 2



Chin: Qinbs Momtains Poverty Reduction Froject
Detailed Project Rbse Cota by Provine and Component (Yuan)
Annes 5 - Table 3: Rural Infrastructure Component
---------Siun---------        _- ---------- ih  ......------- Shtnxi ------------- ....-------------- .  Ningxia -------------   -     ---- - --------- ...... rojed Totil ----
UNIT       QUTY            RATE               AMT.       QUTY           RATE              AMT.       QUTY.           RATE              AMT.         QUTY.           RATE              AMT.
1. Rural Electricity                                                                  10.422.980                                  21.285550                                                                                   31.70.530
Mini-hydrpowerSttion                 kW            840         3032.36          2,547,178      1,335          5,000         6,675,000                                                      2,175          4,240        9,222,17g
35 kV Trfornner Staiton              kVA         2,000          469.20           93S,400                                                                                                   2,000           469           938,400
35kV tnsnision line                  km             25       5S501.00           1.462,525         50          50,411        2,520,550                                                        75          53,10S        3,983.075
lOkVdistribution line                km            204        25337.63         5,16S,877        465          26,000        12,090,Q00                                                       669         25,798        17,258,877
0.4kV dinribuion line                km             20        15300.00           306,000                                                                                                     20          15,300          306,000
2. Rutl Road                                                                          41.519.654                                  37.S56797                                                                                   79376.A51
NewRoad                                  km            449       92471.39         41,519,654        324          96,771        31,353,804                                                       773         94,274        72,873,45S
Road iapmvwemnt                          km                                                         119          54.647         6,502,993                                                       119         54,647         6,502,993
3. RuralWaterSypply                         pson       263,407         150.30         39.590.Q72     193,262         144.28       27.883455        9,852           172          1.689914        466,521            148        69.163,440       j
0
4. lrrition                                                                           22.934.57                                    S 520.200                                                                                  3145.222        0
Pumpedirrni8tion                            ha         300          5,289            528,900                                                                                                    I00          5,289           52S,9DO
Irrigation Pond                             ha         S71          7.1S6          6,259,006                                                                                                    871          7,186         6,259,006
Diversion                                   ha        758           1,230            932,340                                                                                                    758          1,230          932,340
Cistern                                     ha        905           3.4S9          3.157,545                                                                                                    905          3,4S9         3,157.545
Small Resrvoir                              ha         107          2.428            259,796                                                                                                    107          2,428           259,796
Canal                                       ha       4.265          2.766         11.796.990       1.S85         4.520          8.520.200                                                     6,150          3,304        20,317,190
5. Micmirrition (Ningxia)                                                                                                                          5355                       38277.928          5355           7,148       38277928
Small cistnm                             ha                                                                                                3,243           8,708       28,239,006          3,243         8,708        2S,239,006
Shallow Well                             ha                                                                                                1,333           1,977        2,636,000          1,333         1,977         2,636,000
Tube Well                                ha                                                                                                  125          10,404        1,300,500            325        10,404         1,300,500
Floodplain Land Redamation               ha                                                                                                  654           9,331        6,102,422            654         9,331         6,102,422
6. Rural Energy                                                                        1.460Q572                                                                                                                               146.0572
Biogp digesters                      no          1,828          799Q.00         ,466,572                                                                                                  1,S22            799         1,460,572
Direct Bane Cost                                                                     115,927,855                                  95,546,002                                  39,967,842                                    251,441,698
Meangement Fee(l 5%/6)                      sum                                        1,73S,918                                   1,433,190                                     599,518                                      3,771,625
Total Beas Cot                                                                       1176M6.773                                   96,979.192                                  40.567,359                                    255.2134
Contingencies                                                         30.001%         35,296,259                    30.00%        29,093,738                    30.80%        12,170,208                                     76,560,805       >
Total Inlading CongCens                                                              15232                                       12L.072 930                                   27376                                        331.774.129 
Table 3: 1 of I



China: Qinbs Mountains Poverty Reduction Proje
Detailed Project Bane Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Anne, 5 - Table 4: Land and Fa rmer Development Compomtne
SICHUAN                                   - SHAANXI- ----------           -- --..--_.NINGXIA  -----.                  -          PROJECTTOTAL--
Unit     Quantity         Rate           Amount      Quantity         Rate           Amount      Quantit)         Rate           Amount       Quantity        Rate                 Amount
I  Tcnaing & Paddy drainag (linkd directl!                37-316                    175.235.836       16.087                     96522.0()0       19986                      41.970600         73,39                          313.728436
to crp establithtnct)
a Stone Terracing                            ha        10,668        6,642        70,056,856       16.087        6,0(X)       96,522pS0                                                    26,755        6,256             167,378,856
b. Earth Terraceing                          ha         2,763        4.620        12.765,060                                                   19,986        2,1(X)       41.97(),600      22,749        2,406              54,735,660
c HillaLndTcracing                           h         15,576         2,792       43,40St,192                                                                                               15,576       2,792              43,480,192
d. Paddy drainalge                           ha         N,309         5.792       4X,125,728                                                                                                8,30)9       5,792              4S,125,728
3  GrainProductionImp-vmenct                              36717                      69.017.8X0       153305                     31.39X452        1X,729                     3625i 35          70.75                          136.674725
Wheat                                      ha        9,173         1,601)       14.685,973                                                   5,1(X)        1,433        7,308,300        14,273        1,541             21,994,273
Plastic mlch t.o                          ha       16.720         1.946       32,537,120        3,832        2,350         9,(t05,200       7,1(\3        2,105       14,951,815        27,655        2,0)43            56,494,135
Tmnsptantd pringeogw                       ha                                           0        2.881         1,636        4,713,316                                           0         2,01t        1,636              4,713,316
Transplanted summe co                      ha                                           o        2,800         1,540        4,312,0XX)                                          0         2.0tX)       1,541)             4,312,1t00
Vira-fiw potato                            ha        2,5)5         2.174        5,467,610)       5.792        2,308         13,367,936       6,526         2.145       13,990,270)       14,833        2,214             32,833,816
Paddy Rice                                 ha        8,30)9       L.965         16,327,185                                         0                                           0          x,3n9        1,965             16,327,185
4. Cauh Crop Dcvelupmtnt                                     797                      8.749.603        8.445                     7L,883,34         2.797                      4.216.991                                        84.850(608
Fla,                                       ha                                                                                                1,797          903         1,622,691         1,797         903               1,622,691
Ralpenced                                  ha          150        1,361           204,150
Vagstablcs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tD
Red onion                              ha                                           0                                                      7)(         2,585         1,X09,500          70)t       2,585               1,809,5()0
Wattmeclon                              ha                                          0                                                      300         2,616          784,810)          300        2,616                7X4,(00
Field vegetablc                        ha          448         3,429         1,536,192                                                                                                  448        3,429               1,536,192
nsenthote vgetablc                      ha                                          0           11        42,X38          471,218                                                        11       42,838                471,218
Pclalcyam                                  ha                                          0         5,454        6,994        30,145,276                                                     5,454        6,994             38,145,276
Amorphophallus                             ha                                          0         2,863        5,780        16,548,140                                                     2,863        3,780             16,548,140
Goldlhned & medicinal herbs                ha          167         6,523         1,089,341                                                                                                  167        6,523              1,089,341
Ganrdia Eta                                ha           32       105,000        5,920,000          29.5      135,000        3,982,500                                                       62       161,016              9,902,500
Edibhi fitgi                               ha                                                       87      146,400        12,736,800                                                       87       146,400             12,736,800
5. Enomnic Tt  Ctnp Delopment                            16-Zl1                    126.965.874       28438                     131.232.037        229                        7.516.3l         3938                           265.714.232
Kiwi fruit                                 ha          354       20,200         7,150,8051                                                                                                 354       20,200               7,150,800
Tea
Nesvdevlopment                         ha          150        13,435         2,015,250        1.296       12,044        15,609,024                                                    1,446       12,188              17,624,274
Rthbilitation                          ha          436        10,145         4,423,220                                                                                                 436        10,145              4,423,220
Mulbert
New development                        ha         1,744        8,427        14,696,6S8       2,346         8,133        19,080,018                                                    4,090        8,258             33,776,706
Rehabilitation                         ha          824         6,535         5,384,840                                         0                                                       824         6,535              5,384,84)1
Cocoon raising fihility                ha        2,568         6,950        17,147,6(10      2,346         7,200        16,1891,20t)                                                  4,914        7,009             34,738,8051
Citrs                                      ha        1,678       15.5951       26,160,020          157       14,432         2,265,824                                                     1,835       15,491             28,425,844
Pear/Penimmon                              ha         574         12,828        7,363,272          158        6,603         1.043,274                                                      732       11,484               8,406,546
Apple/Jujuc/ apncot                        ha          425        8,308         3,530,900                                                     716          7,406        5,302,696         1,141       7,742               8,33,596         u
Gingko                                     ha          919        9,545         8,771,855        1,624        9,343        15,173,032                                                     2,543       9,416              23,944,807         S
Chestnut                                   ha        1.342         5.844        7,842,648        6,690        5,658        37,852,020                                                     8,032       5,689              45,694,668 9
Table 4: 1 of 3



Annea 5 - Table 4: Land and Fanner De.dopoent Compoent
SICHUAN                                   SHAANXI                                    NINGXIA                                  PROJECT TOTAL
Unit     Quartity         Rate          Amount      Quantity        Rat,          Amount       Quantity        Ratc           Amount      Quantity         Rate               Amount
Walnut                                    ha        1,666        5,t44         9,736,104         329        5,934         1,952.286                                                   1,995       5,859              11,6S8,390
Euammia                                   ha        1,506        5.934         3,936,604       2.358        5.974        14,0X6,692                                                   3,S64       5,958              23,023.2M
Sichaan pgpee                             ha           97        5,36X          520,696                                                                                                 97        5,368                520,696
Tumber                                    ha                                                     303        2,662          806,586         30(1         1,865         559,500          603        2,265               1,366,086
Laeqaertmee                               ha                                                   1,516        2,461        3,730,376                                                    1,516       2,461              3,730,876
Tan                                       ha                                                     300        2.266          679.S00                                                     300        2,266                679,S00
GalInut                                   ha          187        2.301          430,207                                                                                                 187       2,301                430,287
Lily Magnolia                             ha                                                    209.)       2.169          453,321                                                     209        2,169                453,321
"onaokh..                                 ha                                                     t,694      2.04S         L57,sst                                                      664        2,045               1,351,SWo
Coltofoot                                 ha                                          0          142        1,762          250,204                                                      142        1,762               250,204
Ok fotet rehabilitation                   ha        1.S1)        1,190         2,155,090                                                                                              I,XII       1,190               2,155,090
Anmi-rusion hedc (Ning,eia)               ha                                                                                              1.203         1,375        1,654,125        1,203       1,375               1,654,125
6, Livefttek Development                                                          169.046.166                                 X2,227.692                                 5X.678.701                                      309.952
Cmt &cany fodder                          ha        3,500        1,6X0         5,830,000       3,000        1.520        4,560)000        2,702          930         2,587,260        9.2S2       1,403              13,027,260
Ammoatated stamw/isiLp                   hsld      32,179         296         9,524,9U4       10,430         296         3,087,230       17,797          2X8        5,123,536        60,406         294             17,737,800
Pig
Pig fateing                          head     207,026          300        62,107,S00       37,27S         263        22,954,114       5,970          205         1,223,850      300,274         287              86,285,764
Pig,nrcding                          head       S,36         1,140       10,073,040        1,594        1,190        1,96,060       1,760          328          577,280        12,190        1,029             12,547,1S0
Goal                                    head      147,647          261        33,535,867      93,092         269        25,041,748       14,155          163        2,307,265       254,894         250             65,8X4,880
Sh-p                                    hmatd                                                                                            81,290          230        18,697,513       X1,290         230             18,697,513 
Rnm                                     head        3,786         361          1,366,746       2,307         369           XW0,03        3,1X2          656        2,087,392        9.355         463               4,334,941        0
CO.                                     head       26,499        1,285       34,051,215       17,851        1,317       23,509,767       17,797         1,465      26,072,605        62,147       1,346             33,633,587
DIhk/Lamyr                                        325,973           13        4,237,714       18,570          16           297.120                                                 344,548           13              4,534,834
Ratbir (hair)                           head       40,860          80         3,268,S00                                                                                              40,860          g0              3,26S,800
7. S.pportSemvies                                                                   9.927.791                                  9286.619                                   2638.696                                        21.S53.106
Seed Produetion
Coe cd ptoductimn                      ha         954        4,135         3,944,790         276        3,145          868.020                                                    1,230       3,913               4,S12,810
Whcat need prnducion                   ha         200        2,327           565,400                                                                                               200        2,827                565,400
Potato eed pmduntion                  ha                                                     200        4,213          342,600          744         3,009        2,230,696         944        3,264               3,081,296
Potato sned tultip. greenhouse        m2                                                     300        1,033          310,046                                                     300         1,033               310,046
Ritt need prdution                    ha          214        4,564          976,696                                                                                                214        4,564                976,696
Yxn ned ptedetion                      ha                                                    211        7,723         1,629,553                                                    211        7,723               1,629,553
Mushroom inelumn bging                x4                                                     159       20,00W         3,1X0,WW                                                      159      20,000               3,100,00
Gntwdiea ueed productioa               ha                                                     0.5     140,000           70,000                                                        I      140,000                70,000
Trec Nurneny
Treneecdliagnursery                    ha          97       22,105         2,144,185          63       21,805         1,417,325                                                     162      21,985               3,561,510
Tre gtafing nuary                      ha                                                     75       12,921          969,075                                                      75        12,921               969,075
Li,eetock
HILldan mial bsedingservic(goeslep    head         40        3,X16          152,640                                                                                                 40        3,X16                152,640
Has animal breeding werviee (pig/tm)  head         40        7.590          303,600                                                                                                 40        7,590                303,600
Pnenning equipment
Village proeeang wneruiea A           set          80        5,000          400,000                                                    200         2,000          400,000          200        2,357                800,000
Viltag pe    iccrg erie  B             c           46        13,3W0         615,4t0                                                                                                 46       13,3S0                615,4t0)        i
Villcge technical servic  (sprying, pua  sat      275        3.180          X25,0t0l                                                                                               275        3,000                X25.,0t0
LT 2
Table 4. 2 of 3



Annex S - Table 4: Lsnd nd Fneri Dsdtpmeot Comavonent
SICHUAN                                      SHAANXI                                     NINGXIA                         -          PROJECT TOTAL
Unit     Quantity          Rd,c           Amomt        Quantity         Rate          Amount        Quantity         Rrtc          Amoent        Quantity         Rrtc                 Amount
. Extenion and Taining                                                                 36.869 599                                   29.155142                                    6.5495S0                                          72574.291
Demonsiraton (i(ld                         hsId        1,194          6(0           716,400          591           600           354,600          400           4n0           16(1,000        2,1S5          563                1,231,101
Training oftochncian                        md       60,600            30          1,I18,000       17,580           30           527,400        4,120            30           123,60t0       S2,300           30               2,469,000
Training ofhouchold                         nd      671S,068           Is         10,171,020     532,152            15         7,92,280       180,10(K          15         2,700,0(00     1,39(),220         15              20.853,30)
Ebsnioni,ivn(tcc)                          (mId     135,593            15         2,03S,395       119,640           I5          1.794,600       9,215             3           120,575       264,09            I5               3,953,570
Ectusion visits (food ctps)                hsid     277,799             I           277,799       69,070             1            69,070       32,464             4           129,856       379,333            1                 476,725
E0tcnsion visits (anima husband,,)         hsid      X1,037            10           810,370       1()1,156           6           606,936       35,996             0           207,904       218,191            X                1,705,290
Small xtnoion Eqnipmenl                    sot           65         S,000           325,0t)0         2011        5,(X)0        1,I105,0(10         31          5,10(          155,0(J0          297        SOX()                1,4S5,000
Vottonarv and Benxding Staeionn
Equipmont                               oct          66         5.000           330,000           65         5,000           325,000                                                        131        5,000                 655,000
Se,viecs
Cow                                head       26,499           10           264,990        17,851           2()          357,020        17,797            10           177,970        62,147           13                 799,980
Shccp/goat                         hcad      151,433            5           757,165        95,479            4           381,916        14,155             5           70,775        261,067           5                1,209,856         1
pigos'                             head      233,534           10          2,335,340       88,72            5           444,360        11,250             5           56,25()       333,656           6                2,35,950        t-
Atificial insemination (cow)       head                                                                                                 17,797           21)          355.940         17,797          20                 355,940
Vehicles
Pick.uptnck                             no          108       100.000        10,800,000           50       100,000         5,000,000            8        100,000          000,000           166      1()op00               16,60()000
Motorcycle                               n                                                       151        10,000         (,510,00()         31         10,000          31(),0()0        12         10,0(J0              1,820,000
Tonsvhip Project Management            fshipAr          774         3,600         2,786,400         1,206        3,600         4.341,6()0         186         3,6(1o          669,600         2,166        3,600               7.797,6(00
Villog Projct Management                 vill/yr      7,164          48(0         3,438,720        9.2S2          480          4,455,360         1,20()         360          432,110(1       17,646          472               8,326,080
9. Applied Rescarch                             itnm                                    2.385.321                                    2.064.220                                      550,459                                          5,00o0. 0
Dircal Basc Cost                                                                      598S198X158                                  453.770.096                                  158.379.703                                       1.210.347 957
Administrative Fcc (I.5/)                                                               8,972,972                                    6,806,551                                    2,375,696                                         18,155,219
Tttl Bnem Cost                                                                        607.171.130                                  460576.64t                                   160,75539                                        1.22503.176
Contingcncics                                                            30.13%       182,912,199                     30)41%       140,(072,940                    30.25%        48,632,508                                        371,617,647
T      -A . .l1d94i6A C5tinfvn                                                        19v,.O3319                                   6.6495                                       1037.906                                          1.60,12Uo23
In
Table 4: 3 of 3



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costg by Province and Component (Yuan)
Annex 5 - Tble 5: Rural Enterprise Development Component
Sicuan                          Shaanxi         -         ------- Ningxia ------------- - - ---------  Project Total -----------
Numbers          AMOUNT          Numbers         AMOUNT           Numbers          AMOUNT          Numbers          AMOUNT
I  Mining and mineral processing               3           7,206,133            5          21,704,449                                              8         28,910,582
2.  Construction materials                     5          12,787,041             3         11,427,758                                              8          24,214,799
3.  Agroprocessing                             15         36,470,545            36         66,282,243             2         11.967,109            53         114.719,897
4.  Feed processing                             1          3,789,315                                                                               1           3,7S9,315
5. Tea processing                              3           5,615,764            13         18,544,889                                             16         24,160,653
6.  Dry & fresh fruit processing                5         11,861,518             7         13,775,825                                             12          25,637,343     1
7.  Livestock product processing               10         42,465,714             4          9,620,515             1          3,552,487            15          55,638,716    ti
9.  Forest product processing                  7          21,678,171             7          6,669,185                                             14         28,347,356
10. Handicrafts                                5          16,196,932            3           5,268,850            1           2,637,455             9         24,103,237
11. Silk reeling                                                                1           7,578,628                                              1          7,578,628
12. Other product processing                   8          23.905,640            5           7,432,365                                            13          31,338,005
13. Farmers' market                            6           8,552,215           28           9,809,770                                            34          18,361,985
Direct Base Cost                              68         190,528,988           112        178,114,477            4          18,157,051           184        386,800,516
Management fee (1.5%)                                      2,857,935                        2,671,717                         272,356                         5,802,008
Total Base Cost                                          193386923            112         1I76.194               4          1&429407             184        392.602.524
Contingencies                                300/,        58,016,075          30%          54,235,858          300/          5,528,822                      117,780,755
Total Cost                                               251.402.9                        235.022.052                       2    .229                       519S21
Tx
Table 5: 1 of 1



-113-                                                              Annex 5
t    o  1      *                                                                       1  I v      Vcr   -D   ,  
Z               d
A~~~
{>                                                                                               -      C     - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  -i
s    e        |              rl         < - >    >    e    R R, e7 <rl ^vi   - >                           j I        e 8>
=    C  . C< 0~     
I c Z       |=         |888          o                                   S=     8     l8oo|8oa.oe      1oo15         8 
1 -      8              x,1oSSg.   <  lfA 
<           I
I 8  ,  o    =8  I       :cg,O>  8   8
-~~~. P                     ->m .                     _                                              s      o             s_r__oN C> Re_r            o  _ -  o   H   
&                                   S=                                   e88asX5      -8sf5  s5  -
|  =  f                           f                      eoeEX=            



Anne. S  - Tabt 6: Institution Building and Project Managemnent Conmponent
SICHUAN                                    SHAANXI                                     NINGXIA           -          --       --  P,,jct Totli
UNIT      Qoantity         Raul           Amount    Qauntity          Rate            Amount    Quantity          Rotc           Amount    Qnantity           Rose           Amount
3. Vehicls                                                                         3.550.0(KK                                  2.8501000                                   1,350,000                                  7.750(000
Jccp                                 no             30      101,667          3.050.000          23      102,174          2.350.000           9      105,556           950.0K0          62      1()2,419        630 0(00
Pravinc.                         no  )           0      150,000            15(,00(           1      150,0KK)           15(),(0)          I      15(0,)0           150,00()          3      150,00()          45(),000
Psefcctuns/County                no             29      I(Ko,(K)o        2,90(K).100        22      I 0100,(0)      2,2(K),0()(0         0      1O,(K()          $(KO,(KO(0       59      10,()(KO        5,900,(K)()
Mini-bus (22 seats)                  no1                    4(0,000           400.(K000          I     4(X),(KKo          4110000(1          I     400,(00            400.(0(K1         3      400.(NK)        1.2010(00
P-ovince                         no               I     400),(00() 40),()0(  400()                                                       1 40),000   400,()(00    4(00,(00)(        3      4()(),()(K0      1,2()0,0K)()
Van (l()scas)                        no               I     1()O,(00)          100.00()         I      I(N),O(K)         Io0(( 0                         -                 O           2      I ()O.((NO        2()0.(o00
Provin.c                         no               I     I 01(1(01(        100,0()O                 I                                           I()(,()()o1  1()()()())   (   1(0),(1O(  O  2  1()0(N)     20(,1(0o
II.P'ROJECT MANACEMENT & SUPERVISION                                              II.241.900                                  10,0919,990                                 2,847.300                                 24.189.100
I  Pmjct Supervision                                                                7101000                                     71KO.0()1                                   1#0,(1(1                                  I71.1O,(1o1
Prsixne                              sum             6      116.1,67          7()(),0()()        6      116,667           7()0,(000          6      301,(1(1(1        18(),()()                                1,5N0,O()()
2  Lool Consultaonts                      p'son          201      36,0()('         7201(101)         12       36,0()0          432.10(1           5       36,0110          10hO()(11        37       36,(000         1.332.()00)
Provin-c                             p5on           21)      36.11)(0         7201.111111       12      36,tXN)           432,(0NN           5      36,(010           IRO.(NN)         37       36,0KN)        1,332,1011
3.  Stofffrising - Domestic                p'son       511.028         57          20N31,400      65,112          55           3.551.4(0       9,166          63            5O.N0)0      124,222          56         60963,601
Provinc.                             p'so          6101         310           13011011         600)        3001            10,000         250          3110            75,1)(N)      1,4510        310           435,00No
Counly                               pnso        1,NOO          151)          27(),()(K)     1,51)0        150            225,000         6101         150             9N),1010     3,9011         150           5X5,0)00
T'ship & Village                     p.n-       47,620           51(         2,301,4100     62,920          50           3,146,400       11,316         50            415,800      11,11372         50         5,943,6()()
4. Staffruining - Overseas                 puso            12      35,0K0)          4220.00           10       35,0o01          35101110           7      35,(NK)           245.100           29      35,)000        1(151(101
Province                             pson           12       35,0110          42(),000          10      35,000            350,000            7      35,000            245,000          29       35,(000        1,015,000
5. Studs Tu  . Domestic                    pnso          12N        4,0(N)          512.0(01         N0        4,10)0           321).000          15       4,0010            611000         223        4,(0K          092,0(1
Provntce                             pnso           2()       4,000            S0,00            20       4,(K0             hO,00            II       4,(KK0            44,0NK0         5I        4,(K00          2()4,000
Counyt &Tship                        pson          108        4,0tN)          432,000           60       4,(K00           240),10(0         4        4,000             16,000         172        4,(010          6NN,000
6  Studv Tours - Ovrscas                   pson           4N       5(),0KKo        24(0o(000          34       50,0tN)         1.700.000          14      50,000            700000            6       50,000         4.8)010K00
Ptnvinec                             pson           12       50,0(K           601,000           1()     50,1050           500,000           6       50,000            300,00(0         28       50,00()        1,400,000(
County                               pnso           36       50,000          1,800,000          24      50,OOO           1,200,000           8      50,0(0           400,000           6S       50,000         3,400,K)O
7. Technical usistonc - Pv.                pson          107       11,075          1185.00(1          57       12,095           735000            16       12,188           195.0(8         100       11,750         2.115300(K
Domestic                             puso          105        9,000           945,000           55       9,000            495,000           15       5,(0K0            75,(NK0        175        8,657         1,515,1000
Overseas                            puon             2      120,00(1          240,000            2     120,000            240.1000           1     120,000K           120,00(0          5      120,000           600,000)
0  Con6enece                               pson           78       26,154          2.040000           66      27,273           1800000            15      36,000            540.000         159       27,547         4.380(1105
Pmvince                             p'on             6      IOKI,000          600,000           6      100,000            6K00,000          3      100,000           300,000           15      100,00(         1,500,000
County                              pun             72       20,1000         1,440,000         60       20,o0(K          1,200,000          12      20,000           240,000          144       20,0(0)        2,880,000
9. Books and joumaJs                       Sum           426        1,018           433500           636         804            51L.500          108        1,542           166.500        1,170         950         1.111500
Province                            sum              3       20,000            60,0010           3      20,000             60,0(00          3       20,000            60,000            9       20,000           180,(N15
County                               sum            36        5,000           180,000           301      5,0(N)           150,N000          12       5,000            60,(100          78        5,000           3901,0OKN
1'rhip                               sum           307         50K)           193,500         603          5(N0           301,508)         93          500            46,500         1,083         500           541,50N)
Total Ban Cost                             sunm                                   23,421,935                                 20,935,435                                   7,153,385                                 51,S10.755
Conlingncis                                suns                    37.28%          0,732.497                  38.66%           8,093,870                  35.38%          2,531.072                                 19,357,439
Totsd imid. contingncis                    Sum                                    32154432                                   29.029.305                                   9.6U4A57                                  ZOMLA
UPt
Table 6: 2 of 2



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Annex 5 - Table 7: Poverty Monitoring Component
----------- SICHUAN ------------  ------------ SHAANXI ----------   ----------- NINGXIA ------------    --------- Project Total -----------
UNIT Quantity       Rate         Amount Quantity      Rate         Amount Quantity      Rate     Amount Quantity       Rate          Amount
I-
1. Poverty Monitoring              sum                             1.660,000                         1.660,000                       415                               3.735,000
2. CWHRC Independent
Labor Mob. Monitoring       sum                             3.735,000                         2.490.000                                                         6,225.000
Total Project Cost                  sum                            5.395,000                         4,150,000                       415,000                           9,960,000
Table 7: 1 of I



China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Annex 5 - Table 8: Microfinance Component
-------- Sichuan ----------------------  ------ - -- ---- Shaanxi ----------------------  --------------- Project Total -------------
UNIT    Quant.         Rate           Amt.   Quant.           Rate           Amt.   Quant.      Rate           Amt.
1. Vehicles                                                           40.000                                50.000                             90,000
Motorcycles              no           4        10,000         40,000        5        10,000          50,000        9    10,000         90,000
2. Equipment and Fumiture                                             87.850                                87.850                            175,700
3. Training and TA                                                   501.600                               501.600                           1.003.200
3.1 Training                                                         433.800                               433.800                            867.600
Center                    day       180          210          37,800      180           210          37,800                            75,600
Province                 day        150          440          66,000      150          440          66,000                            132,000
County                   day        600          200         120,000      600          200          120,000                           240,000
Overseas study tour       p'son       3        50,000        150,000        3        50,000         150,000                           300,000
Domestic study tour      p'son       15        4,000          60,000       15         4,000         60,000                            120,000
3.2 TA                                                                67.800                                67.800                            135.600
Consultant               year         6        11,300         67,800        6        11,300          67,800                           135,600
4. Subloans                                                       12.124.620                             12.175.680                        24.300.300
5. Center Monitoring             year         6       25,200         151.200        6        25,200        151.200
6. Indep. auditing & evaluation                                      195.600                                195.600                           391.200
Indep. auditing          year         6        16,300         97,800        6        16,300         97,800
Indep. evaluation        year         6        16,300         97,800        6        16,300         97,800
7. Administrative fee (1.5%)                                          196.513                               197.429                           393,942
Total Base Cost                                                    13.297,383                             13,359.359                       26.656.742
Contingencies                                         24.84%        3,302,617                24.26%       3,240,641                         6,543,258           4
Total Cost                                                         16.600000                              16.600.000                       33.200.000
Ln
Table 8: 1 of I



CHINA: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Procurement and Disbursement by Province and Category (Yusn)
Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
SICHUAN                           SHAANXI                          NINGXIA                        PROJECT TOTAL-
Unit   Qurnity       Ratc     Amount   Quatity         Rate     AmoQunt    uantity       Rat      Amount   Quatity        Rate      Amont
L                                                                        23tl.772110                       1YY.741                            55.981t7                         4a6.1n2.a9
EOIIPMEU                                                                 H627M                              0t7f0f54                         14.2.905                         ISI 470174
Comam i =   _      _c EmmMKFA                                    2.9t3035                         2500.535                          1102.005                          6 152655
Comogftdi                            _2         2 43  25.0D0     1.075.000       30    2500         750.000        12     25D000      300.000        tt5    25.0co    2.125
Labor Mobility                    n         21    25,000       525,000        14    23,000       350,000                                          35    25,000       275,000
Institution Building              w         22    25,000       550,000        16    25,000       400,000       12      25,000      300,000        50    25,000      1,250,000
Ndebook  C _2                                   a    a_ 000        56.000         ,    7SOD0         56.000        2a    22o000        56.000         6     22o000       16R000
Institution Building              w          2    23,000        56,000         2    2S.000        56,000        2      23,000       56,000         6    23,000       163,000
CompultrSoftmuc                     112 _       6       1-667      60.000        22       1.4        340           L       2.000      ,20C000        6S       1.676      114000
Labor Mobility                    w         26      1,538       40,000        12      1,167       14,000                                          3t      1,421       54,000
Insoitution Building              n          10     2,000       20,000        30      2.000       20,000        10      2,000       20,000        30      2,000       60,000                                 _J
F     11r                            _2        22_   25I.50       510.0C         [      25-357      355C           _      3DODO       150.00         3.    26026       1015000
Labor Mobility                    n          2    27,500        55,000         I    25,000        25.0C0                                           3    26,667        S0,000
tnotitution Building              n         la    25,272       455,000        13    25,3X5       330,30         5      30,000      150,00D        36     25,972      935,000
Fax Maciu                            a         34      .265      179.0C0        24      5.00       120.0C0         5      5.0         25)0M0        63      5143       324.00
Labo Mobility                     w         16      5,563       29,000       II      5,0C0       55,0l00                                         27      5,333      144,000
Institution Building              n         IS      5,0O0       90,000        13      5,00        65,000        5       5,000       23,000        36      5,000     I330,00
Ovnadi   Pn20                                   2     1L33!        23.0           1      15.0C0      15.0CI        1      t.I000       15.000        _4     13.25        Il
LAbrW Mobility                    n          I      2a,00        2,000                                0                                            1      2,000        2,000
bntitution Building               n          I    15,000        35,000         1    15,0C0        15,000        I      15,000       15,000         3     35,000       45,000
Art_d.io0 2                                     a      17.-00      35D000         2     17.50        35.000        2      172500       35.000         t     37500       030500
InstitAio Building                n          2     17,500       35,0U0         2     17,5C0       35,000        2      17,500       35,000         6     17,500      105,000
High   _d                            _2         1    74.0          72-000         1     73-000       782000        1      7Z000        73-000         a     79 0000     234,0
btitution Building                n          I    73,00        72,000         1    7C,000        72,000        1      72,000       73,000         3    73,000       234,000
00         1    50O           50.000         I    5.0000        50.000        I      50000        5.000          1    50           350.000
Institution Building              n          I    50,000        50,000         1    50,000        50,000        I      50,000       50,000         3    50,000       150,000
Vidy   nnoa m                                   1    300           300000         1    30C000       3000,0         I    300000        300000         a    3OO.0        300000
Institution Building              n          I   300,000       300,000        3I  300,020         00,000       3I   300,3OC        100,000         3    100,000      300,3000
Qffliaurntur                         00        147     (."2       747.035       24       U.41      W907535        t2    725st         273-OS5       397      4.256    1.927.i55
Institution Building             st        147      5,002      747,035       214      4,241      907,535       36       7,526      273,035       397      4,256    1,927,655
0
08



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
--. SICHUAN                       -           SHAANXI                            NINGXIA                   -    PROJECT TOTAL-
Unit   Quantity      Rate      Amount   Quantity       Rate       Amount   Quantity       Rtte      Amount   Quantity        Rate      Amount
(2)  OthcrCommonEnuinmcnt                                                 330                                    _                            31)21                              444.021
Ttomfxtea                                         2      72S00       54.600                                          16       7s800      127.682         23      7 800      12.2182
Rurl infiastnueturr (irigation)   no          7      7,800        54,600                                 0                                            7       7,800       54,600
Rund  hinturucture(Mic.inig.)                                                                                     16       7,800      127,682         16     7,800       127,682
EIcitricMotor &Pump                                     1.1200       78400                                          16      1120        183.33S        23      11.200      261.73#
Rurl Int'rastruttunc (iigation)   net         7      11,200       78,400                                 0                                            7      11,200       78,400
Ruralnlftasttuctut (Micoiyigation)                                                                                16      11,200      183,338        16      11,200      183,338
a)  Labor Mobility                                                    101150                              649.5(10                                                            1.661.000
Office fumiture                   ret         I t    4,000        72,000                                 0                                            18     4,0)00       72,000
TV & vidn platycr                 rt          14     6,000        84,000        II      6,01)0      66,000                                           25      6,01K1)     150,000
Sewing macbinc                    no        240        600       144,000       200       600       120,000                                          440        600       264,000
Filingcabinct                     no         50        350       20,300         5()      350        17,500                                          108        350        37,800
Officc table & chair              set        58        434        25,200        50       440        22,000                                          10        437        47,200
Training desk & chair             set       S00        235       188,000       600        233      140,000                                         1,400       234       320,000
DoubIc-dcck bed                   Set       500        220       110,000       300       217        65,000                                          000        219       1753000                                  I
Mattss & luggage                  ret      1,050       300      315,000        600       300       100,000                                         1,650       300       495,000
Thermos                            no      1,000        25        25,000       600         25       15,000                                         1,600        25        40,000                                 X
Kitchen utensil                   Set        14      2,1000      28,000         12      2,000       24,000                                           26      2,000        52,000
(4)  Rutd lnfraltucturo                                                2.S63.500                                                            1 .091.00                          3.9548o00
Rural Water Sutoly                    no                          2.863.500                                                                                               263.500
Triulbssner                       no        105      6,300      661,500                                                                             105      6,300       661,500
Elecuticmotor&pump                ret       105      3,000      315,000                                                                             105      3,000       315,000
Hand pump                         st       6,290       300     1,887,000                                                                          6,290        300     1,887,000
Mikmiraa)i
Submersibie pump                                                                                               2,183        500     1,091,300     2,183        500     1,091,300
(4)  Land & Farmer DMyclonment                                         2.495 480                         1.330.000                            5550                             4.380.4S
Support SCevicS
Villagc prceing equipment A       ret        80      5,000      4(10,000                                         200      2,000      400,000        280      2,857       800,000
Village pmccuing eqaipsent B      rt         46     13,380      615,4t0                                                                              46     13,3K0      615,4S0
Villagc technical er,vice equipment    set  275      3,000      825,000                                                                             275      3,000       825,000
Extension & Tmining                  set
Small cxtnsion Equipmemt          Set        65      5,000      325,000        201      5,000    1,005,000        31      3,000       155,000       297      5,000     1,485,000
Vct. A Breding Stun equip.         set       66      5,000      330,000         65      5,000      325,000         0         0             0        131      5,000      655,000
0s
0o



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
-             SICHUAN                         SHAANXI                           NINGXIA                         PROJECT TOTAL
Unit   Qumtiry       Rawe      Amount   Quantity       Rat,       Amount   Quantity       Rate      Amount   Quantity        Rate      Amount
L6,  Rural Entemnse tcvloumnon                                        77.066.320                        76.102t699                         11,169.499                        1.33S.5
Mining & minmrml powsing          st          3                 967,472          S               12,346,055                                                           13,313,527
Construction materials            nI          5                5,SX3,R41         3               4,521,650                                                            10,405,541
Ag-pro-ssing                       et         IS              18,723.232        36              32,300,442                          7,771,535                         5S,795,209
Feed prossing                     net         I                1,515,725                                                                                               1,515,725
Tenprocsuing                       ct         3                1,991,91 1        4               6,888,296                                                             S.,S0,207
Dry&fireshfruiltprmceusing        tet         S                3,699,646         9                1,613,217                                                            5,312,863
Livestock pmduct processing       st         10               15,475,645         6               4,643,410                          2,133,000                         22,252,055
Fornt peduct prcessing            set         7               11,953,120        13               6,735,302                                                            18,6SS,502
Handiceftls                       se          5                6,654,8S4         I                 509,720                          1,264,964                          S,509,560
Silk nccling                      sc                                             3                1,876,400                                                            1,876,400
Otberproductprocessing            set                         10,200,794         4               4,588,127                                                            14,7SS,921
La7  Mimfi                               Was um                         S7S50                              S7S50                                                                175700
I    VEHICLE                                                               19J743                             130920                              ZAN,                             350606
W CommonVchidc
Pick-upTnck                        _        121    100.00     12.100.000        61   100.00      6.100.0t l             I_    2O SO1100.000 1    Im1                 19.000.000
LaborMobility                  w          13   200,000      1,30,000         1 1   200,000    1,100,000                                           24    100,000    2,400,000
Land & FPamcr Dewlop           no        l(11    100,000    0.00,00,OO      50    100,000     5,(000,000       0    100,000       SOO,000        166    100,000    16,600,000
motocycly                         no          4     10-000       40000         156     10.000     1.560.000       31     IIIOO       310.000        191     10.000     1.910000
Land&FaroerDevelop             no                                           151     10,000    1.510,000       31      10,0(10     310,000        102     10,000     1,020,000
Microfinanoc                   so          4     10,000       40,000         5      10,000       5(),()00                                          9     10,000       90,00t)
W2 Institution Buildiri
km                                ns         30    101.66      3050.000         L3   102174      2350000           _     IOS.S6      950.000         _2    102.419    63.3S.000
Bum (22 saLul                     Be          1    4000000      400-EX,O         I    4W.          400.000        1    400000        400-000          1    400.0       1.200.000
Van (                                         1    100.000       10 I   100 10I0DO  I    ImU       100L                                               2     0           200.0
.' Rued Esterane mcveloomcnt
TrudMIO)                          D2         2.1   150         3.150.000         _    150.000      600.                                              21    ISO.        3,750,000
TnIck (500 12                                       77000        24             1 6     7.0 o     1 .232.000       2     00000       200000          30     73         2.356.000
Truck(2.5T)                       00                55.000       110000         I5    50.000       750.000                                           17    50.S          60000
x



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
_             SICH VUAN                       SHAANXI                            NINGXIA                   _     PROJECT TOTAL
Unit   Quantity      Rat,      Amrount   Quantity       Ratc      Amount   Quantity       Raft      Amonlt  Quantity         Rat.      Amount
1.3   MATERIALS&TOOLS                                                      124i3                             105.577.157                         39D9t963                          269,006f715
W1   Maoriais&Tooll                                                    9.067.100                          7404.000                          6.560.                            23.031.700
Rual Infianjm                                                  9.067 100                          7.404.000                         6.560.600                         23.031.700
Walcr Supply
G3aNvaniz=d irn pip       tlon        557      4,300    2,395,100                                           2       4,300         8,600       559      4,300     2,403,700
Cast in pip.               ton        390      2,800     1,092,000                                                                            390      2,800     1,092,000
PVC pipe                   ton        465     12,0(0    5,500,000       617      12,(00    7,404,000        10     12,000       120,000     1,092     12,000    13,104,000
Micoinigation
R.bbtr hosw              000m                                                                             432       6,000     2,592,000       432      6,000o    2,592,0(oo
Plastic how c'0m                                                                                         1,280      3,000    3,840,000      1,280      3,(14)    3,040,)000
Land L &FamnrtuDwcloDmcnt                                            115.263.495                        98.173.157                         32.538.363                        245.975.015
T221A                             NJ                            40S9,0S0                          9,403.520                         2 006 2S0                         210 370.S00
Food Cop                       5tc    36,717        120    4,406,040     15,305        S0     1,224,400    18,729         40       749,160    70,751         9K    6,379,600
Cash Crp                       stc       765        120       91,S0K)     5,564        00       445,120     2,797         40       111,880     9,126         71       648,8010
Tr  Crop                        t     33,729         00    2,698,320     46,690        00    3,735,210      3,728         65       372,320     86,147        79    6,005,040                                 0
Cult-w-Canry Fodder            set     3,500         40       140,000     9,000        40       360,00(K    2,782         40       111,280     15,282        40      611,2S0
Anmoniation                    set    32,179         40     1,287,160    10,430        40       417,20(K   17,797         40       711,880    60,406         40     2,416,24()
Scud Production                nlt     1,568        120       188,160         0        g0            0        744         40        29,760     2,312         94       217,920
Mush-ro inoculuo  bagging      ha                                           159    20,000     3,18),000                                          159    20,)000    3,180,(1K)
Tt Nurnety                     tot       970         00       77,600)       520        go(       41,6010                                        1,490        8()      119,2K0O
So01oo                            _9      12.278        4       491.12       18348         40      733.920                                        30.66         40     1.225.040
Cash Crop                      no                                         2,973        40       118,920                                        2,973         40       118,920
Troc Crop                      no      11,308        40      452,320     14,958        40       590,320                                       26,266         40     1,050,640)
Seed Production                no                                           277        40)       11,000                                          277         40        11,080
Tro Nurry)                     nO        970         40       38,800        140        40         5,6(0                                         1,110        40       44,401)
via                              -120     17189      2.2(10   37,815,591    17021       2200   37,445,758       4.654     22(10   10.239.526      38864      22100    85500.875
Food Cp                       ton      8,727      2,200    19,199,103     3,249      2,201)    7,140,141    3,520      2,200    7,743,230     15,496      2,201)   34,090,474
CashCrop                      ton        303      2,2011     665,654      4,526      2,201)    9,956,265     415       2,200      913,30)8     5,243      2,200    11,535,227
Tro Crp                        ton     6,605      2,200    14,530,538     8,363      2,21)0   18,398,930     215       2,200      472,560     15,183      2,200   33,402,028
Cut-and-Carr) Fodder          Mon        525      2.201)    1,155,10(K     450       2,2101     990,000        0       2,20K)           ()       975      2,200)   2,145,(KK)
Armoroniation                  ton       644      2,214)    1,415,876       2()9     2,2(00     458,92(0     356       2,200      783,068      1,2()8     2,201)    2,657,064
Ssod Production                ton       320      2,2(K      721,380(      144       2.20)0     316,952       149      2,200      327,360        621      2,201)    1,365,692
Tr  Nursr                      ton        58      2,2()1     128,0)4()       80      2,200      176,550                                          138      2,210)     304,590



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
SICHUAN                           SHAANXI                            NINGXIA -                       PROJECT TOTAL-
Unit   Quantity      Ratc      Amount   Quantity        Rate      Amou      Quantity      Rate       Amount   Quantity       Rate       Amount
DAj     11.636      2650    30 836.46Y     14293      2.650   37.875.888      4.559      2.650    12.081.801    30.488      2.650    80.794.158
Food Crop                     ton      5.508      2,650    14.595,008     2.296      2,651)    6,083,738    3,(0)5     2,650     7,963,595     )0,808     2,650   28,642,340
Cash Crop                     ton        106      2.650      280.105      2.888      2,650)    7,652,140      405      2,650     1,072,455      3,398     2,650    9,004,700
TnxeCrop                       ton     5.050      2,650   13,381,847      8,372      2.650   22.185.316       437       2,65)    1,157,255     13,858      2,650   36,724,417
Cut-and-Carry Fodder          ton        700      2,650     1,855.()00      600      2,650     1.590,00       556       2,650    1,474,460      1,856     2,650    4,919,460
Amm,oniation                   ton         0      2,650            0          0      2,630            0         0      2,650            0          0                       0
Seed Production                ton       215      2,650      570,210         S4      2.650      223,583       156      2,650       414,036       456      2,650     1,207,899
Trw Nursery                   tan         58      2,650       154,230        53      2,650      141,113                                          II      2,650       295,343
Ptausium Sulfte                     2      8j IS0    2.100    17.177,448                                                                           8.180      2.1(N    17.177.448
Food Crp                      ton      2,702      2,100     5,673,276                                                                          2,702      2,100     5,673,276
Cmah Crop                     ton        122      2,100      236,956                                                                             122      2,100       256,956
Tree Crp                       ton     4,263      2,100     8,952,651                                                                          4,263      2,100     8,952,651
Cut-and-Cany Fodder           ton        700      2,100     1,470,000                                                                            700      2,100     1,470000
Amnmrotiation                  ton         0      2,100            0                                                                               0                       0
Seed Production               ton        349      2,100      732,900                                                                             349      2,100       732,900
Twe Nursery                   ton         44      2,100       91,665                                                                              44      2,100        91,663                                8
PlasticMulch                      a         864     12W0    10.366.512         387    .ILO00    4.649.976        462      1200      5S43.724       171       1.0L      20-560212
Food Crop                     ton        744     12,000    8,922.972        253     12,000    3,035,616       426      12,000    5,114,160      1,423    12,000    17,072,748
CuhCrop                        toa        34     12,000      402,720        118    12,000      1,411,200      I1       12,000      216,000       169      12,000    2,029,920
Tn e Crop                      ton
Cut-and-Carry Fodder          ton
Ammoniation                    ton        32     12,000      386,140         10    12,000       125,160        18      12,000      213,564        60                 724,872
Seed Production                ton        45     12,0100     538,272          0     12,000           /)         0      (2,000           0         45     12,000       538,272
Tee Nuirt                     ton         I)0    12,000       116,400         7     12,0M)       78,80K)                                          16    12,0(0        194,4W
IticiddA                           lj(   149.035        63    9.687.275    124.063         65    8.064.095     390           65      2587.033    312.899        65   20.338.403
Food Crop                     unit    45,026         63     2,926,690    15,305        63       994,825    25,544         63     1,660,32     85,t875        65     5,581,843
Cash Crop                     unit     2,724         63      177.060     19,335        65     1.256,775     6,097         65       396,305    28,156         65     1,830,140
Tnx Crop                      unit    97,379         65    6,342.635     86,760        65     5,639,40()    7,044         65       457,860    191,383        65    12,439,895
Cut-and-Catty Fodder          unit
Arnmoniation                  unit
Seed Podution                 unit     2,736         65      177.840      1,163        65        75,595     1,116         65        72,540     5,()15        65      325,975
Te Nurery                     unit       970         65       63,050      1,500        65        97,500                                        2,470         65       (60,550
mEi
x



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
_-     -   SICHUAN         -                  SHAANXI                            NINGXIA ---         -          PROJECT TOTAL
Unit   Qoantity      Rat,      Amount   Qu;mtity        Ratu      Amount   Quantity       Rat,      Amount   Quantity        Rate       Amount
H.   WORKS                                                                 619.957,611                       477,594.259                        156.S48.319                       1,254.3S6.1S9
2.1   BUILDING                                                              91.966.933                        8116SS0                           6.43W067                         179S91.S0
(1H  LalborMobilitr                       _        7 100      1231     9,740000      5200       I 03t    5.40KI.0(K1                                      12.300     1.U       14.140.00
(2) Land & Fanner Devwlorment             m2
Cocoon asing facility              p       2,569     6,950    17,947,6(K1    2.346      7.200    169891-2(X                                        4.914      7.069    34,738,(80
in  Rurn Entwnrisc Dsevlonment            m2                          62.979.333                         56.495.680                         S949,067                         125,323,01810
M Institution Buildinr &
Proict Management (Countyl        m2       390o        9110   21400000       3,000        900    2400W00        1.610       369       590,         7.600       709    5.390.(1X)
La   Telmhosn9 Conntion                                                       591.00                             765 000                             640                             1.4W,
Labor Mobility                    no         17      3,353       57,00          12      3,000       36,000                                           29       3,207       93,009
Institution Building              no        170      3,141       534,(X10      235      3,102      729,00         16       4,0KXI      64,0KK0      421       3,152     1,327,0(KO
2.3   STRUCTURE, EARTH. & STONE WORKS                                      279.100.091                      14.664i002                          73,975,521                        537.739.614
(1   Rurallnfrannuctum                                               103.S64.255                        SS.142002                          32.(K14.921                       224,011.178
Rural Electricity                sum                          10,422,9N0                        21,285,550                                                            31,708,530
Rural Roads                       um                          41,519,654                        37,856,797                                                            79,376,451
WaterSupply                      sum                          27,659,472                         20,479,455                          1,561,314                        49,700,240
Irrigation                       Sum                          22,901,577                          9,520,200                                 I                         31,321,777
Mic,oirrigation                    ha                                                                          5,355       5.6S5    30,443,607                        30,443,607
Rural Energy                     sum                           1,460,572                                 1)                                                            1,460,572
121 Land & Farmier D6clorment                                        175.235.S36                        96.522000                          41.970.6W                         313.729S436
Tenacing & Paddy Draina.g
Stonc terracing             ha     10,668      6,642   70,956,956     16,0S7     h,000    96,522,1610                                                          167,379,356
Earth terracing             ha      2,763      4,620    12,765,00                                       19,996     2,100   41,970,600                          54,735,660
Hill land terracing         ha     15,576      2,792    43,4SS,192                                                                                             43,488,192
Paddy drainag;              ha      9,309      5,792    49,125,729                                                                                             48,125,72S
L    CROP ESTABLISHMENT                                                    S6.f2,6                           132.677.                            W0.996.2SZ                        240.626.852
Food Cwp                              ha     36,717       362    13,294.8(X)    15,305       944    12,911,733    (9,729       696    13,027,913     70,751       555    39,234.445
Cash Crp                              ha        797      9,627    6,975,366      S,445     6,145    51,043,514     2,797        539     1,307,043    12,039      4,936   59,425,945
Trn CCp                               ha     13,713      4,577   62,759,964    1,0(92     3.526   63,793,672      2,219      2,279    5,056,326     34,024      3,869   131,599,961
Seed Prduction                        ha     1(368       (,9701   2,559,054       999      3,132     3,093,010       744      1,S75     1,395,0(1)    3,100      2,273    7,046,064
True Nurs                             ha         97     15,210X    1,474,40W      140      13.186    1,846,038                                 0        237     14,010    3,320,439
x
CT%



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
____   SICHUAN                                SHAANXI                           NINGXIA                         PROJECT TOTAL
Unit   Quantity      Rat,      Amount   Quantity        Rat"      Amount   Quantity       Ratc      Amount   Quantity        Ratc      Amount
2.5   LIVESTOCK ESTABLISHMENT                                              161.336.932                        78.ZB6.412                         55.34.449                         195.007.S43
(I) Cut-and-Cany Fodder                    ha      3,500       360     1,260,000     3,000        540     1,620,t()0   2,752        360     1,001,520      9,282       410     3,S81,520
(2) Ammoniation tank                     hsid    32,179        2)00    6,435,18tl   10,43()      200     2,006,000    17,797        192    3,417,024      60,406       198    11,93S,024
(3) Pig
Pig fiatening                    head   207,026       300   62,107,000     37,278        263   22,954,114      5,970       205      1,223,850    300,274      287   86,2S5,764
Pig broeding                     hoad     0,836      1,140    10,073,040     1,594      1,190    1,896,860     1,760       328       577,280     12,190      1,029    12,547,1801
(4) Goat                                hnad   147,647        261    30,535,067    93,092        269   25,041,740     14,155       163    2,307,265    254,894        250    65,884,880
(5) Shc-p                                hoad         0         0            0          0          0            0     81,290       230    18,697,513     01,290       230    18,697,513
(6)  Ram/ho-goat                         hoad     3,786       361     1,366.746     2,387        369      880,803      3,182       656     2,087,392      9,355       463     4,334,941
(7) Co%                                  hoad    26.499      1.253   34,051,215     17,851     1,317   23,509,767     17,797      1,465   26,072,605     62,147      1,346   53,633,587
(8) Duok/Layer                                  325,978        13    4,237.714      18,370        16      297,120          0         0             0    344,548         13    4,534,534
(9) Rabbit (hair)                        hcad    40,860        S0    3,268,800                                                                           40,860        80     3,265,800
UtL   TA TRAINING A RESEARCH                                                37.0.6W0                          27A22.402                           7.109209                          71.27.651
Li   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                    7.S67                             51J4 0                               7900145426
(W  Labor Mobiilt                                                       500.000                            500.000                                                             1.0(00.00
TA                               sum                             500,000                           500,000                                                             1,000,000
1) Inst Building & Pmi Mananeo                                         1.90S.00                           1.167.000                           37S.0                            34470
Local Consultants               pson         20     36,000      720,000         12    36,000       432,000         3     36,000      10,000         37     36,000     1,332,000
TA                              pson         107     11,075    1,1S5,000        57     12,895      735,000        16      12,188      195,000       180      11,750    2,115,000
(31  Indeocndcnt Monitorin                                             5.395000                         4.150.000                           415000                            9.960000
SSB Sur.ev                       sum                           1,660,000                          1,660,000                          415,000                           3,735,000
CWIHRC Labor Monitoring          sum                           3,733,000                         2,490,000                                 0                           6,225,000
hi Mienfinanee                                                           67 800                             675800                                                               13S.600
Lorsd Consultant                 year         6     11,300       67,800          6     11,300       67,500                                                               135,600
12   TRANING                                                                19,9DZ.620                        15S19.4S0                          44D2091S
W   Labor Mobilit                                                       600.000                            600300                                                              t.200.000
StaffTraining                    sum                            300,000                            300,000                                                              6(X),000
Sorminarn                        nutn                           300,000                            300,1000                                                             600,00(0
(B  Land& Farmer Decelooment                                          12.705.420                         S.S64.2S                           2.983.600                         24.553.300
Demonuatmun Field                hsld      1,194       600      716,400        591       600       354,600       400        400       160,000     2,185        563     1,231,000
TechnicianTraining           man/day      60,600        30     1,I18,000    17,580        30       527,400     4,120         30       123,600    02,300         30     2,469,000
Houshold Training            man/day    678,060         IS   10,171,020    532,152        IS    7,982,200   1S0,00(0         IS    2,700,000  1,390,220         IS   20,053,300
lbr



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
SICHUAN                           SRAANXI                            NINGXIA   -                    PROJECT TOTAL-
Unit   Quandty       Rate      Amount   Quantity       Rate      Amount   Quantity        Rate      Amount   Quantity        Rate      Amount
(a) Inst Buildina&Pni. Managnmcnt                                      6 163.400                         5921.4010                          1.585.81                          13-670.60(
StaffTraining
Domestic                     pson     50,02S         57    2,831,4011    65,028        55    3,551,400      9,166         63      5S0,8S(0    124,222        56    6,963,60(1
Oversras                     pson         12    35,10        420,0KKI        10    35,(KW       350,0(1)       7      35,000       245,0101       29     35,K11    1,0115,.0
Study Tour
Domestic                     pson        12       4,0011     512,000        S1      4,W00       320,0KK1       15      4,0(K0      6WM0,)        223      4,000      SY2,0200
Ovcrscas                     pson         48    5(1,000    2,400W100         34    50,()00    1,700,0K         14     50,(KK1      7110.000       96    50,001)    4,0(10,K1
(   Micnofinomce                                                        433.80                             433.0(1 067.600
Center                            day       IS0        210        37,800       100        210       37,0(0                                                                75,6(K0
Provritc                          day       150        440       66,000        150       440        66,000                                                               132,W0
Comnty                            day       600        200       120,000       600        20       120,000                                                               240,00W
Domestic Training               pson          3     50,000       150,000         3     50,000      150,000                                                               300,000
Overseus                        pso          I5      4,000        60,000        15      4,000       60,000                                                               120,000
3.3   EXTENSION & TRAINING                                                   6.940.299                         3,653,902                          1.199.350                         11.793.551
Land & Fser Develoment                                            6.940.299                          3.653.902                          1.199.350                        11.793.551
Livestock Breeding
Goat/sheep                   head         40      3,816      152,640                                                                              40      3,816       152,640
Pig/sow                      head         40      7,590      303,600                                                                              40      7,590      303,600
Extension
Trees                         hsld   135,893         15    2,038,395    119,640        15    1,794,600      9,275         13       120,575    264,800        15    3,953,570
Food rrops                    hsld   277.799          1      277,799     69,070         1        69,070    32,464          4       129,856    379,333         1      476,725
Animl husbandry               hsid    81,037         III     8110,370    1()1,156       6       606,936    35,990          0      207,984    21S,191          8     1,705,290
Veterinary & Bneding ervice
Cow                          hcad     26,4Y9         10      264,990     17,v51        20       357,020     17,797        10       177,970    62.147         13      799,98o
Sheep/goat                   head    151,433          5      757,165     95,479         4       381,916     14,155         5       70,775    261,067          5     1,209,856
Pig/sew                      head    233,534         10    2,335,340     88,872         5       444,360     11,250         5       56,250    333.656          8     2,835,950
Atifici Insemination (Cow)       head         0          0            0          0         0             0     17,797        20       355,940     17,797        20       355,940
3.4   APPLIED RESEARCH                                                       2,3S5.321                         2.064l220                           550.4559                          S0000
Land & Famr Develomeot              sum                           2.3S5.321                          2.064,220                           5501459                          5.W00(K0
IV.  LABOR PLACEMENT                                                       159800,01t0                       117,200.00                                                           277,000.000
Labor Mobility                                                  159.S(K.0                          117.20K)0.                                                           277.K00.(K)0
Iusr-psv. PlI-ement             paon      71,100     2,00    142,200,000    47,600      2,W0    95,200,0K0)                                      11S,7(K)    2,000  237,400,01K)
Within prvine Placement         pnso      16,tKW      1,100    17,600,000   20,01       1,100   22,000,00                                        36,1000      1,100   39,60(KW,00
x
1t
ON



Annex 6 - Table 1: Procurement by Province and Category
SICHUAN - -            ------------- SHAANXI-----        ------      NINGXIA                ---- - ------ PROJECT TOTAL---
Unit   Qantity       Ratw      Amount   Quntity         Rate     Amount   Quantity        Rate      Anount   Quant.ty        Rate      Amount
V.   MICROFINANCE SUBLOAN                                                   12,124.620                        12,175,                                                               24.30300
Mic,ofinane,                                                     12.124.621)                        12.175,680                                                           24 3(00 300
Subloans                         sum                          12,124,620                         12,175,680                                                           24,300,300N
VI.  MANAGEMENT & SUPERVISION                                               31.469,673                        29,72132                            6,435.669                         67,626 667
Li)  LaborMobility                                                     4.457915                          3.657.177                                                             X.115(092
Internd Monioin.g                sun                            611,633                            562,(00                                                             1,173,713
Fulian Monitonig                 sum                            4(H),001                           4(NO,O0O                                                              (00,0(0
Evaluation                       s..                            4(0,)0NX                           4(N ,000                                                              800,(010
Independent Auditing             s..                            427,808                            380,023                                                               807,831
Administrativc Fee               sun                           2.618.474                          1,915,074                                                            4,533,548
Ql Rural Infrasructun                                                  1.730.910                         1,433.190                            599,51S                          3.771,625
Administrativ- Fee               sun                           1,73S,918                          1,433,190                           599,51S                          3,771,625
13) Land & Fanner De..lown-t                                          15 196X092                         15.603.511                         3.477296                          34.278.99
Tship Prj. Management         t'ship/yr     774      3,600    2,706,4()()    1,206      3,600    4,341,600       106      3,600       669,600      2.166     3,600     7,797,600
Vill. Pwj. Management          vill/yr     7,164       460    3,439,720      9.282       480    4,455,360      1,2)0)       360       432,000)    17,646       472     8,326,010
Administrative Fe                sum                           X,972,972                         6,.06,551                          2,375,696                        1,155,219
(41  Rural Enterorinos Development                                     20857,935                         2.671.717                            272.356                          5,802.006
Administrativc Fec               sum                           2,657,935                         2,671,717                            272,356                          5,802,(X)8
(5) Inst. Building & ProL Mananemen                                    6 6735)0)                         5X11.50()                          2.006550)                         14.571550()
Pwj Supcrision                pwv /yr         6    116,667      7(K),0010        6    116,667      700,()0)        6     30,0)0)      160,1())       10     87,778     1,5X(),)(1(1
Office Space Rental              sum          6    583,333     3,500,000         6   466,667     2,800(1,(00       6    200,000     1,20(1,000       IS    416,667     7,501,000
Books & Joumals                  sum        426       1,01S     433,5(10       636       604       511,500       10X      1,542       166,500      1,17))      950     1,111,500
Confien&,ces                    pson         76     26,154    2,040,001)        66    27,273      1,X0(),000      15     36,0N))      540.000       159     27,547     4,360,010
(61  Miuwfinasne                                                        543 3'3                            544229                                                              1,0)7.542
Cutur Monitonng                  yuar         6     25,200       '51,200         6     25,200      151,200                                                              302,4(00
Independent Auditing             yua          6      16,300      97,800          6     16,300       97,800                                                               195,h60<
Indcpundent Evalnation           yean         6     16,300       97,800          6     16,300       97,600
Ad.niistravuc Fuc                sum                             196,513                           197,429                                                               393,942
VDI. OTHERS                                                                46299,335                          42.934.098                           939.485                          90,172.91g
TVEWorkingCapital                  sum                          46,299,335                         42,934,01)9                          939,485                         90,172,918
VIII. LNALLOCATED                                                           14,946,579                        15.128.6S0                          26161                            32692,100
Total Ban Cot                                                            1.152.469.13S                       921.012.1S5                        229.937.390                      2.303.908.713
Total In.sudi.g Contingencies
m1,



CHINA: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Projed Procurement and Disbursement by Province and Category (Yuan)
Annes 6 - Table 2: Disbursement by Province and Category
-Total Including Contingencies--                   P,oouomeot Method ud Disbuoroment Prcenotag (I%)      TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Iold. Contingencies)
Uoit      Sirhon           Sha.o.i          Niognia              Total     ICB  LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  OT' NBF               SICHtJAN         SHAANXI          NINGXIA            TOTAL
GOODS                                            300,582.52        25997,46         73002.579        633,582,560                                                        267,604,02      232,320,          65,727,22        565,651,247
Ll   EOUIPMENT                                         112.701.474      105.051,035       18,558,301       236.310.809                                                        85,733.714       83,592,836       14,195.440      183.521.991
(I)  Common Offie Eauiomcot                        3.947.36(         3.429.10S       1.492.034         10820.037                                                         3,935,952       3,445,791        1,395,740         0.777.43
Computnr/pnitcr                        to      1.437.901        1(009.873         406.149          2.053.923                                                         1,437,90)1       1,009,873         406,149         2,853,923
Labor Mobilith                     no       682,842           453,229               0           1,13S,071     l(O(                                                 602,042          455,229               ()        1,138,071
Institution Buildiog               no       755,059           354,644         406,149           1.715,852     10(                                                  755,059          554,644         406,149          1,715,052
Notebook Cotooutcr                     no        76079             77650           75014            2350343                                                             76079           77,650           75,814          230,343
Institution Building               no         76,79            77,650           75,814           230,343      I((0                                                  76,879           77,650)         75,814           230,343
CompuwirSot,=are                       n         79.403            45941           27.077            152.501                                                            79,483          45,941           27,077           152.50)
Labor Mobility                     5o 02,026                   1,20)9                             70,235      1(S)                                                  52,026           18,209               0            70.235
Institulion Building               no         27,457           27,732           27,()77           02,265      1()()                                                 27,457           27,732          27,077            82,265
PhotocoDior                            no       696,175          4901,098         2035074          1.389,340                                                          696,175          490.098          203,074         1.309.348
Labor Mobilitr                     no         71,536           32,516                            104,0)52     1(0                                                   71,536           32,516               0           10)4,0)52
Institution Building               no       624,640           457,582         203,0)74          1,285,295     1()0                                                 624,640         457,582          20)3,0)74        1,285,295
Fa Machine                            n1o       239,313          161,666           330846           434,825                                                           239.313          1616,66           33.846          434.825
Labor Mobility                     no        115,758           71.536                            187,294      100                                                  115,758           71,536               0           187,294
Institution Building               no        123,555           90,130           33,046           247,531      100                                                  123,555           90),130         33,846           247,531
Overhead Pmicctor                      9         30.998            20.799          20307             72,104                                                            30998            20.799           20.307           72.)04
Labor Mobility                     no         10,40)5               0                             10,405      lO()                                                  1(),40)5             0                0            10),40)5
Institution Building               no        20,593            20,799           20,30)7           61,699      loo                                                   20,593           20,799          20),307           61,699
Laser/eolorPinicr                      no        40.049           48531            47.384            143,965                                                           48049           48531           47384           143.965
Institution Building               so        48,049            48,531          47,384            143,965      1()0                                                  48,049          48,531           47,384           143,965
High speodphotocopier                  Ito      107.081           108156         105.599           320.S35                                                            107,(01         108S156          1(5,599          320.835
Institution Building               no        107,081          100,156          105,599           320,035      100                                                  107,00S1        I(08,156         105,599           320,835
Scannor                                no        6S,642           69,331           67.691           205.664                                                            68,642           69,331           67.691          205.664
Institution Building               no        60,642            69,331          67,691            20)5,664     1((1                                                  68,642          69,331           67,691           2)5,664
Vide9Camera                            80       137.283          I3S.66I          135.383           4 11.327                                                          102.963          103.996          101537           308.496
Institution Building               no        137,203          130,661         135,303            411,327                              75                           102,963         10)3,996         101,537           308,496
Office bunitur                         no-    1 (025 552        1 253,398         369.710          2,653,663                                                          769.166          943.799         277.283          1.990.248
Institution Building               n       1,025,555         1,25S,390        369,71()         2,653,663                              75                           769,166         943,799          277,203         1,990.243
CY%



Anmoe 6- Tabk 2: Disb.ornesnt by Province nd Category
-Total Induading Contingences-                      PI'mcunment Method and Disbumiment Percentage (b)      TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Indd. Comtingendc)
Unit      Sidhumn           Shasnoi          Ningxia              Total      ICB   LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  Or  NBF               SICHIUAN         SHAANXI          NINGXIA              TOTAL
(Z)  OthfrCOmmoD nuiDnMt                              172S96                  0          404-327            577 223                                                             129.672                0          303-245           432917
Twtosfbmto                                        70.979                 Y          165.97             236,965                                                              53.234                0          124,490           177,724
Rural nfrastmaturc (inigation)      n          70,979                0                0             70,979                                75                            53,234                0                t            53,234
Rura Infrastmatun(Mienoimig)                        0                0           165,987            165,987                               75                                                             1 o  24,490        124,490
Electric Motor& PumD                             101.91X                 0          238.340            340.258                                                              76.430                _          17S.753           2553193
Ruotd nftrutsactun:(irigation)      ste       101,91X                0                0             101,91N                               75                            76,438                0                0            76,43S
Rand tnfrautnteur (Mienoirigation)                 0                            238,340            230,340                                75                                 0                0          178,755            178,755
L(  aborMobility                                     1.315.610          844775                 0          2160,385                                                             98670)7          633.581                _          1.620,289
Office futnitun;                   ste         93.647                0                              93,647                                75                            70,235                0                0            70,235
TV & vido plaver                    set       109.255            05,043                             195,098                               75                            81,941           64,382                0            146,323
Ses-ing mehie                       no        087,294           156,078                            343,372                                75                           140,470          117,059                0           257,529
Filingeabi-t                        no         26,403            22,761                             49,165                                75                            19,802           17,071                0            36,074
Office table & chair                xt         32,776            2S,614                             61,391                                75                            24,502           21,461                0            46,043
Training dsk & chair                  t       244,523          12,092                             426,614                                75                           13,392          136,569                0           319,961
Doablc-dk bed                      set       143,072           04,543                             227,614                                75                           107,304           63,407                0           170,711
Mattns & luggage                    set       409.705          234,110                             643,823                                75                           307,279          175,500                0           402,067
Them-os                             no         32.516            19,510                             52,026                                75                            24,387           14,632                0            39,020
Kitchen utensil                     st         36,418            31,216                             67,634                                75                            27,314           23,412               ()            50,725
(4   Rudo Infrastnutunc                             3.722.473                 _        141.690            5.141.163                                                           2.791.855               0         1.164.01B         3.N55.S72
Rural Water Sundy                       no     3.722.473                 0                0          3722.473                                                            2.791.S55               0                0          2.791L55
Trnnsfonner                         no        859,932                0                0            059,932                                75                           644,949                0                0           644,949
Eleeic motor & pmp                  ste      409,492                 0                0            409,492                               75                            307,119                0                11          307,119
Hand pump                           sa      2,453,049                0                0           2,453,049                              75                          1,839,787                ()               0          1,839,787
Micrnirimts4ion
Submeniblepomp                                     0                 0         1,418,690          1,418,690                              75                                  0                (t       1,064,018          1,064,018
Land Ld&Fua-nerDavclonment                          3.247.251          1.734.486         722901           5.704.639                                                           2.435.438        1300X65           542.176          4.270479
Sappont Setvices                                                                                             )0
VillageproceseingequipmentA         set       520,501                0          521,010           1,041.511                               75                           390,376                0          390,757           7SI,133
Village pmccassing equipment B      siet      800,95                 0                0            000,095                                75                           600,671                0                0           600.671
Village teehnical servie equipment    set   1,073,534                0                ()          1,073.534                              75                            S05,15()               0                0           S05,150
Estension & Training                   set
Smallextension Equipment            set       422.907         1.310,646         201,091           1.935.444                               75                           317,1S()         9S2,9X4          151,419          1,451,503
Vet & Bncding Slutice equip         st        429.414           423,S41               8I S53,254                                          75                           322,060          317,SS1               10           639,941
x
a'



Anon 6 - Table 2: Di.bursement by Province and Catepry
-Totdl Induding Cautinoen      in                 Proc;tumact Method and Diaherseoscnt P,cnentage (%)  TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Incid. Contingnds)
Unit     Sich.an           Sb6amai         Ningxis             Total      ICB  LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  OTr  NBF            SICHUAN         SHAANXI          NINGXIA            TOTAL
16  Rand En:mrisc Drelonmo_t                    100.16.215        9st933,5        14.520349        213.640.073                                                       75,454-         78.212599       10.S90.262       164,556,951
Mining & minral pmcesing          net    1,257,714        16,049,871              (I        17,307,58S      100                                               1,257,714      16,049,871               IJ       17.307,5X5
Cosuctiom makrials                net    7,649,058         5,71t7,145             0          13,527,203                       75                              5.736,794       4,408,609               0        10,145,402
Agup-rssing                       set   24,340,201        41,990,575      10,102,995        76,433,771                        75                             IN,255,151      31,492,931       7,577,247        57,325,329
Feed prmcssing                    0t      1,970,442               0               0          1,970,442                        75                              1,477,832              II               0         1,477,832
Tea procssing                     $et    2,569,484         n,954.7n5              ()         11,544,269                       75                              1,942,113       6,716,1)89             0)         0,650,202
Dr) & feh fit prmssing            set    4,#09,5401        2.197,192              0          6,906,722                        75                              3,60)7,155      1.572,007               0         5.180,041
Livsock pmdet prce5sing           set   20.118.338         6,036,433       2.772.900        28,927.671                        75                             15,0S#,754       4,527,325       2,079,675        21,695,754
Forctpdoetpp-cpssing              WeI   15.539.056         0,755,997              0         24.295,052                        75                             11,654,292       6,566,997               0        11,221,2S9
Handicrafts                       wct    8,651.349           766,636       1,644,453        11,062,438                        75                              6,400,512         574,977        1,233,34(1       a,296,829
Silk reling                        WI t                    2,439,320              0          2,439,320                        75                                     0        1,029,490              (I         1,n29,490
Other prodct processin            at    13,261,032         5,964,565              0         19,225,597                        75                              9,945,774       4,473,424               0        14,419,198
LU   Miomfi                              am         106 109.66       199160                            218829                                               100              0               o                O                _             1
LI   VEHICLE                                          26.107.078        17.291.144       35A3.471         46.931.693                                                      26.094.594       16.783.05        3.432           4i.310.44
U   CommMoVchicc
Pick-up.Tn1k                      n2    15744.32           7.951345        .W42.020        24.737.747                                                       15,744.382       7951-345        1042,020        24.737.747
LaborMobility                  no      1,690,848        1,430,720                         3,121,568     100                                                1,690,848       1,430,720              0         3,121,560
Land & Fanc,r DISlop.          no    14,053,534         6,520,626       1,042,02()       21,616,179     1(1)0                                            14,053,534       6,520,626        1,042,()2()     21,616,179
Motocvcl                           12n.     49.935         2.031.358        403.783          2.405.075                                                          37451         1523,51D          30)2 37         108630806
Land & Fancr Dcvclop           no             0         1,969,229        403,703          2,373,012                       75                                      0        1,476,922        3()2,)37        1,779,759
Micmfinaret                    no        49,935           62,129                            112,063                       75                                 37,451          46,597              ()            S4,048
(U  Insitution Buildioe
Jo01                               oQ     4 187-144        3.2511536       1.206.137         8.7318,17     ,Q                                                4,107,144       3,250,536       1,286,137        8.731 817
Bgi0lL2J 0a6)                     no       549.134           554.644         341.531         1.645.309     IQQ)                                                549,134         554,644          541,531         1645309
VW M(olOtl)                        72       137.283          138.661              Q            275.945     IQQ                                                 137,283          138,661              0           275.945
L   Rural Enlerrisc Dcvclo,ownt
Tmck (IOT)l                        *      4.095.0(10         7n0.000              Q          4,8750.()0   1Q                                                  4,095,0010       780,00()              0         4.875.000
Truck(5                            no     1.201.20Q        1.6160t0          260.000         3.062.0t)M   1J                                                  1,201.200       1,6(1,6()0        260,0100       3,062.noo
Truck (25                          Be       143.052)         975.000              Q          I 1I I1101    1110                                                143.00X)        975,10)               0          1,1  8QQQ5
0



Annes 6. Table 2: Disbursement by Province and Catqory
-Totdl Including Cnningenri     ---               Proceun snt Mdthod and Disbursmnemt Peeentage (%)   TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Incd. Contingenries)
Unit      Si,h.an          Shasnni         Ningsis             Total      ICB  LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  OT   NBF            SICHUAN          SHAANXI         NINGXIA            TOTAL
1.3   MATERIALS & TOOLS                               161.773.968      137,655,281      50.910.S07       350.340.057                                                      155.775.718     131.943.859      4S.099,255      335S1SS32
(jj  Marials &Tools                              11.71t6.9S6       9625.199        8.528780        29.940.964                                                        X,N40.239      7121S.99         6.396.585        22.455.723
Rural InfiasttuncL                      t11.7S6.996        9,625.199       5.52S750         2994.90964                                                        N,540.239       7.2185.99       6,396.555        22.455.723
Watlr Supply
Galvanied ion pipc         ton     3,113,565               ()           11,I0         3,124,745                             75                         2,335,174              8I S,385                  2,343,559
Castirmnpip.               ton      1.419,571               Il              0          1,419,571                             75                         1,064,678                      0                  1,064,67S
PVC pipe                   ton     7,253,550        9,625,199         156,0100        17,0135,Q4S                            75                        5,440,387        7.218.S99         117,0(0       12,776,2N6
Micminigatien
Robber hosw              O(Xn,                                      3,369,600          3,369,600                             75                                0               0        2,527,200        2,527,2(K)
Plastic hoaw             (XKtm                                      4,992.000          4.992,000                             75                                0               0        3,744,X000       3,744,0(1X
(2) Land & Farcr Dmvlomcnt                      149.)9S6.9S3     128 030 053      42.352.027       320,399.0193                                                     146,935.479     124.724.960      41-70267(        313.363.109
Tls                              _sct   11,566,943        12.263367        2.717432         26547.742                                                         0675.207        9197525         2.035.074        19.9108(16
Food Crop                      set    5,733,373         1,596,771        975,800          I,305,944                            75                         4,300,030       1,197,578         731,850        6,229,458
Cash Cop                       set       119.455         590,492          145,726           545,674                             75                           89,591         435,369          109,295          634,255
Tn  Crop                       set    3,511,197         4,871,16S        484,956          8,S67,322                             75                         2,633,395       3,653,376         363,717        6,650,491
Cut-and-Carr) Fodder           set       182,175         469,455          144,945           796,605                             75                           136,632         352,114         108I,709         597,454
Amnnoniation                   set    1.674.921          544,0S1         927,241          3,146,243                             75                         1,256,191        408,061          695,431         2,359,653
Seed Production                set      244.544               II          38.763            293,607                             75                          183,633                          29,072          212,7(15
Msshnon i.oculum bagging       ha             0         4,147,11S             11          4,147,11S                             75                                0        3,110,338              0         3,110,338
Tme Nursery                    net       100.977          54,252               0            155,229                             75                           75,733           40,689              0           116,422
So1aw3                             no      639.071           957.124              Q          1.596.195                                                         479.304          717.S43               0         1.197.146
CashCrop                       no             0           155,087              0            155,087                             75                                0          116,315              0           116,315
Tr- Crop                       no       558,593          780,284               0          1,368.867                             75                          441,437         585,213               0          1,026,650
Seed Pmduction                 no             0            14,450              0             14,450                             75                                0           10,837              0            10,837
Tn c Nursery                   no        50,489            7,303               0             57,792                             75                           37,66            5,477              0            43,344
Urc;t                             ton    49.207656        4S.833.955      13.337.237       111,375848                                                        492117.656      4S.33,955       13.337237        111.378.S4S
Feod Cmp                       toe    24,982,593        9,322,070      10,0S5,750        44,390,713     100                                              24,952,593        9,322,0701     10,085,750       44,390,713
Cash Crop                     ton       866,184        12,984,216       1,19,6(6        15,040,006     100                                                 866,184       12,984,216       1,189,606        15,0401,X06
TteCrop                        ton    18,907,908       23,994,507        615,521         43,517,936     100                                               1S,907,908      23,994,507         615,521       43,517,936
Cut-and-Carry Foddcr          ton      1,502,947        1,291,0S4              0          2,794,031    I1                                                  1,502,947       1,291,084              0         2,794,031
Anmmoniation                   ton     1,842,413         598,459        1,019,966         3,460,565     100                                                1,842,413        598,489        1,019,966        3,460,865
Seed Production                ton      935,695          413,345         426,395          1,77g,438     100                                                 938,695         413,345         426,395          1,778,438
TeeNur N r)                   ton        166,612         230,243               0           396,556      100                                                 166,612         230,243               0           396,856



Ane, 6 . Table 2: Diabaf,atent by Pmince and Category
-Total Induding Cotingmcdne                       Procunmet Mcthod and Disbursement Percentagc (-)    TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Incid. Contingecies)
Unit      Sichusn          Shaanxi         Ninpis              Total      ICB  LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  Or  NBF             SICHUAN         SHAANXI          NINGXIA            TOTAL
DAVP                             1gtIa    40.126.052      49,394.898      15.736.S46       105,257 795                                                       40.126.052      49.394.9S        15 736.S46      I05.257.795
Food Crop                     ton    18,991,799         7,933,955      10,372.780        37,298,534     100                                               18,991,799       7,933,955      10,372,780       37,298,534
Cesh Crop                     ton       364,48S         9,979,348       1,396,899        11,740,735     100                                                 364,4X#        9,979,348        1,396,899       11,74(1,735
Tn Crop                        ton    17,413,170       28,932,428       1,507,353        47,852,951      100                                              17,413,170      20,932,428       1,507,353       47,852,951
Cut-and-Caffy Fodder          ton      2,413,S25        2,073,559       1,920.521         6,407.904     100                                                2,413,S25       2,073,559       1,920,521        6,40(7,904
Ammomatiadn                    ton            0                0               0                 0      100                                                       0               0               0                 0
Secd Productiom               ton       742,079          291,5S0         539,292          1,572,950     110                                                 742,079         291,5S0          539,292         1,572,950
Tree Nursery                  ton       200,692          14,028               0            3U4,721      100                                                200,692          184,028              0           3S4,721
Potassium Sulfatc                to    22.352,20S                 0               9         225352.20S                                                       22t352.208              0I               0        22.352.20X
Food Cmp                       to      7,32,368               0                          7,302,360     l(HI                                               7,382,368              0               0         7,322,362
Cash Crop                     too       334,365                0               0            334,365     I110                                                334,365               o                0          334,365
Tre Crop                       ton    11,649,665               0               0         11,649,665     100                                               11,649,665              0               0         11,649,665
Cut-and-Cser, Fodder          ton      1,912.U42               0               0          1,912,S42     1110                                               1,912,842              0               0          1,912,U42
Ammrniatian                    ton            0                0               0                 0      100                                                       II              0               0                 0
Seed Production                too      953,608                0               0           953,688      100e                                                953,620               0               0           953,682 (8
True Numy                      ton       119,279               0               0            119,279      100                                                 119,279              0               0           119,279
PlasticMulch                      ton    13.489.456        6.064.151       72202l32         26.774.445                                                       13.489.456       6(064.151       7.2202S32       26.774.445
Food Cmp                       ton    11,611,045        3,958,S23       6,661,321        22,231,189     100                                               11,611,045       3,952,223       6,661,321       22,231,189
CashCmp                        too      524,041         1,240,321        281,345          2,645,767     100                                                 524,041        1,S40,3X21       281,345         2,645,767
Tro Crop                       ton            0                0               0                 0      100                                                       0               0               o                 0
Cut-aod-CGuy Foddcr           ton             0                0               0                 0      100                                                       0               0               0                 0
Ammoniatirm                   ton       502,476           163,224        278,172           943,73      100                                                 502,476         163,224         27S,172           943,873
Seed Poducti-n                ton       700,422                0               0           700,428      100                                                 700,420               o               0           700,422
Tree Nurscry                  ton       151,466           101,722              0           2533,18      100                                                 151,466         101,722               II          253,1S8
Pe,tticid                        unit   12.605.597        10.516.529       35369.674        26.491.60                                                        12.605,597      10.516.59        3.369.674       26.491.860
Food Crp                      unit    3,02,364         1,297,376       2,162,61S         7,262,359           100                                         3,20S,364        1,297,376       2,162,618        7,268,359
CeshCrop                      unit      230,4101        1,63S,992        516,197          2,325,5S9          I(HI                                           2301,400       1,638,992        516,197         2,325,589
Tre Cmp                       unit    S.253,374         7,354,423        596,374         16,204,231           I(H                                         8,253,374       7,354,423         596,374        16,204,231
Cut-and-Ca,ny Fodder          unit            0                0               0                 (I          1I(0                                                 0               0               0                0
Ammomiation                   unit                                             0                 0 n  o1                                                                          0               0 o      
Seed Pmducti-n                unit      231,415           92,525          94,425           424,485            101                                           231,415          92,5S5          94,425          424,425
Tree Nuriery                  unit       82,044           127,152              0           209,196            100                                            82,044         127,152               0           209,196
Ii0.



Annen 6 - Tablo 2: Disbaroement by Proinct and Catqory
-Total Including Contingencis--                  Prncincitcnt Mcthod and Dishbrment Persentage (-/.)  TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Incid. Cantingonciks)
Unit     Sichuan           Shianui          Ninpis             Total    ICB  LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  Or  NBF               SICHL'AN        SHAANXI          NINGXIA            TOTAL
i.   WORKS                                           8f6.714.634       622.466,985     20426J.816      1,633,418,436                                                      279.123.263     215.373,577      70.665.938      565.162.779
B. UBLILDING                                          119.759.881      105.824.021       8.401,246       233.985.148                                                       41.436.919      36.615.111       2.906.831       80.958.861
IL.abo,rMobilit                          m2    11.367.702         7.023.532                        1 IS391234                        35                              3.933.225       2.430(142               0         6.363.367
D)  Land & Foacmr DMveloomnta               2
Cocoon raising facility            n2    23.224.245       22.028.239              0         4S.252.484                                   35                   8035589         7.621.771               0        15.657.359
)  Rural Eatenaris Devloymcnt             m2    81073.132        73444.3S4        7.602.487       162.92().003                       35                             2S.32S.104      25411.757       2.630.461        56.370321
l nstituton Building, a
Proicm Manaoemtnt(Countyl         o2      3.294.S02        3.327.S66         790.759         7.421.427                        35                              11401001        1.151.442         276.371         2,5670814
L2   T4elboneConnection                            807 231         1.057.663          6,645           .9i.539                                                          279.302          365.951          29.979          675X2
Labor Mobility                    no        74,137           46,S24                            120,961                                   35                     25,651           16,201               0           41,852
Instiuation  Building             no        733,093        1,010,839          S6,645         1,830,57S                                   35                    253,630          349,730          29,979          633,380
23   STRUCTVRE. EARTH. & STONE WORKS                 363.046.910        0461352         96.274148        699.782.410                                                      125.614U231      83.199.628      33.310.855      242.1U4.714
W   RuralInfastmetur                            135020.731      114.584.SSS      41.606397        291.21.1713                                                       46.717.173      39.646.266      14.395.13       100.759253
Rural Electricit,                sum     13,549,593       27,671,211              0         41,22(),S0(3                      35                              4,600,159       9,574,239              0         14,262,39Y
Rural Roads                      sum    53,974,431        49,213,829              ()       103,1SS,259                                   35                  18,675,153      17,027,905               0        35.703,130
Watcr Supply                     sum    35,956,560        26,623,287       2,029,700        64,609,563                                   35                  12,440,973       9,211,657         702,279        22,354,909
Irigation                        sum    29,641,435        11,076,25              0         40,717,694                                   35                  10,255,937       3,S32,305              0         14,0SS,322
Microirrgazio                      ha                                     39,576,69t)       39,576,690                                   35                          0               ()      13,693,535        13,693,535
Rural Encrgy                     aum      1,89S,7014              ()              0          1,S9S,704                                   35                    656,952               0               0           656,952
(U  Land & Farner Dvelootment                   228.026,179      125.876.767      54.667.751       408570.697                                                       7S.S97.050      43.553.362      18S915.042      141.365461
Tcrracing & Paddy DrainagD 0                                      0                                 D 0                                                              0                                o 0              0
Stotc tencing               ha    92,2()2,705      125,876,767             II       218,079,472                                   35                  31,902,136      43,553,362               0        75,455,497
Earth tctacing              ha    16,610,574               (       54,667,751        71,278,325                                   35                   5,747,259               0       18,915,042       24,662,300
Hillland trriciag           ha    56,589,146               ()               0        56,509,146                                   35                  19,579,S44               0               0        19,579,844
Paddy drainagc              ha    62,623,754               ()              0         62,623,754                                   35                  21,667,819              0                0        21,667,819
Z_4  CROP ESTABLISHMENT                               113.160361       173.028.671      27335.154        313.524.1-                                                       39153.485        59J67.920        9.457.963      10A79-W
Food Crop                             ha    17,299,899       16,838,515      16,969,101        51,107,595                                   35                   5,985,765       5,S26,126       5,S71,337        17,683,228
CashCrop                              ha     S,946,620       66,567,130       1,962,961        77,476,711                                   35                   3,095,531      23,032,227         679,1S5        26,006,942
Tc Crop                               ha    81,666,598       S3,1S1,890       6,505,990        171,434,479                                  35                  20,256,643      20,700,934       2,270,753        59,316,330
Scod Prnduction                       ha     3,328,676        4,033,671       1,817,022         9,179,369                                   35                   1,151,722       1,395,650         620,690         3,176,062
Trc Nutroy                            ha      1,918,560       2,407,464               0         4,326,032                                   35                     663,024         032,903               0         1,496,807



Annex 6 - Table 2: Disbursment by P,ovinno and Category
-Total Including Contingencie-                    Procutement Mcthod and Disbuhmennt Peteontage (%/.)  TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Indd. Conting-ncis)
Unit      Sichuan          Shaunsi         Ningnia             Total      ICB  LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  oT   NBF            SICHUAN         SHAANXI          NINGXIA            TOTAL
2.5   LIVESTOCK ESTABLISHMENT                         209.940.251      102,095.279      72.139.623       384.175.153                                                       72.639327       35.324.966      24.90 309       132.924603
(I) Cut-and-Carry Fodder                  ha      1.639,579        2,112,683       1.304,5015        5,056,766                                   35                    567,294          730,968         451,359         1,749,641
(2) Ammoniation tmk                      hsid    8,374,605         2,720,405       4,450,759        15,545,769                                   35                   2,897,613         941,26(0      1,539,963         5,378,836
(3) Pig
Pig fttning                      hoad    8),817,969       29,935,037       1,594,095       112.347,1011                                  35                  27,963,017      10,357,523         551,557        38,872,097
Pig brecding                     head    13,107,575        2,473,743         751,922        16,333,239                                   35                   4,535,221         S55,915         260,165         5,651,301
(4) Goat                                 head    50,144,917       32,657,573       3,005,27()       X5,907,761                                   35                  17,350,141      11,299,520       1,039,823       29,699,4X5
(5) Sheep                                head            0                0       24,353,976        24,353,976                                   35                         8) II                     9,426,476         8,426,476
(6) Ramn/ce-goat                         head     1,778,492        1,148,677       2,719,890         5,646,040                                   35                    615,355         397,442          940,732         1,953,530
(7) Co.                                  head    44,309,250       30,659,679      33,960,217       109,929,145                                   35                  15,331,0X0      10,608,249      11,750,235       37,689,484
(8) Duck/Ltyer                                    5,514,339          387,482              0          5,901,820                                   35                   1.907,961         134,069              II        2,042,030
(9) Robbit(hai,)                         head     4,253,536               0               0          4,253,536                                   35                   1,471,724              0                0         1,471,724
Ill.  TA. TRAINING, & RESEARCH                        47.1%.433         35,050,126       9.234,970        91.48152N                                                       47.196.433      35,050.126        9.234.970       91,481.52N
3.1   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             8,745.214         6.502,749        922.686         16170049                                                         8745.214         6,502.749        922,66         16170.649
3   Labor Mobility                                 650 326          650)327               0          1.300.653                                                         650.326         650).327              o          1,30 30653
TA                               sun        650,326          650,327                          1,300,653                                       I(X              650,326          650,327               0         1,300,653
lo Inst. Building & Proi. Mana,                   2.615.249        161_8175          507 696         4741,110                                                         2615)249        1618.175          507.686        4,74).110
Locl Consult..tm                pson       998,441           599,016         243,689         1,831,146                                        1)01             988,441         599,016          243,609         1,831,146
TA                              pson      1.626,S(18       1,019,159         263,997         2,909,964                                        101             1,626,8108      1(,119,159        263,997         2,919,964
(3) Indje=ndent Monitonn                          53951(03         4.150o000         45 5001         9.960.000                                                        5395,000        4 1500            4)5.)001       99610)0)
SSB Surcvy                       sum      1,660,000        1.660,00)0        415,000         3,735,000                                        100             1,660,000       1,660,10)0        415,000        3,735,000
CWHRC Labor Monitonig            sum      3,735,0)11       2,490,000              0          6,225,0190                                       1             3,735,000       2,490,000              0         6,225,000
Micmfinan                                          84.639           84.247               0            16S886                                                           94.639          84247                0           168886
Local Consultant                 yoeu       84,639            84,247              0            168,886                                        100               84,639          54,247               0           168,886
1    TRAINING                                         26.316.226       21.002            6.033,115        53.439.571                                                      26.316.226      21,090.230        6.033,115       53.439.571
W   LaborMobilin                                   780.391          780392                           1.560.784                                                         780.391         780.392               0         1.560,784
StaffTraining                    sum       390,196          390,196                            780,392                                        100              390,196         390,196               0           780,392
Semints                          sum       390,196          390,196                            780,392                                        10X )            39)1.           390,195               0           780,392
(1  Land&FarmerD,velonment                       163532.97        11.560.130       3.886.213        31979311                                                         16.532.967      11.560130        3.886.213       31979.311
Demonstration Field              hsid      932,218          462,443         208,404          1,603,064                                        (00              932,218         462,443         209,404         1,6013,064
Technicim Training           man/day      2,365,679         657,796          160,992         3,214,466                                        100            2,365,678         657,796          160,992        3,214,466
Household Training           man/day    13,235,1072       10,409,892       3,516,917        27,161,7)                                         1 (N)          13,235,072      10,409,892       3,516,917       27,161,791
ID
x
OXi



Annts 6. Tabl 2: Disburuemnwt by Princo, and Categry
-Total Induding Contnligeniei-                   Iro'mcun ent Method and Disbornement Pecnentage (Y)  TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (lucid. Contingncies)
Unit      Sichuan          Shaanni         Niapais             Total      ICB  LIB   IS NCB   NS   FA  oT   NBF            SICHtUAN        SHAANXI          NINGXIA            TOTAL
t Inst Buildint & Ptoi. ManagemeSt                #.461.326        8210,679        2.146.901        1.X1906                                                          #,461.326        8.210.679       2.146,901        IS.IX906
Staff Training
Domestic                     pnon     3,987,043         4,924,410        7#6.304          9,597,757                                        10t            3,887,043       4,924,411)        786,304         9,597,757
Overseas                     pno        576,590          4#5,314         331,689          1,393,592                                        100              576,5901        485,314         331,6t9         1,393,592
Study Tonr
Domestic                     pson       702,#91          443,716          #1,231          1,227,936                                        00               702,891         443,716          S1,23(1        1,227,936
Overscas                     pron      3,294,962        2.357,239        947,680          6.599,721                                        I0).           3,294,902        2,357,239        947,690         6,599,721
(   Micnfirum                                      541.541          539.029               9            080.570                                                         541.S41         539.029               0          1.0#0570
Center                            day       47,189            46,969                            94,158                                        l0o               47,18#          46,969               0            94,15X
Provinee                          day       82,392            92.010                           164,402                                        100               92,392          92,)1)))             (J          164,402
County                            day       149,804          149,109                           298,913                                        100              149,#04          149,109              I)          299,913
Domnrtic Training               pson        187,255          186,386                           373,641                                        1(1              187,255          186,386              ()          373.641
Overseas                        pson         74,902           74,554                           149,456                                        loo               74.902          74.554               ()          149,456
3.3   EXTENSION & TRAINING                             9.031l6           4.765.145       1.562,1S3        15,359.414                                                       9,031,086       4.765,145        1.562.183       15358.414
Land&FarmnerDevelopment                      9031.086         4.765.145       1.562.183         15.358.414                                                       9.031.086       4.765.145        1,562.183       15.35#.414
Uvestock Brooding
GoaVlsheep                   hcad       198.623                0               0            198,623                                        )00              199.623               0               0           198,623
Pig/sow                      head       395,060                0               0           395,060                                         100              395.0/60             /1              /1          395,060
Extension
Trees                         hod      2,652,469        2,340,393         157,052         5.149,903                                        l0(1           2.652,46#        2.340,393         157,052        5,149,903
Food crops                    hsid      361,497           90,076         169,141           620.703                                         10(              361,4#7          90,076          169,141         620,703
Animal hosbandry              hid    1,054,496           791,520         375,106          2,221.123                                        100            1,/54,496         791,520         375,106         2,221,123
Veterinary & Brmeding scrvice
Cov                          head       344,919          465,599         231,810          ,(142,229                                       1(8)              344,819         465,599         231,810         1,042,228
Sheep/goat                   head       995,263          498,066          92,1#6          1,575,516                                        100              995,263         499,066          92,186         1,575,516
Pig/sow                      head     3,039,96#          579,501          73,267          3,691,637                                        1100           3,039,#6#         579,501          73,267         3,691,637
Artificial Inerination (Co,)     hcad            0                0          463,621           463,621                                        100                    0               0         463,621           463,621
3.4   APPLIED RESEARCH                                 3.103.97          2692.001         716.986          6.51294                                                         3.1v3.          Z.692.t01         716             6.512J9
Land& Farmer D3volonmonot           am       3,103,907        2,692,001         716,996         6,512,994                                        100             3)103.907       2.692.001         7l6.996        6,512,894
IV.  LABOR PLACEMENT                                 2                 152,436,663              0        360,211.912                                                     103.922.125      76.218 331               _       IS040,456
Labor Mobil*tv                             207.944.250      152.436.663              5        360.2S0.912                                                      103922125        76-218)331             19    ,456
lnter-prnv. Placcrnntr         pVon   194,952,768        123,822,272                       309,775,040                                         50           92,476,394      61,911,136               0       154,387,520
Within province Plcement        paon    22,891,4S2        28,614,391                        51,505,872                                         50            11,445,741      14,307,195              0        25,752,936
0F
xD



Anne. 6 - Table 2: DiBburement by Pr-vin-e and Category
-Total Including Contingencies--                  Pnuemcnt M.thod and Disbursement Pcnwntagc (.)       TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENT (Indd. Contingencies)
Unit      Sichson          Shaanxi         Ningoia              Total    ICB  LIB   tS NCB   NS   FA  or  NBF               SICHUAN         SHAANXI         NINGXIA             TOTAL
V.   MICROFINANCE SUBLOAN                              15.135,963       15.129.191              0         30.265.153                                                        73567,981       7.56 5                  0        15.132.577
Micrufinance                                 15.135-963       15.129.191                        30.265.153                                                        7.567.981       7.564.595                        15.132577
Subloams                         sas     15,135,963        15,129,191                       30,265,153                                          50            7,567,981        7,564,595              0        15,132,577
VI.  MANAGEMENT & SUPERVISION                          41,399.487       39 176.565       8.487.463        89.054.518                                                       20,695.243      19.5.24          4.243.731        44.527.259
WI)  Lbo?Mobility                                 5.798198         4.756,722                         10.554920                                                        2.899099        2.378.361                         5.277.4
IntemalMonitoring                sum        795,522          731,072                          1,526,594                                        50               397,761         365,536               0           763,297
Ftlian Monitonng                 snm        520,261          520,262                          1,(40,523                                        50               260,130         260,131               0           520,261
Ev&aation                        sum        520,261          520,262                          1,0)40,523                                       50               260,130         260,131               ()          520,261
IndTendent Aditing               snm       556,429           494,27X                          1,0501,70S                                       50               278,215         247,139              (I          525,354
Administrative Fw                sot      3,4015,725       2,490,849                         5,896,574                                         5()            1,702,862        1,245,424              0         2,948,287
121  RurllnfaBucturc                              2.260.546         1.863,147        779373          4,98066                                                           1.130.273        931.573         3809686         2.451.533
Adtinisative F                   s..      2,260,546        1,863,147         779,373         4,903,(t66                                        50              1,130,273        931,573         389,686         2,451,533
3LA  & Farmter Develontment                      19.776.565       203489,32        4.529.264        44,4,761                                                          9888.283        10,[74-466       2.264632        22.327.380
rship Poj. Managemcnt         tship/yr    3,625,812        5,661,990         872,171         10,159,972                                        50             1,812,906       2,830,995         436,085         5,079,986
Vill. Proj. Management          villfvr   4,474,645        5,810,347         562,691         10,047,683                                        50             2,237,323       2,905,174         281,345         5,423,U41
Ad.inisitrativ-Fm                sum     11,676,108        8,876,595       3,094,403        23,647,106                                         50             5,838,054       4,438,297        1,547,201       11,823,553
141  Rura Entetpnse Develoemt nt                  3.715.315        3.473.232         354.062         7542610                                                          1.857.658        1736.616         177.031         3.771.305
AdminisativePee                  stum     3,715,315        3,473,232         354,062         7,542,610                                         50             1,857,658        1,736,616        177,031         3,771,305
()  Inst Buildine & Poi. Mannaesmmt               9.161 609        8058260         20824.763        20.044.662                                                        4,580 804       4.029.145        1.412.382       10.022.331
Pmj. Superision               prov/yr      960,984           970,628         243,689         2,175,301                                         50               480,492         485,314         121,845         1,087,650
Office Space Rental              sut      4,804,919        3,882,511        1,624,594        10,312,025                                        50             2,402,460        1.941,255        812,297         5,156,012
Books &Journals                  snm       595,124           799,252         225,412          1,529,788                                        50               297,562         354,626         112,706          764,894
Conhferenes                     psn       2,800,582        2,495,900         731,067         6,027,549                                         50             1,400,291        1,247,95()       365,534         3,013,774
to) Mierofintnc                                    678254           676.245                          1.354.499                                                         339.127         338.123                          677.249
CenterMenitoring                 year       188,753          117,877                           376,630                                         50                94,376          93,939               0           188.315
Independent Auditing             yam        122,090          121,524                           243,614                                         50                61,045          60,762               0           121,807
Indepenent Evalnation             ear       122,090          121,524                           243,614                                         50                61,045          60,762               0           121,807
Administrative Fee               sum       245,320           245,320                           490,640                                         50               122,660         122,660               0          245,320
YJ   OTHERS                                            60.1e9.135       55,14.327        1,221339        117,224.793                                                               2               2                2                2
T'VE Working Capital                sno    60,189.135        55,814,327        1,221,330       117,224,793                                              100              0               0               0                0
Vill, UNALLOCATED                                      14.946.579       15128,           2.61641          32.692.180                                                       14.946.579      15.12.480        2.616J,41       32.691J00
Total Base Cost
Total Including Contigenties                        1.494            1.19              29B40           2.9.                                                               7411,055,ti1    612435 94       12488701        1.494,787.94S
0o   - Otheen (cnsultant enn. uWnitg
and mierolinance subloams).



- 135 -                                                                                 Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX 7
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Bank Fiscal Year                 992002   1                                                                         2004
Calender Year          1997          1998          1999         2000          2001   1      2002           2003          2004
Ql Q2 Q31       3                                                             12 Q3Q4
1. LOAN PROCESSING                                                                                                            WON
1.1  Bank Pre-negotiation Mission                                                                                         m  
1.2  Negotiations                                                                                                         mm _
1 3  Final SAR issued                                                                                                     mm _
1.4  Board Approval
1.5  Credit Signing
1.6  Credit Effectiveness
1.7  Retroactive Financing
1.8  Credit Closing
11. START UP ACTIVITIES
2.1  TORs developed                                                                                                       *UEU
2.2  Staff training plan finalized
2.3 PMO staff hired
2.4  PMO Management Info. System                             _r                                                           *UUU
2.5  PMO domestic staff training                      W _ l         tnj         *      u u       m **
2.6  PMO staffoverseas study tours                          Z        L       Z       > T I
2.7  Project Launch Workshop
Hl. PROCUREMENT OF GOODS & SERVICES
3.1 Procurement of Goods
3.1 .a Bidpreparation
3 L.b Invitation forbhidsI 3 OFi   M                                            =
3 I.c Contract awards and delivery               __                                _7'
3.2 Agricultural Inputs and Materials
3 2.a Bid preparation
3.2.b Invitation for bids
3.2.c Contract awards and delivery
3.3 Services and Other Goods
3.2.a Bid preparation
3.2.b Invitation for bids
3.2.c Contract awards and delivery              T_                                                                                                     I
IV. EDUCATION SUBCOMPONENT
4.1  Student assistance (SA) criteria established                   |                                                     MOEN
4.2  SA selection and delivery                                                                                             *um=
4.3  Teacher & management training                      _        ;        ==
4.4  School construction
V. HEALTH SUBCOMPONENT
51  Village health fund initiated
5.2  MCH system eatablished                                                                                                         *I _                     I  L
5.3  Health worker/birth auendant training
5.5  Clinic construction
VL LABOR MOBILITY COMPONENT
6.1  Study tours to SWPRP project areas               __                                                                                                 1    1
6.2  Monitoring plan finalized                              _444
6.3  Village/candidate orient. syst. reviewed                           ___                                              _                           -L-I-i--I
6.4  Safty/dorm conditions supervised                              -  -  -  -
6.5  ACWF monitoring reports submitted                              -     _==-
6.6  PMO monitoring reports submitted                            ==                                  =_M
6.7  Cost recovery design finalized                               NOUN
6.8  Research/dissertination                              .                     ,r
VI] RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
7.1  Ensgineering investigations, survey and design       _         |_,                                ,1
7.2  Construction



-136 -                                                                                Annex
Page 2 of 2
Bank Fiscal Year               1998                        2000                       2002   12004
Calender Year         1997   1      1991         1999          2000   1    2001   1    2002             2003          2004
_ Q             l Q2 Q3 Q,1_ _Ql Q2 Q3 Q4_ Ql Q2 Q3 Q4Ql Q2 Q3
Vii LAND AND FARMER DEVELOPMENT
CO MIPONENT__                                     _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _
8.1  Village development plans
8.2  Send  prod./nurseries  established__              _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _
8.3  Terracing
8.4  Crop establishment
8.5   Grassland and livestock establishment    h
8.6  Training and extension
8 7  Technical support services & applied research
iX TOWNSHIP AND VILLAGE ENTERPRISES
DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
9.1  Marsket study & selection/confiefnatin of enterpri                            _                                                      _
9.2  Environment clearance and engineering design
9.3  Construction, equip. installation, & commission.
9.4  Worker employment & safty monitor.
X. MICROFINANCE COMPONENT
10.1 Leglestablishmentofthecooperatives
10.2 MIS instaliled _
10.3 Loan officer training
10.4 Independent exteranl audit
10.5 Feasibility study TIC status
Xi. INSTITUTION BUILDING and
PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
I I  Instition Building
11l1. Renting/Constructionofofficebuildings  E_ _  ;  _  4  _4 
ii i  Staff recruitment
Ill1  Trainingandstudytours                 -nii  I11
11.1  Technicalassistance
11.2 Project Management
11.2. Preparationofimplementation, coordinaftion
and Management procedures                                                              I T  ILI                          lI           II
11.2.b Annual work plans
11.2.e Routine supervision &  vunshort
11.2.d Quatnerly and annual reports
XII POVERTY MONiTORiNG
12 1  CWF.ORC ao oiitvmNGtnf     
12.1. CWHRCtmonitor.planfinalized
12.1. Monitoringdatabaueestablished
12.1. Routine monitor. activities
12.1. Monitoring Teports                                                                 I _   I _  _. .             *
2   Povenyt Monitrinz
12.2. SSB survey instrum. finalized
12.2. Annual field survey conducted
12.2. Summary repoftu sub. to Bank
XI] PROJECT EVALUATION
13   Pilot phase evaluation                       ____________________________________________
13.2 Midterm evaluation
U13. Projeatfina levaluation
13.4 OED evaluation
13.5 AuditReportsDue
13.6 Project Completion Report



- 137 -                                      Annex 8
CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule and Profile
IBRD                              Estimated Disbursement         Disbursement Profile \a/
Fiscal Year                    Semester  Cumulative  Cumulative     Year/   Cumulative
Semester                     ($ million)  ($ million)      (%)    Semester         (%)
1998                                                             Year 1
1st (Jul-Dec, 1997) \b/           12.6        12.6           7   First               0
2nd (Jan-June,1998)               14.4        27.0          15   Second             30
1999                                                             Year 2
1st (Jul-Dec, 1998)               16.2        43.2          24   First              38
2nd (Jan-June,1999)                19.8       63.0          35   Second             46
2000                                                             Year 3
Ist (Jul-Dec, 1999)               21.6        84.6          47   First              54
2nd (Jan-June,2000)               32.4        117.0         65   Second             66
2001                                                              Year 4
1 st (Jul-Dec, 2000)              23.4       140.4          78   First              74
2nd (Jan-June,2001)                14.4       154.8         86   Second             82
2002                                                             Year 5
Ist (Jul-Dec, 2001)               16.2       171.0          95   First              90
2nd (Jan-June,2002)                5.4        176.4         98   Second             94
2003                                                              Year 6
Ist (Jul-Dec, 2002)                1.8       178.2          99   First              98
2nd (Jan-June,2003)                 1.8       180.0        100   Second            100
\a/ Banks standard disbursement profile for agriculture in China, compiled by OPRPG, June 30, 1995.
\b/ Including retroactive financing of US$ 5 million to cover expenditure incurred between
Febuary 1, 1997 and no more than one year before the signing of the Loan Agreement.
Completion date: July 31, 2003
Closing date: January 31, 2004



CHINA
Qina M      _aim    v     Rei-a  Prje
R eprmmtlW Vage  edel
Table 1:   _     P    f           u    d     g
Prosium         Raw
Com              Whea       Urea          TSP           DAP          ChObr          Silk
bt            bt
Net Trade Stwa                                                                                                                        M             M             M             M             X
2000 Prices
WodddMwkettPrices a/                                                             Son                          134          166           192            169           219           140
Ocea feilght                                                                     S/ton                                                    35            35             35            35
CIF orFOB Seaport (USS)                                                          Ston                         134          166           227           204           254            175
CF or FOB Seaport (Yuan) ct                                                     Y/lon                       1,109         1,375         1,885         1,693         2,105         1,455       180,000
Port chaa & disbibutors'mntargnd                                                YlAbn                        (130)        (154)          200            182           219           161        (5,430)
Trmspont port o wholesale el                                                    Yon                          250           250            156          156            156           156         (156)
Trnspot mill to wholesalea f                                                                                  75            75            75            75             75            75           (75)
Prie-wanill ht                                                                  YAMn                        1,304         1,546         2,316         2,107         2,556         1,S47       174,339
Procea*g a4t                                                                                                  1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0
Nillag csth &  sler'nm                                                           Ybon                         (26)         (31)           69            63            77             55         5,230
Teapoefam to mill g/                                                            Y/ton                         10            10            10             10            10            10             0
Ercotirprice                                                                    Yhon                        1,288         1,525         2396          2,180         2,643         1,912       179,569
Fmacial pnice h/                                                                Y/ton                       1,400         1,200         2,200         1,100         2,650         2,100       170,000
2005 Prices
World M et Pricea t                                                              S/ion                       151           187           217           190           246            158
Oces freight                                                                     S/on                                                     35            35            35            35
CF or FOB Seaport                                                                Shmn                        151           187           252           225           281            193
CF or FOB Seaport c/                                                            Y/bn                        1,250         1,549         2,088         1,871         2,335         1,602       180,000
Portdcargea&dtoibutorsmargind/                                                  Y/AM                        (142)          169           21S           198           240            174        (5,430)
Transport Ponto whoesale                                                        Yt/on                        234           234           156           156           156            156         (156)
Tr_isort mill to wholesaler 0                                                                                 75            75            75            75            75            75           (75)
Pne.eraall ht                                                                   Y/lon                       1,417        2,028         2,537         2,300          2,807         2,008       174,339
Procesing      t                                                                                              1.0           1.0          L.0            1.0           1.0           1.0           1.0
Miling cmt & asemblersmarg                                                      YtAn                         (28)          (41)           76            69            S4            60          5,230
Tusport farm to miftf 8                                                         YAtn                          10            10            10            10            10            10             0
Ecoranic price                                                                  Y/on                        1,398         1,997        2,623         2,379         2,901          2,078       179,569
Fimtcal psice i                                                                 Y/At                        1,400         1,200        2,200          1,100         2,650         2,100       170,000
atBased on Wudd Btak Commodity Price Forcas, Nov.21,1996, c4usted to 1996 constnt price.
Price rav silk is based on Chines esport satiscs.
b/Tbe project ae is gn deficit ar  Boda comm nd whett are iqtorted from North-East Chins
ctExchar mteofYS.30 -USSI.00.
d/ Port chage of Y30Mt plus 9% (3% for raw tilk) itnibu 'r mari.
tatDisuc ftomwholaglssto port is pprosimakdy 1000 km by rail at YO. 125lo/m
ftDince from mill to wholelas is proxautdy 150 km by road at 0.5Ioaakm                                                                                                                                                        o
S/Distance foom fwm to mill is 20 km on rsvage by road at YO.S5ton/km.
ht Government prices for fertilizers, market pces for oha itm.



CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Table 2: Main Conversion Factors
Exchange Rate                                                              Y8.3 =US$ 1.0
Standard Conversion Factor                                                            1.0
Unskilled Labor                                                                       1.0
General Labor                                                                         1.2
Skilled Labor                                                                         1.3
Rail Freight                                                                         1.25
Electricity                                                                           1.5
CoaVWater                                                                             1.5
Chemical inputs                                                                       1.5
Other inputs                                                        Border or market prices
0D



CHINA
Qinbs Mountkin Poverty Reduction Project
Reproetatie Vilae Model
TsbIe 3: Conm on Ternced Land
FPnancial Crop Budget
(RM   Yuan)                                                                                         (I huea)
AMOUNT                                                                 QUANTITY
Unit
Unit                       Price         Yr 0           Yrl            Yr2           Yr3           Yr4           Yr             Yrl           Yr2            Yr3           Yr4
Yield                                                ton                                                                                                                1.6           2.0            4.0           4.5            5.0
Prodactvalue                                          Y                         1,400         2,240         2,800          5,600         6,300          7,000
Bym&tctvalue/a                                        Y                            40           128           160            240           270           300            3.2           4.0            6.0           6.8            7.5
Total vale                                            Y                                       2,368         2,960          5,840         6,570          7,300
Iput Coal
Seedsprice                                           yuarlcg                                    2.0           2.0            8.0           8.0           5.0                                                                                    1
Seeds                                                kg                                        120           120           240            240           175             60            60             30            30             35
Ures                                                 kg                         2.20           220           110           517            517           330            100            50            235           235            150
DAP                                                  kg                         2.63             0           265           39S            39S           265              0            100           150           150            100
Pobsimsulfite                                        kg                         2.10             0           126            126           126           126              0            60             60            60             60
Orgaiucnrnure                                       ton                        20.00           300           300           300            300           300             15             15            15            15             15
Peatide                                              time                      65.00             0            65            65             65            33              0              1             1             1            0.5
Plaic film                                           kg                        12.00             0             0           480            480           240              0             0             40            40             20
Tools                                                dt                        12.00             0            12              0             0             0              0              1             0             0              0
Totcoot scmu                                                                                   640           998          2,126         2,126          1,469
Not incow                                                                                     1,728          1,962         3,715         4,445         5,832
LabDorRaquired                                        Man-day                    6.00         1,080          1,080         1,080         1,080          1,080           100           100            380           IS0            IS0
Netvalue                                                                                        648           882          2,635         3,365         4,732
Income per labor day                                                                             10            11            21             25            32
_   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHINA
Qinba Mountain Povert Redutdon Project
Reprenatitve Villgn  Modd
Table 4: WhAt on Terracd Land
Financial Crop Budget
(RMB Yuan)                                                                                          (I hectat)
AMOUNT                                                                 QUANTITY
Unit
Unit                       Price          YrO            YI            Yr2           Yr3           Yr4           YrO            Yrl            Yr2           Yr3           Yr4
Yield                                                ton                                                                                                                1.6            00            2.5           3.0           3.2
Productvalue                                          Y                         1,200          1,920            0          3,000         3,600          3,140
By-prosctvalue/a                                      Y                            40            76             0            120           144           152            1.9            00            3.0           3.6           3.1
ToWl va                                               Y                                        1,996            0          3,120         3,744         3,992
Input Coshs
Seeds pricm                                          yuan/k                                     1.5           0.0            2.5           1.5            1.5
Seeds                                                kg                                        300             0           375            300           300            200              0           150           200           200
Urea                                                 kg                         2.20           110             0           330            330           330             50              0           150            150           150
DAP                                                  kg                         2.65             0             0           265            265           265              0              0           100           100            100
Potassiunmsulfhle                                    kg                         2.10             0             0           126            126           126              0              0            60            60            60
Orpaiic rrnure                                       ton                       20.00             0             0             0              0             0              0              0             0             0              0
Pesicide                                             tine                      65.00             0             0            65             65            65              0              0             1             1            1.0
Plasticfilm                                          kg                        12.00             0             0             0              0             0              0              0             0             0             0
Toots                                                set                       12.00             0             0             12            12            12              0              0             1             1              1
Totl comt                                           asm                                        410             0          1,173         1,09S          1,091
Net income                                                                                    1,586             0          1,947         2,646         2,B94
Labor Rapird                                          Maty                       6.00           900             0           900           900            900            150              0           150           150           150
Netvy                                                                                           686             0          1,047         1,746         1,994
Income pw labor day                                                                              II             0            13             18            19



CHU"A
Qinbb  Mountain Prt Reductin Pjecd
Rep eanate Village Modd
Tabe 5: Potalo en Terraced Land
Finacial Crop Budget
(RUB Yu)                                                                                            (I hectae)
AMOUNT                                                                 QUANTITY
Unit
Unit                      Price          YrO            Yrl            Yr2           Yr3           Yr4           YrO            Yrl           Yr2            Yr3           Yr4
Yield                                                 ton                                                                                                               7.5          10.0           15.0          15.0           15.0
Prolect value                                         Y                          300          2,250          3,000         4,500         4,500          4,500
Dy.podhct tvuie/a                                     y                            40            30            40             60            60            60            0.S            1.0           1.5           1.5            1.5
Total vae                                             Y                                       2,2S0          3,040         4,560         4,560          4,560
Senoapsice                                           yuan                                       0.3           0.3            1.2           0.3           0.3
Sees                                                 kg                                        600           600          1,080           600           600           2000          2000            900          2000           2000
Urea                                                 kg                         2.20           110           110            385           385           385             50            50            175           175            175
DAP                                                  kg                         2.65             0           133            398           398           39S              0             50           150           150            150
P     _buaun MM"                                     kg                         2.10             0           126            126           126           126              0            60             60            60             60
Ogict_                                               ton                       20.00           300           300           300            300           300             15             15            15            15             15
PY dde                                               time                      65.00             0            65            65             65            65              0              1             1              I             1
Platicfilm                                           kg                        12.00             0             0              0             0             0              0             0              0             0              0
Tools                                                set                       12.00             0            12             12            12            12              0              1             1             1              1
Total co                                             sum                                     1,010          1,346         2,366         1,86          1,886
Netinme                                                                                       1,270          1,695         2,195         2,675         2,675
LsborReuied                                           M-ay                       6.00         1,080          1,080         1,080         1,080          1.0lO           ISO           ISO            ISO           ISO            ISO
Net value                                                                                       190           615          1,115         1,595          1,595
Inco   per labo  day                                                                              7             9             12            15            15
ND



CHINA
Qinbs Mounttain Poverty Reduction Poject
Rewentsttve Vdp Mode
Tae 6: Now Mulberry/Cocoon Production
Fmancial Crop Budget
(RMB Yuan)
AMOUNT                                                                 QUANTrTY
Unit
Unit                      Price          YtO           Yrl           Yr2           Yr3        Yr4-20           YrO           Yrl           Yr2           Yr3         Yr4-20
Productvalue(ooon)                                   ton                     12,000         3,600             0         3,600         7,200         14,400          0.30          0.00          0.30          0.60          1.20
Byprodict (F-)                                       to                          20             0             0             0             1             2           0.02          0.00          0.02          0.05          010
Byprotd-(brunchs)                                                                30             1             0             I             3             5           0.05          0.00          0.05          0.09          0.10
TOta Value                                           Y                                      3,602             0         3,602         7,204         14,407
InutCesut
seedAing                                            unit                        0.3            0         2,250           225             0             0             0          7500           750             0             0
Silkwonnregg                                       table                       20.0          300             0           600           600           600            15             0            30            30            30
Urea                                                kg                          2.2          220           110           330           660           660           100            50           150           300           300
DAP                                                 kg                          2.7            0             0           265           265           265             0             0           100           100           100
Pobaiimsulfate                                      kg                          2.1            0           420           105           210           210             0           200            50           100           100
Orgpnic nmure                                      ton                         20.0          150           300           150           150           150           7.5            15           7.5           7.5           7.5
P etides                                            tino                       65.0            0            65            65            65            65             0             1             1             1             1
Toas (naalbetty)                                    sun                        80.0            0           240             0             0             0             0             3             0             0             0
Sprayer                                             pc                         40.0            0           40              0             0             0             0             I             0             0             0
Pning sham                                          pair                       15.0            0            60             0             0             0             0             4             0             0             0
Unm                                                tabe                        10.0            0             0           300           300           300             0             0            30            30            30
R"iungfadlmties                                     rl2                       100.0            0             0             0         2,000             0             0             0             0            20             0
Raisingtables                                      table                      165.0            0             0             0         4,950             0             0             0             0            30             0
Totl uTent cost                                                                              670         3,145         2,040         2,250         2,250
Total met                                                                                    670         3,485         2,040         9,200         2,250
Net inconic                                                                                 2,932        (3,145)        1,562         4,954        12,157
LaborRequired                                        Mm-day                    6.00           360         1,740          4S0           360            360            60           290            SO            60            60
Net val                                                                                     2,572        (4,885)        1,02         4,594        11,797
hicome per labor day                                                                           49           (I1)          20             83          203



CHINA
-qen-t Vueg  Me"d
Tab 7: W_
F_lardu Cwp Budgs
(RM1   Yuea)
AMOUNT
Unil                                                                                                   _______
Unis                       Price          Y             YrI           Yr2           Yr3            Yr4           YrS           Yr6           YVi            Yri         Yr9.20
Pradodacson
Product Vabe                                          YAMn                      5,000          5000             0              0             0             0          2500           4000          7500           7500          7500
InPu Coas
sedings                                              pc                           1.5          ISO          937.5          94.5             0             0             0              0             0              0             0
Urfa                                                 k                           2.2           220           l10           220            220           330           330            330           330           330            330            1.
DAP                                                  k4                          2.7             0          397.5          79.5           106           106            106           106           106            106           106
POunsumafase                                        4k                           2.1             o           336             U4            U4            U             *4             34            U4             34            U4
Mio.sliutkg                                                                      3.5             0             0              0             0             0             0              0             0              0             0
Ormic n eion                                                                    20.0             0           300              0             0             0             0              0             0              0             0
Pe16ckWs                                             isn                        65.0            65            65            65             65            65            65             65            65            65             65
Tools                                                sum                        30.0             0           240              0             0             0             0              0             0              0             0
Speyow                                               Pc                         40.0             0            40             0              0             0             0              0             0              0             0
Pnidngsln                                            par                        15.0             0            90             0              0             0             0              0             0              0             0
ToWa cumucost                                        arm                                       435          2,146           543           475           535           585            535           535           535            555
Total wos                                                                                      435          2,516          543            475           585           535            535           585           515            565
No income                                                                                     4,565         (2,146)         (543)         (475)         (585)         1,915         3,415         6,915          6,915         6,915
Ldso Reaid                                            Mu-day                      6.0           600           660           240            240           240           270           270            270           270            270
Neot vA                                                                                       3,965         (2.306)         (733)         (715)         (825)         1,645         3,145         6.645          6,645         6,645
I_couu per Ii day                                                                                46           (20)           (14)          (12)          (15)           43            76            154            154           154
(B
x4



CHINA
Qinba Mountain Poverty Reduction Project
Represetatfive Viflage Model
TableS: Cattle
Finamcial Crop Budget
(RMB Yuan)
AMOUNT                                                 QUANTITY
Unit                                                                                                      . .....- -
Unit                      Price          YrO           Yrl           Yr2        Yr3-20           YrO           Yri           Yr2         Yr3-20
incom                                                 head                                                                                             0.2             0           0.5            0.5
Animal Sale                                         live kg                      5.4        270.0           00          810.0         810.0          50.0           00           150.0         150.0
Draft Animal Labor                                   day                        20.0        400.0         400.0         400.0         400.0          20.0          20.0          20.0           20.0
Total Income                                          sum                                    670.0         400.0        1,210 0       1,210.0
Input Cost
Pen natnials                                         m2                         40.0          0.0          160.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           4.0           0.0            0.0
Animad                                              head                      1000.0          0.0        1,000.0          00            0.0           0.0           1.0           0.0           0.0
Feed grain/by-product                                kg                          0.5          0.0          25.0          25.0          25.0           0.0          50.0          50.0           50.0                           U,
igh-prottain feed                                    kg                          2.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0 0
Fed additiveaninerias                                sm                          60           0.0         1.0           IS.0         1I.0            0.0           3.0           3.0           3.0
Breeding cost                                        time                       20.0         20.0          20.0          20 0          20.0           1.0           1.0            10            1.0
Vetmisyscsvice                                      ffme                        10.0          0.0          10.0          20.0          20.0           0.0           1.0           2.0           2.0
Tools                                               sum                         40.0          0.0          40.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           1.0           0.0           0.0
Straw ammoniation tank                              sum                                      60.0         234.0          94.0          94.0
Tank                                              cu.m                        50.0          0.0         100.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           2.0           0.0           0.0
Straw                                             ton                         40.0         60.0          60.0          60.0          60.0           1.5           1.5           1.5           1.5
Urea                                              kg                           2.2          0.0          22.0          22.0          22.0           0.0          10.0          10.0          10.0
Plntics                                           kg                          12.0          0.0          12.0          12.0          12.0           0.0           1.0           1.0           1.0
Toola                                             set                         40.0          0.0          40.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           1.0           0.0           0.0
Total cufent                                        surn                                     10.0       1,355.0         165.0         165.0
Total cot                                           um                                      10.0        1,507.D        177.0         177.0
Net income                                                                                  590.0        (955.0)       1,045.0      1,045.0
LiborRequired                                        man-day                     6.0        300.0         3000          300.0         300.0          50.0          50.0          50.0          50.0
Net value                                                                                   290.0       (1,255.0)       745.0         745.0
Incom per labor day                                                                          11.S         (19.1)         20.9          20.9
xD



CHINA
Qinba Mountain Poverty Reduction Project
Representative Vilage Model
Table 9: Goat
Financial Crop Budget
(RMB Yuan)
AMOUNT                                                QUANTITY
Unit                  ----      -    -------------- ----- ------
Unit                     PFice          YrO           Yrl           Yr2        Yr3-20          YrO           Yrl          Yr2         YB3-20
Female Animal                                        head                                                                                             I             1            2             1
Culled Animal                                       head                                                                                           0.7             0            2             2
Total Income                                         live kg                    5 4         97.2           0.0         324.0         324.0           18             0           60            60
Input Cost
Pon matbials                                        m2                        40.0          4.0          40.0           0.0           0.0          0.1           1.0           0.0          0.0
Animal                                              head                     200.0          0.0         200.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           1.0           0.0          0.0                         1_
Feed grain/by-product                               kg                         0.5          0.0           5.0          10.0          10.0          0.0          10.0          20.0         20.0
Hlgh.protein feed                                   kg                         2.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0
Feed fdditivelSinerals                              sum                        6.0          0.0           3.0           6.0           6.0          0.0           0.5           1.0          1.0
Breeding cost                                       time                       5.0          5.0           5.0          10.0          10.0          1.0           1.0           2.0          2.0
Veternary service                                  time                        5.0          0.0           5.0          10.0          10.0          0.0           1.0           2,0          2.0
Twols                                               sum                        8.0          0.0           S.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           1.0           0.0          0.0
Straw wanmoniation tank                             sum                                     8.0          51.5          24.5         24.5
Tank                                              cu.m                      50.0          0.0          25.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.5           0.0          0.0
Straw                                            tan                        40.0          8.0           N.0          16.0         16.0           0.2           0.2          0.4           0.4
Urea                                              kg                         2.2          0.0           3.5           5.5           5.5          0.0           2.5           2.5          2.5
Platics                                           kg                        12.0          0.0           3.0           3.0          3.0           0.0           0.3          0.3           0.3
Tools                                             set                       40.0          0.0          10.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.3           0.0          0.0
Total current                                      sum                                     17.0        279.5          57.5          57.5
Total coot                                         sum                                    17.0         317.5         60.5          60.5
Net inonme                                                                                 10.2        (279.5)        266.5        266.5
LaborRequired                                       man-day                    6.0         60.0          60.0         60.0          60.0          10.0          10.0         10.0          10.0
Net value                                                                                  20.2        (339.5)       206.5         206.5
bnome per labor day                                                                         *.0         (28.0)        26.7          26.7
-~~~~~~~~



CHINA
Qinba Mr%unt in Poverty Reducfion Project
Repreantative Vile Model
Table lfr. Pig
Funandal Crop Budget
(RME Yuan)
AMOUNT                                    QUANTITY
Unit
Unit                      Price          YrO           Yrl         Yr2-20          YrO           Yrl         Yr2-20
Product                                               head                                                                                0 5             1             1
Total Income                                          live kg                      5.6        392.0         448 0         448.0           70             SO            80
Input Cost
Pen materials                                        m2                         40 0           8 0          80.0           0.0           0.2           2 0           0.0
Animal                                               head                      100.0         100.0         I0O 0         OO 0            1.0           1.0           1.0
Feed grain/by-product                                kg                          0.5           0.0          25 0          25 0           0.0          50.0          50.0
High-protein feed                                    kg                          2.0           00           30.0          30.0           0.0          15.0          15.0
Feed additive/minerals                               sum                         6 0           0.0          30.0          30.0           0.0           5 0           5 0
Veterinary service                                  lime                         10.0          0.0          10.0          10.0           0.0           1.0           1.0
Tools                                                surm                       40.0           0.0          40.0           0.0           0.0           1.0           0.0
Total current                                       sum                                     100 0         195.0         195.0
Total cost                                          sum                                     108.0        315.0          195.0
Net income                                                                                  292.0         253.0         253.0
Labor Reqrured                                       man-day                     6.0         300.0         180.0         1800           50.0          30.0          30.0
Net value                                                                                     (8 0)         73.0         73.0
Income per labor day                                                                           5.8           84            8.4
(D
x4



CHINA
Qinba Mountain Povr     Reduction Project
ReprrenttisveVill4 Modtel
Table II! Labor Mobility
Fiancial Cost and flenefit
(RMB Yuan)
Project Year
Unit- -------                                                                                            ----   - -- --- -
Unit                     Vadue          WOP            Yrl           Yr2           Yr3           Yr4           YrS           Yr6           Yf7         YrS-20
Accumulative laborrs Out-enoved la
-4nterProvince                                                 Pson                             0            2.8           X2           15.9          25,6          23.3          21J0          19.7           19.7
-Within Province                                               Pson                             0            0.9           2.3           4.5           7.2           6.6           5.9           5.S           5.5
Totd                                                                                             a            3.6           10.5         20.4          32.S          29.9          26.9           25.2          25.2
Incremetal Benefit
-Inter Province                                              Pru>n/yr         5.000             0        13,923        40,950        79,443       127,764       116,298       104,932        98,2S0        98,280
-Within Province                                             Pson/yr          3,950             0         3,024         8,k94        17,253        27,749        25,258        22,767        21,344        21,344
Totl                                                                            4,747            0         16,947       49,944        96,696        155,512       141,556       127,599       119,624       119,624
Incremental Cost
Building                                                                         76                          799         1,595           798             0             0             0             0             0
Vehicles                                                                         14                          IS[           303           151             0             0             0             0             0
ENuip. and fumiture                                                              17                          179           357           t79             0             0             0             0             0
Staffrain. & TA                                                                  35                          146           292           438           594             0             0             0             0
Training and placement                               Y/lPwon                   l,924                       7,661        15,322        22,982        30,643             0             0             0             0
-interProvince                                     Y/Pson                   2,000                        6,552        13,104        19.656        26,208             0             0             0             0
-Within Ponvince                                   Yl'son                    1,200                       1,109         2,219         3,326         4,435             0             0             0             0
RIecturent cost
-Management                                        Yuan                        28                          11S          236           354           472             0              0             0             0
-Uiving ,rp.[(%ofincomne)                          Yuan                       50%                        8,473        24,922        48,349        77,756        70,778        63,800        59,812        59,812
Tot cost                                                                                                  17,526        43,026        73,250       109,454        70,778        63,800        59,912         59,812
T"afee (                             2%  )                                                                   339           997          1,934        3,ttO         2,831         2,552          2,392         2,392
Incremena ah flow                                                                                         (917.7)       5,920.5      21,512.8      42,947.0      67,946.7      61,247.7      57,419.7      57,419.7
Pay back tothe progenrn(  of inwee)                                              25%                      4,236.7      12,460.9      24,174.1      38,877.9      35,38S.9      31,899.9      29,906.1      29,906.1
Frtmets net cash flow
-TOta                                                                                                  (5,154.4)     (6,6403)      (2,661.3)      4,069.1      32,557.8      29,347.9      27,513.6      27,513.6
-Incranentl                                                                                            (5,154.4)     (6,640.3)     (2,661.3)      4,069.t      32,557.8      29,3479       27,513.6      27,5t3.6
IRK                                                   6g%                                                (5,154.4)     (6,640.3)     (2,6613)       4,0691.      32,557.S      29,347.9      27,513.6      27,513.6
\a job surs,hning rte is assumed to be 85%/ S0%, 70f. and 60f%, nd stal ied aftetwatds.



CHINA
Qimmhb  Isu~  room y Reimmi.. -ri
Rqpmtdh vi  Mada
Table 12: Lame Mebilty
Economic Cent md Be,efit
(RMB Yumu)
Projec Yeaw
Unit
Unit                      Value         WOP            Yrl           Yr2           Yr3           Yr4           YrS           Yr6           Yr7         Yr6-20
Acwmnulive Luborers Out-mwved Sa
-Inter Provln                                                  Pson                             0            2.2           8.2          I5.9          25.6          233           21,0          19.7           19.7
-WithinProvince                                                Pison                            0            0.5           2.3           4.5           7.2           66            5.9           5.5           5.5
TOl                                                                                              0            3.6          10 5          20.4          32.8          29.3           26.9          25.2          25.2
Inremenal  ndefit
-Inw Prvince                                                 P'tn/yr          5,000             0        13,923        40,950        79,443       127,764       116,298       104.832        98,230        98,280
-Wi,n Proviwn                                                Psnr             3,t50             0         3.024         8,894        17,253        27,74s        25,25%        22,767        21,344        21,344
Total                                                                           4.747            0         16.947        49,544       96,696        155.512       141,556       127,599       119,624       119,624
Incrmntenl Cost
mwiling                                                                          76                          7n          1,595           798             0             0             0             0             0
Vehidce                                                                          24                          151           303           '52             0             0             0             0             0
1qip. NdW fim re                                                                 17                          179           357           179             0             0             0             0             0
Stafir ain. A TA                                                                 35                          146           292           438          534              0             0             0             0
TmnigdplacMn                                         YIp'n                     1,524                       7,661        15,322        22,982        30,643             0             0             0             0
- r PrEvilnce                                      Y/Pson                   2,000                        6,552        13,104        19,656        26,208             0             0             0             0
-Wid,b Povince                                     Y/P`son                   1,200                       1,109         2,218         3,326         4,435             0             0             0             0
Recfent ce
-Munum                                             Yum                         28                          228           236           354          472              0             0             0             0
4jvieagp.(%of(n-e)                                 Yuan                       50%                        *,473        24,922        48,348        77,756        70.771        63.800        59,U12        59,812
Totl cet                                                                                                  17,526        43.026        73,250       109,454        70,778        63,00        59,812         59,812
Tmrne                                    )
reinanlca.h flow                                                                                           (571.8)      6,817.4      23,446.7      46,057.2      70,777.8      63,799.7      59,812.2      59,812.2
Pmybhack iniunpbmnm(% oficms)                                                    25%                      4,236.7      12,460.9      24,174.1      38,877.9      35,338.9      31,899.6      29,906.1      29,906.1 2
Fwwe nad cob now o
-TOWd                                                                                                  (4,15.5)     (5,643.5)      (727.4)       7,179.3      35,388.9     31,899.8       29,906.1      29,906.2                     tD
* 1_acraninuaal                                                                                        (4,815.5)     (5,643.5)      (727.4)       7,179.3      35,3188.9     31,899.       29,906.1      29,906.1                     X
IRR                         U0%                                                                          (4.815.5)     (5,643.5)      (727.4)       7,179.3      15,388.9      32,899.8      29,906.1      29,906.1
\a Job  _ning atm is  _md iD be 85%, 80X. 70% md 60X md asbizd ahwww&,



-150-                                                          Annex &
Qiaba Metai. Pieet_ fldt   PrJt
R-   Via Midd
Tbok 13 Fle.a Cost mdBaedii
(R0.43 Yin)
Poject Yea.
1              2             3             4            5             6             7             0           9-20
Incremental PMi  Vae
Com                                                          5,483          16302         2s,473        41.996       52,229        57,063        58,961        59.,t2        59,502
Whil                                                             0           3,145         6,919        10,944       14,963        17,105        17,606        17,706        17.706
Potato                                                       3,065           7,661        12,259        16,355        19,613       20,226        20.226        20,226        20M226
Tre aups
Melbey                                                           0           7,204        21,611        46,S24       64,S33        72,037        72o37         72,037        72.037
Walmot                                                           0               0             0            0         5,000        13,000        29.250        40.000        4,750
Lesalocks
Conic                                                        4.400          17,710        26,620        26,620       26,620        26.620        26,620        26.620        26,620
(Soat                                                            0          20,736        41.796        41,796       41,796        41,796        41,796        41,796        41,796
Pig                                                         44,800          37,360        07,360        B7,360       07,360        07360         37,360        37,360         7.360
Labeeeobrilty                                                  1,695           0,374        24,722       36,622        94,204       I.403         142,154      130,739       122,14
Tot (l)                                                     59.443         160,492      249,760       329,016       406.623       461,614      496,010       496,036       496,311
inO    t  Ptond.o COls
Tsmdolg                                                       55,300          33,380        53,300       55,308        22,155            0
CutO-mmilarry fodder                                           3,292              0             0             0            0             0
Mubary/io0,oe                                                 15,309          15,309        7,655             0             0            0
Wahet                                                           777             777           971             0            0             0
cattle                                                         2,033           2,033            0             0            0             0
Cloa                                                           2,957           3,003            0             0            0             0
Pig                                                           12.600          11,970            0             o            0             0
L.eblooblllty                                                  ,200          16,575       24,480        32,400            0             0
Total (2)                                                  102,643         105,054       00.501        07,700        22,155            0
2. Ion 00tal Wontk   Capital Coal
16e,0t me: (~       10%      )
Coc                                                            24             139           16S           197          197           197           197           197           197
Wbeat                                                           0              45            70           so            so            s0            so            *0           so
Po019                                                          30              91            91           91            91            91            91            91            91
Tee aps
Mulberry                                                        0               0           144          432           432           432           432          432           432
Walmoo                                                          0               0             0            0             O             0            75            75            75
Lhe6oda
camle                                                           0              27            27           27            27            27            27            27            27
otoal                                                           0              11            11            11           11            11            11            11           1I
Pis                                                             3               3             3             3            3             3             3             3             3
Labor mobhllty                                                  047           2,492         4,835         7,776        7,070         6,300         5,.91         5.901         5,90
Toa (3)                                                       904            2,0o        5,349         S,617         7,919         7.222        6,9si         6,0s91        6,09
3 inauttti ina6g cowe
Crops
Cmn                                                          1,544          4,832         S,120        10.392        11.737        11,418        10.402        9."5          9."5
Weat                                                            0            1,402        2,869         4,256         5,643        6,141         6.103         6,103         6.103
peto                                                         1,260           3,474        5,239         7,004         0,014         7.946        7,767         7,767         7,767
Tre aep
Mubeny                                                       9.770          14,S10       15.145        12.960        13,050        13.030        13,050       13,050        13,050
Waim                                                         5,612          7,170         10.011        5.030        5,148          3.413        3,550         5,50S         5,550
LivcKcb
CodIe                                                       18,205         23,320        10,230        10,230        10.230        10,230       10.230        10,230        10,230
Goat                                                        21,720         29,5010       15,150        15,15        15.153 13,153              15,133        10,153        15,153
Pig                                                         37,500          73,125       73,129        73,125        73,123        73.125       73,125        73.125        73.125
Labor oblllty                                                 2,516           9.902        25.110       47,397        63,4s5        71.266        65,395        61.407        59,812
Total (4)                                                  99.134         167,710       165,007       185,559      205,5313      213,U16       206,706       202,392      200,797
Tes s                  (            5%  )                     2,921           0,173        11.746        14,752       17,503        19,29         20,536        20,17         21,156
abew taa @1               2%
Tota Cost                                                   204,602         283,746       270.603      296,716       253,16S       240,327       234,220       230,160      223,051
NetBendo6it                                                 (145,160)      (115,254)      (20,044)       32,301      153.455       221,2S        261,790      2X5s6t         267,960
(6O1-5)                                                          _               _             _             _            _             _             _             _ 
NiPV                            072,300
iRR                                33%



-151-                                                                      Annex 9
QObb  M_artad Pm.y Rsduei_doP r.njt
ePmt1re VUil*p Moed
Tble 14: P, melade
ye.Y
WOP               I               2            3             4             s            6             7             a           9-20
Com                                          0,512          s3,995         96,814       10n,995       122.508       132,741       137,5S0      139,473       140,014       140,014
Whet                                        49,909         49,980          53,045        56,gl9        60,944       64,96s        67,005        67,596        67,606        67,606
Potao                                       57,000          60,065          64,661       69,258        73,055        76,613        77,226       77,226        77.226        77.226
Tre cp
Mulberry                                    14,407          14,407          21,611       36,019        61,231        79,240       96,446        36444         36,444 66.444
Walnat                                      23,000          25,000         25,000        25,000        25,000        30,000       39,000        54,20         65.000        73.750
Lhlodocks
Coke                                        110,590        122.990         136,300      145,210       143,210       145,210       145,210      143,210       145,210       145,210
Goat                                        51,956          11,956         32,692        53,752       53,752        53,752        53,752        53,752        53.752        53,752
Pig                                        219,912         264,712        307,272       307,272       307,272       307,272      307,272       307,272       307,272       307,27
Lab. tmobli                                        0           1,695          9,374        24,722        56,622       94,204       126.40)       142,134       130,789       122,814
Subiceta (1)                                 577,277        636,720         745,769       827.037      906,293       993,900      1,038,991    1.073,297     1,073,313     1,074,088
bVoa Coat
cmos                                        59,146         60,749          64,17S        67,609        69,971        71374        71.039        69,973        69,544        69U546
Wheat                                       32.9            32995           34.565       36,040        37,514        3s,9n9       39,521        39,493        39,493        39,493
Powlo                                       52,495          53,314          56,165       39,052        59,940        61,036       60,996        60,901        60,901        60,301
MWKaqy                                       4,99           13,979          19.126        19,619       17.539        17,657        17.657        17,657       17,607        17,657
Walno                                        5,273          10,973          12,591       15,504        10,511        10,646        11,006       11,601        11,091        11,091
CoOl                                        67.260           5,465         90o,560       77,490        77,490        77,490       77,490        77,490        77,490        77,490
GMa                                          9,471          31,199         39,059        24,629        24,629        24,629       24,629        24,629        24,629        24,629
Pig                                        224,400         261,900         297,525      297,523       297,525       297,525      297,325       297,525       297,525       297,525
Labor mybt                                         0          2,516           9,902        25,110       47,397        63,a48        71,266        65,393        61,407        59,312
Stoa (2)                                     453,233        553,598         623,690       621,376      642.515       662,330       671,117       664,032       659,618      653,023
TuAeoa                              5%        20.064         31,936          37,238        41,332       45,315        49,195        51,945        53,664        53,666        53,704
e    Rqmy-                                                                                                                                       102,643       103,054        30,301
Iateeet Payment                     0%                            0               0            0             0             0             0            0             0             0
Nei iecwtm                                    93,175         51,295          94,790      I1,109         21S,464      271.37s       315,829       252.949       234,975       273,60
Othot Intomte h/                              59.300         94.000          54,000        94,000        34,000       04,900        94.000        34,000        96,000        94,000
Labordays reqere
Corn                                         6,120          6,120           6,120         6,120         6,120         6,120        6,120         6.120         6,120         6,120
Wheal                                        3,750          3,750            3,750        3,750         3,750         3,750        3,750         3,750         3,750         3,750
Potato                                       4.300           4,300          4,500         4,500         4.0           4,500        4,500         4,500         4,50W         4,500
Tree stops
N4balbety                                      240            320             990           S1o          560           540           540           540           340          540
Waltt                                          500            720             8O            935          760           770           7s0           793           793          793
Liveoch
cat                                           9,850          9,400           9,950        9,930         9.950         9,950        9,950         9,950         9,950         9,930
Goal                                          1,230          1,970          2,520         2,520         2.526         2.526        2.526         2,520         2,52D         2.520
Pig                                         26.050          31,050          33,900       33,900        33,900        33,900       33,900        33,900        33,900        33,900
Total labr                                  53,240         59,230          62,.20        62,495       62,060        62,050        62,060        62,073       62,073        62,073
PMc1tahicome                                    131            161             201          295           360           424           476          401           404           426
Pe capeL. pain prdcn                             157            140             326          361           337           337           337          317           397           337
Retumsto Per LA.brDay                             .3            7.4             S.0           9.3          10.3          11.2         11.9          12.6          12.7         12.7
Total bv_ead.porpa (YPra)
lrahk l1bo mbOlky                                              4U
E-lude labor mobiDly                                           336



-152-                                                      Annex 9
CHINA
Qia1b, Mcosta h Pely Redud     Prejet
RepresessaWr VillF Model
Table 13: Rent aed Coi4 Rlct ray
(110 yiue)
Vililge
Al Full Deoelopmet
hn_ nai   Inicm.                                                                339
Less:
Imputed Value, Family Labor b                                                    53
lmputed Value, Mamagement Seive d                                                34
ImptedRean- I OOw    Cupial d                                                     17
Albweace for RaIkJUcetlOty c/                                                    34
Slbtotal                                                                       130
poject Rain                                                                     201
poJect Cihrgeo
Pebacbk H labor nobl. progamnn ad                                               23
Toa and ral V2 1
Tot Chagee                                                                      44
kwn Recoray Indxa gI                                                             22%
Ding PooJeWs Life l
Phjeel Resi                                                                     Y71
Projec Cla
Paybad to lbor mobil. pmgmni dt                                                 *9
Taese f/                                                                       13I
bloet ad Loan Repaymnt                                                         204
Total CMe%e                                                                    423
Roat Reoveay loden g/                                                            49%
Ptjneet Comm1 V
hdnlvoe of fttani' eootrbtiton                                                1,710
Exhisnve of f tae corlbution                                                  1.197
ComlRtcovay  ndaj/                                                               36%
ad Btd on dhe inarumita inome of thtn fnilieU  In Ihe fanm model analysi. before
deadcIng    e p 4jo diag  and d4eb revice
bi Based an nre ia lIbor valaed at ntmt wage.
efTan pocat of i-rontallacomet.
dl Five pemaent of neo incrmuinal iner
ed Tbe  bccfdly pIced llobceri oield peybwk the p,eal           p       in rte years,
3 Five peran for eop ad liveock am paoet for fEdit produtoiL
gi Projct  egu a  a p*canla  of prject rem.
iV Expend u prese anvt   tver 2ZOyeer pnojed le.discoeOd at ir
V NPV of l'otali i,von.
y Prnject cehieg  a paentor  of peed eOSL



CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
TVE - Agroprocessing
Table 16: Shaanxi Ankang Tea Processing Factory
Financial Cash Flow
Year
Item\Year                                                    1           2            3            4            5           6            7            8         9-20
1. Cash In-flow
1.1 Sales revenue                                  1,920,000    3,072,000    3,840,000    3,840,000    3,840,000    3,840,000    3,840,000    3,840,000    3,840,000
1.2 Fixed asset residule
1.3 Working capital salvage
2. Cash Out-flow
2.1 Fixed assets investment                        1.659.660
Civil works                                     1,052,160
Equipment                                        607,500
2.1 Working capital                                1-032-000
2.3 Operating expenses                             1,230,502    1,664,067    1,953,111    1,953,111    1,953,111   1,953,111    1,953,111    1,953,111    1,953,111
2.4 Value-added tax and surcharge                    110,920      177,472     221,840      221,840      221,840      221,840     221,840      221,840      221,840
(1) Value-added Taxes                                100,836     161,338      201,673      201,673      201,673     201,673      201,673      201,673      201,673
Sales (agro. prod.)                  7%        138,240      221,184     276,480      276,480      276,480      276,480      276,480     276,480      276,480
Purchase raw material                5%         28,800       46,080       57,600      57,600       57,600       57,600       57,600       57,600      57,600
Purchase indust. material           17%          8,604       13,766       17,207      17,207       17,207       17,207       17,207       17,207      17,207
(2) Education surcharge (3% VAT)          3%          3,025        4,840        6,050        6,050        6,050       6,050        6,050        6,050        6,050
(3) City maintenance & Const. (7% VAT)    7%          7,059        11,294      14,117       14,117       14,117       14,117      14,117       14,117       14,117
2.5 Depreciation                                          0       82,983       82,983       82,983       82,983       82,983      82,983       82,983       82,983
2.6 Interest expenses(FA)@:             9.18%        152,357      152,357     137,121      121,885      106,650       91,414      76,178       60,943       45,707
2.7 Interest expenses (WC) @:             10%        103,200      103,200     103,200      103,200      103,200      103,200      103,200     103,200      103,200
3. Before Tax Cash Flow                             (2,368,639)    891,921    1,341,745    1,356,980    1,372,216    1,387,452    1,402,687    1,417,923    1,433,159
4. Income Tax @:                           33%              0      294,334      442,776      447,803     452,831      457,859      462,887      467,915     472,942
5. After Tax Cashflow                              (2,368,639)     597,587      898,969     909,177      919,385      929,593      939,800      950,008     960,216
Principal repaid (@11lOyrs equal install.)                    165,966      165,966      165,966      165,966     165,966      165,966      165,966      165,966        t
(remaining:)            1,659,660    1,493,694    1,327,728    1,161,762     995,796      829,830     663,864      497,898      331,932
6. Net Cash Flow Without Project
7. Net Incremental Cash Flow                        (2,368,639)    431,621      733,003      743,211     753,419      763,627      773,834      784,042     794,250
NPV (@ 12%)                      3,090,692
IRR                                   29%



CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
TVE - Agroprocessing
Table 17: Shaanxi Ziyang Magic Taro Processing Factory
Financial Cash Flow
Year
Item\Year                                               1           2           3            4           5            6           7           8         9-20
1. Cash In-flow
1.1 Sales revenue                                    0    6,000,000    6,000,000    6,000,000    6,000,000    6,000,000    6,000,000    6,000,000    6,000,000
1.2 Fixed asset residule
1.3 Working capital salvage
2. Cash Out-flow
2.1 Fixed assets investment                    2,600,000
2.1 Working capital                             450,000           0
2.3 Operating expenses                                0    3,542,200    3,542,200    3,542,200    3,542,200    3,542,200    3,542,200    3,542,200    3,542,200
2.4 Value-added tax and surcharge                     0     289,102      289,102     289,102      289,102     289,102     289,102      289,102     289,102
(1) Value-added Taxes                                0      262,820      262,820     262,820      262,820     262,820     262,820      262,820     262,820
Sales (agro. prod.)              7%             0      432,000     432,000      432,000     432,000     432,000      432,000     432,000     432,000
Purchase raw material (agro. pro  5%            0      166,400     166,400      166,400     166,400      166,400     166,400     166,400      166,400
Purchase indust. material       17%             0        2,780       2,780        2,780       2,780       2,780        2,780       2,780       2,780
(2) Education surcharge (3% of VAT)   3%             0        7,885        7,885       7,885       7,885        7,885       7,885       7,885        7,885
(3) City maintenance & Const. (7% V   7%             0       18,397       18,397      18,397       18,397      18,397      18,397       18,397      18,397
2.5  Depreciation                                      0      130,000     130,000      130,000     130,000      130,000     130,000     130,000      130,000
2.6  Interestexpenses(FA) 3:         9.18%        238,680     238,680     214,812      190,944     167,076     143,208      119,340      95,472      71,604
2.7  Interest expenses (WC) @:         10%         45,000      45,000      45,000       45,000      45,000      45,000       45,000      45,000      45,000
3. Before Tax Cash Flow                        (3,333,680)   1,755,018    1,778,886    1,802,754    1,826,622    1,850,490    1,874,358    1,898,226    1,922,094
4. Income Tax@:                        33%             0      579,156     587,032      594,909     602,785     610,662      618,538     626,415     634,291
5. After Tax Cashflow                          (3,333,680)   1,175,862    1,191,854    1,207,845    1,223,837    1,239,828    1,255,820    1,271,811    1,287,803
Principal repaid (@ 10 yrs equal install.)               260,000     260,000      260,000     260,000      260,000     260,000     260,000      260,000
(remaining:)           2,600,000    2,600,000    2,340,000    2,080,000    1,820,000    1,560,000    1,300,000    1,040,000  780,000
6. Net Cash Flow Without Project
7. Net Incremental Cash Flow                   (3,333,680)    915,862     931,854     947,845      963,837     979,828      995,820    1,011,811    1,027,803
NPV (0 12/)                  4,033,579
IRR                               29%



CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
TVE - Agroprocessing
Table I 8: Ningxia Xiji Potato Starch Processing Factory
Financial Cash Flow
Year
Item\Year                                                  1           2            3            4            5            6            7            8          9-20
1. Cash In-flow
1.1 Sales revenue                                       0   20,800,000   26,000,000   26,000,000   26,000,000   26,000,000   26,000,000   26,000,000   26,000,000
1.2 Fixed asset residule
1.3 Working capital salvage
2. Cash Out-flow
2.1 Fixed assets investment                     11,585,400
2.1 Working capital                                500,000    1,130,800
2.3 Operating expenses                                       14,616,406    17,121,656    16,997,956    16,997,956    16,997,956   16,997,956    16,997,956    16,997,956
2.4 Value-added tax and surcharge                       0      930,994     1,163,743    1,163,743    1,163,743    1,163,743    1,163,743    1,163,743    1,163,743
(I) Value-added Taxes                                   0      846,358     1,057,948    1,057,948    1,057,948    1,057,948    1,057,948    1,057,948    1,057,948
Sales (agro. prod.)               7%              0     1,497,600    1,872,000    1,872,000    1,872,000    1,872,000    1,872,000    1,872,000    1,872,000
Purchase raw material              5%             0       559,000     698,750       698,750      698,750      698,750     698,750      698,750      698,750
Purchase indust. material         17%             0        92,242      115,302      115,302      115,302      115,302      115,302      115,302      115,302
(2) Education surcharge (3% of VAT)                     0       25,391       31,738       31,738       31,738       31,738       31,738       31,738       31,738
(3) City maintenance & Const. (7% VAT)                  0       59,245       74,056       74,056       74,056       74,056       74,056       74,056       74,056
2.5 Depreciation                                        0      579,270      579,270      579,270      579,270      579,270      579,270      579,270      579,270
2.6 Interestexpenses(FA)@:            9.18%      1,063,540    1,063,540     987,573      911,605      835,638      759,671      683,704      607,737      531,770
2.7 Interest expenses(WC) :            10%         50,000       163,080     163,080       163,080     163,080      163,080      163,080      163,080      163,080
3. Before Tax Cash Flow                          (13,198,940)   2,315,910    5,984,679   6,184,346    6,260,313    6,336,280    6,412,247    6,488,214    6,564,182
4. IncomeTax  :                          33%              0      764,250    1,974,944    2,040,834    2,065,903    2,090,972    2,116,042    2,141,111    2,166,180
5. After Tax Cashtlow                            (13,198,940)    1,551,660    4,009,735    4,143,512    4,194,410    4,245,308    4,296,206    4,347,104    4,398,002
Principal repaid (@ 14 yrs equal install.)                  827,529      827,529      827,529      827,529      827,529      827,529      827,529      827,529
(Temaining:)            11,585,400    10,757,871  9,930,343    9,102,814    8,275,286    7,447,757    6,620,229    5,792,700    4,965,171
6. Net Cash Flow Without Project
7. Net Incremental Cash Flow                     (13,198,940)    724,131    3,182,206    3,315,983    3,366,881    3,417,779    3,468,677    3,519,575    3,570,473
NPV (( 12%)                    9,904,526
IRR                                 22%X



CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
TVE - Mining & Processing
Table 19: Shaanxi Zhenan Sulphuric Barium Processing Factory
Financial Cash Flow
Year
Item\Year                                                1           2           3            4            5           6            7           8         9-10
1. Cash In-flow
1.1 Sales revenue                                     0    4,330,899   10,503,127   14,897,663   14,897,663   14,897,663   14,897.663   14,897,663   14,897,663
1.2 Fixed asset residule
1.3 Working capital salvage
2. Cash Out-flow
2.1 Fixed assets investment                    4,500,000    3,731,623
2.1 Working capital                            2,743,000           0
2.3 Operating expenses                          1,429,400    2,844,251    4,633,790    5,649,397    5,649,397    5,649,397    5,649,397    5,649,397    5,649,397
2.4 Value-added tax and surcharge                     0      236,778      422,706     599,553      599,553      599,553     599,553      599,553     599,553
(1) Value-added Taxes                                 0      215,253      384,278     545,048      545,048     545,04S      545,04S     545,048      545,04S
Sales                            7%              0      311,825     756,225    1,072,632    1,072,632    1,072,632    1,072,632    1,072,632    1,072,632
Purchase raw material (minerals  5%              0        4,926      16,946       24,036      24,036       24,036      24,036       24,036       24,036
Purchase indust. material       17%             0        91,646     355,001      503,548     503,548      503,548     503,548      503,548      503,548
(2) Education surcharge (3%ofVAT)      3%             0        6,458       11,528      16,351       16,351      16,351       16,351      16,351       16,351
(3) City maintenance & Const. (7% VA   7%             0       15,068       26,899      38,153       38,153      38,153       38,153      38,153       38,153
2.5  Depreciation                                       0      411,581     411,581      411,581     411,581      411,581     411,581      411,581      411,581
2.6  Interestexpenses(FA) :           9.18%       413,100      755,663     755,663      701,687     647,711      593,735      539,759     485,783      431,807
2.7  Interest expenses (WC) @:          10%       274,300      274,300     274,300      274,300     274,300      274,300      274,300     274,300      274,300
3. Before Tax Cash Flow                         (9,359,800)  (3,923,297)   4,005,087    7,261,144    7,315,120    7,369,096    7,423,072    7,477,048    7,531,024
4. Income Tax @:                        33%             0           0    1,321,679    2,396,178    2,413,990    2,431,802    2,449,614    2,467,426    2,485,238
5. After Tax Cashflow                           (9,359,800)  (3,923,297)   2,683,408    4,864,967    4,901,131    4,937,295    4,973,458    5,009,622    5,045,786
Principal repaid (@ 14 yrs equal install.)                             587,973     587,973      587,973     587,973      587,973     587,973      587,973
(remaining:)            4,500,000    8,231,623    8,231,623    7,643,650    7,055,677    6,467,704    5,879,731    5,291,758    4,703,785
6. Net Cash Flow Without Project                                                                                                                                     z
7. Net Incremental Cash Flow                    (9,359,800)  (3,923,297)   2,095,435    4,276,994    4,313,15S    4,349,321    4,385,485    4,421,649    4,457,813    X
NPV (@ 12%)                  13,339,703
IRR                                25%



CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Table 20: Summary of Financial Rate of Return
Base Case       Investment up      Revenue down    Operating Cost up
20%                10%                10%
Whole Village Program                   38%                33%               30%                 33%
Grain Crops
-Corn                                47%               39%                40%                45%
-Wheat                               12%                9%                 9%                11%
-Potato                              16%                12%               12%                14%
Tree Crops
-Mulberry                            49%               45%                44%                46%
-Walnut                             37%                37%                35%                35%
Livestock
-Catttle                            47%                46%                38%                39%                                    l
-Goat                               44%                42%                37%                38%                                   ,,
-Pig                                67%                50%                 2%                 9%                                    l
Labor mobility                        34%                31%                26%                29%
TVE Development
Tea processing                        29%                24%                20%                24%
Magic taro processing                 29%                23%                19%                23%
Potato starch processing              22%                17%                9%                 15%
Sulphuric Barium                      25%                21%                20%                22%



CHINA
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Table 21: Summary of Economic Rate of Return
Base Case       Investment up      Revenue down    Operating Cost up
20%                10%                10%
Whole Village Program                   43%                38%                34%                37%
Grain Crops
-Corn                                50%               41%                43%                49%
-Wheat                               13%                10%               10%                 12%
-Potato                              17%                13%               13%                 15%
Tree Crops
-Mulberry                            51%               48%                46%                49%
-Walnut                              38%               37%                35%                36%
Livestock
-Catttle                             52%               50%                42%                43%                                    l
-Goat                               47%                46%                40%                42%                                   ,l
-Pig                                138%               93%                29%                39%                                    l
Labor mobility                        43%                39%                35%                38%
TVE Development
Tea processing                        58%                50%                41%                48%
Magic taro processing                 71%                59%                52%                60%
Potato starch processing              47%                39%                27%                35%
Sulphuric Barium                      50%                45%                42%                46%
(D



- 159 -
Annex 10
CHINA:
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Proposed Bank Group Supervision Input
Vision of a Community at Project Full Development
1.    After project completion, average annual per capita income in a typical project
community would increase to more than the nationally defined absolute poverty line of Y 320 (in
constant 1992 prices). At least 10 percent of project villagers would gain access to off-farm
employment opportunities through labor mobility programs and TVE development. About 780
administrative villages (or 57 percent of the remaining currently without access to road) would
be connected by a basic (Class IV) road to the existing network of county roads. About 116,000
households in 786 administrative villages would benefit by electrification schemes (all
administrative villages would be provided with electricity at the end of the project). The village
would most likely have access to one of the 34 strategically placed farmers markets which would
provide affordable inputs and profitable outlets for products. In four out of five households, one
member would master one or two new farming skills.  Terracing, irrigation schemes,
improvement of low-yield fields, and extension programs would be main factors contributing to
expected yield increases of about 40 percent for wheat, 35 percent for corn, 20 percent for potato,
and 40 percent increase in corn stalk for fodder use. Most project households would take part in
the planting and maintenance of tree and bush species on steeply sloped hillsides and wastelands,
and nearly two-thirds of project households would undertake animal breeding and fattening
activities. The capacity of village organizations to strategize and to manage their own resources
would be strengthened through the development and use of a participatory (including women and
minorities) integrated village development planning system.
2.   In addition, the health and education programs undertaken in parallel with the project
would complement the improvements in employment opportunities, infrastructure and
agriculture production techniques. Through the establishment and reconstruction of village
teaching points, primary school enrollment and completion rates would approximate the
provincial averages of that time. The existing village health care clinic would be strengthened
or, if none existed, one would be built. Each clinic would receive at least one new village health
aide and salary increments would be provided to qualified health aides. Infant mortality rates
would be reduced from more than 10 percent at present to no more than 5 percent at full
development, and the maternal mortality ratio would be reduced by more than 30 percent. Safe
drinking water would be provided to 60 percent of the 30 percent remaining population currently
without safe drinking water, thus reducing diarrheal and water-related diseases and decreasing
the time and labor women are required to spend supplying water for their families and livestock.



- 160 -
Annex 1O
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Proposed Bank Group Supervision Input
Proposed                              Activities                            Special             |Input
date                                                                    I Skills                 s/wl
4/97      Prenegotiation Discussion. Review Preliminary Designs and Bidding    TM, procuremt,     15
Docs. Review pilot village activities. Review training plan for  labor, agriculture,
counterpart staff. Review technical assistance plan (all components)  TVE, environmt.
and research plans for Land and Farmer Development component.
7/97      I st Supervision and Project Launch Workshop for project staff on  TM, M&E,             15
procurement, disbursement, financial management, Special Account,   procuremt
M&E, reporting, etc. Review PMO Terms of Reference for staff   education, labor,
positions.                                                     agric.,
environmt.
9/97      Review bids for vehicles, equipment, materials and services. Review  TM, M&E,           10
analyses plans for labor mobility and poverty monitoring. Interview  procuremt
labor mobility component parnicipants.
12/97     2nd Supervision Mission: Review staffing progress. Review       TM, education, labor,    15
management training plan. Review design of PMO management      M&E, agric.,
information system. Review selection criteria for labor mobility and  engineer
microcredit candidates. Review progress of village activities and
education programs
4/98      3rd Supervision Mission: Review TVE design and construction    TM, engineer, labor,     10
progress. Review institutional arrangements and physical progress for  economist, agric.
each component. Review FCPMC's proposed component
activity/procedure adjustments.
7/98      4th Supervision Mission: Review component progress, labor mobility   TM, M&E, labor,    10
and poverty monitoring reports. Interview labor mobility component    engineer, education,
participants. Review progress of the parelle education programs.  agric.
3/99      Midterm Review: Review of implementation progress and prospects,    TM, financial,      28
including village level impact, effects on women and indigenous  procuremt, engin.,
peoples (all components). Review FCPMC proposal for institutional    labor, TVE,
arrangement and specific component adjustments. Review audit   environmt., agric.,
results and environmental effects of project activities. Review health    livestock., education,
and education programs.                                        health
10/98     5th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress, labor    TM. education, labor,   10
mobility and poverty monitoring reports, discussions with ministries    health, agric., TVE,
and bureaus responsible for component implementation. Review of    engineer
dissemination and marketing strategies for labor mobility and TVE
components.                                                                                   l
1/ Staff weeks reflect office and mission time spent on project supervision.



- 161 -
Annex IO
Proposed                                Activities                                   Special          Input
Date                                                                               Skills           S/W2
3/99      6th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress. labor      TM, M&E, labor,          10
mobility & poverty monitoring reports, discussions with ministries  procuremt, agric.,
and bureaus responsible for component implementation. Review of  TVE, agri. engineer
agriculture research results and incorporation into component
activities.
10/99      7th Supervision Mission: Review progress of all project components    TM, education, labor,  10
and education and health programs. Review labor mobility and     health, agric., M&E,
poverty monit. reports. Review project audit report.             ag. engineer
3/2000     8th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress, monitoring   TM, M&E, labor,        10
reports, discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible for  procuremt, agric.,
component implementation. Interview labor mobility component     TVE, agri. engineer
participants.
10/2000     9th Supervision Mission: Review progress of all components and   TM, education, labor,     10
health and education programs; review monitoring reports,        health, agric., M&E,
discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible for component  ag. engineer
implementation.                                                                                  l
3/2001      10th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress.          TM, M&E, labor,          10
monitoring reports. discussions with ministries and bureaus      procuremt, agric.,
responsible for component implementation. Review of project audit  TVE, agri. engineer
report.
10/2001     11th Supervision Mission: Review progress of all components and  TM, education, labor,     10
health and education programs; review monitoring reports,        health, agric., M&E,
discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible for component  ag. engineer,
implementation.. Interview labor mobility component participants.  procurement
3/2002     Final Supervision Mission: Final stage review of progress of      TM, M&E,edu, hth.,       12
individual components, institutional arrangements, progress of health   labor, procuremt,
and edu. programs, and initial preparation for PCR.              agric., TVE, engin.
10/2003     Project Completion Mission: Review and compile project data,     TM, selected techn.       15
evaluate results, impacts and benefits.                          and evalu. specialists
10/2003     Review Project Completion Report results                          TM, selected techn.      20
and evalu. specialists
Total Supervision Input (staff-weeks)                                                       |  220
Specialized acronyms:
TM      = task manager                     procure           = procurement specialist
educ    = primary education specialist     livestock = animal husbandry specialist
agric    = land and farmer                 labor             = labor mobility specialist
development specialist            health           = public health care specialist
anthro   = social anthropologist            environmt        = environmental specialist
XI Staff weeks reflect office and mission time spent on project supervision.



- 162 -
Annex 10
CHINA: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Key Monitoring Indicators
FULL DEV.   REPORT
INDICATORS                              TARGETS         DATE
Labor Mobility                                                                                  l
Number of project area surplus laborers attending orientation sessions    154,700 Reports on
Number of placements by market (county, provincial, interprovincial)      154,700  June 30 &
Number of monitoring visits to enterprises with surplus laborers                      Dec. 30
Number of accidents, instances of unsafe working/dormitory conditions               each year
Rate of first one-year contract completion, rate of renewed contracts        75%
Number of surplus laborers who cover costs within 2 years of placement       75%
Outcome Indicators                                                                         Initial
Number of households aware of off-farm employment opportunities           574,000     & final
Average income levels of surplus laborers placed by the project (related  Y4,000-Y6,000
indicators for women and ethnic minorities)                           per year
Average off-farm income increase for participating households      Y1,000 per year
Land and Farmer Development
Number of villages that have started implementation                         2,941  Reports on
Number of households received partial credit for all selected activities  574,160  June 30 &
Land area with completed food/cash crop establishment                   82,790 ha.    Dec. 30
Land area prepared for tree crop plantation                              38,900 ha  each year
Number of animals purchased by households                               1.1 million
Number of farmers and person days in training and extention activities  0.2/1.4 million
Number of households and villages taking part in demonstration network  2,185/1,000
[Outcome Indicators                                                                        Initial
Number of farmers who have mastered one new agricultural production skill  143,000    & final
Per capita grain production increase for participating households      73 kg./ year
Per capita number of livestock (standard conversion)
for participating households
Per capita net household income increase for participating households   Y400/year           l
Rural Infrastructure
Number of rural works constructed (by type of work)               Table 3, Annex 5 Reports on
Per unit construction costs (for each type of work)                                June 30 &
Dec. 30
|Outcome Indicators                                                                     each year
Number of villagers in number of villages served with safe water supply  466,000/1680  Initial
Number of villages connected to rural road network                            780     & fmal
Number of families provided with electricity supply                       116,000
Number of enterprises provided with electricity supply
Command area served by irrigation facilities                            13,850 ha.



- 163 -
Annex 10
Rural Enterprise Development
Cost perjob created                                                       Y15,000 Reports on
Number of low skill jobs (project area surplus laborers)                   33,850  June 30 &
Average income earned through backward linkages to project households                 Dec. 30
Standard financial indicators of rural enterprise profitability                     each year
Environmental accidents reported by enterprises, detected by PMO, EPB
Number of problems with working conditions and dormitories
Number of food processing enterprises meeting relevant national standards    90%
Number of farmers markets constructed                                          34
Outcome Indicators                                                                         Initial
Increased farmer awareness of input and output markets                                & final
Increase in annual off-farm income for participating households       Y500/person
Microfinance Component Monitoring Indicators
Input Indicators                                                                       Reports on
Percentage of new staff trained in extensive techniques and basic financial        June 30 &
management within three months of being hired                            80%     Dec. 30
All group leaders trained in leadership techniques before groups receive     90%   each year
loans
Number of households provided with basic information on project
financial services                                                       90%
Number of group meetings held to review regulations and responsibilities
before loans are disbursed                                               90%
Number of field visits by branch manager (on a quarterly basis)
Process Indicators
Internal audits performed every quarter                                      90%
Mangement information system providing data on financial indicators
and client outreach indicators through monthly reports                   90%
Financial planning system providing projections for loan funds required,
savings generated, and costs of delivering loans                         90%
Outcome Indicators
Number of groups holding regular meetings (at least twice a month)         > 90%       Initial
Number of groups with no installment repayment difficulties                > 90%      & final
Number of clients per staff member, number of groups per staff member    30-35/5-6
Annual independent external audit reports provided to branch management,
LGPR, and the Bank                                                      100%
Number of group members reporting higher household income due to
activities supported by project loans                                    80%



-164-                              Annex 11
China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.    REPORTS AND WORKING PAPERS RELATING TO POVERTY ISSUES
A. 1.  China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s. (World Bank Country Study,
1992)
A.2.  National 8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan, State Council's Leading Group on Poverty
Reduction of the State Council, 1994.
B.    PROJECT REPORTS AND STUDIES
B. 1.  "World Bank Preparation Mission's List of Principles and Objectives". Attachment 1
to the Second Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire, March 28, 1994.
B.2.  Feasibility Study Report: China Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction World Bank
Loan Project, compiled by Foreign Capital Project Management Center (FCPMC),
Leading Group for Poverty Reduction (LGPR) of the State Council, January 1997.
B.3.  Feasibility Study Report - Statistical Tables: China Qinba Mountains Poverty
Reduction World Bank Loan Project, compiled by the FCPMC of the LGPR,
September 1996.
B.4.  Technical Criteria & Allocation Criteria for Part of the Construction Project: China
Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction World Bank Project, by FCPMC of the LGPR.
B.5.  Feasibility Study of the Labor Mobility Sub-Project, by China Western Human
Resources Development Centre, January 1997.
B.6.  Microfinance & Reform of Poverty Alleviation and Development in China, by China
Western Human Resources Development Center, October 1996.
C.    PROVINCIAL REPORTS
C.1.  Sichuan Province
C.1.1. Sichuan Feasibility Study Report, by the World Bank Loan Project Mangement
Office (PMO) of the Sichuan Provincial Leading Group for Poverty Reduction,
September 16, 1996.
C. 1.2. Feasibility Study of Social Services (Education Subcomponent). by the Sichuan
PMO, April 16. 1996.
C. 1.3. Feasibility Study of Social Services (Health Subcomponent). by the Sichuan PMO,
April 16, 1996.
C.1.4. Component Feasibility Report of Rural Enterprises & Farmer Markets, by the
Sichuan PMO, April 16, 1996.
C 1. 5. Research Report on Commercial Feasibility & Poverty Reduction Effect of the Sub-
project of Sichuan Rural Enterprises & Farmer Products Trading Market, by the
Sichuan PMO.



-165-                              Annex 11
C. 1.6. A Complementary Material to the Sub-project of Rural Enterprises & Farmer
Products Trading Market in Sichuan. China, by the Sichuan PMO.
C. 1.7. Explanations for the Arrangements in Sichuan Project Area's Implementation
Program of the First Year. the Retroactive Plan and Implementation of the
Counterpart Funds, by the Sichuan PMO.
C.1.8. Estimates of Unit Investment, by the Sichuan PMO, January 1997.
C.2.  Shaanxi Province
C.2. 1. Shaanxi Project Area Feasibility Study Report, by the PMO of Shaanxi Province,
January 10, 1997.
C.2.2. Chart of Feasibility Study Report (One), by the PMO of Shaanxi Province, September
15,1996
C.2.3. Chart of Feasibility Study Report (Two), by the PMO of Shaanxi Province,
September 15,1996
C.2.4. Detailed Project Costs by Shaanxi Area and Component, by the PMO of Shaanxi
Province, January 10, 1997.
C.2.5. Shaanxi Project Area Retroactive Financing Program Plan, by the PMO of Shaanxi
Province, January 8, 1997.
C.2.6. Shaanxi Project Area Report on the Rural Enterprise Marketing Feasibility Study and
Poverty Reduction Effect Analysis, by the PMO of Shaanxi Province, January 8,
1997.
C.2.7. Shaanxi Project Area Brief Introduction of Project Adjustment and Completion, by
the PMO of Shaanxi Province, January 13, 1997.
C.2.8. Shaanxi Project Area Progress of Institution Building and Monitoring, by the PMO of
Shaanxi Province, January 8, 1997.
C.2.9. Shaanxi Project Area Procurement Plan, by the PMO of Shaanxi Province, January 8,
1997.
C.2. 10. Shaanxi Project Area Feasibility Study on Ankang Farmer Microfinance, by the PMO
of Shaanxi Province, January 8, 1997.
C.3.  Ningxia Province
C.3.1. Feasibility Study Report of the Project in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, by
the PMO of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, September 1996.
C.3.2. Tables Attached to Feasibility Report of the Project in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Region, by the PMO of Ningxia, September, 1996.
C.3.3. Implementation Program, by the PMO of Ningxia, September, 1996.
C.3. 4. Feasibility Report on Livestock Project in the Ningxia, by the PMO of Ningxia.
March 1996.
C.3.5. Report on the Agricultural Development Project in the Ningxia, by the PMO of
Ningxia, September 1996.
C.3.6. Report on the Crop Cultivation Project in the Ningxia, by the PMO of Ningxia,
September 1996.
C.3.7. Examine Report of Ningxia Rural Enterprise Project in the Ningxia, by the PMO of
Ningxia, September 1996.



-166-                                                                        Annex 12
China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Project County and Township Namelist
PROVINCE COUNTY=                                                          PROJECT TOWNSHIP
SICHtlAN
Xuanhan      Fankuai     Chenghu   Sandun         Dukou      Fengling   Nanping   Dongsheng  Guanshan  Sansheng   Qibei          Qishu
Longquan    Ziyou       Jichang     Fengcheng
Cangxi       Yonghe      Xingguan  Tianguan       Yanfeng    Wanan      Gaopo       Shuangshi  Longdong  Huangmao Yueshan
Chaotian    Xiaoan        Yudong    Shahe         Chenjia    Baiyang    Datan       Linxi      Wenan      Qingling   Pujia
Tongjiang    Qubin        Wenfeng   Xingchang   Banqiao    Pingxi       Linjiang    Kongshan   Zhicheng   Longfeng
Wangcang    Wuquan        Wanshan   Dahe          Shuanghui  Gaoyang   Gucheng   Yanhe         Guohua    Fuqing       Maying    Yanzi
Shuimo       Daliang
Guangan      Hucheng      Fangping   Guansheng   Zhenshan   Pulian      Suxi
Yilong      Wazi          Bajiao     Mopan        Daluo      Yilu       Yimen       Dengta     Banqiao    Sanhe
Quxian       Sanban      Juguang    Caihe         Baitu      Yihe       Dayi        Baishui    Anbei       Yingpan   Hanbei    Yueguang
Langzhong   Wencheng    Boshu       Shitan       Xishan      Longquan  Fengzhan   Hefeng       Sanmiao
Nanjiang     Qiaoba      Zhaipo      Guangming   Shangliang  Yangba    Xingmin   Ganxi         Liuba      Guimin    Xiqing       Huitan
Xingli       Liuwan    Hongxing    Qiaoting    Shatan      Xuguang   Hongyan    Hongsi    Hongwu   Houjia           Zhuling
Tianchi      Hongding
Jialing      Shiyang      Datong     Daguan       Yili        Liba      Longquan  Yanjia
Nanbu        Huangjin     Liuma      Qunlong      Wannian    Xiongshi   Hongguan  Shiquan
SHAANXI
Ziyang       Yunfeng      Changbai  Baoshi        Wulin      Sanguantang            Miaohe      Shiba      Liaoyuan   Shangba   Bajiao
Qiaozhen     Shengmo   Liuhe         Bantao     Jieling    Wanxing   Shuangliu   Lianhe       Qingjin    Wamiao    Guangeheng
Shenyang
Ningshan     Fengfu       Huangjin   Shaping     Zushan      Guanghuo  Shizi        Tielu      Xinkuang  Longwang  Xinjian    Tongche
Simu
Hanyin       Sanhe       Jiudian     Yaowang     Shuanghekou            Shitiaojie  Tongqian   Taling     Shangqi   Zilong       Liming
Shuangping  Tianchi
Ankang       Dinghe      Qianjin    Baohe         Shiti      Qingtao    Guanjia    Kuangshi   Tianshan   Yanba        Xipo       Yulan
Duba         Longquan  Shuanglong  Dongxiang  Xiangshan  Wachang   Zhengyi    Linjiang   Xinba           Hexin      Wulong
Weifeng     Chaotian   Nuti          Yuantan    Liufang    Shaba       Jinghe     Zhijing     Huilong    Fenggou
Maping      Fuxing      Qiaoting     Songba     Cigou      Jingjia     Dongzhen
Zhenba      Xiaoyang    Jiuzhen    Chengjiatan   Yangjiahe  Jingyang   Yudu         Yuantan    Bashan    Guanyin   Tianba        Dashi
Bamiao       Diaozhong Xinglong     Pingan      Juehuang   Sanyuan   Jianchi      Yongle    Liangqiao  Nianzi       Houhe
Xixiang     Gaojiachi    Zhongjiagou              Luojiaba    Zuoxi     Maliu       Shanggaochuang        Xiagaochuang           Bailin
Wuliba      Xinwa      Chazhen      Muzuba    Baimianxia Luozhen   Sishang        Shahou    Majiawan  Yangxi
Lueyang      Baishi      Heye        Xiakou       Dahuangyuan           Guanyinsi  Qinhe       Yaomuyuan              Shuangjiya
Washegou   Zhongbazi Shijiayuan    Baiquesi    Guozhen   Ganheba   Wujiahe
Ningqiang    Wangjiaping  Jinjiaping  Shujiaba    Dnanzhen   Nanping   Baiyanglin  Daijiaba    Xujiaba    Zengjiahe  Xinchang  Taiyangling
Cangshe     Juting      Guangping   Zhongba    Maopinggou              Dazuba     Sandaohe  Shuitianping            Laodaiba
Zhenan       Gangou       Maoping   Yuquan        Guanpinghe Gaoping   Shuanghe  Xizhen         Gancahe   Laoan       Xiangyuan  Yuche
Gaofeng      Longsheng Xigou         Sanyi      Donggua   Jiezi        Yanwu       Longwan   Meihua    Wuyu         Wenjai
Hongdong    Yungaisi
Zhashui      Taihe        Longtan    Lianghe      Qiping     Xichuan    Zaohe       Xiaotai     Tiefo      Ynunmeng  Caizuang
Zhangjiaping            Majiatai     Yinwan     Chaoping   Hongshi   Gaojiao       Fengbeihe
NINGXIA
Jingyuan    Xinmin        Dongxia   Yuanzi       Huanghua   Huitai
Tongxin      Yuwang      Zhangjiaheng             Yanglu     Yaoshan   Tianjialaozhuang        Wangtuan  Majiagaozhuang          Xialiushui
Haiyuan     Shuanghe    Xutao       Gaochuan    Zhenqi       Luochuan  Lijun       Jiucai      Yangming  Guanzhuang
Xiji        Shagou        Dashizhai               Baicheng   Hongyao   Tianping   Sanhe        Xingping   Xitan       Pingfeng



-167-                        CHART 1
CHINA
QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
Project Management Structure
| LGPR 
SSB               F  FCPMC    1         Technical Advisory|
t   .       1           <       ~~~~~ ~~Group|
Provincial Leading
Group
Provincial PMO           Technical Advi-
sory Group
Labor           Education              Health
Buureau          Bureau
I_ 
Employment
Agency
County Leading
Group
Technical
Committee
County PMO
Line Agency   Line Agency         Line Agency  Line Agency
Township Work
Station
|Township||Township|  Village Executionr         T VEs
|School  11Clinic        Group,s
|Huehold |    Joint Household| [Sho         C  
&other Econ.
Entities



-168-                           Photogr=b
CHINA: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
Ningxia Hui Project Area Photos
The Xihaigu Region of the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, which receives less than 400 mm
in annual rainfall on average, had sufferred three years of continuous drought at the time these
photos were taken. Crop production declined sharply, and the population would not have
survived without governrment assistance and relief grain.
AR A                         I|l
2..S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....  
3'~~~~~~~~~4



-169-                         PhQgraphs
EduIation: Only 30 of the 70 school age children in this extremely poor village in Tongxin
County (Ningxia) attend elementary school. One of the children in the photo stated that he had
walked five kilometers to school at 7:00 a.m. of the morning of the project preparation team's
visit to Tongxin County that day. He also stated that he would return home by foot that
evening at 5:00 p.m. and have his first and only meal of the day at home that evening. In
another village visited by the project preparation team in Tongxin County, none of the 50
school age children had attended school for the four years since the local elementary school
collapsed.
LS  t?bb tb kq. i,. U: tA        .t
cla- n            j t4; 
*             _      *           ''~ ' s.
1.~~~~~V
w1L\'-'^2F tf        _S'   ''     '-j
r
rAt
$:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- i   -
_ -                                 '*. 



-170-                                           Photographs
Beneficiaries: UTNDP
. ... . Xestimates indicate that the
carrying capacity of the
Xihaigu Region of the
Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Region is less than 20
people per square kilometer,
or about one tenth of the
existing population density
of 180 people per kilometer.
The local population, which
is more than 70 percent Hui
minority, is very poor.
Education and health status
is deplorable.
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .a ... .. i. k ; isf



This map was produced by the                                                                       CHINA                                                RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank
The boundaries, colors, denominations                                              OINIBA   M OUNTAINS                                                  v           >      /          -
and anyother information shownon                                                  Q INBA               M O UNTAI                                                --      /          ,LO1NGJIANG
this map do not imply, on the parof                                    POVERTY  REDUCTION  PROJECT                                                              ---              'I          J
on the legflGr4umadof anyte9rrftlory,or                             ZHENAN  COUNTY  PROJECT TOWNSHIPS                                                MONGOLIA           2            ILIN'
any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                                                    (       0       ..
such boundaries.                                                                                L      I PROJECT TOWNSHIPS (XIANG)               _                              L to  , SOANING JEM (IG  LANG
TO      15                                    7RIVERS                                                                           -      o    eal se    N ,
_______________________                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 278 15  TANIP
_____________________COUNTY_(XIAN) CAPITAL                                                                                                      For deioil see .iBE8.CT(I AITAL  R
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                      KORECUTYAIAN  ~EE
PRIMARY ROADS                                   ,D; SOANXt                 ,
C--   ONDARY ROADS                           QINGHAI SU   ,   I
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  TOWNSHIP (XIANG) BOUNDARIES                                     4~S  SHAnANXl HENAN    IU
'I 2'    N  COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES Y (XIArNBeO of U AANHJES                                                I-r6N                     E_   s
*-,'                                                               O>            m a PROVINCE BOUNDARIES 4 SICHUAN ,Ns,cnu,, ''"   SIHUAN
NINGSHAN                           f                          ,                         -----INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                           ------ I-INAN
I'I                       I' ,                                                         --  GU IZ f  U,,,,,, ,  BUJIAN
~-  TAAWA
--                                            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1NA  UANGXI AGNANG
f    r .,<     )"   '  HG> t9  ~~                                ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ax                                                  ro--  U.K.LL:.O 
THuLAL                            f RIIWINES
'<'PEOPLE'Z   H    A   S   H   U    Ien
t r -<^x_! ' 003 X >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------
YIJEHE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~LNGHN
YUGUAN                                        X-IZHA HLJ
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE
3 | ~~~~~~~~~~~A NKA NG                                             Y  
--.'.    --
3:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.
,1'/<WNI                                           \es                                      "      -- 






*) N E             < M   N G O L                                                                            CHINA
t \-t / .. 2\ .. 1QINBA MOUNTAINS
YIC(-- Y$j nfX .. \                                                                  .) ( IJ |POVERTY REDUCTION
PROJECT
PROJECT COUNTIES
If                             /                               x * ii 1  PROJECT COUNTIES
NI                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
___,___   ROADS
RIVERS
ELEVATIONS .1 500 METERS
o       SELECTED CITIES
        t    PROVINCE CAPITALS
COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
< t9   p  .t _ - *  J  /      i )  \                 o"--*...-..   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(INSET)
0             100            200            300
KILOMETERS
--ASHUI                            fhct atop op-dd by he Mop D     UnO f The Wld B-W,
'   *              IkeX bo-odor.e,-colors, de,o.o.not,on, and anyothr -rtrno-on shown
on ., eP do -ol rply o- the po-t of The Word Rook G-op. any
ZHENAN       -       )      t"~~~~ej.g- on, the 191ttuof any terty ...  any edreto
~~                        ocoeptonne o~~~f -hc b-od-r,et
RUSSIAN FEDERATION    {
x                                            j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
CAN  X           T                                                               MONGOLIG
rTY                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~/DEM PEOPLE'S
Af JIALING  s1-\   ty vtAN/    /~/   (Yorigize R |  \                                      w    /     a         "R  ng/          REP OfKOREA
Area of map           l(AN)IN
-------------------          ~~~REP    O F
A;     N              ;-L, 8                        e                     ,   <        ; w          1 yKOREA
=4;                                       i,                 i        8               5HANGHAI 5nil
HU_AN                       A r c <    X   <                      JWAN
HOGKONG, U K
V                ~~~~~~MACAO,PORT
Ul                                                  :E   PE~~~~JOP'ES )                  ,)
*  ** ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f_PHILIPPINES   -









IMAGING
Report No.:         16390   CHA
Type:     SAR



