Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N028 CHA
Interim Fund  
Development Credit Agreement
(Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated July 21, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N028 CHA 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000) (the Loan); 
(D)
the Borrower and the Administrator intend, to the extent practicable, 
that the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit provided for in this Agreement be 
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of 
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; 
(E)
the Project will be carried out at the national level by the Borrower, 
Page  2
through the Borrower’s Leading Group for Poverty Reduction, and at the provincial 
level by the Borrower’s Provinces of Sichuan and Shaanxi and the Borrower’s Autonomous 
Region of Ningxia Hui, with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to said provinces and autonomous region a portion of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit and of the Loan, as provided in this Agreement 
and in the Loan Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in  Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996, as determined by the 
Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit 
was approved 
pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and "Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries;” 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of 
the United Nations.” 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to 
any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, 
the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Interim 
Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of 
the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the Administrator 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
Page  3
of the Interim Fund Credit, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator 
to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set forth or 
referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, 
the Administrator may, by notice 
to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Agricultural Bank of China” means the financial institution of the same 
name established under the laws of the Borrower and operating pursuant to the Circular 
of the Borrower’s State Council on the Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, 
dated February 23, 1979 (State Council Document No. (1979) 56) and the Decision of the 
Borrower’s State Council on the Exclusive Exercise of Central Bank Functions by the 
People’s Bank of China, dated September 17, 1983 (State Council Document No. (1983) 
146), as said Circular and Decision may be modified from time to time. 
(b)
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Project Province, the amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit and the amount of the Loan made available by the Borrower 
to said Project Province pursuant to the provisions of Part B.3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and to be utilized by said Project Province for purposes of carrying out its 
respective Provincial Poverty Reduction Program.
(c)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(d)
“Environmental Impact Statement” means the Environmental Impact Statement 
dated September 1996 prepared for the Project by the Borrower’s Chinese Research 
Academy of Environmental Sciences, Northwest Institute for Hydroelectric Investigation 
and Design, Sichuan Research Institute of Environmental Protection and Ningxia 
Research Institute of Environmental Protection. 
(e)
“FCPMC” means the Foreign Capital Project Management Center within the 
Borrower’s Leading Group for Poverty Reduction, to be maintained pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(f)
“Implementation Agreement” means, in respect of each Project Province, 
the agreement referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement between the 
Borrower and said Project Province for the implementation by said Project Province of 
its respective Provincial Poverty Reduction Program. 
(g)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(h)
“Microfinance Agreement” and “Microfinance Amount” mean, respectively, 
any agreement entered into between a Project Province and a Microfinance Institution 
pursuant to Part G.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and any loan made to a 
Microfinance Institution pursuant to a Microfinance Agreement.
(i)
“Microfinance Beneficiary” means an individual or a group of individuals 
or a micro-enterprise to whom a Microfinance Sub-loan is proposed to be made or has 
Page  4
been made.
(j)
“Microfinance Institution” means any institution which provides credit to 
individuals or groups of individuals in the Project Areas and with which a Project 
Province has entered into a Microfinance Agreement.
(k)
“Microfinance Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a 
Microfinance Institution out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit or of the Loan 
to a Microfinance Beneficiary for a Microfinance Sub-project.
(l)
“Microfinance Sub-project” means a specific development project under 
Part E(2) of the Project to be carried out by a Microfinance Beneficiary utilizing the 
proceeds of a Microfinance Sub-loan.
(m)
“Ningxia” means the Borrower’s Autonomous Region of Ningxia Hui. 
(n)
“Operational Manual” means, in respect of each Microfinance Institution, 
the operational manual referred to in Part G.2(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
adopted by said institution in accordance with the provisions of said Part. 
(o)
“Project Areas” means the counties, selected by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Administrator, within the Project Provinces which are included in the 
Project. 
(p)
“Project Provinces” means Ningxia, Shaanxi and Sichuan, and “Project 
Province” means any of the Project Provinces. 
(q)
“Provincial Poverty Reduction Program” means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the activities included in the Project which are to be carried out by said 
Project Province. 
(r)
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the resettlement action plan dated 
January 1997 prepared by the FCPMC for the Project. 
(s)
“Rural Enterprise” means an individual entrepreneur, a group of 
individual entrepreneurs, or an enterprise possessing legal person status.
(t)
“Rural Enterprise Development Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to 
be made out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit or of the Loan to a Rural 
Enterprise for a Rural Enterprise Development Subproject. 
(u)
“Rural Enterprise Development Subproject” means a specific project to be 
carried out under Part D of the Project. 
(v)
“Shaanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi. 
(w)
“Sichuan” means the Borrower’s Province of Sichuan. 
(x)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred eight million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR108,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for (i) expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (other than Part E(2) of the 
Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
Page  5
withdrawals made by Microfinance Beneficiaries under Microfinance Sub-loans to meet 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Microfinance Sub-projects 
in respect of which withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions, 
both satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2007 and ending May 
15, 2032.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2017 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the 
Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as 
of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
Page  6
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project at the national level through FCPMC, and cause the Project Provinces 
to carry out the Project at the provincial and local levels, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, labor, 
agricultural, engineering practices and sound health, safety and environmental 
standards, including, without limitation the recommendations of the Environmental 
Impact Statement, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall take the actions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in 
order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
(other than Part E(2) thereof) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit and (ii) all goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part E(2) 
of the Project, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the foregoing, all pesticides and other farm chemicals 
required for the Project shall be selected exclusively from a list of chemicals 
approved by the Administrator and shall be used, handled and stored in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
Section 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement, and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than six months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the 
Project; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  7
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any of the Project Provinces 
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its respective 
Implementation Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
An Implementation Agreement has been executed between the Borrower and 
Page  8
each Project Province; and 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
other than the effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, have 
been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Implementation 
Agreement with each Project Province has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and said Project Province and is legally binding upon the Borrower and said 
Project Province in accordance with its respective terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Administrator
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Page  9
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/Jean-Michel Severino 
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of 
the Interim Fund Credit and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit
Amount 
    Allocatedof the Loan
   % of
   (Expressed in Allocated
Expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works, Crop
  27,510,000
30,000,000
35%
Establishment
and Livestock
Maintenance 
Activities
(2)
Goods
  49,240,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(3)
Placement
  15,690,000
50%
Services
(4)
Consultants’
   9,370,000
100%
services and 
training
(5)
Microfinance
   1,320,000
50% of amounts paid
Sub-loans
by Microfinance 
Institutions
(6)
Operating Costs  2,470,000
50%
(7)
Unallocated
   2,900,000
 ___________
_________
Page  10
TOTAL
 108,500,000
30,000,000
 ===========
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Crop Establishment and Livestock Maintenance Activities” means 
terracing, planting, land preparation, seed production and nursery establishment 
activities, works for animal housing facilities, and seedlings, animals, feed 
additives, seeds and other agricultural inputs (excluding fertilizer, pesticides, urea 
and hand tools), and straw tanks, all as required for Part C of the Project;
(b)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(d)
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures for fuel, vehicle and 
equipment maintenance and repair, supplies and materials, and transportation incurred 
by the FCPMC and regional and local units involved in Project management in their 
management of the Project; and 
(e)
the term “Placement Services” means orientation programs and job 
placement services provided under Part A of the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR13,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after February 1, 1997.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for (a) expenditures under 
contracts (i) for goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, (ii) for works 
costing less than $2,500,000 equivalent each, (iii) for services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, (iv) for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, (b) Operating Costs, Placement 
Services and training, regardless of the cost thereof, and (c) Microfinance Sub-loans, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (1) reducing 
absolute poverty in the Project Areas, (2) introducing an integrated multisectoral 
approach to poverty reduction in these areas for replication throughout the Borrower’s 
territory, (3) improving labor mobility from these areas to wealthier regions, (4) 
reversing environmental degradation in the Project Areas, (5) promoting a 
participatory process in the development of these areas and (6) improving 
institutional poverty monitoring capabilities at the national and regional levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Labor Mobility
Implementation of a voluntary program to provide employment to about 155,000 
surplus laborers from the Project Areas in wealthier regions of the Borrower’s 
territory, said program to include:  (1) construction and equipping of office and 
training facilities; and (2) provision of orientation programs and pre-placement 
training at the village level, job placement systems and services, on-the-job training 
by employer enterprises, and monitoring systems (including equipment and furniture 
Page  11
therefor) to facilitate the protection of workers’ rights and ensure job safety and 
adequate living conditions for workers.
Part B:
Rural Infrastructure
(1)
Construction of about 900 kilometers of all-weather gravel roads to link remote 
administrative villages to the existing network of county and township roads.
(2)
Provision of facilities to supply about 15 to 35 liters of water per person per 
day to about 466,000 people in 1,680 villages, said facilities to include piped 
systems with public hydrants, rain collectors to serve one or more households, and 
shallow wells.
(3)
(a) Construction and upgrading of small-scale irrigation works for about 8,900 
hectares of rice paddy and upland grain crops in Sichuan and Shaanxi, said works to 
include a small reservoir storage scheme, irrigation ponds, seven small pumping 
stations, on-farm water cisterns, diversion weirs and about 640 kilometers of lined 
canal; (b) construction of micro-irrigation systems to serve about 5,355 hectares of 
crop land in Ningxia, said systems to include tubewells, small, household-operated 
cisterns and shallow wells; and (c) reclamation of about 650 hectares of river beach 
land for crop production in Ningxia.
(4)
Installation of about 75 kilometers of 35-kilovolt, and about 670 kilometers of 
10-kilovolt, overhead power transmission and distribution lines, and construction of 
eight mini-hydropower plants; and provision of about 1,830 biogas digesters to 
households in Sichuan for cooking and lighting.
Part C:
Land and Farm Development
Development and implementation of improved integrated land-use programs specific 
to each of the Project Areas designed to provide households with the means to 
intensify production on terraced land and alternative income-generating activities in 
animal, crop and tree production, said programs to include:
(1)
terracing of about 65,080 hectares of arable land in all three Project Provinces 
and construction and upgrading of small-scale irrigation and drainage systems for 
about 8,300 hectares of waterlogged paddy fields in Sichuan;
(2)
provision of agricultural inputs and basic tools to be utilized by households to 
cultivate about 73,390 hectares of grain, potato and oilseed crops, and provision of 
medicinal plants, tubers and commercial vegetables to be cultivated by households on 
about 10,130 hectares of land;
(3)
(i) provision of young animals, feed additives and ammoniated straw tanks to be 
used by households for livestock production, (ii) upgrading of animal housing 
facilities and (iii) provision of agricultural inputs to be used by households for 
cultivation of winter animal fodder.
(4)
provision of seedlings, fertilizers and pesticides and development of seed 
production and nursery facilities, all to be utilized to establish and upgrade about 
31,800 hectares of plantations of perennial crops and about 1,200 hectares of 
anti-erosion belts;
(5)
provision of agricultural training to over 355,000 farmers and to about 2,900 
farmer technicians, and provision of extension, veterinary, breeding and other support 
services to households, all in order to improve livestock production and cultivation 
practices; and construction of demonstration facilities and provision of pick-up 
trucks and motorcycles, equipment, vaccines and seeds required therefor; and
(6)
development and implementation of applied agricultural technology programs 
tailored to the needs of the Project Areas.
Part D:
Rural Enterprise Development
Design and implementation of specific projects to develop and expand 
labor-intensive, commercially viable agroprocessing, mining, handicraft and service 
industries and farmers’ markets in the Project Areas.
Page  12
Part E:
Microfinance
(1)
Strengthening of the capabilities of the Microfinance Institutions to provide 
loans to households in the Project Areas on a sustainable basis, through the provision 
of technical assistance, training, motorcycles, equipment and furniture.
(2)
Provision of loans by the Microfinance Institutions, to individuals and 
micro-enterprises in the Project Areas for the carrying out by said beneficiaries of 
specific projects to develop and expand their production activities primarily in the 
areas of animal husbandry, agroprocessing, and transport services.
Part F:
Institutional Development
(1)
Strengthening of the organization and operation of provincial and local-level 
agencies involved in Project implementation to improve their capacity to monitor the 
incidence of poverty in the Project Areas and to coordinate and/or implement the 
Borrower’s poverty reduction programs, including the Project, through the:  (a) 
development and introduction of organizational policies and procedures; (b) 
development and implementation of human resource development programs; (c) provision 
of office facilities, furniture and equipment and vehicles; and (d) development and 
introduction of a management information system.
(2)
Development of a comprehensive poverty profile of the Project Areas and system 
to monitor the impact of the Project on the Project Areas’ poor, through design and 
carrying out of baseline and annual surveys, processing and analysis of data collected 
during said surveys, and dissemination of the findings and conclusions of said 
analysis. 
*   *   * 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  13
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Goods for the Project (other than for Microfinance Subprojects)
(a)
Limited International Bidding
Pesticides which the Administrator agrees can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section 1, goods (other than 
pesticides, agroprocessing equipment and goods required for Microfinance Subprojects) 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $24,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
National Shopping
Goods (other than pesticides, agroprocessing equipment and goods required for 
Microfinance Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Works for the Project (other than for Microfinance Subprojects)
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section 1, works (other than those 
required for Microfinance Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,700,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Force Account and Community Participation
Works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per assignment, which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $169,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be 
carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines, or by the use of community members hired in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Administrator. 
3.
Goods and Works for Microfinance Sub-projects under Part E(2) of the Project
Goods and works required for Microfinance Sub-projects shall be procured at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors, such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,500,000 or more, (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
Page  14
$200,000 or more, (c) the first three contracts for goods to be procured by each 
Project Province under Part C(1)(b) of this Section I, and (d) the first three 
contracts for works to be procured by each Project Province in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C(2)(a) of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restriction set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the references for, 
and qualifications and terms of reference of, the consultants and the terms of their 
employment shall be furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
Page  15
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures under 
contracts for goods and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied 
from, Participating Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not 
Participating Countries and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall 
be disqualified from bidding for such contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only firms that are registered or incorporated in, and individuals and personnel who 
are nationals of Participating Countries shall be eligible to compete for the 
provision of services financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, and the 
requests for proposals shall so specify.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
A.
Project Management 
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall at 
all times continue to maintain, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources 
acceptable to the Administrator, a Foreign Capital Project Management Center, to be 
responsible for overall Project management, including coordination of procurement, 
review of withdrawal applications, preparation of progress reports, and provision of 
guidance and assistance to the Project Provinces in relation to the Project. 
2.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out by each Project Province of its 
respective Provincial Poverty Reduction Program, the Borrower shall cause each Project 
Province at all times to continue to maintain, with terms of reference, staffing and 
other resources acceptable to the Administrator, a Project Management Office, to be 
responsible for the coordination and supervision of said Provincial Poverty Reduction 
Program, including preparation of feasibility studies and of annual work programs, 
review of local level work programs, and monitoring and evaluation of progress in 
implementing said Provincial Poverty Reduction Program.
B.
Project Implementation - General 
1.
Each Project Province shall furnish to the Administrator for its prior approval, 
the program which it proposes to include in the Project as its Provincial Poverty 
Reduction Program.  Each such program shall qualify as a Provincial Poverty Reduction 
Program eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit only if 
and to the extent the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower and said Project 
Province of the Administrator’s approval of said program.
Implementation Agreements 
2.
(a) 
For purposes of the carrying out by each Project Province of its 
respective Provincial Poverty Reduction Program, the Borrower shall make available 
said Project Province’s respective Allocated Amount to said Project Province under an 
implementation agreement acceptable to the Administrator to be entered into between 
the Borrower and said Project Province, obligating said Project Province to carry out 
its Provincial Poverty Reduction Program in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement and to take such other actions applicable to it as are specified in this 
Schedule 4, in accordance with the provisions thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:  (i) cause each Project Province to perform, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Agreement to which said Project 
Province is a party, all of the obligations of said Project Province therein set 
forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Project Province to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Implementation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit and of the 
Loan, and except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive any Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Terms of Availability of each Project Province’s Respective Allocated Amount
3.
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province its respective 
Allocated Amount on the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit so made 
available: (A) shall be the equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights (determined 
on the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn in respect of items for said 
Project Province’s respective Provincial Poverty Reduction Program to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit (the SDR Amount); and (B) shall be 
recovered by the Borrower in dollars in an amount equal to the equivalent (determined 
as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the SDR Amount;
(b)
the principal amount of the proceeds of the Loan so made available shall 
be denominated and recovered in dollars in an amount equal to the amount withdrawn 
from the Loan Account in respect of items for said Project Province’s respective 
Provincial Poverty Reduction Program to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(c)
the Borrower shall recover from said Project Province the Allocated 
Amount over a period of 17 years, inclusive of a grace period of 5 years; and
(d)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the Allocated Amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to two percent per annum.
Annual Program of Activities
4.
The Borrower shall, through FCPMC, and shall cause each Project Province to:  
(a) prepare, and furnish to the Administrator not later than December 1 in each 
calendar year for the Administrator’s review, an action plan for the activities 
(including training and research, and actions to ensure compliance with the 
recommendations of the Environmental Impact Statement) which it proposes to carry out 
under the Project during the following calendar year, together with a budget and a 
financing plan therefor; and (b) thereafter carry out such action plan as shall have 
been agreed with the Administrator.
Resettlement 
5.
The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause each Project Province to ensure that 
all involuntary resettlement of persons under the Project shall be carried out in 
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan.  Further to the foregoing, if any 
activities under the Project would involve any unanticipated involuntary resettlement 
of persons, the Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause each Project Province to ensure 
that said resettlement shall be carried out in accordance with the resettlement plan 
covering all said persons (a) which shall have been designed on the basis of policies, 
planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria included in the 
Resettlement Action Plan to improve the living standards and productive capacity of 
said persons, and (b) which shall have been approved by the Administrator. 
C.
Part A of the Project (Labor Mobility) 
1.
To ensure the proper implementation of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall 
take all measures necessary, and shall cause (a) each Project Province, and (b) each 
province in which the surplus laborers under said Part are to be employed, to take all 
measures necessary, to ensure that the program to provide employment to said surplus 
laborers shall be implemented on a voluntary basis and in a manner designed to ensure 
safe and equitable working and living conditions for said laborers.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out and cause each said province to carry out said employment 
program in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Administrator.
Page  17
2.
The Borrower shall, through FCPMC, develop, and shall cause each Project 
Province to develop, policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower and the 
Project Provinces to monitor and evaluate the implementation of said employment 
program in accordance with guidelines and indicators acceptable to the Administrator, 
and ensure that said policies and procedures are introduced at the national and 
provincial levels not later than September 15, 1997. 
D.
Part B of the Project (Rural Infrastructure)
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province in which a dam to be 
rehabilitated under the Project is located to undertake annual inspections of said 
dam, in accordance with sound engineering practices and on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Administrator, by qualified and experienced independent experts, in 
order to identify any deficiencies in its design, construction or condition or in the 
quality and adequacy of the maintenance or methods of its operation, which may 
endanger its safety or the safety of downstream life, property or activities, and to 
rectify any such deficiencies promptly.  To this end, appropriate arrangements for 
said inspections shall be prepared and furnished to the Administrator for its review, 
not later than one year prior to the planned completion of works on each said dam to 
be undertaken under the Project, and thereafter, promptly implement said arrangements, 
taking into account the views of the Administrator on the matter. 
E.
Part C of the Project (Land and Farm Development)
In order to ensure the increased productivity of the land developed under Part C 
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause each Project Province to ensure that said 
land shall be leased by the county in which said land is located, to farming 
households, under arrangements satisfactory to the Administrator, which shall include 
the execution of a written lease agreement between the representatives of the 
landowner and of said household, providing for the lease of said land to said 
household for cultivation purposes for a duration of at least 30 years. 
F.
Part D of the Project (Rural Enterprise Development)
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province to appraise each project proposed 
for inclusion in its Provincial Poverty Reduction Program under Part D of the Project 
in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Administrator.  Each such project 
shall qualify as a Rural Enterprise Development Subproject eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit only if the following conditions have been 
met:
1.
said Project Province shall have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, through the FCPMC, on the basis of said appraisal that:
(a)
said project is economically and financially viable, and commercially and 
technically feasible;
(b)
said project is designed to create jobs at a low cost and to provide 
affordable inputs and profitable markets for goods produced and services provided by 
poor households;
(c)
have been approved, and the construction, operation and maintenance of 
said facilities shall be supervised by, said bureau; and
(d)
if the Rural Enterprise Development Subproject would involve the 
involuntary resettlement of persons, said project includes a resettlement plan for all 
said persons which:  (i) has been designed on the basis of the policies, planning 
principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria included in the 
Resettlement Action Plan to improve the living standards of said persons; and (ii) has 
been furnished to and approved by the Administrator; 
2.
the Administrator has notified the Borrower and said Project Province of the 
Administrator’s approval of said project; and
3.
if said project is proposed to be implemented by a Rural Enterprise rather than 
by an administrative subdivision of said Project Province:
Page  18
(a)
said Rural Enterprise shall have established to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower and said Project Province, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the 
Administrator that it is creditworthy;
(b)
said Project Province shall have made a Rural Enterprise Development 
Sub-loan to said Rural Enterprise for the purpose of carrying out said project, in 
accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Administrator, and on the 
following terms and conditions: 
(i)
(A) the principal amount of each Rural Enterprise Development 
Sub-loan shall be the 
equivalent in the currency of the Borrower 
(determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account or payment out of the 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid 
out, on account of the cost of goods and services for the Rural 
Enterprise 
Development Subproject for which said Rural 
Enterprise Development Sub-loan is 
made; and (B) the terms of 
each Rural Enterprise Development Sub-loan relating to 
interest and maturity shall be those applied by the Agricultural Bank of China in 
accordance with its standard policies to loans made by it to its 
borrowers for 
similar investments;
(ii)
said Rural Enterprise shall undertake to:  (A) carry out its Rural 
Enterprise 
Development Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency, in accordance with sound 
financial and technical practices 
and consistent with appropriate health, safety 
and 
environmental practices acceptable to the Administrator, and provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, and other resources required for the purpose, and maintain 
adequate records and accounts; (B) if the Rural Enterprise 
Development Subproject 
involves the involuntary resettlement of 
persons, take and cause to be taken all 
measures necessary 
to ensure that all such persons shall be resettled in accordance 
with 
the resettlement plan referred to above in Section 1(d) of this Part F; (C) 
procure the goods and services required for its Rural Enterprise 
Development 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and 
utilize said goods and 
services exclusively in the carrying out of said Rural 
Enterprise Development Subproject; (D) take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business 
practice, including such insurance to cover the hazards 
incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery 
of goods financed out the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder 
to be 
payable in a currency freely usable by the enterprise to replace or repair 
such goods; (E) enable the Administrator to inspect the goods and the 
sites and 
works included in its Rural Enterprise Development 
Subproject, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents; (F) at all times maintain and 
operate its 
equipment and facilities, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and industry practice; and (G) furnish to 
the Administrator 
all such information as the Administrator may 
reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of said 
Rural 
Enterprise; and
(c)
said Project Province shall exercise its rights in relation to each Rural 
Enterprise Development Subproject in such manner as to protect its interests and those 
of the Administrator, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the 
purposes of the Project. 
G.
Part E of the Project (Microfinance)
For the purpose of carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
the Project Provinces to take the following actions.
Onlending to Microfinance Institutions 
Page  19
1.
(a)
The Project Provinces shall relend to the Microfinance Institutions an 
amount of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to 
Category (5) under agreements to be entered into between the Project Provinces and 
said Microfinance Institutions, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Administrator and which shall include, without limitation, those set 
forth below in Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this Part G.
(b)
The Project Provinces shall:  (i) take or cause to be taken all action 
necessary or appropriate on their respective parts to enable the Microfinance 
Institutions to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Microfinance Agreements all of their obligations set forth in said agreements and not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and (ii) exercise their respective rights under the Microfinance 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and, except 
as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
such agreement or any provision thereof.
Eligibility as a Microfinance Institution
2.
A Microfinance Agreement may be entered into with an institution, duly 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which the Project Province 
entering into said agreement shall have determined, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Administrator:
(a)
is authorized to provide financing to individuals and enterprises in said 
Project Province and is in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements 
applicable to its operations;
(b)
has the organization, management, staff and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its activities to be undertaken under the Project; and
(c)
has developed on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator 
and adopted, an operational manual setting forth its policies and procedures for the 
appraisal and approval of projects to be financed out of loans made by it, and of 
beneficiaries of said loans, the terms and conditions upon which said loans shall be 
made to said beneficiaries, and the guidelines for the monitoring and supervision of, 
and reporting on, said loans.
Terms of Microfinance Agreements 
3.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
to a Microfinance Institution under a Microfinance Agreement shall be the equivalent 
in the currency of the Borrower (determined on the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account) 
of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, (a) on account of 
the cost of goods and services under Part E(1) of this Project for said Microfinance 
Institution and (b) on account of goods and services financed under Microfinance 
Sub-loans made by said Microfinance Institution, and shall be repaid over a period not 
to exceed 15 years, inclusive of a grace period not to exceed 5 years.  Interest shall 
be charged on said principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a 
rate equal to or greater than two and eighty-eight one hundredths percent (2.88%) per 
annum.
Conditions of Microfinance Agreements
4.
The right of a Microfinance Institution to the use of the proceeds of its 
respective Microfinance Amount shall be:  
(a)
suspended upon failure by such institution to perform any of its 
obligation under its respective Microfinance Agreement or to continue to be in 
compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; 
and 
(b)
terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to paragraph 
(a) for a continuous period of sixty days.
Page  20
5.
Each Microfinance Agreement between a Project Province and a Microfinance 
Institution shall contain provisions pursuant to which said Microfinance Institution 
shall undertake to: (i)
carry out its activities under the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices and 
the Operational Manual, and to provide, promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the purpose; (ii)
procure the goods and 
services required for its activities under Part E(1) of the Project to be financed out 
of the proceeds of its respective Microfinance Amount, in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and use such goods and services exclusively 
in the carrying out of said activities; and ensure that the goods and services 
required for a Microfinance Subproject for which it shall make a Microfinance Sub-loan 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of said Schedule 3; (iii) appraise 
Microfinance Subprojects, make Microfinance Sub-loans to Microfinance Beneficiaries, 
and supervise the implementation of Microfinance Subprojects and the payments of 
amounts due under Microfinance Sub-loans, and otherwise carry out its activities, all 
in accordance with its Operational Manual; and (iv) exercise its rights in relation to 
each Microfinance Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and those of the 
Administrator and said Project Province, comply with its obligations under said 
arrangements with said Project Province, and achieve the purposes of the Project; and 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Microfinance 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of said Project 
Province; (v) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to, the 
Administrator, the Borrower or said Project Province, as any of them shall have 
reasonably requested, with regard to the progress of its activities under Part E of 
the Project, including the progress of Microfinance Sub-projects for which it shall 
have made a Microfinance Sub-loan, the performance of its obligations under its 
Microfinance Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Project; and 
promptly inform the Administrator, the Borrower and said Project Province of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress thereof; and
(vi) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; have its financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; furnish 
to the Administrator, the Borrower and said Project Province, as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, certified 
copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as so audited, the 
report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the Administrator, 
the Borrower or said Project Province shall have reasonably requested, and such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Administrator, the Borrower or said Project Province shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
H.
Supporting Social Services
In support of the Project’s objectives, the Borrower shall cause each Project 
Province:
Primary Education Program 
1.
to carry out a primary education program designed to provide affordable quality 
primary education to all children in said Project Province’s Project Areas, in 
accordance with a time-bound action plan, both of which program and action plan shall 
be acceptable to the Administrator; and
Public Health Program 
2.
(a)
to carry out a public health program acceptable to the Administrator, 
designed to provide affordable quality primary and curative health care to all 
households in said Project Province’s Project Areas; and 
(b)
to this end, to prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than December in each 
calendar year, commencing December 1, 1998, a plan of activities which it proposes to 
implement under said health program during the following calendar year, together with 
Page  21
a budget and financing plan therefor; and 
(c)
thereafter, to carry out such action plan during said following calendar 
year as shall have been agreed with the Administrator. 
I.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause each Project Province to maintain, 
policies and procedures (including those developed pursuant to Part C.2 of this 
Schedule) adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Administrator, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2.
The Borrower shall, through the FCPMC, prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator, (a) semiannual 
reports, not later than March 15 and September 15 in each calendar year, commencing 
September 15, 1997, consolidating the results of said monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed by the Borrower and by the Project Provinces during the preceding 
calendar semester in respect of the Project, and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the then current calendar semester, and (b) a mid-term 
report, not later than June 30, 1999, consolidating the results of said monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed by the Borrower and by the Project Provinces, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date. 
3.
After furnishing each said report, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the 
Project Provinces to (a) review the same with the Administrator, and (b) thereafter, 
promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account and the Loan Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR30,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  22
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement or from 
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section, 
or to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit and the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
Page  23
request, refund to the Administrator or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account 
or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
