Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
 
GRANT NUMBER TF094776 GZ 
 
Development Policy Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Palestinian Reform and Development Plan- Second Development Policy Trust 
Fund Grant) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
Dated July 15, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF094776 GZ 
 
DEVELOPMENT POLICY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 15, 2009, entered into between the PALESTINE 
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(the “Recipient”), for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority, and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “World 
Bank”), acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and 
West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as 
amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, 
and as further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2 and Resolution No. 03-193 
and IDA 03-208 of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association (the “Trust Fund”), for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (“IBRD”) and the International Development 
Association (“IDA”) has resolved, on July 10, 2009, to, 
inter alia,
 replenish the Trust 
Fund in the amount of fifty five million dollars ($55,000,000), such amount to be 
transferred from the surplus of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and to be used for financing rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza 
Strip (“Gaza”) and the West Bank (the “West Bank”), which are under the jurisdiction of 
the Palestinian Authority;  
 
(B) 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, among other 
things
,
sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank 
(the “Interim Agreement”);  
 
(C) 
Section 5(b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases described 
thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority;  
 
(D) 
the Palestinian Authority prepared the PRDP containing a 3-year fiscal 
framework on the basis of which donors committed support at the Paris donor conference 
in December of 2007. The World Bank assisted in financing the Program under a first 
development policy trust fund grant agreement dated June 9, 2008; 
 
(E) 
The World Bank has received from the Palestinian Authority a letter of 
development policy dated April 8, 2009, setting out key commitments from the PRDP 
(“LDP”); 
Page  3
2
(F) 
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Recipient, has requested the 
World Bank to assist in financing the Program under this second development policy 
trust fund grant agreement; and 
 
(G) 
the Administrator has decided to provide this financing to the Palestine 
Liberation Organization, for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority, on the basis, 
inter 
alia
,
of
(a) the foregoing; (b) the actions which the Recipient has already taken to the 
satisfaction of the Administrator under the Program and which are described in Section I 
of the Schedule to this Agreement, and (c
)
the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework. 
 
The Recipient and the Administrator therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”) including the modifications 
set out in Appendix II to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - GRANT 
2.01. 
The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to forty 
million United States Dollars (US$40,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing 
the Program. 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section IV of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.   
 
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to work towards the 
implementation of, and carry out, the Program with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; 
Page  4
3
(b) 
the Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to exchange, from 
time to time, views with the Administrator on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, at the request of either party; 
 
(c) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall cause the 
Palestinian Authority to furnish to the Administrator for its review and 
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, 
in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request; 
 
(d) 
the Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to furnish all 
information covering the implementation of the Program and the use of 
proceeds of the Grant as the Administrator shall reasonably request; 
 
(e) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to promptly 
inform the Administrator of any situation that would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
under the Program including any of the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of 
the Schedule to this Agreement; and 
 
(f) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (e) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
participate in consultation meetings with the Administrator and the 
International Mone
tary Fund (“IMF”), to take place every calendar 
quarter (or more often, as required, at the reasonable request of the 
Administrator or the Recipient).   
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE WORLD BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in the re-lettered Section 4.02(i) 
of the Standard Conditions consists of the following, namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be implemented or carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
Administrator has been furnished to the Administrator that the condition 
specified below has been satisfied, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement 
referred to in Section III of the Schedule to this Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority. 
 
Page  5
4
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01, there shall be 
furnished to the Administrator an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the 
Administrator of counsel acceptable to the Administrator or, if the Administrator 
so requests, a certificate satisfactory to the Administrator of a competent official 
of the Recipient, showing the following matters:  
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally 
binding upon it in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section III of the Schedule to 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and 
the Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon each such party in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the Administrator 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the Administrator to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the Administrator may postpone the dispatch of 
the notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) 
ceased to exist. 
 
5.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement, unless the Administrator, after consideration of the reasons for the 
delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this Section.  The Administrator 
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
H.E. Dr. Salam Fayyad 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance 
Palestinian Authority 
Ramallah, West Bank and Gaza 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
Page  6
5
970-2-297 
8846 
    970-2-297 
8845 
Page  7
6
6.03. The 
Administrator
’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Page  8
7
AGREED in the West Bank as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyad                       
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Dina N. Abu-Ghaida 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE  
 
Program Actions; Program Monitoring; Availability of Grant Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program to the satisfaction of the 
Administrator include the following: 
 
1. 
A control system through which the Ministry of Finance ensures that public 
sector hiring is in line with the 
Palestinian Authority’s budget is being implemented.  
2. 
The Council of Ministers has issued Resolution 51/98/12/m.w/s.f of 2009 which 
provides support on a declining schedule to local governments distributing electricity  
that demonstrate that they have paid the Israeli Electric Company in full.   
 
3. 
A new electricity law, Law Number 13 of 2009, was enacted on April 23, 2009, 
establishing, inter alia, Palestinian Energy and Regulatory Commission (PERC) as the 
regulatory authority for the power sector and providing the Palestinian Energy and 
Natural Resources Authority
 
(PENRA) with the authority to set tariffs and to license 
electricity distributors.  
4. 
The Council of Ministers has issued Resolution number 08/96/12/m.w/s.f of 
2009, which integrates all cash assistance programs into the Ministry of Social Affairs.  
5. 
The 2009 annual budget law has been approved which, 
inter alia
,
introduces the 
use of a program structure to make a combined presentation of the recurrent and 
development budgets for each line ministry. 
6. 
The Council of Ministers has issued Resolution number 51/103/12/m.w/s.f of 
2009, which amends the financial regulation 43 for the year 2005, to provide the 
regulatory backing for the new computerized accounting system.   
7. 
The PA has prepared and submitted to the Bank an annual cash plan to guide 
budget execution in 2009, that incorporates actual monthly cash flows and updated 
forecasts.  
8. 
The board of directors of the MDLF has adopted clear criteria for performance 
based transfers of monetary grants to municipalities.  
9. 
A management letter has been submitted by the MDLF, confirming that the 
MDLF has completed the pilot phase of the new financial management information 
system for small, medium and large municipalities in eight municipalities. 
 
Page  10
9
Section II
.
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Program Monitoring and Reporting 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall, through the Palestinian Authority, monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Program and prepare Program Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of re-numbered Section 2.05 of the Standard Conditions that set out progress on the 
implementation of the Program in accordance with the LDP. Each Program Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Administrator 
not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, on request by the Administrator, through the Palestinian 
Authority, prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the provisions of re-
numbered Section 2.05 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be 
furnished to the Administrator not later than June 30, 2010. 
 
B. Audit 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account (as defined in Section IV C of this Schedule) audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the withdrawal of the proceeds of the Grant, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request; and 
 
3. 
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
Section III
.
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority under a Subsidiary 
Agreement between the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Administrator. 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of the Palestinian 
Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of 
the Program; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Program. 
Page  11
10
3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or 
any of its provisions. 
Section IV
.
Availability of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section and (c) such 
additional instructions as the Administrator may specify by notice to the Recipient.  
2. 
The withdrawal must be made before the Closing Date. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
 
The Grant shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
 
C. 
Deposits of Grant Amount
 
Except as the Administrator may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to open, prior to furnishing to 
the Administrator the request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter 
maintain, a deposit account (“Deposit Account”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator. 
 
2. 
The Deposit Account shall be opened by the Palestinian Authority under the bank 
account of the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority (“Central Treasury 
Account”) and shall be used solely for the purposes of carrying out the Program. 
 
3. 
All withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator 
into the Deposit Account. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to ensure that upon each 
deposit of a withdrawal from the Grant Account into the Deposit Account an equivalent 
amount is accounted for in the Palestinian Authority’s budget management system, in a 
manner acceptable to the Administrator. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to undertake that the proceeds of the 
Grant shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Administrator 
Page  12
11
determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, 
cause the Palestinian Authority to refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
to the Administrator. Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date  
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the World Bank 
has financed or agreed to finance, or which the World Bank has financed 
or agreed to finance under another trust fund credit, or trust fund grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the World Bank by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
 
Sub-group 
 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
 
Page  14
13
 
Group 
 
Sub-group 
 
Description of Item 
 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
 
971 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws in effect in the parts of the West Bank 
and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or 
international agreements to which the Recipient or the Palestinian 
Authority is a party; 
 
(e) 
in the territories (other than the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under 
the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority) of any country which is not 
a
member of the World Bank or for goods procured in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; 
 
(f) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(g) 
with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or the Palestinian Authority or of a 
beneficiary of a Grant without the Recipient having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such 
practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“MDLF” means the municipal development and lending fund, established 
pursuant to the PLO’s Decree of the Council of Ministers No. 
05/34/mim.waw.alf.qaf of 2005. 
Page  15
14
3. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
and includes any successor thereto. 
4. 
“Ministry of Social Affairs” means the Ministry of Social Affairs of the 
Palestinian Authority and includes any successor thereto. 
5. 
“PRDP” means the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP 2008-
2010) prepared by the Palestinian Authority and dated December 17, 2007. 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty, as set forth or 
referred to in the PRDP and outlined in the LDP, declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the implementation and execution of the Program and requesting 
assistance from the World Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
7. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section III of the 
Schedule to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority. 
Section II
.
Modifications to the Standard Conditions
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
 
1. Sections 
2.01 
(
Project Execution Generally
)
and 2.07 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
3. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.04. (
Documents; Records
).  The Recipient shall ensure that: 
…
(c) 
all records evidencing expenditures under the Grant are 
retained until two years after the Closing Date;” 
4. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05. (
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation)
.
The 
Recipient shall: 
Page  16
15
…
(b)(ii) 
ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank, 
not later than the date specified for that purpose in the Grant Agreement, 
one or more completion reports (“Completion Reports”) of such scope 
and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the 
World Bank of their respective obligations under the Grant Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.”  
5. Section 
2.07. 
(
Visits
)
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation 
of the Program and for a period of ten (10) years thereafter: 
 
(a) 
enable representatives of the World Bank and the IMF to visit 
any part of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority for purposes related to the Grant; and 
 
(b) 
enable the World Bank’s representatives and the IMF: (i) to visit 
any facilities and sites included in the Program; and (ii) to 
examine any documents relevant to the performance of its 
obligations under the Grant Agreement.” 
 
6. 
The last sentence of paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 (
Applications; Supporting 
Evidence
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
7. 
Sections 3.05 (
Designated Accounts
)
and 3.06 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered 
accordingly. 
8. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 3.05 (Financing Taxes) (renumbered as such pursuant 
to paragraph 7 above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 3.05. 
Financing Taxes.
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant 
may not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the parts 
of West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority on or in respect of Eligible Expenditures, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the 
World Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, adjust the 
percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as 
Page  17
16
required to ensure consistency with such limitation on 
withdrawals.” 
9. 
Sub-sections (a) and (h) of Section 4.02 are deleted, and consequently,  
Sub-sections (b) through (k) are re-lettered as Sub-sections (a) through (i). 
 
10. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (b) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
“(b) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines 
that any representative of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any 
entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any other recipient of any of the proceeds of the Grant) has 
engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of the Grant, without the 
Recipient (or any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or any 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the World Bank to address such practices when they 
occur.” 
 
11. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (c) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient or any agency thereof, or any entity in the 
West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, 
to make withdrawals under any agreement with IBRD or with IDA 
because of a failure by the Recipient, or any agency thereof, or any entity 
in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any 
other agreement with IBRD or IDA.” 
12. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (f) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
“(f) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets.
 The Recipient 
or any other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Program 
has, without the consent of the World Bank: (i) assigned or transferred, 
in whole or in part, any of its obligations arising under or entered into 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, 
assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed 
wholly or in part out of the proceeds of the Grant; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to 
transactions in the ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of 
the World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the ability of 
the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations 
arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement or to 
achieve the objectives of the Program; and (B) do not materially and 
adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the Recipient (or 
such other entity).” 
Page  18
17
13. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (g) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
“(g) 
Condition of Recipient.
 
If the Grant has been made to a 
Recipient which is not a member of IBRD: 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or suspension of operations of the Recipient (or 
of any other entity responsible for implementing any part of the 
Program). 
(ii) 
The Recipient (or any other entity responsible for 
implementing any part of the Program) has ceased to exist in the 
same legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant 
Agreement. 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, 
ownership or control of the Recipient (or any other entity 
responsible for implementing any part of the Program) has 
changed from that prevailing as of the date of the Grant 
Agreement so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of 
the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its 
obligations arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Program.” 
14. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (h) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
“(h) 
Ineligibility
.
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible 
to receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA or otherwise 
to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by IBRD or IDA (including as administrator 
of funds provided by another financier), as a result of a determination by 
IBRD or IDA that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of any financing made by IBRD or IDA.”  
15. 
Sub-section (c) of Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Fraud and Corruption.
 At any time, the World Bank determines, 
with respect to any amount of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any entity in 
the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any other recipient of the proceeds of the Grant) without 
the Recipient (or any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any 
such other recipient of the proceeds of the Grant) having taken timely 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such 
practices when they occur.” 
Page  19
18
16. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 4.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has 
been used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant 
Agreement or these Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice 
by the World Bank to the Recipient, promptly refund such amount to the 
World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, without limitation:  
 
(i) 
use of such amount to make a payment for an 
expenditure that is not an Eligible Expenditure; or  
 
(ii) 
(A) engaging in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive 
practices in connection with the use of such amount, or (B) use 
of such amount to finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which such practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any 
entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority, or other recipient of such amount of the 
Grant), in either case without the Recipient (or such agency 
thereof or such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
World Bank to address such practices when they occur.” 
 
17. 
Sub-section (j) of Section 5.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award have 
been delivered to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any 
party may:  (i) enter judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, 
the award in any court of competent jurisdiction against any other party; 
(ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or (iii) pursue any other 
appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of the 
award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or 
enforcement of the award against the Recipient except as such procedure 
may be available otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this 
Section.” 
18. 
Paragraph (17) of the Appendix is deleted and, consequently, paragraphs (18) 
through (26) are re-numbered as paragraphs (17) through (25). 
19. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix to the Standard 
Conditions are modified or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and 
definitions are added in alphabetical order to the Appendix to the Standard 
Conditions as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  20
19
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Eligible Expenditures” means any use to which the Grant is put in 
support of the Program other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement. 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix to the Standard Conditions are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
“Program” means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in 
support of which the Grant is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
