Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4366 
Operation Name 
WBG-Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development 
Policy Grant II (PRDP DPG) 
Region 
Middle East And North Africa 
Sector 
Central government administration (51%); Power (25%);Other social 
services (12%);Sub-national government administration (12%) 
Project ID 
P113621 
Borrower(s) 
Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) for the benefit of the 
Palestinian Authority (PA) 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance (MOF) of the Palestinian Authority 
Date PID Prepared 
December 2, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 26, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 30, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Despite enormous challenges, the Palestinian National Authority (PA) continues to make strides 
towards creating the structure of a future Palestinian State.  However, during the past few years the 
political process has stagnated and there has been little visible progress towards a long term peace 
settlement.  As a consequence, the economy has continued to deteriorate with low investment, the 
productive base hollowing out and per capita GDP declining.  GDP levels are only maintained 
through massive inflows of foreign aid that has propped up consumption and government spending. 
Despite this, the PA, with generous support from the international community, has moved ahead with 
creating the institutional structures required to provide needed services to the Palestinian people. The 
World
 Bank’s ongoing technical assistance and budget support has been instrumental to these efforts, 
especially in helping the PA mobilize the international assistance needed to fund their operations.  
Regular and consistent external support is required to maintain momentum and World Bank 
assistance is viewed by all donors as a strong indication that the PA is fulfilling its commitments and 
deserves continued funding.  
In early 2006, a Hamas-led government won election in what is widely regarded as a fair and 
transparent process.  In response, most donors withdrew direct support to the Palestinian Authority 
(PA) and the Government of Israel (GOI) cut off the transfer of tax clearance revenues that it collects 
on behalf of the PA. This forced the PA to reduce payments of public salaries and build up 
substantial arrears to the private sector. It also led to the deterioration of many government 
institutions that had been laboriously built over the previous decade.  At the same time, GOI 
intensified its economic and security restrictions including road closures, restrictions on the 
movement of people and goods and refusing building permits in much of the West Bank.  Israeli 
settlement activity and the construction of the separation barrier also continued unabated, which 
resulted in even greater impediments to economic activity in the West Bank and Gaza.   
Page  2
In June 2007, Hamas took control of Gaza by force and on June 17th, President Abbas dissolved the 
Hamas-led government and swore in an emergency government of technocrats, which has since 
become a caretaker government (Caretaker Government) until new presidential and parliamentary 
elections are held.  The international community rallied around the new Caretaker Government and 
restarted their programs of financial and technical support.  The GOI has released tax clearance 
revenues and have re-established some economic relations.  However, the Palestinian territories 
remain effectively split.  Gaza, under the control of a Hamas administration, has been completely 
isolated by a strict closure policy applied by the GOI.  Despite a recent truce between Hamas and the 
GOI, violence continues, though at a lower level.   
The GOI continues its restrictions, allowing only basic foodstuffs and other necessities to enter and 
no exports to leave.  Though Hamas controls Gaza, most basic services continue to be delivered by 
civil servants that are paid by and report to the PA in Ramallah. However, many central government 
functions that used to be performed in Gaza have had to be transferred to the West Bank. Private 
sector activity in Gaza has collapsed and the population subsists on emergency donor aid.  The UN 
reports that the closures and violence have led to a serious decline in health indicators and an 
increase in food insecurity. On the other hand, the West Bank continues to experience lower levels 
violence.  However, because of continued Israeli settlement expansion and closures, investment 
remains depressed and growth in the West Bank is stagnant.   
In December 2007, the PA presented the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP) to 
donors at the Paris Donor Conference.  This comprehensive plan lays out a three-year program of 
reforms to help re-start economic growth and improve the welfare of citizens.  Currently, the plan is 
only being implemented in the West Bank, where the new government is in full control.  However, it 
is designed to be expanded to Gaza as soon as the situation permits.  The PRDP details steps towards 
fiscal reform and greater government transparency and accountability.  It also sets out a public 
investment program to complement the private sector investment that is expected to power the 
economy.  The success of the PRDP depends upon parallel actions by the PA, the donor community 
and the GOI.  The GOI does not relax its movement and access restrictions that prevent the private 
sector from growing.  Likewise, donors must provide a large and steady stream of financial 
assistance to support the PA while it enacts its reform agenda.  
At the Paris Donor Conference, the international donor community pledged US$7.5 billion to fund 
the PRDP over the 2008-11 period. In an exceptional display of support, donors moved rapidly to 
fulfill their pledges. In 2008, budget support to the PA reached US$1.6 billion, nearly 60 percent 
more than 2007, which was the highest level on record.  In addition, the PA is estimated to have 
received as much as US$300 million in project aid. Over US$260 million in budget support was 
provided by the World Bank administered PRDP multi-donor trust fund (PRDP-TF).  
Untied budget support is essential for the PA to function.  Its biggest expenses are salaries (including 
pensions) and “net lending”, much of which are payments by the central government to the Israel 
Electricity Company for power supplied to Palestinian municipalities and other distributors.  
Domestic revenues are not adequate to cover these costs.  It is also important that the needed external 
support be provided through the PA’s Central Treasury Account (CTA).  Using the CTA helps the 
Page  3
PA develop budget discipline and strengthen its public financial management systems, which were 
severely damaged during the aid cut in 2006. 
Because of the PA’s success in implementing its reforms over that past year, many donors who 
previously eschewed budget support have shifted their aid from projects to budget support either 
through the PA Central Treasury Account or by paying recurrent costs (mainly salaries) directly.  
The Bank’s PRDP-TF has played a key role in encouraging donor support.  The Bank and the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) jointly monitor and report to donors on a quarterly basis, the 
PA’s allocation and use of funds, and to assess progress in meeting the goals outlined in the PRDP.  
Disbursements from the PRDP-TF are made only after the Bank certifies progress.  This along with 
the Bank’s own budget support from a US$40 million Development Policy Grant (DPG), approved 
by the Board on June 5, 2008, has encouraged other donors to engage in budget support.  This 
proposed follow-up Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development Policy Grant II (PRDP 
DPG II) seeks to provide a second tranche of budget support. The PA believes that such deep Bank 
involvement will reassure donors that the PA is successfully implementing the PRDP and that they 
should continue their high level of budget support. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation will help the PA continue to implement the reform program detailed in its 
Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP). Following on the first PRDP Development 
Policy Grant, this PRDP DPG II will continue and strengthen efforts to improve the fiscal position 
and increase government transparency and accountability.
 
The PA has been implementing the plan throughout 2008 and, as detailed in Word Bank monitoring 
reports, it is making significant progress.  To have the largest impact, the new project maintains the 
focus on two specific areas: (i) strengthening the PA’s fiscal position; and (ii) improving public 
financial management. These are critical building blocks for the government of an independent 
Palestinian state and are also crucial for attracting continued international donor support.  The Bank’s 
involvement in monitoring and providing technical assistance for the reform agenda will strengthen 
the PA’s capacity to achieve the desired reforms and also help build the required support among 
donors.   
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The Bank supports the PRDP process in two complementary ways. First, it administers the PRDP-
TF, as requested by the PA.  Second, it will provide budget support with its own funds through the 
proposed PRDP DPG II.  The PRDP-TF is operating successfully and in 2008, has disbursed about 
US$260 million to the PA CTA. The PRDP DPG II is a single tranche operation for which the related 
funds will be released on completion of a set of prior actions.   
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
The project is expected to have minimal environmental effects.  It is a budget support operation and 
is not subject to any safeguard issue. 
 
Page  4
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: John L. Nasir 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5848 
Fax: (202) 522-2151 
Email: Jnasir@worldbank.org 
Location: West Bank and Gaza (IBRD)
 
