Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4736 
Operation Name 
WBG Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development 
Policy Grant II  
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (51%);Power (25%);Other 
social services (12%);Sub-national government administration 
(12%) 
Project ID 
P113621 
Borrower(s) 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)  for the benefit of the 
Palestinian Authority (PA) 
West Bank and Gaza 
 
Implementing Agency 
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
West Bank and Gaza 
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 22, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 31, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
May 28, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Palestinian economy has been in steady decline since 1999 and by 2008 real per capita GDP was 
nearly a third less than its peak in 1999.  In 2008, growth began to recover, however, Israeli security 
restrictions were only marginally relaxed in the West Bank and further tightened in Gaza, thus total 
growth is estimated to be around 2%.  With an average annual population growth of around 2.7% this 
is not enough to affect a significant recovery of GDP growth.  The Gaza Strip economy, already 
devastated from years of Israeli restrictions, was further ravaged by the recent ground incursion.  
Consequently, what little growth has occurred, has taken place in the West Bank.  
 
In 2009, the optimistic scenario is for WBG GDP to grow by 5% as called for in the PRDP; this 
would begin a recovery of per capita GDP. All of the growth is assumed to again come from the 
West Bank, while Gaza continues to stagnate.  Given the low base that the West Bank is starting 
from, 7 or 8 % growth rate is not unimaginable and is actually rather conservative.  However, 
reaching even the 5% growth rate requires restoration of dialogue and peace and an increasing 
investor confidence both in Gaza and the West Bank.  In addition, the PA, donors and GOI must 
contin
ue
their actions that have produced the slight rebound in the West Bank’s growth rate in 2008.  
If these conditions are not met, growth will be flat or once again turn negative. 
 
The Palestinian economy has been sustained by enormous infusions of foreign aid and the recent 
growth in the West Bank is the direct result of a large increase in such flows combined with 
increased security.  In 2008, budget support alone increased by nearly 80% from the 2007 level and 
Page  2
2
at close to $1.8 billion, was equivalent to about 30% of GDP.  The PA used the donor largess to pay 
salaries and clear arrears to public sector employees and the private sector that had accumulated 
during 2006 and 2007.  The 2009 budget assumes that donors will maintain their high level of budget 
support and calls for over $1.6 billion in aid for 2009. Any failure to achieve this will force the PA to 
either cut back on development spending or once again accumulate arrears, which will have a direct 
negative impact on the Palestinian economy.  The recent fighting in Gaza has added another 
challenge to the PA.  Reconstruction costs have not yet been reliably estimated, but the PA is 
preparing a budget supplement that will reportedly call for a total of $1.624 billion, including $300 
million in additional budget support. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed operation is designed to support the PA as it continues to implement the reform 
program detailed in the PRDP, by supporting actions in two policy areas: (i) strengthening the fiscal 
position and (ii) improving public financial management.  The PA implemented the plan throughout 
2008 and, as detailed in Word Bank monitoring reports, it is making adequate progress.  To have the 
largest impact, the proposed PRDP DPG II maintains the focus on two specific areas: (i) 
strengthening the PA’s fiscal position; and (ii) improving public financial management. These are 
critical building blocks for the government of an independent Palestinian state and are also crucial for 
attracting continued international donor support.  The Bank’s involvement in monitoring and 
providing technical assistance for the reform agenda described in the attached policy matrix will 
strengthen the PA’s capacity to achieve the desired reforms and also help build the required support 
among donors. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The main effort of the Bank’s strategy is to continue supporting the PA’s implementation of the 
PRDP through the proposed PRDP DPG II by providing financial support to the two above-
mentioned areas of focus.  The Bank is also providing significant amounts of technical assistance to 
help the PA implement its reforms.  The Bank’s most effective efforts are directed at encouraging 
donor funding of the recurrent budget. The Bank, in consultation with the IMF, produces quarterly 
reports on reform progress that provide donors comfort to increase their support through the Central 
Treasury Account (CTA).  This has been a successful effort as the PA received nearly US$1.8 billion 
in budget support, including development expenditures, in 2008.  About US$300 million of this 
support was provided through the PRDP-TF, the Bank administered multi-donor trust fund that 
provides untied budget support to the PA.  The proposed PRDP DPG II is designed to both help the 
PA close its fiscal gap and to encourage donors to continue providing untied budget support through 
the CTA by demonstrating to them that the Bank believes in the PA’s systems enough to put its own 
money through them.  
4. Financing 
 
The PRDP DPG II is a single tranche operation. The amount of the PRDP DPG II will be disbursed 
in one tranche comprising the full amount of the grant, against satisfactory completion of the prior 
actions. 
 
Page  3
3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Bank will monitor 
the PA’s progress on implementing the PRDP based on the reforms described 
in the policy matrix.  The PA produces quarterly reports, which the Bank reviews in consultation 
with the IMF.  The Bank focuses on progress on structural reforms while the IMF’s provides detailed 
input on fiscal and PFM issues.  
The Bank team managing the PRDP DPG II is located in WB&G and is thus able to have daily 
contact with their PA counterparts.  The Bank has added a Governance Advisor who is a PFM expert 
to the Jerusalem office to work alongside the Country Economist monitoring the PRDP DPG II. The 
main ministry responsible for implementing the reforms supported by the PRDP DPG II is the MOF, 
with which the Bank has developed a strong relationship.  The PFM expert works closely with the 
IMF mission to both provide assistance to the MOF and monitor progress on budget related and PFM 
issues. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The PRDP DPG II is designed to help the PA strengthen its fiscal position by reducing its public 
sector wage bill to less than 23% of GDP and Net Lending to around US$366 million by 2010.  It 
also supports the PA’s efforts to improve public financial management.  Key outcomes for this are: 
establishing a cash management plan, implementing a computerized accounting system throughout 
all ministries, producing annual audits of government agencies and continuing to develop annual 
budgets on a timely basis. It also supports improvements in municipal financial management.  
 
The PRDP’s success depends on parallel actions by the PA, the Government of Israel (GOI) and the 
donor community.   
The key risks are: 
(i) The PA must develop strong political support for the PRDP in order to continue implementing its 
reform program, particularly for the most difficult tasks such as containing the public sector wage 
bill and reducing net lending. 
(ii) The PA’s ability to attain fiscal sustainability depends upon substantial private sector growth. 
However, since the PRDP was announced in late 2007, the GOI has not substantially relaxed its 
security restriction and consequently there has been only limited private sector growth.  
(iii) Donor support is the third determinant of the PRDP’s success.  The PRDP assumes high and 
sustained donor assistance during the plan’s life. The PA is striving toward fiscal sustainability, but 
until they reach this goal, they will depend upon large amounts of untied budget support from donors 
that help them pay wages and other basic operational costs while they implement the reform process.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
A
major focus of the PA’s plan is to control growth in the government work force and collect utility 
bills, both of which have the possibility of negatively impacting the most vulnerable parts of society.  
A
large share of the Palestinian population depends on the wages of public employees.  The 
dependency rate is estimated to be about 6-8 for each public employee and there are currently about 
143,000 employees.  Consequently, if the private sector remains stagnant and Israel does not allow 
increased employment of Palestinian workers, the inability to increase public employment could lead 
Page  4
4
to increased poverty rates. The economic crisis has left many households in a position where they 
cannot pay their utility bills.  Over half the Gaza households and nearly a quarter of the West Bank 
households are in poverty.  Thus, increasing collection rates must be done carefully to not cause 
undue hardships on the most vulnerable groups.  
The PA recognizes these risks, and as they pursue their PRDP goals, they have made protecting 
vulnerable groups and ensuring that there are no disparate impacts by gender, priorities.  
Consequently, the PRDP DPG II will continue to have social protection as one of its pillars.  The 
PRDP DPG II actions are complementary to and will likely enhance the performance of other Bank 
projects and PA programs such as the SSNRP and the EUMP. 
To ensure the protection of the most vulnerable households, which are often those headed by women, 
the PRDP DPG II is supporting the rapid expansion of the targeting database by the MOSA.  The 
Ministry has verified the status of more than 40,000 and is adding additional households at a rate of 
5,000 per quarter. This will help direct aid to the most vulnerable households to ensure that those that 
might suffer the most from any negative impacts of the PRDP receive support.  An accurate database 
will help the PA provide assistance to reduce any gender disparities since female headed households 
appear to be one of the most vulnerable population groups.  The PRDP DPG II is supporting the 
transformation of the SSNRP into a PA administered cash assistance program that would leverage 
funds from other donors.  Eligible households will be selected in a transparent manner using the PA's 
poverty targeting database, which uses proxy poverty variables to select the households.  About 
5,000 households selected from the poverty targeting database are receiving cash assistance.  A grant 
of US$5 million was approved from the Bank’s Global Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund and 
about 25,000 households selected using the targeting database will receive a one time payment of 
around US$200 to help offset the rising cost of food. In addition, the DPG II is helping the PA 
improve the efficiency of its social safety net payments by merging all PA managed cash assistance 
programs into a single program with single criteria for eligibility.    
Efforts to collect electricity bills could negatively impact the most vulnerable groups.  However, the 
PA, with Bank support, is working to mitigate this risk.  The pre-paid meters are being installed in 
the more affluent areas first and no households are being disconnected for non-payment.  Public 
sector employees are being targeted first for collection efforts, and on average their wages are around 
15 percent more than private sector employees.  The Bank’s team working on the power sector is 
assisting the PA to develop a pricing policy and methods of collection that will allow the poorest 
consumers to still obtain electricity while increasing collection from those more able to pay.  With 
the passage of the new electricity law, the PA plans to implement a rising block tariff that ensures 
that the poorest households receive a basic amount of electricity at a minimal cost.  In the long run, 
as collection efforts increase, pre-paid meters may benefit the poor.  In many countries, the poorest 
households cannot afford service on credit and the introduction of pre-paid meters actually increases 
access to electricity.  
The PRDP DPG II operation will not have significant effects on the country's environment, forests 
and other natural resources. None of the prior actions as listed in the policy matrix will have 
significant environmental impacts or risks. 
 
Page  5
5
8. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: John L. Nasir 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 972-2-236-6500 
Fax: 972-2-236-6543 
Email: Jnasir@worldbank.org 
Location: West Bank and Gaza (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
