                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00001430



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-94776)



                                      ON A

                             TRUST FUND GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                  PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
                   (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)

                                     FOR A

             PALESTINIAN REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
                    DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT II



                                  June 17, 2010




Social and Economic Development Group
West Bank and Gaza Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective June 14, 2010)

             Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekels (NIS)

                        US$1.00 = NIS3.82

                         FISCAL YEAR

                     January 1 ­ December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

COP       Certificates of Payment
CTA       Central Treasury Account
DPG       Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development Policy Grant
EU        European Union
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GoI       Government of Israel
IEC       Israel Electric Company
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LDP       Letter of Development Policy
MDLF      Municipal Development and Lending Fund
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoNE      Ministry of National Economy
MoSA      Ministry of Social Affairs
NIS       New Israeli Shekel
PA        Palestinian Authority
PNA       Palestinian National Authority
PDO       Program Development Objectives
PFM       Public Financial Management
PENRA     Palestinian Energy and Natural Resources Authority
PERC      Palestinian Energy and Regulatory Commission
PNCTP     Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program
PRDP      Palestinian Reform and Development Plan 2008-2010
PRDP-TF   Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Multi-Donor Trust Fund
SAACB     State Audit and Administrative Control Bureau
SHC       Special Hardship Cases
SSNRP     Social Safety Net Reform Project
WB&G      West Bank and Gaza

                  Vice President:   Shamshad Akhtar
                Country Director:   Mariam Sherman
                 Sector Manager:    Simon C. Bell
              Task Team Leader:     John L. Nasir
               ICR Team Leader:     John L. Nasir
                                  WEST BANK AND GAZA
                          Palestinian Reform and Development Plan
                                 Development Policy Grant II


                                                CONTENTS




 Data Sheet

 A.   Basic Information
 B.   Key Dates
 C.   Ratings Summary
 D.   Sector and Theme Codes
 E.   Bank Staff
 F.   Results Framework Analysis
 G.   Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H.   Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 8
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome : Rating: Substantial ....................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21


Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 22
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 24
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 25
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 35
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 36
MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                              WBG Support for
                                                                              Fiscal Sustainability
Country:                West Bank and Gaza          Program Name:
                                                                              and Public Financial
                                                                              Management
Program ID:             P113621                     L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-94776
ICR Date:               06/29/2010                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              PALESTINE
Lending Instrument:     DPL                         Borrower:                 LIBERATION
                                                                              ORGANIZATION
Original Total
                        USD 40.0M                   Disbursed Amount:         USD 40.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 40.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process               Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/15/2008      Effectiveness:               07/20/2009         07/17/2009
Appraisal:                             Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/28/2009      Mid-term Review:
                                       Closing:                     12/31/2009         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Substantial
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:            Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      22                  22
Other social services                                                  12                  12
Power                                                                  22                  22
Sub-national government administration                                 44                  44


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                19                  19
Other public sector governance                                         13                  13
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                       31                  31
procurement
Rural policies and institutions                                        24                  24
Social safety nets                                                     13                  13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Mariam J. Sherman                     A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Simon C. Bell                         Zoubida Allaoua
Program Team Leader:       John L. Nasir                         John L. Nasir
ICR Team Leader:           John L. Nasir
ICR Primary Author:




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The operation was designed to support the PA as it continues to implement its reform
program detailed in the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP), a
comprehensive and ambitious set of reform measures aimed at spurring economic
growth, establishing good governance and moving towards the ultimate goal of an
independent Palestinian State. The focus of the PRDP is on improving the PA#s fiscal
position and strengthening governance while directing the existing levels of expenditure
and investment in the social sectors and public goods to priority activities and supporting
the environment for private sector development. The PA began implementing its plan in
2008 with support under the PRDP DPG I, which confined its focus to (i) strengthening
the PA#s fiscal position and (ii) improving public financial management. The PA made
adequate progress during 2008, as detailed in Word Bank monitoring reports and the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (report no. ICR00001077). The Bank#s
follow-up operation, PRDP DPG II, maintained these two areas of focus (i.e.,
strengthening the fiscal position and improving public financial management) in order to
have the largest impact.These two pillars are critical building blocks for the government
of an independent Palestinian state and are also crucial for attracting continued
international donor support.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDOs remained the same during the life of the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Control the public sector wage bill through limiting and targeting recruitment
                                                                               Total PA
                                                                               employment was
                                                                               147,726, but net
                                            Target PA
                                                                               recruitment was
                                            employment not to
                                                                               largest in the
                                            exceed 153,000
                                                                               security sector,
                   Total PA employment anytime in 2009;
                                                                               followed by
Value              was 143,937 at end-      new recruitment
                                                                               education, while
(quantitative or   2008, and the public     mainly to be in
                                                                               health employment
Qualitative)       wage bill was 22.2% of health and
                                                                               fell; 2009 public
                   GDP                      education sectors;
                                                                               wage bill was about
                                            target public wage
                                                                               24% of GDP. The
                                            bill is 22.3% of
                                                                               overrun is
                                            GDP in 2009
                                                                               explained by partial
                                                                               wage adjustments
                                                                               to account for



                                                iii
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                           12/31/2009
                   Public employment remained below the cap, but the PA wage bill overshot its
Comments
                   target due to a 4% cost of living rise, a depreciating dollar and interest on 2006
(incl. %
                   wage arrears. 2009 wage bill only 1% higher than 2008 in US$ terms. Target
achievement)
                   65% achieved.
                   Reduce net lending by instituting measures to increase collection and payment
Indicator 2 :
                   of electricity bills
                                                                                 A total of 156,000
                                            PA distributes an
                   The PA had distributed                                        pre-paid electricity
                                            additional 20,000
                   nearly 45,000 prepaid                                         meters have been
                                            meters thru 2009
                   meters and required                                           installed, and the
                                            (for a total of
Value              "certificates of                                              COP system
                                            65,000) and
(quantitative or   payment" (COP) of                                             maintained; net
                                            maintains the COP
Qualitative)       utility bills to obtain                                       lending was 3%
                                            system; targeted
                   government services;                                          below budget
                                            cap on net lending
                   net lending was 7.3% of                                       targets and 6.1% of
                                            is 6% of GDP in
                   GDP for 2008                                                  revised GDP in
                                            2009
                                                                                 2009
Date achieved      10/31/2008               12/31/2009                           12/31/2009
                   The PA increased collections while protecting vulnerable households. Energy
Comments
                   Authority distributed prepaid meters far above the target, enforcement
(incl. %
                   measures were introduced and West Bank collection rates reached nearly 80%.
achievement)
                   Target more than 100% achieved.
                   Reduce net lending by transferring electricity supply and distribution to
Indicator 3 :
                   distribution companies established in accordance with the Companies Law
                                            PENRA issues
                                            licenses for new
                                                                                 By December 2009,
                                            distribution
                                                                                 regulator had been
                                            companies, and
                   New electricity law                                           appointed but was
                                            begins
                   enacted 23 April, 2009,                                       not in place, hence
                                            implementing a
                   establishing power                                            no licenses had
Value                                       time-bound,
                   regulator, PERC, and                                          been issued and
(quantitative or                            comprehensive
                   granting PENRA                                                little progress in
Qualitative)                                strategy to
                   authority to set tariffs                                      transferring
                                            transfer West
                   and license electricity                                       distribution from
                                            Bank electricity
                   distributors                                                  local governments
                                            distribution from
                                                                                 to distribution
                                            local governments
                                                                                 companies
                                            to distribution
                                            companies
Date achieved      04/23/2009               05/01/2010                           12/31/2009
                   Key municipalities have not joined commercial distribution companies, and
Comments
                   alternative funding sources for local governments have not been negotitated.
(incl. %
                   Electricity law implementing regulations were approved by the Council of
achievement)
                   Ministers and the President.
                   Improve social safety net targeting to ensure that the most vulnerable
Indicator 4 :
                   populations are protected
Value              Verification of 32,000 Increase home                          Over 50,000
(quantitative or   households in the        visits to verify an                  households were in



                                                 iv
Qualitative)       targeting database as of additional 18,000                  the database by
                   end-2008.                households to                      end-2009, and
                                            reach 50,000 total                 MoSA updated the
                                            in targeting                       eligibility criteria
                                            database; two                      using 2007
                                            largest cash                       household survey
                                            assistance                         data to improve
                                            programs #                         targeting; SSNRP
                                            SSNRP and SHC #                    and SHC have been
                                            operate as a single                combined into a
                                            PA-administered                    single program,
                                            program                            PNCTP
Date achieved      12/31/2008               05/01/2010                         12/31/2009
                   MoSA improved targeting by updating the database using a revised proxy
Comments
                   means test on the basis of 2007 survey data. The strategy for rationalizing
(incl. %
                   safety net programs was finalized and implementation was agreed with donors.
achievement)
                   Target 100% achieved.
Indicator 5 :      Improve efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process
                                                                               By end-2009, a
                                            Develop new
                   The 2009 annual budget                                      draft 2010 budget
                                            economic and
                   introduced a                                                had not been
                                            administrative
                   programmatic structure                                      submitted to the
                                            classification for
                   combining the                                               Council of
                                            use in preparing
                   presentation of                                             Ministers; the new
                                            2010 budget;
Value              recurrent and develop.                                      classification
                                            refine program
(quantitative or   budgets for each line                                       system was not
                                            structure to
Qualitative)       ministry, but the                                           complete, but
                                            improve
                   programmatic structure                                      budget preparation
                                            consistency of
                   does not correlate to                                       across minist. is
                                            presentation across
                   budget execution and                                        being carried out
                                            ministries and
                   consistency across                                          using a format
                                            alignment with PA
                   minist. is lacking                                          aligned with the PA
                                            accounting system
                                                                               accounting system
Date achieved      02/28/2009               05/01/2010                         12/31/2009
                   Budget preparation at the Ministry level uses a revised program presentation to
Comments
                   increase consistency and irmprove alignment with the PA's accounting system.
(incl. %
                   The new classification system has been postponed until the 2011 budget cycle.
achievement)
                   Target 50% achieved.
                   Establish upgraded institutional and regulatory procedures to support PFM
Indicator 6 :
                   reforms
                   PA accounting and
                   financial control                                           57 line ministries
                   functions are disparate                                     and agencies have
                   and not guided by a      10 line ministries                 been connected to
Value
                   cohesive reporting       use the new                        the computerized
(quantitative or
                   structure; a new         computerized                       accounting system,
Qualitative)
                   computerized             accounting system                  36 of which are
                   accounting system has                                       fully implementing
                   been developed but not                                      the system
                   launched in line


                                                 v
                   ministries
Date achieved      12/31/2008                12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments           The new computerized financial system has been successfully rolled out to 57
(incl. %           line ministries and agencies, exceeding the target of 10. Target more than
achievement)       100% achieved.
Indicator 7 :      Strengthen PFM infrastructure and improve auditing functions
                                             Close non-zero
                                                                               Most non-zero
                                             balance line
                                                                               balance line
                                             ministry/agency
                                                                               ministry and
                   Hundreds of non zero bank a/c for
                                                                               agency accounts
                   balance accounts          recurrent
                                                                               closed,
                   remain open for line      expenditures for
                                                                               commitment
                   ministries; audit         line ministries
                                                                               controls designed
                   functions weak and        connected to
Value                                                                          and will be
                   carried out with          computerized acct
(quantitative or                                                               effective in 2010
                   significant delays;       system; introduce
Qualitative)                                                                   budget, domestic
                   domestic debt data not commitment
                                                                               debt not yet
                   reported on a regular control
                                                                               included in monthly
                   basis; financial          procedures; extend
                                                                               MoF reporting,
                   statements not prepared monthly reporting
                                                                               MoF prepared final
                   for audit since 2003      to include
                                                                               financial statements
                                             domestic debt;
                                                                               2008 ready for ext.
                                             complete 2008
                                                                               audits
                                             financial
Date achieved      12/31/2008                05/01/2010                        12/31/2009
                   The PA closed all non-zero balance bank accounts except those required to be
Comments
                   maintained by donors, and consolidated cash balances to reduce debt servicing
(incl. %
                   costs, generating major savings. PA strengthened its internal audit capacity.
achievement)
                   Target 90% achieved.
                   Increase financial accountability through improved and more transparent
Indicator 8 :
                   municipal accounts
                                                                               New FMIS
                                             32 West Bank
                                                                               functioning in 5
                                             municipalities are
                                                                               pilots, another 26
                                             using the new
                                                                               municip. using
                                             FMIS; 35% of
                   The MDLF adopted                                            parts of the system;
                                             WB&G
                   clear criteria for grants                                   the ranking system
                                             municipalities
                   to municipalities;                                          and initial ranking
Value                                        move up one rank
                   MDLF finalized the                                          were completed in
(quantitative or                             on FM
                   pilot stage of the                                          Feb. 2009, with
Qualitative)                                 effectiveness
                   financial information                                       new ranking
                                             scale; PA designs
                   system for                                                  assessments
                                             a strategy for local
                   municipalities                                              planned for Feb.
                                             govt. financial
                                                                               2011; no PA plan
                                             sustainability via
                                                                               yet for local govt.
                                             broadening the
                                                                               financial
                                             local tax base
                                                                               sustainabily
Date achieved      10/31/2008                05/01/2010                        12/31/2009
Comments           Technical difficulties caused delays. The new system is partly or fully



                                                vi
(incl. %           functioning in 31 municipalities in the West Bank; 3 municipalities in the
achievement)       Gaza Strip stalled because the needed hardware was blocked from entry.
                   Target 50% achieved.
                   Establish a comprehensive public procurement system that is suitable for a
Indicator 9 :
                   market economy and introduces transparency, economy and efficiency
                                            PA enacts new
                                            Public
                                            Procurement Law,
                                            and makes
                                            progress toward
                                            drafting supporting                   The draft
                                            regulations,                          procurement law
                                            establishing an                       has not been
Value
                   The PA drafted a new independent                               passed, and Bank
(quantitative or
                   public procurement law Public                                  comments to
Qualitative)
                                            Procurement Unit,                     strengthen the draft
                                            developing                            law have not been
                                            standard bidding                      incorporated
                                            documents, and
                                            instituting a
                                            national
                                            procurement
                                            training program
Date achieved      03/31/2009               12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
                   Passing the law is the necessary first step for establishing a comprehensive
Comments
                   public procurement system, thus little or no progress has been made on
(incl. %
                   regulations, establishing a procurement unit, bidding documents or training
achievement)
                   program. Target not achieved.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                      Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Improve efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process
                                             Refine program
                   The budget#s new
Value                                        structure such that
                   programmatic structure
(quantitative or                             budget controls are
                   does not correlate to
Qualitative)                                 operating at the
                   budget execution
                                             program level
Date achieved      02/28/2009                04/19/2010
Comments           The programs have been included in the accounting system but budget controls
(incl. %           are not yet operating at the program level. Experience during 2010 will be
achievement)       used to refine the programs for use thereafter.
Indicator 2 :      Strengthen PFM infrastructure through improved auditing functions
Value              Weak state audit          Develop a capacity
(quantitative or   controls with staff in    building plan for


                                                 vii
Qualitative)    need of skills upgrading SAACB audit staff
Date achieved   12/31/2008               04/19/2010
Comments        A comprehensive capacity building program for SAACB staff is being
(incl. %        finalized, and is expected to launch during the second half of 2010 with EU
achievement)    co-financing.



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                        IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            viii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Palestinian government and the Palestinian population more broadly face severe
economic challenges as households struggle to meet basic needs and the government
struggles to deliver essential services. The ongoing political and economic crisis has in
many ways intensified in the past year ­ particularly in the Gaza Strip ­ but in other ways
has dissipated as the government strengthens its functionality and the economy begins to
show signs of recovery in the West Bank. The internal division of West Bank and Gaza
(WB&G) is most notable in the divergent political and economic conditions in the West
Bank compared to the Gaza Strip, long-standing divisions that are the result of mobility and
access restrictions imposed by the Government of Israel since the occupation of the West
Bank and Gaza forty years ago.

Background. Normalization and opening between the Palestinian and Israeli economies in
the mid-1990s led to the creation of the Palestinian Authority (PA) ­ empowered to deliver a
subset of government services ­ and a surge of institution building and private sector
development that resulted in sustained economic growth over several years. Despite an
extremely complex political environment and sporadic violence, the Palestinian Authority,
with support from the international community, made great strides toward the goal of an
independent Palestinian state. But in 2000, violence erupted throughout WB&G that
culminated in large Israeli military incursions into Palestinian-controlled areas in 2002 and
2003, accompanied by extensive closures and restrictions on movement imposed on the
Palestinian population and on goods, restrictions binding not only at external and internal
border crossings, but also on people and goods moving within small regions of WB&G and
even between villages. Economic activity was extremely difficult within this climate, and as
a result, incomes plummeted, poverty rates and unemployment soared, and the health and
welfare of the Palestinian people suffered a sharp deterioration.

In 2004, the level of violence ebbed, allowing a brief interval of economic recovery which
came to an end in early 2006 with the election of a Hamas-led government. In response,
most donors withdrew direct PA support and the Government of Israel (GoI) cut off the
transfer of tax clearance revenues that it collects on behalf of the PA, forcing the PA to
reduce payments of public salaries and accumulate substantial arrears to the private sector. It
also led to the deterioration of many government institutions that had been laboriously built
over the previous decade. At the same time, the GoI intensified road closures and
restrictions on the movement of people and goods. Israeli settlement activity and the
construction of the separation barrier also continued unabated, which resulted in even greater
impediments to economic activity in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

In June 2007, Hamas took control of Gaza by force, following which President Abbas
dissolved the Hamas-led government and swore in an emergency government of technocrats,
which has since become a Caretaker Government until new presidential and parliamentary
elections can be held. The international community rallied around the new Caretaker
Government; most donors restarted their programs, and the GoI released tax clearance
revenues. However, the Palestinian territories remain effectively divided in two. Gaza,


                                              1
under the control of a Hamas administration, has been completely isolated by a strict closure
policy applied by the GoI. Violence increased during this period, culminating in a massive
Israeli incursion in December 2008-January 2009. Although the PA continued to pay its
workers in Gaza and deliver basic services such as health and education, many central
government functions had to be transferred to the West Bank. Private sector activity
collapsed and the Gaza population continues to subsist on emergency donor aid. The UN
reports that the closures and violence led to a serious decline in health indicators for the
Gaza population. At the same time, however, the West Bank saw a reduction in violence and
an increase in economic growth, albeit from a low base. This economic growth is due
mainly to the large increase in external aid. But it can also be partly attributed to the PA's
reform program and a slight easing of some of the Israeli security measures. However,
Israeli settlements continue to expand and there has been no relaxation on the main
economic restrictions such as access to resources in area C. Consequently, investment
remains depressed.

Palestinian-led Reform. The Caretaker Government has made significant progress in re-
establishing institutions, rebuilding confidence in the West Bank, and demonstrating its
ability to govern effectively. In December 2007 at the Paris Donor Conference, the
government presented the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP), which lays
out a comprehensive plan of reforms to help re-start economic growth and improve the
welfare of citizens. The PRDP details steps towards fiscal reform and greater government
transparency and accountability, while directing spending to the social sectors and public
goods in priority activities that support the environment for private sector development. In
addition, it sets out a public investment program to complement the private sector investment
that is expected to power the economy. The plan can only be fully implemented in the West
Bank, where the new government is in full control. However, it is designed to be expanded
to Gaza as soon as the situation permits. The success of the PRDP depends upon parallel
actions by the PA, the donor community and the GoI. If the GoI does not relax its
movement and access restrictions, then the private sector will not be able to grow. Likewise,
if donors do not provide the necessary financial support, the government will be unable to
function or implement reforms.

At the Paris Donor Conference, the international donor community responded by pledging
US$7.5 billion to fund the PRDP over the 2008-2011 period. The PA requested much of the
aid in unrestricted budget support, but many donors are hesitant to provide funds directly to
the PA budget. Some have pledged funds for projects and others have pledged to pay
recurrent costs (mainly salaries) directly, but only a few, including the Bank, have pledged
untied budget support.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. Untied budget support is essential for the PA to function.
Its biggest expenses are salaries (including pensions) and "net lending", much of which are
payments by the central government to the Israel Electric Company for power supplied to
Palestinian municipalities and other distributors. Domestic revenues are inadequate to cover
these costs. It is also important that external support be channelled through the PA's Central
Treasury Account (CTA), which helps the PA develop budget discipline and strengthen its
public financial management systems, which were severely damaged during the 2006 aid



                                              2
cut. To encourage donors to use the CTA, the Bank and the IMF jointly agreed to monitor
and report to donors on a quarterly basis the PA's allocation and use of funds, and to assess
progress in meeting the goals outlined in the PRDP. The monitoring focuses on progress in
improving the fiscal position and public financial management.

The Caretaker Government also asked the Bank to establish a multi-donor trust fund to
support the PRDP by providing untied budget support through the CTA. The Bank
established the PRDP Multi-Donor Trust Fund (PRDP-TF) and, at the request of the PA, also
provided US$40 million in direct budget support under the DPG I in 2008, the precursor to
the current operation. The PA's satisfactory progress toward its development objectives
implies a strong government commitment and effectiveness, meriting continued financial
and technical support for the government's reform program, hence the follow-up DPG II.
The PA's hopes that Bank involvement would mobilize otherwise reluctant donors to
support their reform plan and provide budget support were realized, as the Bank's initial
US$40 million under the DPG I was accompanied by over US$300 million in support
through the PRDP-TF during its first 12 months. The PA believes that ongoing Bank
assistance will continue to catalyze much-needed donor support as the government strives to
emerge from crisis.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The operation was designed to support the PA as it continues to implement its reform
program detailed in the PRDP, a comprehensive and ambitious set of reform measures aimed
at spurring economic growth, establishing good governance and moving towards the ultimate
goal of an independent Palestinian state. The focus of the PRDP is on improving the PA's
fiscal position and strengthening governance while directing the existing levels of
expenditure and investment in the social sectors and public goods to priority activities and
supporting the environment for private sector development. The PA began implementing its
plan in 2008 with support under DPG I, which confined its focus to (i) strengthening the
PA's fiscal position and (ii) improving public financial management. The PA made
adequate progress during 2008, as detailed in Word Bank monitoring reports and the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (Report No. ICR00001077). The current
follow-up operation, DPG II, maintained these two areas of focus (i.e., strengthening the
fiscal position and improving public financial management) in order to have the largest
impact. These two pillars are critical building blocks for the government of an independent
Palestinian state and are also crucial for attracting continued international donor support.

The Bank's involvement in monitoring and providing technical assistance for the reform
agenda described in the policy matrix aims to strengthen the PA's capacity to achieve the
desired reforms and also help build the required support among donors. The Bank has
supported the PRDP process in the following complementary ways: (i) at the request of the
PA, it established and continues to administer the PRDP Multi-Donor Trust Fund, which
provides budget support; (ii) it provided direct support through development policy grants
DPG I and DPG II; and (iii) it provides on-going technical assistance and monitoring.




                                             3
There are nine key performance indicators identified in the Program Document to assist in
monitoring progress toward implementing the operation's development objectives:
     1. Control the public sector wage bill through limiting and targeting recruitment;
     2. Reduce net lending by instituting measures to increase collection and payment of
         electricity bills;
     3. Reduce net lending by transferring electricity supply and distribution to distribution
         companies established in accordance with the Companies Law;
     4. Improve social safety net targeting to ensure that the most vulnerable populations
         are protected;
     5. Improve efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process;
     6. Establish upgraded institutional and regulatory procedures to support PFM reforms;
     7. Strengthen PFM infrastructure and improve auditing functions;
     8. Increase financial accountability through improved and more transparent municipal
         accounts; and
     9. Establish a comprehensive public procurement system that is suitable for a market
         economy and introduces transparency, economy and efficiency.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

The PDO and the key indicators have remained the same during the life of the project.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

Like the DPG I, this operation supported action in two main policy areas: (i) strengthening
the fiscal position; and (ii) improving public financial management.

(i) Strengthening the Fiscal Position

In order to strengthen its fiscal position, the PA chose to use the Bank's support to focus on
curbing spending on key budget items ­ namely the public wage bill and net lending ­ in a
manner that does not compromise the welfare of Palestinians by cutting essential services or
social protection programs.

Public Wage Bill. Government employment in the WB&G has always been significant as a
result of mobility and land restrictions that limit private sector growth and the potential to
absorb a growing working-age population. The crisis situation since 2000 has exacerbated
the economy's dependence on government employment and services, and by 2008, the
government wage bill accounted for half of total recurrent budget expenditure. Despite
political pressures for increased government hiring, the PA recognizes that it must control
the public sector wage bill in order to move toward fiscal sustainability. Limiting the wage
bill can be achieved through recruitment controls and wage restraint. Rationalization
measures introduced in 2008 helped to reduce the public workforce to less than 150,000.
Under the current operation, the PA committed to limiting net recruitment such that total
public employment does not exceed 153,000 during 2009, with new hires primarily in the
education and health sectors. Although wage increases were foreseen in the 2009 budget ­ a
mandatory 1.25 percent rise as well as a one-time 2.75 percent cost of living increase ­ the
total public wage bill was targeted to decline to 22.3 percent of GDP. As Prior Action 1,


                                              4
the Ministry of Finance implemented a control system to ensure that public sector hiring
remains in line with the PA budget. Because PNA pension liabilities represent a high cost,
the PA has committed to drafting a pension reform action plan to further control costs in the
future.

Net Lending. Accounting for 15 percent of recurrent budget spending in 2008, net lending
is costly, particularly because its largest component cannot be adequately budgeted since it
represents non-payment for electricity consumption. Due to the complex institutional
arrangements stemming from Israeli-based electricity provision, most electricity distribution
is carried out by local governments. Although these local governments collect payments
from consumers, they often do not pay the Israel Electric Company (IEC), keeping the
revenue to fund current operations. The Israeli Ministry of Finance, in turn, deducts what is
owed to the IEC from tax clearance receipts owed to the PA. Thus the PA subsidizes the
operating costs of local governments. This subsidy is reported as net lending by the PA to
local governments.

Under the PRDP, the government seeks to re-establish a culture of payment and increase
collections by maintaining its recently implemented "certificates of payment" (COP) system
under which citizens must demonstrate they are up-to-date on their electricity bills before
receiving certain government services. The main component of the PA's efforts, however, is
the introduction of pre-paid meters, 45,000 of which had been installed by end-2008, with a
targeted installation of an additional 20,000 meters in the West Bank by end-2009. The PA's
strategy to reduce net lending includes both positive and negative incentives to induce
municipality compliance in paying utility bills. As Prior Action 2, the Council of Ministers
agreed to provide support on a declining schedule to local governments that demonstrate that
they have paid the Israeli Electric Company in full. This provision is designed to help
compensate municipalities as they end their reliance on electricity revenues. The MoF has
also instituted a system to reduce tax transfers to municipalities that do not pay the IEC by
the amount that they owe (i.e., the amount that has been withheld from PA clearance
revenues). As Prior Action 3, a new electricity law was enacted establishing a regulatory
authority for the power sector and providing the Palestinian Energy and Natural Resources
Authority (PENRA) with the authority to set tariffs and license electricity distributors. The
next step is for PENRA to begin implementing a comprehensive strategy to transfer West
Bank electricity supply from local governments to existing and new distribution companies.
The PA also committed to introducing a rising block tariff system to provide a minimum
level of electricity service at low cost, so as not to exclude the poor. As a result of these
measures, the PA's target net lending for 2009 was 6 percent of GDP, with further reductions
anticipated for 2010 and 2011 as reforms come fully online.

Social Safety Net. Palestinians currently benefit from a wide range of safety net programs
carried out by the PA, numerous donor countries and various organizations. Recognizing the
need to ensure that the most vulnerable groups are adequately protected, the PA launched an
effort to rationalize the various cash assistance programs through improved targeting. As
Prior Action 4, the Council of Ministers integrated all cash assistance programs into the
Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA). The ministry has developed a database containing
household characteristics that allow targeting by means-testing on the basis of thirty proxy
poverty variables. Collected through household surveys, the database contained 40,000


                                             5
households at end-2008, with a target of expanding coverage to at least 50,000 households
by end-2009. The PRDP envisions an integrated social safety net in which all cash
assistance programs target the needy using the database, which would ensure better coverage
and avoid overlap. As a first step towards this objective, the PA has committed to
combining the two largest programs ­ Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) and
Special Hardship Cases (SHC) ­ into a single PA cash assistance program guided by the
MoSA database.

(ii) Improving Public Financial Management

As a top priority of the PRDP and supported by DPG I and the current operation, effective
public financial management is essential for maximizing the use of scarce public funds,
ensuring transparency and accountability, and attracting donor support, particularly untied
budgetary support. It will also help stimulate confidence in the Caretaker government and
increase citizen's willingness to pay taxes and fees. The PA's ongoing, multi-faceted
approach to improving PFM addresses budget preparation procedures, institutional and
regulatory procedures relating to public accounts, cash management, oversight and auditing
functions, accountability and transparency of municipal accounts, and the public
procurement system.

Budget Preparation. With a view to moving toward performance-focused budget
management, the PA's reform program commits to improving the annual budget exercise by
introducing consistency across ministries using a program structure under which the
recurrent and development budgets are presented jointly. This was achieved for the first
time with the 2009 budget, Prior Action 5 of the current operation. During 2009, the PA
undertook to refine program definitions to align budgets with the PA accounting system in
the short term, ultimately to be used in monitoring budget execution in the medium term.
And the MoF planned to develop a new economic and administrative budget classification
system to be used in the 2010 budget.

Public Accounting System. As part of the PA's efforts to strengthen internal controls, the
MoF developed a new computerized accounting system and plans to deploy it to line
ministries to be used initially to manage payments, but with a broader financial management
role in the future (Prior Action 6 provided the necessary regulatory backing for the new
system). Within the framework of the PRDP and DPG II, the MoF planned to design and
introduce commitment controls into the accounting system, which would facilitate the
closing of line ministries' non-zero balance bank accounts, a source of prolific overspending
in the past.

Cash Management. The PA has long been plagued with liquidity difficulties because of the
structure of its public finances, namely its reliance on external sources such as donor support
and clearance revenues from Israel. Shortfalls have been common, leading to arrears, urgent
pleas for donor disbursements, and excessive domestic borrowing. To manage within this
environment, the MoF resorted to daily cash rationing, but under the PA's reform program,
the MoF has prepared an annual cash plan (Prior Action 7) under which discretionary
activities are scheduled to coincide with cash availability, and closer communication with



                                              6
donors regarding potential cash shortfalls helps donors in planning and coordinating budget
support disbursements.

Auditing. In order to improve transparency and accountability, not only to its citizens but
also to the donor community, the government launched key measures to improve its audit
functions, from an internal audit plan to produce audits of key ministries for the 2008 budget
year, to the publishing of monthly revenue and expenditure accounts by the MoF with a view
to adding data on domestic debt, to preparing the final 2008 accounts and submitting them
for external audit.

Municipal Accounts. Many local governments struggle to cover their expenditures without
recourse to utility revenues, which explains how net lending by the central government has
become a large burden. If this implicit transfer is removed, local governments will need to
find alternative revenue sources and/or reduce their expenditures. As a first step, the
Municipal Development and Lending Fund (MDLF) has developed performance-based
criteria related to improved financial management in order for municipalities to qualify for
capital investment grants (Prior Action 8), with the expectation that about 35 percent of
municipalities in WB&G would move up at least one spot on the MDLF scale of Municipal
Financial Management Effectiveness in 2009. These efforts will be complemented by a new
financial management information system that has been introduced to eight pilot
municipalities (Prior Action 9), and will be rolled out throughout the West Bank, with an
expected 32 municipalities using the system by end-2009. Looking ahead, the PA needs to
develop a strategy ­ in conjunction with municipalities ­ to expand the local tax base to
compensate for lost revenue streams.

Public Procurement. Under the PRDP, the government has committed to making
procurement more efficient and transparent, and in the first quarter of 2009 drafted a new
public procurement law. Within the context of the current operation, the PA committed to
submitting the law ­ plus any revisions ­ to the Council of Ministers for approval. The
subsequent steps, which were to be initiated under DPG II, include enacting supporting
regulations for the new law, establishing a public procurement unit, initiating development
of standard bidding documents, and instituting a procurement training program across the
government.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised during the life of the project.

1.6 Other Significant Changes

There were no significant changes made to the project from the design stage to completion of
the operation.




                                               7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

The Legal Opinion was received on July 16, 2009 and the Trust Fund Grant Agreement was
made effective on July 17, 2009.

   Tranche #            Amount          Expected Release Date           Actual Release Date         Release

   Tranche 1         US$40 million             7/31/2009                     7/31/2009              Regular



The conditions for tranche release were also conditions for Board presentation and were
therefore met at that time.

                                                    Tranche 1
 Conditions    List of conditions from Program Document                                             Status
               A control system through which the Ministry of Finance ensures that public
     1         sector hiring is in line with the Palestinian Authority's budget is being             Met
               implemented
               The Council of Ministers has issued Resolution number 51/98/12/m.w/s.f of
               2009 which provides support on a declining schedule to local governments
     2                                                                                               Met
               distributing electricity that demonstrate that they have paid the Israeli Electric
               Company in full
               A new electricity law was enacted on 23 April, 2009, establishing, inter alia,
               the Palestinian Energy and Regulatory Commission (PERC) as the regulatory
     3         authority for the power sector and providing the Palestinian Energy and               Met
               Natural Resources Authority (PENRA) with the authority to set tariffs and
               license electricity distributors
               The Council of Ministers has issued Resolution number 08/96/12/m.w/s.f of
     4         2009, which integrates all cash assistance programs into the Ministry of Social       Met
               Affairs
               The 2009 annual budget law has been approved which, inter alia, introduces
     5         the use of a program structure to make a combined presentation of the                 Met
               recurrent and development budgets for each line ministry
               The Council of Ministers has issued Resolution number 51/103/12/m.w/s.f of
     6         2009, which amends the financial regulation 43 for the year 2005, to provide          Met
               the regulatory backing for the new computerized accounting system
               The PA has prepared and submitted to the Bank an annual cash plan to guide
     7         budget execution in 2009 that incorporates actual monthly cash flows and              Met
               updated forecasts
               The board of directors of the MDLF has adopted clear criteria for performance
     8                                                                                               Met
               based transfers of monetary grants to municipalities
               A management letter has been submitted by the MDLF, confirming that the
               MDLF has completed the pilot phase of the new financial management
     9                                                                                               Met
               information system for small, medium and large municipalities in eight
               municipalities




                                                       8
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

The PA's ambitious reform program laid out in the PRDP and supported by the current
operation achieved measured success during 2009 despite a complex environment
characterized by challenging institutional, political and economic circumstances. Reform
progress is dependent not only upon actions by the PA, but also upon the actions of the
Israeli government and donors. On the institutional front, Hamas retains security control of
Gaza, despite the fact that the Caretaker Government continues to provide basic services and
employ a significant share of Gaza residents. The blockade imposed by the GoI remained
stringent throughout 2009, and the Israeli incursion into Gaza in December 2008-January
2009 caused significant loss of life and widespread destruction, resulting in a total collapse
of the Gaza economy as most residents became dependent on emergency humanitarian
assistance. Even today, Gaza endures regular episodes of violence and remains under a
complete blockade by Israeli forces, impeding reconstruction. This in turn has fiscal
implications through higher social spending, resulting in a structural increase in recurrent
expenditure until housing and other basic infrastructure are restored in Gaza.

Reform measures under the PRDP have been concentrated in the West Bank, with plans to
extend reforms to Gaza at a later stage as circumstances permit. Although the West Bank
experiences relatively lower levels of violence, ongoing mobility and access restrictions
inhibit trade, which has a negative impact not only on economic growth, due to the scarcity
of inputs and restrictions on exports, but also on fiscal revenues through consumption and
trade taxes. Whereas certain taxes are collected directly by the PA, other taxes ­ in
particular trade, petroleum excise and value-added taxes ­ are also collected by the GoI on
behalf of the PA and transferred in the form of clearance revenues. But in 2009, total
clearance revenues were lower than expected, due in large part to the closure of Gaza in the
first quarter of the year.

This was exacerbated by the emergency spending demands associated with the humanitarian
crisis in Gaza. A supplemental budget of US$300 million was adopted in August 2009 to
meet these additional recurrent expenditure needs, resulting in a higher-than-anticipated
budget deficit requiring external financing. An extra US$1.345 billion was being sought for
reconstruction, implying that donors were being asked for an additional US$1.6 billion, a tall
order given that US$1.65 billion had already been requested to finance recurrent and capital
spending in 2009. The Gaza appeal also raises the risk that donors may shift from budget
support to reconstruction projects in Gaza, which would diminish the PA's ability to deliver
basic government services throughout WB&G. Moreover, significant delays in donor
disbursements ­ a serious problem for cash management in light of the PA's dependence on
external financing ­ imposed further costs, as the PA was forced to resort to domestic bank
financing and accumulation of arrears. Several of the operation's outcomes were adversely
affected by this very challenging economic and security climate.

The preceding discussion presents factors that were largely beyond the control of the
government. But slower-than-anticipated external technical assistance delayed some aspects
of the reform program's implementation, and the complexity of some measures ­ particularly
with respect to implementing a new financial accounting system and improving budget
preparation and execution across all line ministries ­ meant that technical difficulties arising


                                               9
at various stages of implementation had to be addressed along the way, causing additional
delays. Whereas the government has displayed strong commitment to the PRDP and the
objectives supported by the current operation, several key measures did not receive adequate
political backing to facilitate progress, in part reflecting the complex nature of the issues
involved and competing interests.

The operation's focus on strengthening the fiscal position and improving public financial
management stemmed from the crisis situation with respect to weakened public institutions,
a difficult climate for private investment and growth, a humanitarian crisis in Gaza, and PA
dependence on external budget support. The range of policy actions supported by DPG II
followed on directly from DPG I and the PA's ambitious but participatory PRDP, and had
strong analytical underpinnings. The immediate goal of establishing sound public functions
to deliver government services and foster economic growth in a way that instills confidence
among the Palestinian people and international partners remains central to achieving longer-
term development objectives, providing a solid rationale for Bank assistance.

The risk factors associated with the current operation were well articulated in the Program
Document; these include the challenging security climate, tenuous political situation,
externally imposed movement and access restrictions and resulting constraints on economic
recovery, fragile government institutions, and the PA's fundamental reliance on aid.
Successful implementation of the PRDP will require not only strong government
commitment, but also the cooperation of the GoI and continued generous support by the
donor community. Mitigation efforts by the Bank to foster reform progress and build the
confidence of donors to provide budget support have been largely effective.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The basis for monitoring reform progress is the policy matrix laid out in the Program
Document (World Bank Report No. 48304-GZ), which identifies performance indicators to
be achieved during the 12 months following project approval. These indicators, designed to
demonstrate progress towards the development objectives, range from quantifiable targets on
which data is available, to more action-oriented indicators of a more qualitative nature. The
operation's first main objective ­ to strengthen the PA's fiscal position through a smaller
wage bill and reducing net lending ­ can be achieved through a group of policy actions
relating to recruitment, pay policies, and bill collection strategies in the electricity sector, as
laid out in the policy matrix, on which progress is measured relatively easily. The more
complex actions that comprise improvements to social safety net targeting and government
transparency and accountability through the public financial management reform strategy are
multi-faceted and therefore necessitate a more varied range of indicators for monitoring
progress. Based on the supervision experience of DPG I and the current operation, these
performance indicators are appropriately designed.

The PRDP ­ in particular the measures supported by DPG II ­ and the PA's allocation and
use of funds are monitored closely by the World Bank and the IMF, as well as by the PA.
This joint monitoring mechanism was set up under DPG I to coincide with the monitoring
needs associated with the Bank-administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund that also supports the
PRDP. Under this Trust Fund, the World Bank, in consultation with the IMF, assesses


                                                10
reform progress on the basis of PA-provided quarterly progress reports, and these feed into
Trust Fund disbursement decisions. These assessments are shared with the donor
community, providing a signal for harnessing additional support for the Trust Fund.
Moreover, this monitoring mechanism will continue over the life of the Trust Fund. During
2009, the MoF created a special M&E unit to enhance its capacity to track PRDP
implementation, which in turn has facilitated the supervision of DPG II. Less formal
monitoring occurs on a near-continuous basis in terms of macroeconomic monitoring as well
as technical assistance provided by Bank and IMF staff relating to public financial
management measures (e.g., streamlining budget preparation, implementing a new public
accounting system, reviewing procurement legislation, inter alia). The Bank's in-country
team was expanded to enhance project implementation. In practice, the operation's
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms have proved effective, particularly in keeping donors
apprised of reform progress and future assistance needs.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

In response to a request from the government for further support in its efforts to implement
the PRDP, the Bank has prepared a follow-up operation, DPG III. Similar to its
predecessors, DPG III will focus on (i) strengthening the PA's fiscal position and
consolidating recent gains, and (ii) improving public financial management. Whereas the
development objectives remain unchanged, efforts will focus on areas where progress under
DPG II was slower than anticipated, and performance indicators will be designed to bolster
progress. Retaining the monitoring mechanisms currently in place will assist in the new
operation's effectiveness in supporting the PA's reform program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Bank's assistance strategy for the WB&G is outlined in the most recent Interim Strategy
note, which was written in conjunction with the preparation of DPG I and remains relevant
under the current circumstances.1 The focus of the strategy is to support WB&G's own
reform program, the PRDP. Successful reform will depend on three critical factors:
(i) effectiveness of PA efforts; (ii) GoI actions to ease closures to allow private sector
growth; and (iii) donor support to finance the PA's recurrent budget. The operation's
objectives, design and implementation are based on the PA's reform program, and are
therefore fully consistent with WB&G's development priorities.

The Bank's implementation assistance has focused on mutually reinforcing goals:
   · providing technical support for the fiscal and public financial management aspects of
      the PRDP to promote fiscal sustainability and government accountability;



1
  Interim Strategy for West Bank and Gaza for the Period FY08-FY10 and Request for Replenishment of the
Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank, March 25, 2008. Because West Bank and Gaza is not a member
country, there is no Country Assistance Strategy.



                                                  11
   ·   encouraging donors' commitment to provide untied budget support, allowing the PA
       to continue developing its institutional capacity to deliver essential services to its
       citizens.

These goals are also consistent with the Bank's global priorities of strengthening government
institutions and services to protect the poor, and improving governance. Towards these
goals, the Bank established the PRDP Multi-Donor Trust Fund, administers the Trust Fund,
monitors its disbursements and policy alignment with reform objectives, and contributed its
own resources through DPG I and DPG II. The quarterly monitoring provided by the Bank
and IMF assures donors that fiduciary controls are adequate and that PA reforms are on
track. The Bank's cumulative US$80 million in Development Policy Grants has successfully
leveraged other donor funding of over US$400 million since mid-2008.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

During 2009, the PA had moderate success in strengthening its fiscal position, but was
undermined by several ­ mostly external ­ factors. Revenues were up compared to 2008, but
fell short of budget targets due to lower than anticipated tax and clearance revenues
stemming from constrained growth and the ongoing blockade of Gaza. The spending
requirements to address the crisis in Gaza added another US$300 million to PA recurrent
expenditure. And 2008 arrears which should have been accounted for in the 2008 budget but
were instead discovered in 2009 added another unforeseen US$142 million to total spending,
bringing the recurrent deficit to 24.7 percent of GDP. Without these unexpected shocks,
however, the recurrent deficit would have reached its target of 18 percent of GDP. Actual
commitments during 2009 were 1 percent below the revised budget.

Through public hiring reform supported by DPG II, the PA succeeded in keeping total public
employment below 148,000, well below the 153,000 cap. But the security sector continues
to dominate total employment as well as new recruitment. Although this is not surprising
given the security situation, it means that resources for expanding services in social sectors
like health and education are crowded out. Over 40 percent of net recruitment was in the
security sector, compared to 26 percent in education, while employment in the health sector
actually declined. The public wage bill was 24 percent of GDP, surpassing the 22.3 percent
budgeted as a result of: (i) net recruitment; (ii) a 4 percent wage increase comprising a
mandatory 1.25 percent annual increase and a one-time 2.75 percent cost of living
adjustment to compensate workers for significant payment delays and high rates of inflation
during 2008 (already built into the budget); (iii) depreciation of the US dollar; and
(iv) interest payments on wage arrears left over from 2006. To address future costs
associated with public pension liabilities, the PA had begun to develop the analytical
underpinnings of a pension reform plan by end-2009.

The PA's efforts, supported by DPG II, to reduce net lending through improved utility
collections and increased payments to the Israel Electric Company met with success,
achieving a substantial reduction in net lending from 6.8 percent of GDP in 2008 to 5.8
percent of GDP in 2009 ­ surpassing the performance target. Some 111,000 prepaid meters
were installed during 2009, on top of the 45,000 installed the previous year, taking the total
to more than double the targeted value of 65,000 installed meters. The MoF deducts money


                                             12
owed to it by delinquent local governments from taxes and other transfers, and the
Certificate of Payment system which restricts entitlement of certain government services to
those who have paid their electricity bills is being applied. In addition, PA employees with
electricity bill arrears have these amounts deducted from their pay. For local governments
that have paid their electricity bills in full, the MoF awards incentive bonus payments worth
up to 5 percent of the value of the bill. Collection rates in the West Bank reached nearly 80
percent, the maximum feasible given that refugee camps are excluded. All of these measures
contributed to lower net lending in 2009.

The second part of the PA's strategy to reduce net lending is to commercialize electricity
distribution by taking it out of the hands of local governments. However, the most
problematic municipalities have not yet signed up with commercial distribution companies,
and this poses risks to future net lending targets. Since the new electricity law was enacted
in April 2009, progress has been hampered by delays in setting up the regulator, which in
turn delayed licensing of new distribution companies. Moreover, the PA has not yet
developed a comprehensive strategy for transferring electricity distribution in the West Bank
to commercial distribution companies.

Whereas the recently-installed prepaid meters have the capacity to charge tariffs in rising
blocks ­ a measure that ensures access to minimal electricity supply by the poor ­ it is
necessary to have a regulator in place to approve this tariff structure. Other efforts
undertaken by the PA under DPG II to improve the social safety net have been extremely
effective, however. The decision to merge all cash assistance programs under the MoSA
using a poverty-targeting database is being implemented. During 2009, the database was
expanded to include over 50,000 households, and the proxy means test for targeting poor
households was updated on the basis of the 2007 census and 2007 household expenditure
and consumption survey. Moreover, the two largest programs ­ SSNRP and SHC ­ have
been merged into a single program, the Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program
(PNCTP).

With respect to the broad development objective of improving public financial management,
DPG I focused on re-establishing the integrity of the government accounts. Progress during
this initial stage laid the groundwork for addressing a wide range of public financial
management systems under DPG II, from budget preparation through to external audit of the
final accounts.

The PRDP aims to improve the efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation
process, and measures supported under DPG II made substantial progress in this direction.
The 2009 budget introduced a programmatic structure combining recurrent and development
budgets for each line ministry, with the medium-term goal of moving toward performance
budgeting that uses programs for budget execution. During the second half of 2009, the PA
made further progress toward this objective by assisting line ministries to use a more
consistent program format aligned with the PA's new accounting system. As a result, the
program structure was incorporated into the PA's chart of accounts, and during 2010, PA
expenditure is being tracked at the program level. The result will be increased transparency
of expenditures. A new economic and administrative classification system planned for



                                             13
implementation in the 2010 budget has not yet been completed, and has been postponed to
the 2011 budget cycle.

Under DPG I, the PA had developed a new financial management information system, but
the regulatory requirements supporting its implementation were still lacking. This was
remedied in 2009 with amendments to the financial regulations to recognize the role of the
new system. During 2009 the new computerized financial management system has been
rolled out to 57 line ministries, 36 of which are fully implementing the system ­ far above
the original target. The remaining 21 line ministries are in the process of being connected or
completing training. A significant source of budget leakage and poor financial control
stemmed from a preponderance of non-zero balance bank accounts for line ministries and
various agencies, but with the financial management system in place, the government was
able to close down all non-zero balance bank accounts except those required to be
maintained by donors. In addition, a procurement module was developed for the financial
management system to control commitments. The module will be introduced to support the
execution of the 2010 budget. Monthly reporting of the PA's fiscal accounts data has
improved monitoring and transparency, but the target of producing monthly data on domestic
debt is not expected to be met until end-2010. The MoF completed the preparation of the
2008 financial statements based on international public sector accounting standards and
submitted these for external audit. It also succeeded in strengthening its audit procedures
and capacity, and issued internal audit reports on the MoNE, MoSA, and Bureau of the Chief
Justice. Taken together, these results represent significant progress toward the PRDP goal of
upgrading the institutional, regulatory, audit and infrastructure aspects of sound public
financial management.

The fiscal burden of net lending stems in large part from poor financial accountability at the
municipal level. The PA has taken several steps to minimize the diversion of utility
revenues to finance local government operations. A new financial management information
system has been introduced and is partly or fully functioning in 31 municipalities in the West
Bank (missing the target by one). Some delay in implementation arose due to technical
difficulties with the software. The three pilots in Gaza have been plagued by the blockade
on the needed hardware; most of the other necessary preparations have been made. The
Municipal Development and Lending Fund (MDLF) developed performance-based criteria
for transfers to municipalities using a ranking system. Initial rankings were established in
February 2009, and since then, municipalities have taken steps to improve their management.
But assessing improvements will require a sufficient time interval, and the next ranking
exercise is not planned until February 2011. This delay means that the original target under
DPG II cannot be measured in the necessary time-frame.

Two policy areas of the PRDP in which the PA failed to make significant progress are the
transfer of electricity distribution from municipalities to distribution companies, and public
procurement. Under DPG II, the PA committed to begin implementing a time-bound,
comprehensive strategy to transfer West Bank electricity supply from local governments to
distribution companies established in accordance with the Companies Law. And although
the authorities anticipated that a new public procurement law would be submitted for
approval in July 2009, no progress in this arena had been observed by end-2009, despite the
existence of draft legislation and technical advice provided by the Bank. Passing new


                                             14
legislation is a necessary precondition for drafting supporting regulations, developing
standard bidding documents, establishing an independent Public Procurement Unit, and
instituting a national training program ­ targets that the PA committed to under DPG II.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating: Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The operation's relevance is unassailable, with the objectives having been designed to
support the government's own participatory reform and development plan (the PRDP) in
areas where the Bank and donors could add value through financial and technical assistance,
and which are fully consistent with the Bank's global priorities. The operation's
implementation measures and monitoring and evaluation have been designed and carried out
effectively, meriting a satisfactory rating.

The operation's track record in achieving program objectives has been only moderately
satisfactory due to shortcomings in meeting several of the target objectives. But the overall
development objectives ­ to strengthen the PA's fiscal position and improve public financial
management ­ have been substantially achieved. The fiscal position has improved,
particularly when external shocks are accounted for, and the government's accounts and
financial management systems are much more solidly grounded, underpinned by technical
controls that have been or are in the process of being implemented, and are more transparent,
which enables regular monitoring. As a result, public financial management inspires a much
greater degree of confidence compared to the state of fiscal controls in 2008.

There is scope for further progress, however, particularly in areas where targets were missed.
Of the nine target indicators identified in the operation's policy matrix, three were fully
achieved, two were substantially achieved, two were 50 percent achieved, and two saw little
progress. For the indicators that were only partially achieved, the main contributory factors
were technical delays and limits on absorptive capacity associated with implementing
extensive new financial information systems. In the case of the two unmet indicators,
underperformance was primarily the result of delays reaching a political consensus while the
PA was facing a number of crises such as the separation of Gaza from the West Bank. On
balance, therefore, and in light of the challenging economic, political and security climate,
the DPG II helped the authorities advance toward their own reform and development goals,
meriting a ranking of moderately satisfactory.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

This operation addresses poverty and welfare both indirectly ­ through more efficient use of
public resources ­ and directly ­ through measures to improve social safety net targeting.
The range of steps to strengthen public financial management will reduce leakage, freeing up
resources for priority spending such as in the social sectors. The MoSA expanded and
updated its household database using a revised proxy means test on the basis of household
survey data, and by end-2009, over 50,000 households were in the targeting database. These
actions are expected to help alleviate poverty. The MoSA strategy for reforming and
rationalizing social safety net programs was finalized and implementation, which is targeted


                                             15
for the first quarter of 2010, was agreed with donors. As a result, aid will be more
effectively targeted to the most vulnerable households, eliminating overlap. The PA's timely
payment of salaries and the 4 percent wage increase also helped to reduce poverty. Despite
these measures, however, poverty remains high ­ particularly in the Gaza Strip, where
dependence on humanitarian assistance is nearly universal.

Gender issues are mainstreamed in the project, rather than being targeted specifically. But
given that many of the poorest households are headed by women, the improvements in
targeting the cash transfer programs will ensure that the neediest women will receive
support.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

To achieve the objectives of strengthening public financial management and reducing net
lending, DPG II was designed with a real institutional focus. Prior to this operation and its
precursor DPG I, the government's accounts at the national and local levels were not
transparent and lacked adequate controls. By (i) implementing the new accounting system
that will be used to execute program budgets at the central level and in line ministries, (ii)
increasing utility collections and introducing procedures and incentives for local
governments to pay for utility supply, and (iii) strengthening audit functions, the PA will be
able to carry out its functions in a transparent and accountable way that uses public and
donor resources more efficiently. These measures have already helped to increase capacity
at the MoF and line ministries, and are expected to increase the capacity of local
governments in the coming year or two. Over time, these institutional changes will elicit
greater confidence among citizens and the donor community, and will enable the PA to face
medium-term challenges more effectively. The safety net aspects supported by DPG II have
had a particular impact on institutional strengthening at the MoSA, with its increased scope
for administering all cash assistance programs in WB&G.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome: Rating: Substantial

WB&G is a high risk country characterized by open conflict in Gaza and sporadic violence
in the West Bank, and an ever-present risk of escalation. Whereas the PA has made
considerable progress in implementing the PRDP, continued success requires significant
donor support in terms of technical assistance and ­ most importantly ­ financing for the
recurrent budget. Although financial support in recent years has been generous, donors may
feel the pinch of the global financial crisis, or may wish to transfer support to reconstruction
or other capital expenditures. Additional risks to the PA's fiscal position stem from the
private sector and the limited capacity for economic growth in the current security climate.



                                              16
If the GoI maintains its movement and access restrictions on people and goods and
restrictions on access to resources, the Palestinian economy is doomed to struggle, risking
future fiscal stability and jeopardizing gains to-date relating to accountability at the central
and local levels, utility collections, and performance budgeting. This economic risk is high
given the negligible prospects for a major change in the GoI's policies.

There are substantial political risks as well, in particular to the political survival of the PA.
In the absence of progress in peace talks or reconciliation with the Hamas government in
Gaza, the current PA government could collapse, precluding further reforms or even the
maintenance of existing service delivery and public employment. If there were a
reconciliation government that included elements of Hamas, there would be a likelihood that
some donors would pull out altogether ­ as happened in 2006 ­ thereby endangering the
institutions that have developed with the support of DPG I and DPG II.

Of lesser consequence, there are moderate risks in terms of the PA's commitment to the next
stage of reforms in the difficult areas of electricity distribution, local government financial
sustainability, public pensions and public procurement reform. These aspects remain part of
the PRDP, but progress has been slow, impeded in part by a lack of political support or intra-
PA conflict. For example, delays in passing a new public procurement law have impeded
progress on regulations, establishing a procurement unit, developing bidding documents and
establishing a training program. Efforts to mitigate these risks during implementation
included the Bank's provision of technical assistance on pension reform options and the draft
procurement legislation.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry: Rating: Satisfactory

The operation was prepared in close consultation with the PA and stakeholders such as civil
society groups and international donors. The progress achieved under DPG I together with
this operation's continued focus on fiscal strengthening and PFM reform have been effective
in mobilizing much-needed untied budget support from donors. Disbursements from the
Multi-Donor Trust Fund have totaled US$499 million since mid-2008, accounting for a
substantial share of total aid to the PA.

As with DPG I, the Bank team recognized the significant risks and challenges facing the PA
in its reform agenda, which in turn represent risks for the outcomes of DPG II. The main
risks relate to the security situation, which severely deteriorated in Gaza but saw some
improvement in the West Bank during 2009. With these challenges in mind, DPG II focused
on strengthening government effectiveness and accountability and upgrading institutional
and regulatory procedures. While ambitious, the policy measures supported by DPG II and
committed to by the PA were deemed within reach despite the risky security and economic
climate; moreover, they would help the PA weather downside shocks in the future.




                                               17
In assessing DPG II's achievements, it appears that the missed target related to implementing
the new financial information management system for municipalities could be attributed to
overly optimistic timing estimates on establishing the ranking system. The target, as
designed, is not a practical measure within the time constraints of a single-tranche policy-
based operation of such short duration. Nevertheless, implementation is likely to remain on
track beyond the timing of the current operation.

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements in DPG I were accorded great importance because
of the volatile climate and the possibility that reforms could quickly go off track. DPG II
retained the quarterly monitoring arrangements that are related to the PRDP Trust Fund
disbursements. Moreover, Bank resources for supervision were actually increased to
enhance in-country support for implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision: Rating: Satisfactory

As mentioned above, the operation's design emphasized monitoring and evaluation of the
reforms, and the Bank doubled its staff budget for the preparation and supervision of DPG II,
such that Bank staff maintained almost daily contact with their counterparts. The policy
matrix defined in the Program Document was the basis for regular assessments of the PA's
reform progress, and these assessments ­ also required for PRDP Trust Fund disbursement
decisions ­ were made available to the public on the Bank's web site. The Bank team was
able to identify any emerging problems quickly, and to take appropriate action. The reports
were accurate and candid, identifying where the PA was either lagging or exceeding its
goals. Supervision addressed not only the DPG II policy matrix but also PRDP
implementation as a whole, thereby broadening its focus to the overall development impact.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance: Rating: Satisfactory

Both quality at entry and quality of supervision were satisfactory, making the overall Bank
performance rating satisfactory.
                                2
5.2 Borrower Performance : Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The operation was designed to align fully with the PA's objectives as laid out in its PRDP,
thereby ensuring government ownership and commitment. The operation's development
objectives and the government's strategy to achieve them were developed in close
consultation with stakeholders. Under DPG II, the PA achieved real progress, not only in
further consolidating its fiscal position, but also through implementing accounting and
financial information management systems which have already enhanced government
transparency and accountability to a large degree, and should continue to do so as the
systems come fully on-line. The result has been greater confidence among the donor
community, evidenced by their continued support for recurrent expenditures through
contributions to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund which channels funds into the Central Treasury
Account.
2
   For a Development Policy Grant providing budget support, the borrower consists of the government, which
also acts as the implementing agency.



                                                   18
The climate in which reforms are being undertaken can be characterized as extremely
hostile. The severe movement and access restrictions inhibit private sector activity, and the
associated lack of predictability threatens macro stability and economic growth, and
diminishes quality of life. This is exacerbated by the internal political crisis and physical
separation between the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip and the Caretaker Government in the
West Bank. Because the Palestinian Legislative Council is unable to meet, laws must be
issued by presidential decree. But this transitional power is used sparingly, making
accelerated reform difficult to enact. The PA has focused reform efforts in the West Bank,
and will only be able to implement the PRDP in Gaza once the government is reunified.
Whereas the PA manages to deliver basic services in Gaza despite the ongoing blockade, it
cannot effectively build consensus on national reforms in the current environment.

There are two policy areas in which the PA has not achieved progress as planned under DPG
II, even though they form key elements of the PRDP. These relate to (i) the transfer of
electricity distribution from local government to distribution companies, and (ii) efficient
and transparent public procurement. Delays in implementing the associated reforms can be
explained by the ongoing political crisis that distracted the PA from developing a political
consensus on how to move forward. This in turn spilled over into delays in issuing licenses
for new distribution companies and inadequate preparation of a strategy for local financial
sustainability via broadening the local tax base, and a brake on measures constituting a
comprehensive public procurement reform plan.

The PA's system for monitoring reform through regular reporting remains in place. The PA
publishes monthly reports of the government accounts on the internet, and issues quarterly
assessments of ongoing reforms. Furthermore, the PA is an active participant in the local aid
coordination process involving various sector working groups in which all stakeholders
discuss reform efforts. Key among these for the issues related to DPG II are the Fiscal
Sector Working Group, the Economic Strategy Group, and the Governance Strategy Group.
In addition, the PA produces quarterly progress reports for the World Bank team as part of
the implementation of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund and DPG II. It is worth noting that the
usefulness and thoroughness of these reports have improved during 2009, but they have been
delivered with increasing delays.

Despite multiple impediments and challenges posed by the highly unstable political and
economic climate, the PA has delivered on its main reform objectives. And with two
exceptions, the PA has displayed consistent commitment and effort to the PRDP agenda, and
is expected to continue to perform satisfactorily in the coming year. Borrower performance
is therefore rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The broad success of DPG II is primarily due to the fact that it is aligned with the PA's own
reform program, the PRDP, such that the implementers fully own the reform agenda.
Moreover, because the PRDP was the result of extensive stakeholder consultation and
consensus, the PA faced little opposition in introducing changes, at least in the initial stages
of reform, i.e., under DPG I. Some of the difficulty encountered in implementing certain
aspects of DPG II ­ such as with commercializing electricity distribution and reforming


                                              19
public procurement ­ is explained by the fact that competing interests within the government
itself raised opposition.

The challenge in designing a reform strategy is to strike the right balance between ambitious
reforms and existing or potential capacity to implement them. Over-reaching leads to
disenchantment with the government from all quarters, potentially undermining the reform
effort altogether. It is therefore crucial to establish a program realistic in both scope and
timing. Within the Palestinian context, the potential policy agenda for building the
institutions necessary for an independent state is vast, and the PA has only limited authority
under occupation, not to mention the constraints associated with the ongoing political crisis
between the PA and Hamas. As a result, the PA ­ in consultation with donors ­ identified a
selective list of critical reforms that were deemed to be achievable in the present
environment. The logic is that, as the reform process advances and the government increases
its capacity and authority, more ambitious reforms will be added to the agenda. As such,
some more challenging reforms were attempted under DPG II on the back of the success of
DPG I. But this approach was not entirely successful, particularly with regard to the two
policy areas in which little or no progress was made. As mentioned above, obstacles at the
political level prevented progress, and the PA will need to adjust its implementation strategy
in order to advance in these areas.

In several policy areas where targets were not 100 percent achieved, the main explanation
was technical delay, suggesting the need for more realism or the inclusion of a time buffer
when setting time-bound targets. For example, while the PA did not succeed in adopting a
new procurement law during the life of the operation, it appears set to do so in mid-2010.
Similarly, the PA established an electricity regulator in the first quarter of 2010, just missing
the cut off for the life of this project. Because this policy-based operation is less than a year
in duration, however, it is difficult to accommodate extra time. Future operations might
benefit from staggering targets that lead toward intermediate development objectives but that
also fit within the timing of a short, single-tranche policy-based operation.

Another lesson drawn from the outcomes of this operation and its precursor is the fact that
World Bank budget support can effectively leverage significant funding from other donors.
This is crucial, given the Bank's limited resource envelope for WB&G and the very real
need for external support to finance PA recurrent expenditure. Donors in the past have been
particularly wary of providing untied budget support, based on previous experience and in a
context of weak financial management and accountability. But World Bank support ­
through its US$80 million in Development Policy Grants as well as its technical assistance
and close monitoring of PA activities ­ provided a positive demonstration effect; a total of
US$499 million has been disbursed from the Trust Fund, in addition to large donor
contributions directly to the Central Treasury Account.

Another positive lesson stems from the accessibility of the Bank's task team which is
resident in the WB&G country office. This proximity to government counterparts fostered
interaction on a near-constant basis, which helped to advance reforms. It also enabled close
monitoring of and response to the ever-changing political and economic environment facing
the government and affecting its priorities.



                                               20
Finally, a cautionary note should be sounded about the challenges of working with multiple
stakeholders. The net lending issue will only be fully resolved when all electricity
distribution is transferred from local governments to commercially-run companies. While
this was an easy decision to make at the central government level, it was more difficult for
local governments that had come to rely on electricity collections to fund current operations.
Reforms that involve all levels of government are more complicated and require more time
and political will.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

The PA indicated the difficulties in implementing the reform agenda resulting from the
political situation, which brought many challenges, especially related to the ongoing closure
of Gaza and the Israeli ground incursion in December 2008. The Gaza situation imposed a
large and unexpected fiscal burden on the PA. Despite these challenges, the PA moved
ahead with the PRDP, although some of the reforms lagged due to a lack of internal political
will. However, this must be considered in the context of the accelerated schedule of DPG II.
Many of the actions called for in the policy matrix are politically difficult but the PA
committed to implementing them in under a year. Whereas some of them were delayed and
did not meet the schedule envisioned in this DPG, ultimately the PA has made progress on
all of the reform areas except public procurement. But even here it appears that the PA is set
to move and will soon adopt a new procurement law.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                             21
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
           Names                             Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
 Lending
 John L. Nasir               Lead Economist                       MNSFP     TTL
 Kirsten Burghardt Propst    Counsel                              LEGEM     Legal
 Julie Rieger                Counsel                              LEGEM     Legal
 Ranan Ibrahim Rafat         Operations Officer                   MNC04     Operations
 Muthaffar
 Mark Eugene Ahern           Sr Public Sector Specialist          MNSPR     PFM
 Eileen Murray               Lead Operations Officer              MNSSP     Human
                                                                            Development
 Meskerem Brhane             Sr Urban Specialist                  MNSUR     Social
                                                                            Development
 Husam Mohamad Beides        Senior Energy Specialist             MNSEG     Energy
 Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein   Sr Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM     FM
 El-Shorbagi
 Hyacinth D. Brown           Sr Finance Officer                   CTRFC     Disbursement
 Steve W. Wan Yan Lun        Operations Analyst                   MNSFP     Operations

 Supervision
 John L. Nasir               Lead Economist                       MNSFP     TTL
 Mark Eugene Ahern           Sr Public Sector Specialist          MNSPR     PFM
 Meskerem Brhane             Sr Urban Specialist                  MNSUR     Social
                                                                            Development
 Hyacinth D. Brown           Sr Finance Officer                   CTRFC     Disbursement
 Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein   Sr Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM     FM
 El-Shorbagi
 Eileen Murray               Lead Operations Officer              MNSSP     Human
                                                                            Development
 Husam Mohamad Beides        Senior Energy Specialist             MNSEG     Energy
 Suhair J.D. Musa            Financial Management Specialist      MNAFM     FM
 Julie Rieger                Counsel                              LEGEM     Legal
 Elizabeth Ruppert Bulmer    Consultant                           LCSPE     Co-author
 Steve W. Wan Yan Lun        Operations Analyst                   MNSFP     Operations


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                            USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                             Total:                15.58                     60.20
Supervision/ICR                                     4.68                     20.27
                             Total:                20.26                     80.47




                                             22
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not applicable




                                      23
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not applicable




                                      24
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR


                  Evaluation of the DPG II "Development Policy Grant"
                          by the Palestinian National Authority


Project background, design and objectives:

When the Caretaker Government headed by Dr. Salam Fayyad was appointed in June 2007,
the Government faced a large deficit and a significant stock of arrears to PNA employees
and private sector suppliers. Therefore, the Government was determined to move
aggressively toward strengthening the PNA`s fiscal position and improving public financial
management. To achieve this objective, it initiated the Palestinian Reform and Development
Plan (PRDP) in the fall of 2007. The plan was built from the ground up with broad
participation of line ministries, and was presented at the Paris Conference in December 2007.
The international community fully endorsed it, pledging US$7 billion over a three year
period, which exceeded PNA financing expectations.

The PNA requested much of the aid in unrestricted budget support in order to achieve its
goals of strengthening its fiscal position and improving its financial management. The World
Bank responded positively and established the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (PRDP-TF). It also
mobilized the donors to use this TF to provide the PNA with untied budget support through
its own Central Treasury Account (CTA). The Bank has also provided direct budget support
through the Development Policy Grant (DPG). The grant helped finance the PNA recurrent
expenditures deficit and, because of its demonstration effect with other donors, encouraged
them to contribute financing to the CTA as well.

The main objective of the Trust Fund was to facilitate the flow of budgetary support to the
PNA by enhancing accountability and developing the financial administration of the PNA
within the broader framework of national reform. Disbursements from the TF were made in
compliance with specific prior actions which had been outlined in the project Policy Matrix.
These prior actions were formulated by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with the
Bank and aimed at adopting specific reforms to move forward toward fiscal sustainability.
The measures also aimed at increasing government transparency and accountability through
an improved Public Financial Information System (see below). The PNA believes that such
comprehensive Bank involvement helped mobilize otherwise reluctant donors to support the
PNA reform plan and provide budget support.

PNA Performance:

The 13th Government of the PA presented in August 2009 a program entitled "Palestine:
Ending the Occupation, Establishing the State" (hereafter referred to as the Program) that
lays out the vision, foundational principles, and national goals for the future Palestinian state,
as well as institution-building and sector priorities. The sector priorities are presented in four
broad themes ­ governance, social, economy, and infrastructure ­ and ensuing policies and



                                               25
programs are classified by the implementing ministries and non-ministerial agencies.
Furthermore, Prime Minister Salam Fayyad announced in the March 25, 2010 Local
Development Forum meeting his Government's intention to present another document by the
summer of 2010 outlining the priorities for the last year prior to the declaration of the state in
2011.

Despite all the obstacles facing the PNA, especially the continued deterioration in the
political environment and intensification of Israeli restrictions on movement and access, the
PNA has succeeded in reducing its fiscal deficit in 2008 by five percentage points of GDP
while maintaining a consistent level of expenditure and investment in the social sectors, and
promoting a more investor-friendly environment for the private sector.

The PNA recurrent deficit on a commitment basis in 2009 is substantially higher than the
figures recorded in 2008. However, if emergency expenditures on Gaza were to be excluded,
the recurrent deficit in 2009 would have fallen two percentage points of GDP below the
expenditure level in 2008. This only underscores the steady progress the PNA is achieving in
attaining fiscal sustainability and in reducing its dependence on external budget support. The
recurrent deficit on a cash basis was below the budget ceiling.

MOF has established a new Public Financial Management System (PFMS) in order to ensure
that government resources are managed in a transparent and accountable manner. Under this
PFMS, all domestic revenues, clearance revenues, fees, charges, and income have accrued
from ministries and autonomous agencies, to the CTA. This system has also provided tighter
controls on expenditures, by recording all expenditure operations, checking them against
budgetary appropriations, and internal financial controls.

The initial focus of the Caretaker Government was on ensuring that cash controls were
operating effectively, while more recently attention has been given to improving the budget
preparation procedures, and the accounting and reporting of government expenditures.

An essential component of the PFMS was restructuring the Ministry of Finance, including
the establishment of the General Accounting Department (GAD) and a new Budget
Department in the West Bank. It also re-launched the MoF website on much firmer grounds
and on a predetermined schedule, issuing fiscal data on the 15th of each month, and posting
analytical fiscal reports on a quarterly basis.

In another significant step, the MoF completed in December 2009 the preparation of
the 2008 financial statements and submitted them to the State Audit and Administrative
Control Bureau (SAACB).

In terms of financing, both for budget support and for development expenditures, the CTA
system has provided robust financial controls, a centralized monitoring of development
expenditures and full accounting of this external assistance.

The PNA has also promoted reforms in the social sphere by better targeting social assistance.
This included a full updating of its database to support a more transparent and objective



                                               26
identification of beneficiaries. The PNA has also initiated a process of merging the various
on-going cash assistance programs using the MoSA poverty targeting database as the main
mechanism for streamlining the cash assistance program across the various donor institutions
(EU, and UN organizations). In early 2009, the PA cabinet approved the merger of the EU-
funded SHC and the World Bank-funded SSNRP program into a Palestinian National Cash
Transfer Program (PNCTP) administered by MoSA.

Outcome of the reforms against agreed objectives:

Prior actions which have been laid out in the PRDP-Policy Matrix, and highlighted in its
Letter of Development Policy (LDP), focussed on two policy areas supported by the grant:
(1) strengthening the PNA fiscal position and (2) improving public financial management.

   1) Strengthening the fiscal position:

Wage Bill:

The PNA has managed to control the wage bill during 2009. The public work force had
reached 147,726 by the end of December 2009 which is in consistent with reforms stated in
the PRDP to achieve fiscal sustainability, MOF has frozen general salary increases in 2009
and limited growth of public sector employment to 4,789 for the whole year, primarily for
the education and health sectors.

This increase included 3,830 teachers hired between 2006 and 2008 and confirmed into the
payroll in 2009. It also included 567 new health employees. Security personnel remained
stable at about 63,000.

Public Pension System:

The PA public pension system is still not sustainable financially. Since 2008 the PNA, in
collaboration with Bank technical staff, has launched a thorough institutional review of the
pension system. Consequently the PNA recently met with Ms. Gatti and her team to discuss
pension reform, and agreed that the following five measures are to be included in the DPG
matrix action plan for 2010, which will assist Palestinian decision makers in quantifying the
yearly savings from these reforms:

   ·   Consolidate administration of all public pension schemes (except for the 2% scheme)
       under one administration: Palestinian Pension Authority
   ·   Elimination of early retirement. No one can retire before the mandatory age of 60 for
       civil servants and 50 for security personnel
   ·   Increasing the number of service years which are used to calculate pensions
       from 5 to 10 years.
   ·   Indexing pensions to the CPI--rather than to wage increases, which in Palestine, tend



                                             27
       to be (statistically since 1995) higher than the CPI (all schemes)
   ·   Gradually increasing the retirement age over the next five years from 60 to 65 for the
       civil service and from 50 to 55 for security personnel.

An Action Plan for initial steps in public pension reform has been submitted to the Prime
Minister's Office. The Plan aims at reducing short-term pension liabilities while moving
towards long-term sustainability. It is expected to be discussed with various stakeholders
over the next few months, pending approval.

Net Lending:

Since the PNA has taken actions to increase collection rates, in parallel with reducing debt to
the IEC and strengthening the institutional environment for electricity distribution and bill
collection. PNA has succeeded in reducing "net lending" from US$535 million or nearly 11
percent of GDP in 2007 to US$447 million in 2008 and reached US$374 million or 6.1
percent of DGP in 2009.

A) Increasing collection performance

The MOF has started working with local government officials to increase the collection rate
in the West Bank by 75%, and payments to the IEC by 50%. To achieve these targets, MoF
has taken the following measures:

    · Requiring a certificate of payment for electricity bills from subscribers when they
      seek government services.
    · Requesting all cities and villages to reschedule their debts to MoF.
    · The municipalities and villages councils are paying monthly electricity debts to the
      Ministry of Finance and the monthly invoice to the IEC. Almost 80% of the
      municipalities and villages councils fulfilled their commitment to MoF in paying
      their debts.

Despite payments of electricity bills to the IEC by the municipalities and village councils,
the IEC deducts the same amounts from clearance revenues of the Palestinian National
Authority.

    · Progress in bill collection has been reflected in the decline of net lending during Q4
      2009 to US$100 million from US$115 million in Q3 2009.
    · Each utility and municipality was requested to design an Action Plan for increasing
      bill collection. These Action Plans have been submitted to MoF
    · MoF deducted certain percentages from PNA employees' salaries for repayment of
      their electricity debts.




                                              28
  B) Institutional Reforms

The Electricity Law was approved by the Council of Ministers and sent to the President for
ratification. The law will have the following provisions:

    · PEA will be the policy maker for the sector.
    · PEA installed 156,000 prepaid meters by end of December 2009. The PEA has
       finalized the first phase of installing the prepaid meters.
    · PEA has tendered to procure 130,000 additional prepaid meters and signed a
       Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with each utility defining the allocation of
       the meters, installation criteria and reporting requirements.
    · The Palestinian Electricity Regulation Council (PERC), which has been newly
      established, will regulate the sector.
    · The establishment of the Palestinian Transmission Company (PETL) will be
      responsible for running and managing the transmission system.
    · The law will vest the responsibility for bill collection with the distribution
      companies, taking it away from municipalities.
   · Since Northern Electricity Distribution Company (NEDCO) has been officially
      registered in the companies' law on 14/1/2008, and more than 58 cities and villages
      have joined the Company including the cities of Nablus, Jenin and Tulkarem, the
      PEA prepared detailed Terms of Reference to procure a consultancy firm to set up
      and prepare the organizational structure of Northern Electricity Distribution
      Company (NEDCO).

PEA secured financing from Norway and Sweden for the initial start-up cost of the company
and for the needed technical assistance; this should improve efficiency, raise collection rates
and increase investment in the sector.

Social Safety Net:

The Ministry of Social Affairs together with the World Bank and the European Commission
have been integrating their databases and unifying their targeting criteria for social safety net
eligibility.

The European Union (EU) funded Special Hardship Case (SHC) and the World Bank funded
the program under the Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP). Together, these two
programs provide over US$50 million annually to roughly 57,000 poor households.

SSNRP and SHC merged into one system (databases and eligibility requirements merged).
   · Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA) has disbursed several payments during 2009 for
       around 25,716 households of US$200 each from the Global Crises Response Trust
       Fund. The ministry also paid the regular payments for 5,000 households from the
       SSNRP Additional Financing.
   · MoSA agreed with the donors on implementing the Cash Transfer Program (CTP)
       during the first quarter of 2010.



                                               29
     ·   A detailed 100 day work plan was prepared to intensify the efforts of merging the
         cash programs and it was submitted to the Council of Ministers.


Municipalities Financial Transparency and Accountability:

The Ministry of Local Government (MoLG) has also installed the Integrated Financial
Management System in the 8 pilot municipalities, and the following actions have been taken
during 2009:
    · Trained Municipality Staff on all modules of FA and RMIS in all pilot
       municipalities.
    · All pilot municipalities started entering/recording 2009 transactions (including
       beginning balances) using the new policies and procedures. 2009 historical data were
       entered in the pilot municipalities.
    · Backup policy and disaster recovery policy implemented in pilot municipalities.
    · The new version of the RMIS is installed in four municipalities, and the
       municipalities started recording using the system and generating reports.
    · Trained the MoLG staff (budgetary and monitoring departments) on the use of the
       Free Balance system and the generation of reports from the system.
    · Submitted a draft Financial Policies and Procedures Manual (FPPM) and distributed
       to pilot municipalities for their use.
    · Finalized a unified chart of accounts (COA) coding and structure to fit into the Free
       Balance Accountability Suite's (FA) setup and configuration requirements.
    · Finalized mapping the Revenue Management Information System (RMIS) to the
       COA, testing the interface between the RMIS and the FA, and mapping the structured
       and coded COA to the required regular financial reports.

The MDLF has contracted qualified local consultancy firms to carry out the fixed assets
valuation of 35 roll-out municipalities in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and the following
actions have been taken:
           · Submitted the Plan (Schedule plan) from the selected consultant for the main
               deliverables and the activities.
           · Identify milestones plan for the deliverables.
           · Communication plan with the different project stakeholders.
           · Anticipated risks, obstacles and the response activities.
           · Carry out physical inspection of fixed assets to assess their condition and
               status and take necessary notes.
           · Collect and verify all information needed to value the fixed assets and write-
               up the fixed assets register.
           · Submit the draft fixed assets schedule and forms. For some consultants
               submit the final registration and valuation sheets.

Summary outcomes for MoLG achievements:
   · 31 West Bank municipalities have initiated the transition from cost accounting to
     accrual basis using new financial management information system.



                                            30
   ·   Improved municipal revenue sources by increased property tax collection from 25 to
       34 municipalities.
   ·   Re-evaluated the property taxes for 15 of the 25 municipalities that already had a
       property tax registry which increased their tax revenue.

   2) Improving Public Financial Management (PFM):

Public Financial Management:

To improve public financial management and promote greater transparency and
accountability, MoF has re-established basic financial controls and developed a more
systematic and comprehensive system of internal and external audits. In early 2008, MoF has
amended the Budget and Finance law to enable it to carry out the full financial reforms
envisaged in the PRDP

To improve efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process, MoF prepared the
2010 draft budget from the bottom up, building on the process it started in 2009.
Accordingly, recurrent and development expenditures were integrated into a unified budget.
Performance measuring indicators were defined, as well as the scope of desired objectives;
the final draft budget law has been prepared and submitted to the Council of Ministers by
mid February.

For the first time PNA agencies submitted their draft budgets electronically. In response to
the budget circular, various ministries and agencies defined their priorities and strategic
plans. MoF, in cooperation with MOPAD, held training for ministries' staff, including
financial directors, planning experts, policy planners, budget preparation staff, and financial
decision makers. Also, MoF and MOPAD teams paid field visits to ministries and agencies
to oversee preparation of budget formats and documents using the computerized system.
The system deals with budget preparation step by step, starting from completing strategy
formats, which define key issues, through specifying strategic objectives and work programs.
Defining program allocation followed, with links to ministries' strategies. Special objectives,
targets, and performance measuring indicators for each program were defined.

The PNA has also taken over the responsibility of budgeting development expenditures
while the Ministry of Planning has been focussing on tracking the execution of the
development budget. In this respect, the MOPAD has established a monitoring and
evaluation unit to assess the development activities.

Financial Accounting System:

MoF has established a General Accounting Department (GAD) in the West Bank to closely
monitor all budgetary operations. The establishment of the GAD and the appointment of an
Accountant General were accompanied by some internal restructuring of the MoF, with five
new departments established under GAD:

   1. Wages and Salaries Directorate


                                              31
   2.   Treasury
   3.   Accounting Department
   4.   Cash and Debt Management
   5.   Governmental Property Department.

The Wages and Salaries Directorate has been moved from the General Personnel Council to
the internal Financial Control department in MoF. This department is also responsible for
security personnel expenditures, which used to fall under the Security Financial
Administration. This consolidation of key expenditure centres has brought with it much
greater control over the wage bill.

New computerized accounting system:

MoF has developed a new computerized accounting system covering 95% of expenditures
with electronic linkages to budgetary appropriations and bank accounts within the CTA, thus
ensuring bank reconciliation. MoF has also achieved the following:

   ·    MoF had achieved considerable progress by Q4 2009 for implementing the financial
        accounting system and reporting.
   ·    The status of the 57 line ministries and Institutions connected to the Computerized
        Accounting System (CAS) is as follows:
   ·    There are 36 line ministries and Institutions connected and fully implementing the
        CAS.
   ·    There are 6 line ministries and Institutions connected to the CAS but their staffs still
        need to be trained in implementing the system.
   ·    There are 9 line ministries and Institutions in the last stage of the connection process.
   ·    There are 6 line ministries and Institutions in the process of being connected.

   Cash and Debt Management.

With the establishment of the Cash and Debt Management Department, the PA can forecast
cash requirements on a monthly basis. Provided the donor community responds with timely
transfers of the required budget support, in line with the unit's forecasts, this unit can make
substantial progress in minimizing the buildup of payment arrears.

All zero balance accounts were opened in the Bank of Palestine in 2008. In June 2009, MoF
successfully started to deal with the zero balance accounts with the line ministries: 210
accounts had been closed by end-December 2009, an increase of 56 accounts closed over the
third quarter (154 accounts were closed by the third quarter).

The cash management department can determine the cash ceiling for each line ministry; this
provides MoF control in managing the zero balance accounts.

   The internal audit department at MoF:

The Internal Audit Department in MoF has completed the risk assessment and financial


                                               32
auditing for 9 departments within the Ministry: Petroleum Authority, VAT, Income Tax,
Property Tax, IT, Payroll, General Supplies, Treasury and the International Relations
Department. Also, the internal audit department at MoF has issued final audit reports on the
Ministry of National Economy, Ministry of Social Affairs, and Bureau of the Chief Justice.

The final audit report to the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MoEHE) will be
issued by the last week of January 2010. Regarding the Ministry of Interior (MoI) the
internal audit department is waiting for their final comments.

The internal audit department prepared a draft audit report to the Ministry of Agriculture,
Palestinian Land Authority, Ministry of Transportation and Palestinian Broadcasting
Corporation.

   Establish a comprehensive public procurement system:

Procurement Law was discussed by the Cabinet to incorporate the comments that were
submitted by ministers and the Ministry of Public Works, and a budget to constitute the
Public Procurement Council was included in the 2010 budget law.


Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation:

The close consultation process between the PNA, the Bank and other key donors has
contributed to a timely and orderly implementation of the reform agenda.

The Bank and IMF have jointly monitored progress on the PRDP's goals as described in the
policy matrix. The PNA has produced quarterly reports, which the Bank and IMF have
reviewed, and the Bank evaluated the progress on structural reforms while the IMF's reviews
covered fiscal and PFM issues. This quarterly monitoring and continuous support by the
Bank have provided donors with regular information and briefings. This has strengthened the
credibility of budget support and raised confidence in the PNA's fiscal and financial reforms.
This process has encouraged donors to increase their financing through the CTA. At the
same time, it also contributed to the build-up of PNA capacity to achieve the desired
reforms.

The Bank has participated in a robust system of PNA/donor working groups particularly on
fiscal and economic issues. These groups have assisted in coordinating the activities of the
various donors on all aspects related to public financial management, budget support and
fiscal policy.

The Bank, through the PRDP-TF, has contributed in reducing the PNA fiscal gap by
providing donors an efficient mechanism to channel external budget support. This
mechanism provided the donors with assurances that their funds would be closely monitored,
which encouraged them to redirect their pledges from idle development balances to budget
support. The bank has also shown its trust in the PNA's financial controls when it provided
the PNA with budget support through "PRDP DPG".



                                             33
Lessons learned:

Five lessons can be learned from the experience of working closely with donors on capacity
building, achieving fiscal sustainability and attaining greater transparency and
accountability:

   ·   The PRDP was based on optimistic assumptions with respect to the easing of
       movement and access and other economic restrictions imposed by GoI. Making
       substantial progress towards fiscal sustainability would not have been possible, were
       it not for the shift in the development strategy by the PNA towards community
       development projects which are not as vulnerable to these restrictions. This shift
       triggered some economic growth in the West Bank in 2008 and a 13 % increase in
       gross PNA revenues in NIS terms.


   ·   The gross revenues increased by 10.4% in NIS terms over 2008, despite the weakness
       of clearance revenues during first half of the year. Domestic tax revenues increased
       by 10.3%, as a result of strong collection efforts put in place by the Ministry of
       Finance, particularly during the second half of the year, for the income and property
       taxes and due to reforms in domestic tax administration and robust economic growth.
       The economic growth momentum achieved in 2009 appears to be continuing in 2010
       and, if sustained, PNA gross revenues are expected to exceed US$2 billion for the
       first time.

   ·   The PNA does not control its political and economic environment due to daily Israeli
       Defence Forces incursions into Palestinian areas and the erosion of Palestinian
       economic space through the expansion of settlements. Consequently, the
       implementation of reforms, including prior actions, may be thrown off track due to
       these actions. Therefore, the reform process and implementation calendar must
       demonstrate a substantial degree of flexibility.

   ·   Fiscal and expenditure policy have been on track in 2008 and during the first quarter
       of 2010. The PNA recurrent deficit in 2009 amounted to US$1.59 billion,
       substantially higher than the US$1.32 billion recorded in 2008. However, if
       emergency expenditures on Gaza were to be excluded, the recurrent deficit in 2009
       would have fallen to US$1.3 billion. By end-December 2009, US$1.355 billion were
       received. The shortfall was financed by raising the PNA indebtedness with
       commercial banks by US$176 million.

   ·   Despite the challenges faced by the PNA in 2009, and the continued pressures
       imposed by the occupation, especially the emergency spending in Gaza in the
       aftermath of Israel's military operation which raised the deficit from roughly US$1.3
       billion in 2008 to US$1.6 billion on a commitment basis in 2009, the budget
       execution in 2009 has been very strong, partly due to the robust economic growth in
       2009, which is estimated at about 7% in real terms, and partly due to the number of
       institutional and administrative reforms.


                                            34
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable




                                       35
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


   ·   Program Document for PRDP Development and Policy Grant II, April 28, 2009
       (Report No. 48304-GZ).

   ·   Development Policy Trust Fund Grant Agreement TF094776, July 15, 2009

   ·   Interim Strategy for WB&G for the Period FY08-FY10 and Request for
       Replenishment of the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank, March 25, 2008.

   ·   Palestinian Ministry of Finance Quarterly Reports on Fiscal Developments and
       Reform Progress, 2009

   ·   World Bank Quarterly Reviews of the PRDP-TF: January-March 2009; April-June
       2009; July-September 2009; October-December 2009




                                           36
MAP




37
38
