Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21956-AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR4.0 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$5 MILLION)
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FORA
HEALTH REFORM PROJECT
May 16, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Manat 4,500
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    Asian Development Bank                      MOF        Ministry of Finance
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                 MOH        Ministry of Health
CQ      Consultant Qualification                   NCB        National Competitive Bidding
CVD    Cardio-Vascular Disease                     NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
DC      Direct Contracting                         NIF        Non-IDA Financed
ECA     Europe and Central Asia Region             NS         National Shopping
EPI     Expanded Program of Immunization           OM         Operational Manual
FBS     Fixed Budget Selection                     PAD        Project Appraisal Document
FSU     Former Soviet Union                        PCU        Project Coordination Unit
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                      PHC        Primary Health Care
GOA    Government of Azerbaijan                    PMR        Project Management Report
GPN     General Procurement Notice                 PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
HNP    Health, Nutrition and Population            QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
IDA     Intemational Development Association       RDF        Revolving Drug Fund
IDP     Intemally Displaced Person                 RFP        Request for Proposal
IMF     International Monetary Fund                SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
EMR     Infant Mortality Rate                      SBD        Standard Bidding Documents
IS      International Shopping                     SOE        Statement of Expenditures
LACI   Loan Administration Change Initiative       SSA        State Statistical Agency
LCS     Least Cost Selection                       SW         Small Works
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan               TA         Technical Assistance
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation                   TB         Tuberculosis
MNI     Mandatory Health Insurance                 UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
MIS     Management Information System              WHO        World Health Organization
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager: Annin Fidler
Team Leader: Michael Mills



Azerbaijan
Health Reform Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...................................................................2
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ...................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .......3
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...............................8
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................                                            10
1. Project components .................................................................                                         10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................... 12
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                             13
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements .......................................................... 14
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                                      15
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................... 15
2. Major related projects financed by the IDA and/or other development agencies ....... 16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .................................................... 16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 16
5. Value added of IDA  support in this project ................................................................ 17
E. Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                               17
1. Economic Assessment .................................................................                                        17
2. Financial Assessment .................................................................                                       18
3. Technical Assessment .................................................................                                       18
4. Institutional Assessment .................................................................                                   18
5. Social Assessment ................................................................. 1 9
6. Environmental Assessment .................................................................                                   20
7. Participatory approach .................................................................                                     20
F.  Sustainabiity  and Risks .............................                                                                                  20
1. Sustainability ............................                                                                                  20
2. Critical Risks ............................                                                                                   21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................                                                                  22
G. Main Credit Conditions ............................                                                                                      23
1. Board Conditions ............................                                                                               23
2. Effectiveness Conditions ............................                                                                         23
3. Dated Covenants ............................                                                                                 23



H. Readiness for Implementation ......................................................                                                            23
I. Compliance with IDA Policies ......................................................                                                            24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary ......................................................                                                             25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description ......................................................                                                       28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs ......................................................                                                            35
Table 1: Components Project Cost Summary ......................................................                                             35
Table 2:  Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary ....................................................... 36
Annex 4: Financial Management ......................................................                                                               37
Annex 5: Financial Summary ......................................................                                                                  41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ......................................................  42
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ...................................................... 45
Table Al:  Consultant Selection  Arrangements ......................................................                                         45
Table B: Threshholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ..................................... 46
Table B 1: Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods and Schedules ............................ 47
Table C:  Allocation  of Credit Proceeds: ......................................................                                             49
Table D: Schedule of Disbursements ......................................................                                                    50
Table E: Estimated Schedule of Government Counterpart Funds ........................................ 50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule ......................................................                                                        51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File ......................................................                                                       52
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits ......................................................                                                     53
Annex 10: Country At A Glance ......................................................                                                               55
Annex 11: District Selection ......................................................                                                                57
Annex 12 Monitoring Evaluation Plan ......................................................                                                         60
Annex 13: Proposed Organization Structure ......................................................                                                   65
Map: IBRD 31286
. .



Azerbaijan
Health Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Human Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: May 16, 2001                                  Team Leader: Michael Mills
Country Manager/Director: Judy O'Connor             Sector Manager/Director: Arnin Fidler
Project ID: P069293                                 Sector: Health
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)  Theme(s): Human Development; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan      [X] Credit      [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$5 million (SDR 4 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:              Standard Credit
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               35
Commitment fee:              Standard
Service charge:                 0.75%
3overmment                                                0.5               0.0               0.5
IBRD
(DA                                                       2.2               2.8              5.0
Jther (specify)
rotal:                                                    2.7               2.8              5.5
3orrower: Azerbaijan Republic
Yuarantor: Not applicable
lesponsible agencies: Ministry of Health
Lstimated disbursements (Bank FY, US$M):
Annual                    0.8          2.6         1.1          0.5
Cumulative                    0.8         3.4          4.5          5.0
'roject implementation period: 36 months
nxpected effectiveness date: 7/31/01               Expected closing date: 12/31/04
mplementing agencies: Ministry of Health; Xacmaz, Samkir, Salyan, Goycay, and Sarur Districts; managed by the
Project Coordination Unit
Contact person: Azer Maharramov
Address: Ministry of Health, 4 Kicik Daniz Street, 370014, Baku
'el: 994-12- 93 19 07        Fax: 994-12- 98 85 59         E-mail: medis@medis.baku.az
I



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
The development objective of the proposed project is to test ways to strengthen and reform district
primary health care services.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Project Development                  Key LIL Questions                            Indicators
Objective
Increased knowledge of  (i) How should outside agencies such as the World  (i) Development by the
Ministry of Health      Bank support the Government in carrying out health    Govemrnent of a midterm strategy
officials in appropriate   reform activities?                            for health reform, with World
strategies to strengthen   (ii) How can the district authorities be strengthened  Bank assistance.
and reform district     to play a larger role in health reform?          (ii) Development and use by the
primary health care    (iii) How can the process of health reform support the  district health authorities of
services.               national poverty reduction strategy?             district-specific annual work plans.
(iv) How can the existing primary health care services  (iii) Development by the
be strengthened?                                 Government of a policy paper on
(v) What are the best strategies to integrate the lessons  improving health services and
of primary health care reforms into national health  access for the poor.
policy decision making?                          (iv) Improvements in access,
quality and utilization of primary
health care services in the targeted
districts.
(v) Increased knowledge among
the staff in the MOH and the
targeted districts about strategies
for strengthening and reforming
primary health care services.
Component Outputs    Indicators of Strengthened Primary Health Care    Indicators of Increased
Services in Targeted Districts                   Knowledge and Capacity in the
Ministry of Health.
(i) Increased knowledge  Targets in the selected districts:              (i) Regular meetings of Ministry of
and capacity among      (i) An increase of 40 percent in the number of   Health and inter-ministerial
Ministry of Health      patients seen at reformed PHC facilities.        colleagues to discuss primary
officials to design and    (ii) An increase of 20 percent in the proportion on  health care reforms.
implement appropriate   infants in the population that receive imnmunization  (ii) The development of a model
primary health care    (DTP3) on time.                                   and plan for primary health care
reformns.               (iii) An increase of 30 percent in the proportion of  reforms for the country.
(ii) Provision of       pregnant women in the population who have at least   (iii) Ministry of Health officials
improved primary        six prenatal visits.                            trained to become familiar with
health care services in    (iv) An increase of 50 percent in the proportion of  health financing options and issues.
the targeted districts by   adult patients seen in the reformed PHC facilities for   (iv) The adoption of a national
physicians and other    whom a blood pressure is recorded in the patients'  essential drug policy and formulary
health workers.         medical records.                                 for use at facilities supported by
(iii) Improved          (v) A decrease of 50 percent in the proportion of  the Ministry of Health.
utilization by the public   outpatients seen in the reformed PHC facilities who    (v) Hardware for management
of primary health care    receive antibiotics by means of injection.     information system installed and
services and facilities in  (vi) A decrease of 25 percent in the per capita  key Ministry of Health and targeted
the targeted districts.  number of hospital and polyclinic beds.         district staff trained to use it.
(vii) An increase of 20 percent in patient satisfaction
with access and quality of care provided in the
reformed PHC facilities.
2



The proposed project would be a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), with a strong emphasis being
placed on learning from the experience of this first IDA support to the health sector in Azerbaijan. The
project would represent only an initial effort on the part of the Government in the process of health care
reform; and it is, therefore, considered to be particularly important to measure the impact of the measures
taken, to learn whether the strategies are successful or not, to create a basis for later refinement of the
reform strategies, and to build support and momentum for a further phase and expansion of health reform
program in the country. As opposed to a "technical" learning content (which would be customary for LILs),
the purpose of this LL is to emphasize leaming in operational terms. Specifically, the aim for the World
Bank is to explore ways of providing support to a new client by capitalizing on strong partnerships, by
effectively engaging with the districts, in addition to the central government, and by using the project to
complement the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) process and so to establish a dual track for policy
dialogue on health reform. The specific questions and issues which would be tested and answered by the
design of the project would relate to the piloting and expansion of new methodologies for strengthening and
reforming primary health care (PHC) services; the process of institutional capacity building in the Ministry
of Health (MOH); and more generally the ability of the World Bank to contribute operationally to the
development of the health reform process. The evaluation of the project would, therefore, seek to assess the
effectiveness of support by the World Bank to the process of health reform; the impact of improved PHC
services; the extent of the integration of the lessons of the PHC reforms with national health policy decision
making; and the degree of institutional capacity strengthening in the MOH. The key performance indicators
would reflect the engagement by the Government and district health authorities in health reform, the
strengthening of primary health care services in the targeted districts, and the extent of knowledge among
MOH officials in appropriate strategies to carry out such reforms.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex J):
GAS Document number: 19892 -AZ                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/14/99
The World Bank Economic Report on Azerbaijan in 1993 was entitled "From Crisis to Sustained
Growth". Since then, Azerbaijan has overcome both political and economic crises, and has committed itself
to a financial and structural reform program. While the overall picture is that of a macro-economic success
story in a transition economy, a deeper analysis reveals that the economic progress has been uneven and that
major social problems persist. After five years of steady drastic decline, output increased substantially in
1997 and 1998. But the resumption of growth was mostly attributed to strong investment activity in oil and
oil related sectors. On the other hand, the agricultural sector, which provides employment to over one-third
of the labor force (and livelihood to 45 percent of the households) remains in crisis. The major stimulus to
the economy has been the extraordinarily rapid growth of direct foreign investment, which accounted for
about 65 percent of gross fixed investment. Public expenditures have borne the brunt of fiscal adjustment
following the adoption of a tight fiscal policy stance since early 1995, and have declined by about one third
in revenues in relation to GDP since 1992. Because restructuring public expenditures and the elimination of
inefficiencies take time, the fiscal adjustment has hit hard public investment and the non-wage component of
current expenditures. In particular, the fiscal measures have negatively affected the social sectors. There is
also substantial concern that poverty may not have decreased in the second half of the 1990s, even though the
data do not yet exist for a definitive judgment. It is clear, however, that the inequality in the distribution of
expenditures has increased in Azerbaijan, and that major strengthening and reform of the social services are
urgently needed. More will be known about trends in living standards when the results of a new household
survey carried out in Year 2000 are analyzed.
3



The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) program objective is to "persuade and work with the
authorities and civil society at large to help create the appropriate institutional and policy framework which
would steer the country to the path of good governance and equitable development." There are three
program targets: (i) to support the radical reform of public sector institutions; (ii) to strengthen the regulatory
and business environment for private sector development; and (iii) to invest in social developments including
poverty alleviation measures. In the health sector, the CAS has the objective of addressing the inefficient
health financing system and also the over-reliance on specialist facilities and physicians. Unfortunately, the
country program for Azerbaijan is presently in the low case scenario, due primarily to failure so far to reach
agreement on the reform of the public sector. Nevertheless, there have been some major indications of
movement in recent weeks on these issues; the President has established a Steering Committee for the
development of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; and there are good prospects for a renewed program of
support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The proposed LIL project would address two of the three program targets of the CAS: contributing to
poverty alleviation and supporting public sector reform. The focus of the project would be on the
strengthening of the MOH to design and carry our primary health care (PHC) reforms through: (i) building up
institutional capacity and training officials working on health reform policies; and (ii) enhancing critical PHC
services and assisting the most vulnerable in five targeted districts, building on the ongoing and largely
successful pilot program already being carried out by UNICEF. These strategies would be intimately linked,
as MOH officials would be directly involved in the PHC reforms and investments in the targeted districts,
and the policy work in the MOH would utilize the experience from the targeted district. The involvement of
UNICEF would enable the MOH to learn more about the model of PCH reforms which has already been
piloted by UNICEF in five districts of the country, and it would also provide a platform for the further
refinement and development of the model with various additional elements.
Some of the key questions to be evaluated include how best to support the Government in the process
of health reform; how to support the decentralized authorities in contributing to health reform; how to ensure
that the process of reforming the health sector also complements and supports the PRSP process; whether the
availability of medications in or near clinics and the provision of basic laboratory and medical equipment
significantly increase patient utilization of primary care services, especially among children; whether the use
of a revolving drug fund mechanism is sustainable; whether the retraining of specialist physicians in limited
topics related to PHC improves their knowledge and their use of that knowledge in clinical practice; whether
on-site in-service training and clinical facilitation improve the uptake of new approaches and knowledge in
clinical practice; whether integrated approaches to providing clinical services at the PHC level improve the
quality of care; whether training in rational drug use with clinical facilitation actually changes physician
prescribing habits; and whether the provision of integrated PHC services improves patient satisfaction. The
evaluation of the extent of capacity building in the MOH would be based on such indicators as to whether the
Government produces a midterm strategy for health reform; whether the decentralized district health
authorities develop and use district-specific annual work plans for health planning and management; whether
the government produces a policy paper on improving the access of poor people to health services; whether
there are regular meetings of MOH officials and their inter-ministerial colleagues to discuss and analyse PHC
reforms; whether their involvement in the district-level pilots leads to the development of a model and plan
for PHC reform for the country as a whole; whether MOH officials become familiar with health financing
options and issues; whether the training and technical assistance provided lead to the actual adoption of a
national essential drug policy and formulary for use at facilities supported by the MOH; and whether the
existing management information system is reoriented through their experience of the district-level
investments and reforms.
In addition, the implementation of the proposed project, along with the other ongoing activities in the
human development sectors (particularly the existing education project and the forthcoming social protection
project) would contribute to further improvements in donor coordination, which is also a key feature of the
country program in the CAS.
4



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The World Bank has not carried out a full review of the health sector, but a short "concept paper"
was written in 1997, and the main issues facing the sector have also been reviewed in the context of various
macroeconomic missions and the 1996 poverty assessment. In summary, the main sector issues include:
(a) The health status of the population and especially the poor. Azerbaijan has a population of about
7.5 million, but determining their health status is difficult, as there are serious doubts about the reliability of
official statistics. Nevertheless, it is clear that Azerbaijan experienced a worsening of the health status of its
people in the period immediately following independence from the former Soviet Union, as a result of the
economic difficulties of transition and also the war with Armenia (nearly 20 percent of the country's
population is still intemally displaced or a refugee). Since about 1995, many of the national health status
statistics are reported to have improved and are now at the same levels as at independence. The national
infant mortality rate (IMR) increased in the years immediately following independence, reaching a peak in
1993, but it has since fallen to below the 1990 level. The rate for 1998 was 18 deaths per 1,000 live births
(but this rate is underestimated compared to other non-FSU countries, as the definition of IMR in Azerbaijan
and in most other FSU countries does not cover neo-natal deaths in the first week). The overall mortality rate
also increased between 1990 and 1995, but then fell to resume its pre-independence level. Life expectancy
also fell in the first half of the 1990s, particularly for men, as happened in many other countries in transition
from Soviet rule. The fall occurred swiftly - from 67 years for men in 1990 to 64 years in 1995. However,
by 1998, estimated life expectancy had improved to be 68 years for men and 75 years for women.
Despite this encouraging rebound in the official health status statistics since the mid-1990s, there are
still some serious grounds for concern. While the official data seem to indicate recent improvements in most
of the health indicators, the evidence from social assessments and household surveys indicates that much of
the apparent improvement is due to non-reporting, as households are increasingly not using public health
facilities from which official statistics are generated. Living conditions for many of the population
(including particularly the internally displaced and refugees, who together, total more than 800,000 people)
are very poor, with few sources of employment and income. This renders them vulnerable to diseases
associated with overcrowding, poor nutrition, insufficient sanitation facilities, and lack of access to basic
primary health and preventive care services. There are some substantial regional variations in reported health
status among the 65 districts. In contrast to the national average of 18, the IMR is as high as 78 in Zardeb
and 63 in Kuba. In rural areas in general, the reported IMR may be around one-third higher than in urban
areas. Much of the infant mortality is preventable, as acute respiratory infections are responsible for 50
percent of these deaths. The two main causes of mortality are cardiovascular disease and cancer.
Cardiovascular disease remains the chief cause of death in Azerbaijan, responsible for approximately 50
percent of all mortality. The rate of cardiovascular disease has also been increasing in recent years, but it
may be somewhat exaggerated, as "heart attack" is the most standard cause of death given in official
documents when the actual cause of death is unknown or unclear. The reported national rate for maternal
mortality increased dramatically after independence, but it has not returned to the pre-transition levels and
remains extremely high. In 1998, there were 41.1 matemal deaths per 100,000 live births. For other
reproductive health statistics, worrying trends are also emerging: abortion rates are very high, at 269 per
1,000 live births in 1998, an increase of 38 percent as a proportion of live births since 1997. It is the most
commonly cited method of birth control for women in Azerbaijan. There has also been an increase in the
number of people giving birth at home: nationally 10 percent of births in 1997 took place at home, according
to the official data, although in some districts the figure was as high as 30 percent. In fact, the actual rate of
home deliveries of uncomplicated pregnancies may be as high as 50 percent. There has also been a
significant re-emergence of morbidity from  infectious causes.  There are still significant gaps in
immunization programs and the incidence of tuberculosis has increased in recent years. There have also been
outbreaks of polio, diphtheria and malaria.
5



(b) Decline in real public spending on health. A major challenge for the system has been the
collapse in real public spending on health, despite the Govemment's efforts to protect public health
expenditures as a share of total spending in recent years. Like all FSU countries, Azerbaijan entered
independence with a health system that was common to the entire FSU. However, the collapse of the
economy in the early to mid-1990s had a serious effect on the country and specifically on the health sector.
Inflation eroded the real budgetary capacity of the Govemment as much as ten-fold in some areas,
particularly in preventive programs such as immunization.  According to the MOH, public health
expenditures amounted to $9.92 per capita in 1998, but were reduced to a projected figure of only $7.58 in
1999. The data from the latest edition of Azerbaijan Economic Trends has lower figures, and suggests that
there may have been a slight increase in public health spending from $4.41 in 1998 to $5.25 in 1999, but in
any event, it is clear that the available resources are highly constrained. Reduced budgets to the district
health systems in Azerbaijan have led to cost cutting in all areas. Drug shortages have been common, and
equipment has not been maintained adequately. For people with serious illness that requires a stay in
hospital, a lack of government budget for food and gas for heating has meant that in-patients must now cover
these costs. Many prefer to discharge themselves early rather than do so. The insufficient wage levels of
health staff, and the late payment of salaries, have led to serious governance problems. 'Gifts' to health staff
in the form of goods or small payments of money were considered tokens of gratitude under the old system.
These have gained greater significance in recent years as health staff seek to complement low wages, and
they now occur at all levels of the health system and may be the source of as much as 80 percent of doctors'
income. In addition, staff often now rely on growing their own food to supplement the government salary,
and this discourages them from spending extra time at their posts.
(c) Inefficiency and inequitv of resource use. The health care system remains characterized by
major inefficiencies. For example, there is an over provision of doctors and medical staff. Like other FSU
countries, there are many more doctors and nurses per 1,000 population than in the established economies of
Europe and North America. In the mid-1990s, Azerbaijan employed 3.9 doctors for every 1,000 people - this
compares with 1.6 doctors in the UK and 2.1 in Canada. There is also a reliance on specialist doctors at the
primary care level. This leads to low-productivity and a lack of integration of care. Family medicine, as a
specialty, does not exist, nor does an effective referral system. The levels of competence of the medical staff
are mostly low, and treatment protocols for even the most common primary health conditions are often out-
of-date. There is evidence of considerable over-treatment as a means of supplementing income in the
environment of low salaries and over-supply of doctors. There is also an over provision of hospital beds and
infrastructure. In 1998, there were 8.4 hospital beds per 1,000 population in Azerbaijan. This figure had
been reduced from 10.5 beds in 1992, but remains higher than in other countries with greater resources to
spend on healthcare. The Western European region average for 1994 was 7.8, and lower figures were
recorded for many countries. The hospitals in Azerbaijan also have a very low bed occupancy rate: in 1998,
the average was only 28 percent. In addition, there is still a reliance on historic "norms" based methods of
resource allocation. The provision of resources to hospitals is still based on the number of beds and previous
utilization trends. As a result, there is a financial incentive to keep both bed levels and also lengths of stay
high. This is a serious disincentive to a more efficient deployment of resources at the local level, and
encourages continued operation of moribund facilities in order to retain funding. This is accompanied by an
over emphasis on secondary hospital care at the expense of primary care. People seeking health care tend to
visit hospital facilities to access primary care treatment. This contrasts with western systems, such as in the
UK, where an estimated 80-90 percent of all health conditions are managed outside of hospitals, at the
primary care facilities. Lengths of hospital stay are also unduly long. These are a characteristic of all FSU
countries, but in 1994, Azerbaijan recorded the longest length of stay in hospital amongst these countries at
17.9 days. By 1998, the national length of stay figure had still not substantially declined, and remained very
high at 17.1 days. Some of the reasons for this relate again to the low levels of competence of, and
inappropriate incentive system for, the medical staff. There is also general lack of drugs. This encourages
those seeking medical care to bypass the primary health care facilities in favor of the central district hospital
facility where the few drugs in the system are more likely to be found. This has made the implementation of
prevention and public care programs such as immunization much more difficult. Furthermore, many of the
6



lower-cost items of essential drugs available on the local market have proven to have low efficacy in terms of
treatment. While these are sectoral characteristics, generally, the inefficiency of the sector militates against
the poor in particular.
(d) Reduction in quality and access to health services. The quality of, and access to, health services
have considerably deteriorated. There are various reasons for this, including the high informal costs of care,
the lack of essential drugs and equipment, and the poor quality of service and facilities. Many buildings are
dilapidated, and staff typically have little incentive to work hard or well for their patients. As a result, about
half of the population does not seek health care from the formal health system when they are acutely ill.
Results from the 1995 nationally representative Azerbaijan Survey of Living Conditions indicated that
private expenditures then amounted to just over 6 percent of official GDP, or about four times the level of
official expenditures in the same year. This conclusion is supported by survey evidence from ECHO,
CDC/UNICEF/MOH, and the WHO. Survey, social assessment and anecdotal information suggest that the
situation in Azerbaijan is significantly worse than in many other FSU countries, where at least some drugs for
inpatient and emergency care continue to be provided free of charge.
(e) The planning and implementation of health reforms. A new law on "Health Protection of the
Population" was passed in 1997. In 1998, a Health Reform Commission was established by Presidential
Decree to develop a reformn strategy, and in 1999, a document entitled "General Concept of Health Care
Reorientation" was produced. Some of the characteristics envisioned for the new system are planned to be:
(i) the rational use of the health delivery network, funding mechanisms, staff and other resources; (ii) the
establishment of a new legal base for the system; (iii) primary care as a priority; (iv) reform of the sanitary-
epidemiological services; (v) transition to the principles of insurance; (vi) the development of fee-for-service;
(vii) reform of the pharmaceutical sector; (viii) privatization of public health services; (ix) the accreditation,
certification and licensing of medical establishments, personnel, medicines and foodstuffs; (x) the reform of
medical education; (xi) the reform of medical science; and (xii) the reform of the health information system.
The publication of the general concept document was then followed by the publication of the "State Program
of Health Care Reform". This document includes a broad timetable for the introduction of various reforns
and also suggests an allocation of responsibilities for their implementation. But it is far from being a detailed
action plan, and some of the proposals (such as increasing the public health budget from 1.6% GDP to 6.6%
GDP by the year 2005) are unrealistic.
To date, most of the actual reform work of the MOH has focused on trying to deal with the financial
collapse of the public system. So far, its strategy appears to have been to try to find ways to increase cost
recovery for almost all medical services, but with fee exemptions for selected social groups. There is a
schedule of fees that has been developed by the MOH, though it is not clear on what basis the fees for
specific services have been calculated. The fees would in principle allow a large share of budget-funded
health facilities to become self-financing entities, but it appears that "self-financing entities" would continue
to get some budgetary support and have salaries set according to public pay scales. To protect the poor
during the introduction of fees into the public system, the MOH has adopted "the policy of exemption",
which defines fee exemptions in public facilities for specified groups. There are at least 12 groups of
exempted citizens in principle. Although estimates from different sources vary, these groups and their
families account for between 40 and 50 percent of the population. There is also no empirical evidence that
the identified categories coincide well with the poorest groups. The MOH strategy of charging for nearly all
services with exemptions for large social groups is, therefore, unlikely to have the desired effect of protecting
access for vulnerable and the poorest groups. The MOH has also developed draft documents on the
introduction of mandatory medical insurance, and a Law on Health Insurance was adopted by the Parliament
in 1999. However, it is not clear that there is fiscal capacity to introduce a mandatory health payroll tax,
given the already heavy tax burden on enterprises and the financial position of the public pension system.
Many of the important implementation issues (e.g., pooling of resources) have yet to be addressed.
7



The MOH has also been willing to collaborate with UNICEF on district health care reform. UNICEF
established a pilot program in 1996 as part of an attempt to reform the financing and delivery of PHC to
ensure access to effective, efficient and equitable services. The program started in Kuba District and has
more recently been expanded to Masalli, Lenkeran, Celilabad and Neftcala Districts. The evolving model
provides a useful basis for an expanded district-level pilot program which could be supported under the
proposed IDA-financed operation. The pilots have: established outpatient, primary care clinics where none
existed before; significantly increased community involvement in identifying and meeting the medical
service needs in the districts; introduced the use of revolving drug funds (RDF); introduced the development
of transparent fee schedules (including exemption schedules) and mechanisms for allocating fee revenues at
the facility level; and developed an essential drugs package in public health facilities. Some rationalization
of facilities and personnel has been achieved in the pilot districts implemented under the UNICEF project.
The UNICEF program has recently been evaluated by an external team. The main conclusions of
that evaluation were that: (i) the level of poverty in the country made it difficult to introduce user fees, ancl
the large number of patients exempt from drug charges reduced revenue as compared to the plans; (ii) the
falling price of imported drugs reduced the price at which UNICEF sourced drugs could be sold; (iii) the
impact of the project could not easily be seen in terms of the main health indicators, as local data were
available for only some indicators for some districts; (iv) the level of use of services in the project districts is
still low, and there is some evidence that people are deterred from using them for fear of the cost; (v)
however, satisfaction with the services seems to be improving, especially in relation to drug availability; (vi)
there has been some success in the rationalization of services, in increased community involvement, and in
local management training; and (vii) the main constraints to achieving the full benefits of the project include
the lack of sufficient local control of health sector resources, too high a level of exemptions to charges, very
scarce government funds, and the very low incomes of staff making it difficult to achieve greater efficiency
levels. Overall, the evaluation concluded that there is enough evidence of success to justify further
development, especially with more focus on specific objectives and targets.
The proposed project would add substantially to the UNICEF pilot strategies. The project would
modify and build on aspects of the UNICEF pilot strategy to address the issues identified in the evaluations.
The policies and procedures related to the RDFs would be significantly strengthened (e.g., requiring the use
of a drug formulary for all RDF procurement, the pooling of drug procurements by participating districts,
clear guidelines and standards for determining exemption status, periodic review and revision of drug prices
to adapt to market circumstances, etc.). The impact of the project would be assessed using indicators more
proximal and antecedent to changes in health outcomes in the population. The topics to be covered by
clinical in-service training would also be expanded by the project to include a fuller spectrum of medical
conditions encountered in the primary care setting (e.g., cardiovascular disease). The uptake and application
in clinical practices of knowledge and skills acquired in the clinical in-service training would also be
monitored and reinforced on an ongoing, continuous basis throughout the project by the deployment of a
clinical-facilitator in each district. The clinical facilitators would continuously assess the quality of services
being provided in the reformed PHC facilities and would provide "at-the-elbow" in-service training to the
medical providers in the facilities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The key sectoral issues to be addressed through the proposed project include: (i) the building up of
capacity in the MOH to learn from the ongoing process of PHC reforms, and to design and carry out further
reforms; and (ii) the extension and adjustment of the UNICEF-supported district health services approach
from the existing five districts to another five districts.
The reformed district-level approach incorporates the following: (i) rationalization of health
facilities, particularly at the PHC level; (ii) the gradual rationalization of personnel at the PHC level; (iii) the
establishment of a basis for reform of pharmaceutical usage; (iv) improvement in the access to essential PHC;
8



(v) the exploration of innovative ways of funding health care services while insuring equity; (vi) the
continuation of improvements to the information system; (vii) improvements in the quality of PHC services
through better diagnostic and treatment capabilities; (viii) improvements in the quality of "preventive" health
programs; (ix) an increase in the management capacity of health personnel; (x) an increase in community
participation in the provision of health services; and (xi) an increase in stakeholder commitment to these
reforms. It is hoped that the experience of the proposed project would enable the MOH to develop an action
plan for the strengthening of PHC in the context of the Health Reform Plan.
The proposed project has been designed as a LIL, and its implementation should assist in answering
some key questions. As far as the districts and the PHC investments are concerned, the following are some
of the main questions: (i) can the availability of medications in or near clinics and the provision of basic
laboratory and medical equipment significantly increase patient utilization of PHC services especially among
children?; (ii) is a revolving drug fund sustainable under the specific circumstances set in this project?; (iii)
does retraining of specialist physicians in limited topics related to PHC improve their knowledge and their
use of that knowledge in clinical practice?; (iv) does ongoing, on-site in-service training and clinical
facilitation improve uptake of new approaches and knowledge in clinical practice?; (v) do integrated
approaches to providing clinical services at the PHC level improve the quality of care?; (vi) can financial
resources be shifted from in-patient services to PHC system?; (vii) does training in rational drug use with
clinical facilitation actually change physician prescribing habits?; and (viii) does the provision of integrated
PHC services improve patient satisfaction with access and quality of care?
The work on health financing would also allow the Government to conduct a thorough assessment of
the full range of financing options that are potentially available, including existing budgetary resources,
health insurance, private payments and new revenue raising. The training provided under the program for
health professionals would help to address some of the systemic inefficiencies, such as long average length of
stay, outdated treatment protocols and over-emphasis on curative care. Some of the training would address
these issues directly, while other parts of the training would encourage improvements in efficiency by
promoting management and other skills to encourage evaluation of the cost effectiveness of interventions.
The project would allow the MOH and the World Bank to maintain a dialogue on health reform not only in
the sectoral context, but also through contributing to the process of assisting the Government on the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper.
Focusing on the MOH, some of the key questions to be addressed include: (i) how can the World
Bank best assist the Government to design and carry out health reform in a difficult environment? (ii) how
can the World Bank assist in strengthening the local authorities in health reform?; (iii) how can the process
of health reform also support the poverty reduction strategy and PRSP process?; (iv) is the planned
cooperation with UNICEF an effective model for transferring knowledge and experience to the
Government?; (v) what is the best method or combination of methods of capacity building, including local
training activities, study tours and technical assistance?; and (vi) can the experience of the pilot districts be
used to scale up the approach to other parts of the country? The latter issue is particularly important, as
there would be an expectation that there could be further and enhanced external support to the sector if the
experience of the LIL is successful.
9



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailedproject description and Annex 3for detailed cost
estimates)
Total project costs are estimated at US$5.5 million. These exclude taxes'. IDA would finance
approximately US$5.0 million or 90% of the total project cost and the Government would contribute US$0.5
million or 10% of total project cost. IDA would disburse 40 percent of eligible civil works expenditures, or
approximately US$0.26 million, and the Government would contribute the remaining US$0.38 million as part
of the required counterpart contribution. Eligible expenditures incurred as part of the PCU incremental
operating costs can be reimbursed by IDA up to 80 percent of the local eligible expenditures, but not greater
than US$0.23 million. These eligible incremental operating costs include expenditures for office supplies,
courier services, postage, telephone, Internet connections, PCU vehicle maintenance and fuel, and travel and
per diem for project supervision. Local eligible expenditures related to incremental operating costs would be
eligible for 80 percent reimbursement from IDA. The remaining incremental operating costs of the PCU
such as rent and utilities would be the responsibility of the Government, and the estimated required
contribution is approximately US$0.14 million. The Government would also be responsible for VAT
payments on locally procured goods, as IDA would reimburse only 80 percent of local expenditures for such
goods. Technical assistance expenditures (training, study visits, consultant services and studies) would be
eligible for 100 percent disbursement. An amount of US$40,000, as the initial Government counterpart
contribution, would need to be deposited in the project account for project effectiveness. The counterpart
funds (excluding VAT payments) required to be provided by the Government in the following years are
estimated to be: US$370,000 in CY02; US$80,000 in CY03; and US$30,000 in CY04.
Component                  Sector       Indicative     % of        IDA       % of IDA
Cost (US$ M)   Total    Financing   Financing
(US$ M)
1. Capacity Building for Health Policy  Institutional
Reform.                            Development
(i) Analysis and Planning Development                  0.13         2.3        0.13         2.5
(ii) Health Financing Reform                           0.34         6.3        0.34         6.9
(iii) Pharnaceutical Policy Development                0.09         1.6        0.09         1.8
(iv) Management Infornation System                     0.31         5.7        0.31         6.3
Development
(Sub-Total)                                            0.87         15.9       0.87        17.5
2. District Level Primary Health Care  Basic Health    3.63         65.8       3.25        65.0
Reform
3. Project Coordination and Evaluation    Institutional  1.01       18.4       0.88        17.5
Development
Total Project Costs                 _      _5.51                   100.0       5.00        100.0
Component 1. Capacity Building for Health Policy Reform (US$0.87 million)
The primary objectives of this component are to complement and support the district-level
component, and to explore ways to stimulate a national dialogue on policy changes necessary for health
reform in Azerbaijan; generate support in the Government for the reform process itself; introduce a common
understanding of terms and objectives; perform critical assessments related to health financing reform; and
strengthen capacity in the MOH to plan, implement and evaluate health reforms.
I If procured locally, goods are assessed at 18 percent VAT. There is also a social tax of 32 percent of salary and wages. In the project, taxes are the
responsibility of the Government, and they are excluded from the estimated project costs.
10



(i) Analysis and Planning Development (US$0.13 million). This sub-component would support the
development of appropriate models for PHC, and would comprise a variety of national training events and
observational tours for government officials primarily to other transition countries where more efficient and
cost effective health care delivery models have been implemented.
(ii) Health Financing Reform (US$0.34 million). This sub-component would include training, survey
work and technical assistance support in three main areas: financial planning of the health system (including
analysis of user fees and equity, estimation of the contents and costs of a basic health care package, and an
analysis of health care financing options); the feasibility and possible development of health insurance; and
an analysis of private health spending. It would also include staff training.
(iii) Pharmaceutical Policy Development (US$0.09 million). This sub-component would support the
development and implementation of policy reforms in the form of appropriate treatment protocols, essential
drug policy, national drug formulary, promotion of rational drug use, and decentralized decision-making.
Limited pharmaceutical sector studies would also be supported, focusing on lessons learned from the
UNICEF-supported pilots of revolving drug funds, from the new district level activities (especially
experience related to rational drug use), and from the evaluation of the effectiveness and sustainability of
revolving drug funds.
(iv) Management Information System Development (US$0.31 million). The health information
system and communications would be strengthened to help manage the reformed health services, as well as to
enhance monitoring, evaluation, supervision and staff development.
Component 2: District Level Primary Health Care Reform (US$3.63 million)
The principal thrust of this component would be the actual implementation and extension of district-
level PHC reforms that have been previously piloted by UNICEF in Azerbaijan. The sub-component would
support reforms in the targeted districts to enhance and implement the UNICEF-supported program already
piloted elsewhere in the country; rationalize PHC services; improve the quality of and access to PHC
services; and strengthen the management and clinical capabilities of the district health personnel. In this
way, lessons would be learned especially by the Ministry of Health, and the experience would be utilised to
strengthen the national reform efforts. Specifically, the component is designed to provide material support
and staff training to five districts, Xacmaz, Samkir, Salyan, Goycay, and Sarur (inclusive of Sadarak), with
five other districts (Gusar, Gazakh, Sabirabad, Kurdamir and Babek) acting as "control" districts. In the
control districts, data collection would occur on key project indicators, but there would not be other
investments supported by the project. The implementation of the component would be done in four stages.
(i) Rationalization of health care services would be undertaken, with substantial community
involvement, to plan the PHC reform and strengthening program for each district, reduce the number of
hospital beds, and rationalize medical staff as part of the reforms and transition to the provision care in
outpatient, primary care clinics.
(ii) The implementation of the PHC models would be done with the support of field monitors and
clinical facilitators. They would provide on-site technical assistance and evaluation to doctors and nurses in
the primary care clinics, as well as facilitating and monitoring the uptake of new diagnostic and treatment
methods and guidelines. Community involvement, through the creation of district and community steering
committees, would be provided to ensure that the needs of the communities are being met.
(iii) Civil works would be undertaken to refurbish approximately 16 primary health care facilities
(including a Central District PHC Center) in each district to improve the access to the PHC services. This is
primarily to make the health services more attractive and conducive to better quality care. A small amount of
money would be provided to each district to make basic repairs in the health centers in accordance with the
11



rationalization plan. The provision of good quality primary health care services also requires the availability
of basic medical equipment, supplies, and cold chain equipment to support primary care. Each participating
district would be provided with an initial quantity of essential drugs valued at about $0.50 per capita to
establish a RDF.
(iv) Strengthening of the management capabilities of the district health personnel would be
implemented by UNICEF to enhance the management of specific reforms. This would include the use and
maintenance of RDFs; rational drug use; use and application of health services utilization information; use of
computers; public health management; and financial management.
(v) Clinical in-service training would use the 16 existing and modified UNICEF training modules as
well as about four new modules in multiple clinical subject areas.
IDA would finance the entire costs of the district component, with the exception of the civil works,
where there would be a cost-sharing with the Government. The implementation of the component would be
contracted to UNICEF, in view of its special position due to its successful ongoing experience with the
implementation of such a program elsewhere in the country. The two objectives of this arrangement would
be: (i) for UNICEF to have major responsibility (with the chief doctors, other health staff and the
communities) for the success of the investments in the five pilot districts; and (ii) for the MOH staff to learn
more about the design and implementation of such PHC reform programs, and so to increase the
Government's capacity for later extending such reforms to other districts of the country.
Component 3: Project Coordination and Evaluation (US$1.0 million)
The proposed project would support the operations of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), staffed by
consultants, and also a strong monitoring and evaluation program. The MOH has already appointed a PCU
Director, an accountant and a procurement specialist, and there would also be a full-time project training
coordinator to help organize the extensive number of training and other public events anticipated under this
project. The evaluation of the project would be the responsibility of the MOH, assisted by international
technical assistance. For Component 2, there would be a series of household surveys and of observational
studies (of clinic operations and physician practices) at baseline and at the end of the project in both the
intervention districts and the comparison districts to assess the impact and outcomes attributable to the
project. Local consultants would be used to implement the surveys/studies and to collect the data for project
evaluation. The results from the household surveys could also be used to validate other sources of data by
comparing to similar information collected through official reporting sources.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key interventions included for the district component are based on those included in the UNICEF
supported project which began in 1996. These are based on the following principles: the health system at the
district level has to be leaner, better managed and more efficient; there should be only two levels of care at
the district level ("hospitals" and "health centers"); disease management should be less hospital oriented;
ambulatory care should be more effective and of good quality; health programs should be aimed at groups
most at risk; the health information system should be reliable and action oriented; the community should be
more involved in the organization of care through health councils; official fees, with clear exemption
principles and rules, should be introduced at government facilities; there should be a revolving drug fund, as
part of which health service users would be required to pay for drugs; and facilities, beds and staff should all
start to be rationalized.
The reformed approach, therefore, incorporates the following: (i) rationalization of health facilities,
particularly at the PHC level; (ii) the gradual rationalization of personnel at the PHC level; (iii) the
establishment of a basis for reform of pharmaceutical usage; (iv) improvement in the access to essential
12



primary health care; (v) the exploration of innovative ways of funding health care services while insuring
equity; (vi) the continuation of improvements to the information system; (vii) improvements in the quality of
primary health care services through better diagnostic and treatment capabilities; (viii) improvements in the
quality of "preventive" health programs; (ix) an increase in the management capacity of health personnel; (x)
an increase in community participation in the provision of health services; and (xi) an increase in stakeholder
commitment to these reforms.
The basic strategy of the proposed IDA-supported project would be to deepen, extend and start to
scale up the approach already being taken by UNICEF. While implementation is far from completed in the
initial districts, the results are generally positive and have resulted in significant improvements in primary
health care delivery and quality of care.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be:
(a) The building up of health reform capacity. In principle, these benefits would accrue to all users
of publicly provided or publicly funded health services. The maximum benefits would accrue to the poorer
groups who are particularly disadvantaged at present.
(b) Improved quality of care for the populations in the target districts, with a demonstration of viable
models for the rest of the country. This would include better quality of health services in the selected
districts; increased cost effectiveness of services provided; and improved access for the populations there.
As noted above, the targets for the project are as follows: (i) the number of patients seen at reformed PHC
facilities would increase by 40 percent; (ii) the proportion of infants in the population that receive
immunization (DTP3) on time would increase by 20 percent; (iii) the proportion of pregnant women in the
population who have at least six prenatal visits will increase by 30 percent; (iv) the proportion of adult
patients seen in the reformed PHC facilities for whom a blood pressure is recorded in the patients' medical
records would increase by 50 percent; (v) the proportion of outpatients seen in the reformed PHC facilities
who receive antibiotics by means of injection will decrease by 50 percent; (vi) the per capita number of
hospital and polyclinic beds will decrease by 25 percent; and (vii) patient satisfaction with access and quality
of care provided in the reformed PHC facilities will increase by 20 percent.
The content and design of the proposed project relates directly to the main priorities of the World
Bank's Health, Nutrition, and Population (HNP) Sector Strategy. In the first place, the largest component of
the project will focus on improving the health, nutrition and population outcomes in Azerbaijan by improving
access to PHC services. The project would establish and equip up to 16 newly developed outpatient clinics
(each clinic serving approximately 8,000-10,000 population) in each of five districts outside the capital city.
The clinics would address the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the country by providing PHC
services including (but not be limited to): maternity care; preventive and curative care of the newborn,
infants, and children; reproductive health; prevention and management of STIs/HIV/AIDS; prevention and
curative care for leading infectious diseases including TB, malaria, diarrhea, and acute respiratory diseases;
prevention and management of cardiovascular diseases; and, prevention of iodine deficiency. The project
design aims to improve the health of poor populations specifically by emphasizing service provision outside
of the capital city and focuses on districts that are primarily rural and/or are geographically isolated (e.g.,
Nakhchevan). The districts were selected for the project using qualitative and objective measurable criteria
that included proxy indicators for poverty (such as the infant mortality rate). The project staff would also
develop guidelines and criteria by which community committees could assign exempt-from-payment status
for poor families and vulnerable populations at the PHC clinics. Exempt patients would also not need to pay
for drugs prescribed from the project formulary list. All patients seen in the PHC clinics with active
tuberculosis would receive their drugs free-of-charge.
13



Second, the project would enhance the performance of the health care system in Azerbaijan b,y
promoting the equitable access and use of preventive and curative HNP services that are affordable, effective,
well managed, of good quality, and responsive to client needs. The project seeks to improve the management
of the health care system by providing approximately 1,300 hours of training in the first two years to district
health authorities (i.e., local health managers) on management and clinical topics. In addition, all physicians
in the participating districts would undergo approximately 1,200 hours of clinical in-service training in the
first two years related to topics in PHC and to the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the country'.
The courses would emphasize outpatient, primary care services instead of inpatient, specialty care that
characterizes the current system of medical care. The uptake and use of new knowledge of skills would be
continuously monitored by clinical facilitators in each district that will visit each project PHC clinic on an
ongoing and routine basis to observe clinical practices and clinic services provided. The clinical facilitators
would also provide on-site, "at-the elbow" in-service training to reinforce the topics and approaches
presented in the group in-service training. Responsiveness to patient and community needs would be
addressed directly through the development of community committees in each district that would actively
participate in the ongoing process of the assessment of health care needs in their communities, in the
development of the district-specific rationalization plans for health care services, and in the assignment of
exempt status for poor people and vulnerable populations.
Third, the project would begin to assist the Government to secure a more sustainable system of
health care financing and to maintain effective control over public and private expenditures by stimulating a
national dialogue on policy changes necessary for health reform in Azerbaijan; to generate support in the
central government for the reform process itself; to introduce a common understanding of terms and
objectives (e.g., productivity and cost-effectiveness); to perform critical assessments related to health
financing reform; and to strengthen capacity in the MOH to plan, implement and evaluate health reforms.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period for this project would be 36 months. The executing agency would be the
MOH through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). There would be a contract between the MOH and
UNICEF for the implementation of the district health service reforn component, although the civil works
would be handled outside of the UNICEF contract and by the PCU.
The Task Force which has had responsibility for the design of the project would be converted into a
Steering Committee for the project. The main responsibility of the Steering Committee would be to serve as
the project advisory body to guide the overall implementation efforts of the Health Reform Project. It would
not have line functions or responsibilities, but rather, would: (i) help to ensure the smooth and efficient
implementation of the project, including the arrangements among the pilot districts for the implementation by
UNICEF of the district-level component; (ii) monitor the work-plan and the progress of the project activities;
(iii) advise the MOH and the PCU on strategic decisions related to project implementation; (iv) contribute to
the dissemination of knowledge, information and educational materials gained from the project to MOH
officials in Baku and elsewhere in the country; (v) assist in the evaluation of the impact of the project, and
consider the lessons of experience from the project and their implications for further health policy reform;
and (vi) enhance the understanding and raise the level of awareness throughout the health sector of the
reform activities being conducted by the MOH through the project. The Steering Committee would be
appointed by the Minister of Health and would report directly to him. Steering Committee members would
constitute senior health officials, a representative of the World Health Organization, and other stakeholders,
including non-government organizations (NGOs) working in the health sector. The PCU Director would
serve in an ex-officio capacity. The Committee would be chaired by a Deputy Minister of Health. The PCU
Director, in consultation with the Chairman, would be responsible for preparing the agenda and providing the
necessary background materials to the Committee members.
14



The financial management functions will be carried out by the PCU and by the UNICEF local office
in Baku. UNICEF's current financial management arrangements comply, in general, with World Bank
financial policy. An action plan has been discussed and agreed with UNICEF for the establishment of
separate project accounting records, the design and generation of PMR reports, and auditing arrangements.
An entirely new financial management system is being created for the PCU. A second action plan for this
has been agreed upon between the World Bank and the Borrower. These action plans are designed to ensure
that: there are capable financial management staff in the PCU and at UNICEF; there are separate project
accounting records which are maintained according to international accounting standards and which are
capable of generating the Bank's reporting requirements; the financial policies and procedures and internal
control mechanisms are compliant with the Bank's financial and procurement policies and guidelines; there
are adequate financial, procurement and project physical progress reports; and there are annual and
independent auditing arrangements for the project. To meet the Bank's financial management requirements,
important steps in both action plans need to be implemented prior to Board presentation. The details are
included in Annex 6.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
Before settling on the proposed LIL project, various alternative types of project were considered.
The main alternative was a traditional investment project, but it was felt that a LIL is better tailored to the
gradual development of capacity and to a "learning by doing" approach. A second option considered was a
sectoral adjustment operation (SECAL), in view of the major sectoral and policy issues to be addressed.
However, as this would be the first assistance by the World Bank to the MOH, it was felt that there should be
a modest and carefully phased approach to working in the sector initially. A third option considered was a
smaller project, with support only to either the district component or the national health reform component.
However, it was decided that there are important links between the proposed institution building activities
and the proposed district component: the former is necessary to build capacity within the MOH, while the
latter is important for the population to actually feel and experience the advantages of the reformed services
sooner rather than later. The strategy is also for the MOH officials to learn directly from the experience of
the district-level component.
Another debate concerned the selection of the project components. One option would have been to
focus on health promotion and prevention as well as, or instead of, health service reform. The rationale for
that design would be to focus on some of the underlying causes of ill-health, such as ignorance and
inappropriate life styles which contribute to ill health. Activities addressing those issues are largely outside
of the health sector. However, most diseases (including some which are now re-emerging) are well-suited to
a PHC approach, which envisages well-trained health staff working in properly equipped medical facilities,
able to deal with patients of all ages, diagnosing and treating a wide range of diseases with appropriate
medication, and referring fewer patients to secondary services. While there would, undoubtedly, be many
benefits which could be derived from improvements in health education and disease promotion, it was felt
that the higher priority at this stage is to make efficiency and equity improvements and reforms in the basic
health care delivery system. Another option would have been to focus on a more serious revamping of
medical education, and specifically the development of "Family Medicine" as a medical specialty to replace
the present system of multiple specialists providing PHC services. While it is recognized that full
rationalization of PHC would require this, it was also felt that that would be beyond the scope of the
proposed project. There is presently little impetus and support for such a radical change; and even if a new
curriculum could be developed during the project period, no graduates from it would appear for several years
after. Instead, it is proposed that the focus of education should be on specific in-service training. In this way,
specific new PHC treatment protocols could be introduced to the staff presently responsible for their
implementation.
15



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector Issue                 Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation       Development
Progress (IP)      Objective (DO)
Bank-financed            Education Reform Project              S                   S
Pilot Reconstruction Project         S                   S
Structural Adjustment Credit         S                   S
Other development
agencies                 UNICEF PHC reform project    Satisfactory
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from other World Bank supported projects in Azerbaijan have been taken into account in the
conceptualization of the proposed project. First, it is clear that high-level borrower commitment is critical,
and there has been an official letter from the Prime Minister requesting World Bank assistance in the health
sector. This request was also confirmed personally by the Minister of Health. Second, the country in general
and the health sector in particular are challenged with some deep-seated problems of govemance. However,
the experience of the ongoing UNICEF pilot health reform project has largely been positive, and so there is
some expectation that the pilot could be expanded successfully into more districts. Third, there is also
concern in the country about costly outside technical assistance (TA). In the design of the project, steps
have, therefore, been taken to try to ensure that the amount of outside TA is minimized in the direct cost of
the proposed IDA Credit. The management contract between the MOH and UNICEF is also considered to be
very cost-effective, as the technical assistance is mostly national rather than international, and the overhead
charge is considerably below the typical international level of commercially-oriented firms. Finally, despite
the limited project implementation capacity in the MOH and the need for considerable staff training in Bank-
related procedures, a good start has been made in advance of project negotiations. The key PCU staff have
already been appointed through a transparent process, and training activities are already underway.
Lessons from the design and implementation of health projects in the region have also been
considered in the design of the project. There has recently been an external review for the World Bank of the
health reform experience in the ECA Region. The main implications of this analysis are that there is need for
the various health service reforms planned under the proposed project to be well coordinated and integrated,
and for there to be clear and strong government support for them. There is also need to acknowledge the
existing level of informal user payments, and to design fee payment systems and schedules which take this
into account. A good start on this has been made through the UNICEF program. There is also need to
change the incentive structures within the health system for providers to give quality health care to all, for
them to have continuity in the implementation of the reforms, and to maintain a strong public sector role in
the system.  Unfortunately, the systemic work on reforming the public sector in Azerbaijan and
decompressing salaries and increasing incentives to officials has moved less quickly than originally hoped,
but there has been some important progress made in the health sector through the UNICEF pilot program and
there are some signs now that the broader program of reform may be accelerated slightly.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
When Mr. Wolfensohn met with the President of Azerbaijan in May 1999, the President requested
World Bank support to the health sector (in parallel with the assistance being given to the education sector).
The letter from the Minister of Health in December 1999 was also an important step in the confirmation of
16



borrower commitment, as was the follow-up letter from the Prime Minister in June 2000. In August 2000,
there was a further letter from the Minister of Health with a project proposal attached. The Task Force which
was established for the design of the project comprised both MOH staff and also representatives of external
organizations (specifically WHO and UNICEF), and a considerable amount of work was achieved by the
Task Force in a relatively short period of time. This is a demonstration of national ownership of the project
concept.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
The potential role of the World Bank in the health sector of Azerbaijan could be particularly
significant. Due to the restrictions imposed by the US Foreign Assistance Act on aid to Azerbaijan, USAID
(which is supporting health reforms elsewhere in the region) has been less active than usual (although there
has been some indirect support channeled through other agencies). The WHO has an important program of
assistance to Azerbaijan and it has helped considerably through the provision of some key technical
assistance in the preparation of the proposed project for IDA support, but its budget is highly constrained.
UNICEF has already implemented the pilot PHC reform program in five districts, but even its work has not
been focused much on broader systemic issues such as health financing, and there has been only limited
capacity building in the MOH due to budget constraints. Apart from the work done by UNICEF and the
WHO, the work that has been done by donors and NGOs in supporting health programs has been mostly
concentrated among the displaced population, and has had limited focus on structural issues in the health
sector. The World Bank is seen by many as an institution with the expertise and financial leverage required
to support a process of health reform, especially if done in strong collaboration with other external
organizations such as the WHO and UNICEF. There is also a critical need to link the health reform process
with poverty reduction activities, and specifically with the IPRSP/PRSP process which is now underway. In
this context, there is potentially high value added from World Bank support. In addition, the World Bank's
procurement and disbursement rules could inject greater transparency and discipline into the health sector,
where presently the cost effectiveness of public procurement may be limited.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic:
The proposed project, as a LLL, has not been subjected to a very detailed economic evaluation.
However, as part of project preparation, there has been a preliminary review of some of the main economic
aspects of the strategy being proposed. This includes a review of the experiences so far in the sustainability
of funding at the community level, and an initial analysis of the balance between one-time development costs
and operating costs in the district component. There was also a preliminary analysis of the replicability of
the approach. It was concluded that the implementation of a relatively strong package of reforms in a total
of about five districts seems to be appropriate, given the amount of money available and the other constraints
which need to be faced. This should provide a wide and effective sample for refinement of the "model", but
yet would be cost-effective and feasible to implement and monitor. This analytical work would be followed
through during project implementation, and it would be extended to examine the cost-effectiveness of the
facility and service rationalization activities; and to assess the fiscal impact of the specific district
interventions. This further work would also contribute to the capacity building activities envisaged under the
national component of the project.
There are some other major economic issues facing the sector which have been identified as major
issues but which have not yet been analyzed in any detail. For example, the Government's proposal to
introduce health insurance financed from a payroll tax contribution could result in either a squeeze on current
social transfers financed from the payroll tax (if the aggregate contribution rate is maintained), or risk
negative impacts on the productivity of enterprises and their preferred factor balance of production. As it is
17



unlikely that the aggregate tax burden would be increased, it would be necessary to ensure that the proposed
introduction of medical insurance (if it takes place) is done in a way that takes proper account of the social
transfer requirements elsewhere in the consolidated budget. The TA provided under the project should assist
in assessing health insurance within a wider context of the diversified financing sources for the health sector.
Also, as the health sector is one of the larger public sector employees presently, proposals to rationalize
staffing over time need to be developed with due consideration for the labor market implications of reforms.
Work on this issue would be continued under the proposed SAC II civil service reform component, to the
extent that that work proceeds.
2. Financial:
Cost recovery is an important financial issue, in fiscal and social terms. Data from several sources
indicate that about half the population do not seek health care from the formal health care system when they
are acutely ill. There are various reasons, including the high informal costs of care, lack of essential drugs
and equipment, and poor quality of service and facilities. In particular, however, survey data indicate that
informal payments on health care are around four times the total budgetary expenditure. Unlike a number of
FSU countries, the Constitution of Azerbaijan does give leeway for the introduction of user fees in public
health facilities, and (as noted above) the MOH has already developed a preliminary user fee schedule.
However, the development of the fee schedule needs further analytical work, including on the exemption
schedules and modalities.
The proposed project would extend the work already being piloted through the existing UNICEF
PHC program. One of the main features of this would be the creation of district and community steering
committees, which would be formal representatives of the communities and insure that the communities'
needs are being met. Community involvement would, therefore, be a critical part of the process of
considering health financing options at the local level. In particular, the committees would play a major role
in the planning of services and especially in the setting of prices and exemption policies for services and
drugs. The proceeds from drug sales in the RDFs would be used solely for purposes of replenishing drug
supplies in the RDFs using the project formulary. Some vulnerable patients and populations would be
identified in each district to be exempt from payment for the RDFs. The Government would also be strongly
encouraged to make all first line TB treatment drugs free of charge to all TB patients.
3. Technical:
The district-level component of the project is based on an extension of the ongoing UNICEF program
for strengthening PHC, combined with the rationalization of secondary facilities. However, as part of the
preparation work for the project, there was a review of the technical aspects of the set of interventions. In
particular, it was decided by the Task Force that there should be an additional focus on some particular non-
communicable diseases, and especially cardio-vascular disease.  The training plan has been adapted
accordingly. During project implementation, there would also be further work done to assess whether
additional incremental changes should be introduced to the emerging district health reform "model". In
particular, consideration would be given to the possible introduction of family doctors, and to ways to
strengthen the sustainability of the new system both financially and managerially. The reforms already
introduced by UNICEF may, therefore, be seen as initial measures, with the proposed project testing
additional steps and options in the rationalization process for the district health services.
4. Institutional:
The existing institutional capacity in the central MOH and local health authorities to design and
implement PHC reforms is limited, and strengthening it would be an important contribution of the project.
To achieve this, a PCU has been established within the MOH to work closely with all of the agencies
involved in the delivery of the project activities. The PCU will be responsible for facilitating project
18



implementation, in particular, to operate a sound accounting and financial management system, to produce
the required financial statements to monitor eligible expenditures and meet audit requirements, and to ensure
that the procurement of works, goods and services is conducted according to World Bank guidelines. The
main organizational issues that the PCU will have to confront are: (i) the need for incentives for those
involved in the project to make and sustain the policy and organizational changes required; (ii) the lack of
policy analysis and planning capacity within the MOH; and (iii) the inadequate or inaccessible data about the
sector, making policy analysis, planning, monitoring and evaluation difficult. It is not expected that the PCU
would last for more than the duration of the project, and the aim is that it should build up capacity in the
MOH for project-related monitoring and evaluation, the coordination of training, the strengthening of the
management information system, and health financing system reforms. The capacity building work would
use the UNICEF experience as the foundation, with the two components of the project being mutually
reinforcing.
The PCU has one Procurement Officer whose procurement experience is limited at present. To
augment this, the Procurement Officer will be sent abroad for intensive procurement training. Additionally, a
part-time, expatriate procurement specialist will be hired as needed, particularly during peak project
implementation activities in the first year of project implementation.
One of the key features of the project is the involvement of UNICEF in the implementation of the
district-level component of the project. As mentioned above, the principal PHC reforms to be implemented
at the district level have already been started under the ongoing UNICEF project. UNICEF staff have been
instrumental in implementing and monitoring these reforms, and are intimately familiar with both their
content and "lessons leamed". Furthermore, strong relationships have already been developed with the initial
implementing districts, facilitating communications and clarifying expectations, etc. Appropriate monitoring
indicators, training methodologies, and equipment lists have been developed.  UNICEF has also
demonstrated a capacity to produce health education materials; and it can facilitate the procurement of
essential drugs and equipment through UNIPAC. However, one of the main aims of the district-level
component of the project is to ensure that the MOH leams more about these reforms and builds up its
institutional capacity to replicate such reforms elsewhere in the country in due course. The proposed contract
between the MOH and UNICEF, therefore, emphasizes this strategy.
S. Social:
The main social aspects of the proposed project relate to the district component, where implementation
would be modelled on the ongoing UNICEF experience. The first step for implementation would be a
structured, self-administered analysis of the capacity and resources available in each district to implement the
intended reforms. Needs assessment instruments would be designed, based on those already used by
UNICEF in the existing districts where PHC reforms have been introduced, and a methodology developed for
its imptementation. An orientation seminar would be held in each district to explain the nature of the
anticipated reforms, and the methodology to be employed with the needs assessment. Project team staff
would provide support and follow-up with assistance from local consultants with experience in the needs
assessments performed in the UNICEF pilot. Upon completion of the needs assessment, another seminar
would be held in each district to present the findings, and to discuss the same basic concepts of reform.
Further material inputs to each district would be based on the district-specific needs assessments.
As part of the health financing review work, there would also be a careful assessment of the
willingness and ability of communities to pay for different health services. In addition, there would be an
assessment of the poverty impact, probably through household surveys. One particularly sensitive issue
would be the community and health service impact of closing health facilities as part of the district health
service reform plans. If it is determined that any health facilities should be closed, there would be a full
assessment carried out in conjunction with the local community.
19



6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category     [1 A   II  B   [XI C
The project environmental assessment rating is Category C.
7. Participatory approach:
The implementation district component would follow the ongoing UNICEF experience, which
involves considerable community consultation and participation, consistent with PHC principles. The local
government administrations and the health service providers in the selected districts would also be heavily
involved throughout the project in developing and carrying out district implementation and restructuring
plans. The needs assessments and district-specific rationalization plan would be completed through a joint
effort involving local health staff, community members, and otheT key local stakeholders supported by
project staff. Local consultants would be utilized from the former UNICEF pilot districts that have
experience in the rationalization process. These plans would be a pre-requisite for further implementation of
reforms in the districts, e.g., funds for refurbishment of facilities would not be available for use until
rationalization plans are completed by the districts, approved by the MOH, and reviewed for "no objection"
by the World Bank. Annual seminars would be held in each district to review progress to date, and reinforce
the basic concepts of reform as discussed at the national level seminars. In the same way, these seminars
would serve as both training to stimulate support and understanding of the reforms. There is already a
Primary Health Care Advisory Committee of key stakeholders which would provide advice and guidance to
the PCU and the MOH, generally in the development and implementation of these plans. The following table
shows how key stakeholders would participate in the project.
Preparation  Implementation   Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups  Social assessment in target  COLT      COL           COL
districts.
Intermediary NGOs          MSF Belgium; UMCOR; IRC;    CON2            COL           COL
Save the Children; Relief
International.
Academic institutions      Azerbaijan Medical University  CON          CON          CON
Local govermnent           Local govermments in selected  COL          COL           COL
districts
Other donors              LUNICEF; UNDP; IFRC; GTZ      COL            COL           COL
1/ COL - Collaboration
2/ CON - Consultation
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The long-term sustainability of the district health service reforms introduced by this project depends
upon: (i) adequate fiscal resources to maintain the refurbished facilities and new equipment, and to ensure an
appropriate inventory of necessary drugs and other medical supplies; and (ii) support by the community and
local leaders of the changes in the revised patterns of practice and standards of care provided by physicians
and other health workers. These issues, however, need to be considered within the broader context of the
health care financing system. This project would not provide comprehensive solutions to the fundamental
issue of sectoral sustainability; but rather, as noted earlier, it would begin simply to assist the Government to
explore how to secure a more sustainable system of health care financing, with better control over public and
private expenditures. This would be done by stimulating a national dialogue on policy changes necessary for
health reform in Azerbaijan; generating support in the central govemment for the reform process itself;
introducing a common understanding of terms and objectives; performing critical assessments related to
health financing reform; and strengthening the capacity in the MOH to plan, implement and evaluate health
reforms. For example, the project would support observational tours for top-level and MOH counterparts to
20



other CIS or Eastern bloc countries where more efficient and cost-effective health care delivery models have
been implemented. Initial policy reform efforts would target the development of appropriate standard
treatment guidelines and protocols for PHC; the development of policies related to essential drugs, drug
formularies, and rational drug use; the development of options for acceptable means of increasing financing
to the health sector; and the introduction of a process of rationalization and optimization of existing health
facilities and personnel. Additional activities would include support for a series of meetings and workshops
between the national MOH and district levels to promote increased decentralized decision-making capacity
and to better define the appropriate level of decision-making related to health care and pharmaceuticals.
Support would also be provided to initiate the development of a more effective management information
system and communications to manage the reformed health services, as well as to enhance monitoring,
supervision and staff development.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(Goal to Bank Mission)
There is need for investment in social    N          Review of epidemiological pattems and usage of
development and poverty alleviation                  health services by the poor as part of poverty
measures, and also increased support                 assessment update and PRSP.
for the public sector institutional reform
to achieve a reduction in poverty in the
country.
(Objective to Goal)
The reformed primary health care           M          Broadening of policy development through
services are needed to improve health                 discussions with wide range of stakeholders and
outcomes and increase the productive                  identification of vested interests which may be
capacity of the poor.                                 opposed to the extension of the reforms.
Achievements in the targeted districts     N         Replicability analysis as part of project design work.
need to be generalized to the rest of the
district network.
The increase in the knowledge of                     Strong and front-loaded capacity building comnponent;
officials in the MOH and in the targeted   M         close collaboration with partner institutions with strong
districts need to lead to wider support for          field presence; and choice of lending instruments that
health sector reforms.                               supports gradual and sustained capacity building.
(Outputs to Objective)                    M
The health sector needs to be managed in             Sustained policy dialogue and possibility of additional
ways conducive to the lessons being                  assistance if LIL project is successful.
leamed from the reform activities, and to
the new knowledge being used
effectively.
Funding needs to be available to sustain  H          Design and piloting of provider payment mechanisms
the health services and infrastructure               which improve incentives and reform of health
after project ends.                                  financing strategy based on analytical work carried
out.
The public needs to see the benefits of    N          Close consultations with the public before and during
the improved services and want to utilize             the project implementation period.
them.
(Components to Outputs)
There is need for continued interest in,  H          Close preparatory work with Minister and staff; and
and support for, health reform activities            broadening of policy development base through
by the Ministry of Health and other parts            discussions with other stakeholders as well as the
of the Government.                                   MOH.
21



Risk                    Risk Rating                Risk Mitigation Measure
There is need for adherence to the agreed   M          Well selected PCU and strong World Bank supervision.
training plan and technical assistance
schedule.
There is need for the targeted districts to  M         Selection of districts for proposed inclusion in the
participate in the reform program, and to              project done in close coordination with the districts
agree to strengthen and rationalize                    and using UNICEF expertise too.
primary health care services.
The health workers need to agree to         N          Consultation with health care workers as part of
participate in the training and                        project preparation process.
development of new services.
There is need for the Ministry of Health    M          Well selected PCU; strong World Bank supervision;
institutional capacity to be developed                 and close coordination with UNICEF.
within the required timeframe.
There is need for appropriate               H          Strong reliance on World Bank procedures with well
accountability in use of project funds and             selected PCU, UNICEF involvement, and close World
inputs.                                                Bank staff supervision. Building up of procurement
and accounting capacities in the PCU in line with the
procurement and financial management assessments.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Overall, the proposed project should be viewed as being of high risk. The most important risks relate
to the extent of borrower commitment to carrying out the project in a transparent manner and the wealc
institutional capacity of the MOH. Many of the staff in the MOH are definitely committed to collaborating
with the World Bank and there is some genuine support for a project; but this would be the first such project
in the health sector in Azerbaijan and its implementation would clearly face substantial challenges.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System):
Risk            Type of       Risk    Risk Minimization Measure
Risk      Rating
Facility                     S           S      Local and national level consultation process.
rationalization
The revolving drug fumd      S           S      While this could be controversial, there are already high levels
in public facilities                            of infornal payments being paid, and some official user charges
are also already in place. The main way of dealing with any
possible controversy about health financing is through the
analytical work on health financing, and also through building
upon the largely successful experience of the UNICEF pilot
I district project where RDFs are already in place.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Govemance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
22



G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Board Conditions:
(i)    Establish an adequate financial management system for the project.
(ii)   The MOH and UNICEF agreement in principle on the proposed Agreement, acceptable to IDA,
for the implementation of the District Level Primary Health Care Reform Component.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    The Government deposit of the equivalent of US$40,000 in the project account as the
Government's initial counterpart cash contribution for CYO1.
(ii)   The MOH selection of an auditor for the project.
(iii)   The MOH and UNICEF execution of the Agreement for the implementation of the District Level
Primary Health Care Reform Component.
3. Dated Covenants:
(i)    The PCU would submit, quarterly, a progress report and a work plan, including procurement,
budget and financing plans, for activities to be carried out during the following quarter, for
review by IDA.
(ii)   The PCU would ensure that the financial statements, special account and the SOEs are audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to
IDA, and would submit an audit report within six months after the end of the audited fiscal year
(not later than June 30 of each year).
(iii)   The MOH would produce a project formulary (essential drugs list) by March 30, 2002.
(iv)   The MOH would provide to IDA a reform and rationalization plan for each of the five pilot
districts by March 30, 2002.
(v)    The PCU would prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) which detail project
financing needs and sources for the subsequent quarter of project implementation, and describe
the financial situation of the project in terms of actual versus planned expenditures for each
project activity by June 30, 2002.
(vi)   The MOH would produce a report analyzing health financing and options for the future by
December 31, 2002.
(vii)  The PCU would draft a mid-term review report by December 31, 2002, and would carry out a
mid-term review jointly with IDA by June 30, 2003.
H: Readiness for Implementation
The project has been prepared according to an accelerated timetable, suitable for a LIL, and the
MOH is now working hard to finalize project plan details and commence implementation. The Director of
the PCU has been appointed after a competitive selection process. The MOH has identified suitable office
accommodation for the PCU.
23



I: Compliance with IDA Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
d    Michael Mills                       Armin Fidler
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                      Country Director
24



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
.. , .h    : e ..'' ;-icatois                 M       r               '       Cr t.
_______________   ~~~-Eystivi1ow.                     mtlftons'
Sector-elateed cA -e torindicator                     Itor                      from Goal to Bank
Investment in social        (i) Reduction in poverty.    Household, individual and   Investment in social
development and poverty    (ii) Increase in public   community income and      development and poverty
alleviation measures; and  support for the reform    opinion surveys, with     alleviation measures, and
increased support for the  measures.                 particular focus on the poor  increased support for the
radical reform of public sector                      and vulnerable.           public sector institutional
institutions.                                                                  reform would lead to a
reduction in poverty in the
country.
FopIl.oXw,on pqevlo pon.t Objective: ._._________,.--
Imnproved district primary
health care services
throughout the country.
*  u   ;  <  t  I - _ _ . . . . . .~Joct                         0
Project Devel6piimet    Outcone  I/impact            Pocreports                (from Objective to
l,of  .    .   .... ..  . . .( . . t, ;tC?x...'.e... ..$',6  g  ..
Obj~~ctlye:          In~~a' 00oirs:-                                    G6al
Increased knowledge of     (i) Improvements in access, (i) Assessment (through  (i) The use of the reformed
Ministry of Health officials in  quality and utilization of    surveys of patients and  primary health care
appropriate strategies to  primary health care services health care workers) of the   services would improve
strengthen and reform district  in the targeted districts.  quality of primary health    health outcomes and
primary health care services.                        care services provided in   increase the productive
the targeted and control  capacity of the poor.
districts.
(ii) Increased knowledge    (ii) Review of primary  (ii) Achievements in the
among the staff in the MOH  health care planning   targeted districts can be
and the targeted districts    capacity in the Ministry of   generalized to the rest of
about strategies for     Health and targeted       the district network.
strengthening and reforming districts.             (iii) The increase in the
primary health care      (iii) Development of mid-   knowledge of officials in
services.                term health reform strategy  the MOH and in the
and health sector note for   targeted districts would
the PRSP.                 lead to wider support for
(iv) Development of annual  health sector reforms.
work plans by the district
authorities.
25



Output from  each n    Ou  ut-p lndictrs:               ProjDt _O
monpoet *__________  _________                                                   _  _b~tIe
Component 1.                (i) Regular meetings of     (i) Plan for the reform and    (i) The sector is managed
(i) Increased knowledge and   Ministry of Health and inter- strengthening of primary  in ways conducive to the
capacity in Ministry of Health  ministerial colleagues to  health care services.   lessons being learned from
officials to design and      discuss primary health care  (ii) Report on health    the reform activities, and
implement appropriate        reforms.                   financing issues and options  to the new knowledge
primary health care reforms.  (ii) The development of a    services.                being used effectively.
model and plan for primary  (iii) Report about drug
health care reforms for the   prescribing practices with
country.                   recommendations for
(iii) Ministry of Health   pharmaceutical sector
officials trained to become   reform; and national
familiar with health       essential drug policy and
financing options and issues. formulary.
(iv) The adoption of a
national essential drug
policy and formulary for
use at facilities supported
by the Ministry of Health.
(v) Hardware for
management information
system installed and key
Ministry of Health and
targeted district staff trained
to use it.
Component 2.                 In the targeted districts: (i)  (i) Assessment of utilization  (i) Funding is available to
(i) Provision of improved    An increase of 40% in the   patterns in the target     sustain the health services
primary health care services in  number of patients seen at   districts by household  and infrastructure after
the targeted districts by    reformed PHC facilities.    surveys.                   project ends.
physicians and other health    (ii) An increase of 20% in  (ii) Review of the quality of  (ii) The public see the
workers.                     the proportion on infants in  health services and facilities  benefits of the improved
(ii) Improved utilization by    the population that receive  in the target districts by  services and want to utilize
the public of primary health   immunization (DTP3) on    observational studies.     them.
care services and facilities in  time.
the targeted districts.      (iii) An increase of 30% in
the proportion of pregnant
women in the population
who have at least six
prenatal visits.
(iv) An increase of 50% in
the proportion of adult
patients seen in the
reformed PHC facilities for
whom a blood pressure is
recorded in the patients'
medical records.
(v) A decrease in the
proportion of outpatients
seen in the reformed PHC
facilities who receive
antibiotics by means of
injection.
26



(vi) A decrease of 25% in
the per capita number of
hospital and polyclinic
beds.
(vii) An increase of 20% in
patient satisfaction with
access and quality of care
provided in the reformed
PHC facilities.
ProjeWt Componentp   s J   Input   (dt for    Poject reports:                (from Components
$tubcomponents:            ea (cO ude fr    Po                  Mto O.utputs
Component 1.               IDA $0.87 million        Progress and             (i) Continued interest in,
Capacity Building for Health                       implementation reports by   and support for, health
Policy Reform.                                      the PCU and Ministry of    reform activities
Health.                  by the Ministry of Health
and other parts of the
Government.
(ii) Adherence to agreed
training plan and technical
assistance schedule.
(iii) Ministry of Health
institutional capacity is
developed within the
required timneframe.
Component 2.               IDA $3.25 mnillion       Progress and             (i) The targeted districts
District Level Primary Health  Counterpart funds   implementation reports by   participate in the reform
Care Reform.               $0.38 million           the PCU and UNICEF.       program, and agree to
strengthen and rationalize
primary health care
services.
(ii) The health workers
agree to participate in the
training and development
of new services.
Component 3.               IDA $0.88 million        Progress, implementation    Appropriate accountability
Project Coordination and   Counterpart funds        and evaluation reports by   in use of project funds and
Evaluation.                $0.13 million           the PCU.                  inputs.
27



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
Component 1. Capacity Building for Health Policy Reform ($0.87 million)
The primary objectives of this component are to stimulate a national dialogue on policy changes
necessary for health reform in Azerbaijan; generate support in the Govemment for the reform process itself;
introduce a common understanding of terms and objectives (e.g., productivity and cost-effectiveness);
perform critical assessments related to health financing reform; and to strengthen capacity in the MOH to
plan, implement, and evaluate health reforms.
(i) Analysis and Planning Development.
One of the key aspects of health care reform would be the development and implementation of
national policy reforms to improve the access to, and quality of, PHC. Initial efforts would target: the
transition from an emphasis on specialised, inpatient/polyclinic medical services to outpatient, primary and
preventive care services; the development of appropriate standard treatment guidelines and protocols for
PHC; the development of policies related to essential drugs, drug formularies, and rational drug use;
development of options for acceptable means of increasing financing to the health sector; and the
introduction to the rationalization and optimisation of existing health facilities and personnel.
The project would support observational tours for top-level and MOH officials particularly to other
CIS or Eastem bloc countries where more efficient and cost-effective health care delivery models have been
implemented. The tours would focus on better defining appropriate health care services and models for
Azerbaijan with an emphasis on PHC. Officials would also be supported to attend key World Banlc
conferences. In addition, annual national stakeholders seminars, as well as an intemational seminar at the
end of the project, would be undertaken to assess progress, synthesize lessons learned, and reinforce the basic
concepts of health reform. A national plan for PHC would be developed by the MOH during the course of
the project.
Additional activities would support a series of meetings/workshops between the national MOH and
district levels to promote increased decentralised decision-making capacity and to better define the
appropriate level of decision-making related to health care and pharmaceuticals, i.e., which decisions are
reserved for the central level, and which fall within the domain of the districts. Topics for consideration
would include (but not be limited to): local health planning based on local needs; local management of health
budgets and expenditures; rationalization and optimisation of health facilities, personnel and services. A
final report with recommendations for policy reforms, related to decentralised decision-making in health,
would be completed by the end of the project.
(ii) Health Financing Reform.
The proposed sub-component would include four main activities: (a) the financial planning of the
health care delivery system; (b) the development and implementation of mandatory health insurance; (c) an
analysis of private health expenditure and development of health policy to overcome social disparity; and (d)
the training of local specialists in health finance and economics.
The first activity would include analysis of a basic health care package, and that work would
comprise: (i) designing a basic package of services; (ii) exploring altemative boundaries of coverage
eligibility for the poor and medically needy; and (iii) training a cadre of local experts which can update these
on a regular basis. It would also include the further development of the rationalization plans for the selected
28



districts. This would be based on the initial plans developed under Component 2 of the project, but the work
would be more comprehensive and would lay the foundation for a further round of rationalization including
at the district hospital level. Finally, it would also include a study of resource allocation scheme to develop
altemative models and approaches to equalizing resource allocation across geographic areas using criteria
other than Soviet normatives related to inputs such as beds and staff.
The second activity would be to review the situation relating to mandatory health insurance, help
refine as necessary and implement the MHI law and the regulatory apparatus, and help develop institutional
capacity within the country. The third activity would consist of a survey of consumer and household
expenses on health, and its findings would serve as the base for developing regulations of both formal and
informal markets of health services to help improve 'vulnerable social groups' access to health care. Finally,
there would be support for two types of training: practical skills based tools that can be immediately applied,
and methodological skills that will be used mainly by applied health service researchers and policy makers.
(iii) Pharmaceutical Policy Development.
Intemational technical assistance and local consultants would be used to assist in the development
and piloting of new pharmaceutical policies and procedures in the intervention districts, including the
implementation and evaluation of RDFs to be managed by district health authorities. A project drug
formulary would be developed at the beginning of the project, based, in part, on the essential drug list utilised
by UNICEF in its pilot projects. The project formulary would specify the list of drugs that would be allowed
to be procured during the life of the project using IDA Credit funds or using proceeds from the RDFs. The
proceeds from drug sales in the RDFs would be used solely for purposes of replenishing drug supplies in the
RDFs using the project formulary. Some vulnerable patients and populations would be identified in each
district that would be exempt from payment for the RDFs. The Government would be strongly encouraged to
make all first line TB treatment drugs free of charge to all TB patients. The project would support a one-time
replenishment of drug funds ($0.10 USD per capita) to partially offset the costs of RDF exemptions.
Standard guidelines and criteria would be developed by project staff in collaboration with local officials for
use in all intervention districts to assign exempt-from-payment status for RDFs. At the end of the project, all
remaining drugs and fund balances in the RDFs would be the property of the district health system. In
addition, limited pharmaceutical sector studies over the life of the project would be supported focusing on
lessons learned from the UNICEF pilots of RDFs (e.g., prescribing patterns of physicians), lessons learned
from new district projects (especially experience related to rational drug use), and an evaluation of
effectiveness and sustainability of RDFs.
(iv) Management Information System Development.
Effective management information systems and communications are key to managing the reformed
health services, as well as enhancing monitoring, supervision and staff development. Each of the districts
participating in the project would be equipped with three computer workstations, intemet access, email
capability, physical security and air conditioning to support data collection and information reporting for the
project. A new version of Oracle would be purchased to upgrade the national-level public health information
system. A computer systems analyst would work with a short-term international consultant to design, test
and implement the information infrastructure to permit ongoing project monitoring for purposes of day-to-
day and month-to- month project management and reporting, as well as for project evaluation. Towards the
middle of the project, the systems analyst would focus more on designing a new health information system
for the country that integrates data reporting for national databases (e.g., death registration, birth registration,
etc.) with project data and information collection in the intervention districts. The project would support, on
a limited basis, pilot-testing of the new public health information system in some of the intervention districts
for data entry, processing and analysis at the district level, and for reporting via email or internet to the
national office. In addition, general computer training would be given at the national and district levels to
29



enhance knowledge and skills. Special attention would be given at the district level for using local data fo:r
local decision-making (e.g., planning, resources allocation, evaluation, etc.).
Component 2: District Level Primary Health Care Reform ($3.63 million)
The principal thrust of this component would be the actual implementation of a number of reforms
that have been previously piloted by UNICEF in Azerbaijan. The project represents the first efforts in the
newly selected districts to: enhance and implement the UNICEF pilot-tested reforms; rationalize health care
services; implement outpatient, primary health care models; improve the quality of and access to primary
health care services; and strengthen the management and clinical capabilities of the district health personnel.
This project is designed to provide direct material support and substantive training to five districts:
Goycay, Salyan, Samkir, Sarur (inclusive of Sadarak) and Xacmaz. In order to evaluate the project, five
additional districts have been selected (Qusar, Qazax, Sabirabad, Kurdemir and Babek) matched by region to
serve as comparisons in which data collection would occur on key project indicators but no other investments
would be supported by the project. Selection of the intervention and comparison districts was based on
qualitative information (key informants) as well as on objective and measurable criteria that were developed
jointly by UNICEF, the MOH, and the World Bank.
(i) Rationalization of Health Care Services.
The first step for implementation would be a structured, self-administered analysis of the capacity
and resources available in each district to implement the intended reforms. Needs assessment instruments
would be designed, based on those already used by UNICEF in the existing districts where PHC reforms have
been introduced, and a methodology developed for its implementation. An orientation seminar would be held
in each district to explain the nature of the anticipated reforms, and the methodology to be employed with the
needs assessment. Project team staff would provide support and follow-up with assistance from local
consultants with experience in the needs assessments performed in the UNICEF pilot. Upon completion of
the needs assessment, another seminar would be held in each district to present the findings, and to discuss
the same basic concepts of reform. Further material inputs to each district would be based on the district-
specific needs assessments.
A district-specific rationalization plan would be completed for each intervention district and would
emphasise: re-orienting medical services and personnel from specialised, inpatient/polyclinic care toward
basic primary care, general practice, and preventive medicine; decreasing the number of inpatient beds,
inpatient facilities and personnel; and, increasing the number of PHC outpatient clinics. Development of
these plans would include (i) workshops in each district, and (ii) short observational visits by teams of each
district to other districts where reforms have already been implemented in order to discuss options and seek
solutions to this difficult process. The development of these plans would be a joint effort involving local
health staff, community members, and other key local stakeholders supported by project staff. Local
consultants would be utilised from the former UNICEF pilot districts that have experience in the
rationalization process. These plans would be a pre-requisite for further implementation of reforms in the
districts e.g., funds for refurbishment of facilities would not be available for use until rationalization plans
are completed by the districts, approved by the MOH, and reviewed for "no objection" by the World Bank.
Annual seminars would be held in each district to review progress to date, and reinforce the basic
concepts of reform as discussed at the national level seminars. In the same way, these seminars would serve
as both training to stimulate support and understanding of the reforms.
30



(ii) Implementation of Primary Health Care Models.
This activity would reorganize the PHC infrastructure, services and personnel in accordance with the
district-specific rationalization plans. Most of the work would be carried out by the local teams in each
district, but would be supported by a Field Monitor for the project. A vehicle would be provided to each
participating district, as well as for the Field Monitor who would be based in Baku.
Community involvement would be critical, and would be achieved through the creation of district
and community steering committees as formal representatives of the communities to ensure that the
communities' needs are being met. They would play a role in the planning of services (including
development of the rationalization plans); setting of prices and exemption policies for services and drugs;
generation of additional revenues to support health service activities; and provision of in-kind support (e.g.,
labor for refurbishing and cleaning, etc). They also serve as the primary contact with the communities in
terms of educational programs. The primary project support for the development of these committees would
be through the provision of a Community Development Specialist as a member of the project team. This
person would work closely with both the district teams and the regional monitor to promote and stimulate
community involvement in the reform process.
One of the keys to improved health care status is an educated public. UNICEF would develop and
disseminate a series of educational posters on appropriate topics such as reproductive health, breastfeeding,
EPI, malaria, and IMCI. In addition, communities would be targeted for training in health and financial
management of medical care facilities; healthy lifestyles and life skills: prevention of hereditary diseases;
iodine deficiency disorders and universal salt iodization; and the appropriate prescribing and dispensing of
medications.
(iii) Improvement of and Access to Primary Care Services
Along with the rationalization process and other improvements, civil works will be undertaken to
refurbish approximately 16 primary health care facilities (including a Central District PHC Center) in each
district to improve the access to the PHC services. This is primarily to make the health services more
attractive and conducive to better quality care. A small amount of money would be provided to each district
to make basic repairs in the health centers in accordance with the rationalization plan with priority given to
patient safety, water and sanitation.
Each participating district would be provided with an initial quantity of essential drugs valued at
about US$0.50 per capita to establish a Revolving Drug Fund (RDF). This amount has been shown to be
sufficient for approximately one year, insuring against stock-outs. A project drug formulary would be
developed at the beginning of the project, based, in part, on the essential drug list utilised by UNICEF in its
pilot projects. The project formulary would specify the list of drugs that would be allowable to be procured
for the life of the project using IDA Credit funds or using proceeds from the RDFs. The proceeds from drug
sales in the RDFs would be used solely for purposes of replenishing drug supplies in the RDFs using the
project formulary.
Some vulnerable patients and populations would be identified in each district that would be exempt
from payment for the RDFs, thereby, possibly resulting in erosion of RDF funds. The Government also
would be strongly encouraged to make all first line TB treatment drugs free of charge to all TB patients. The
project would support a one-time replenishment of drugs (US$0.10 per capita) using the project drug
formulary to permit re-capitalisation of funds, if necessary and deemed desirable by the communities, in
order to permit a continuous supply of good-quality drugs. One of the advantages of this strategy would also
be to ensure sustainability over a longer period of time, during which the communities would hopefully
become more viable economically, and later be better able to sustain the funds to provide good-quality drugs
on a continuous basis. Standard guidelines and criteria would be developed by project staff in collaboration
31



with local officials for use in all intervention districts to assign exempt-from-payment status for RDFs. At
the end of the project, all remaining drugs and fund balances in the RDFs would be the property of the
district health system.
Administrative tracking systems for the RDFs have already been developed, although forms must be
reviewed for revisions needed and provided for use in the districts. Funds for improving district drug
warehousing would also be provided. Training and monitoring would be an important part of the RD]F
activity.  To ensure the adequate functioning of these funds, the project would also provide a
Logistics/Pharmaceutical Officer directly responsible for implementation and monitoring of the revolving
drug funds themselves, and support for procurement and distribution.
The provision of high quality primary health care services requires the availability of basic
equipment and supplies to support primary care. Funds would be made available to provide basic medical
equipment, limited laboratory equipment relevant to primary health care, and supplies to the reformed and
refurbished primary health care, outpatient clinic sites. Some basic equipment including an ultrasound
machine would be provided to the central district hospital maternity ward in intervention districts as a
diagnostic tool for maternity care.
The cold chain is a critical element in the provision of PHC. Much of the system is presently non-
functional. This activity would improve the cold chain by providing refrigerators and backup generators to
the district level vaccine warehouses and cold boxes to the reformed PHC facilities. One concern is that
without a strong maintenance capability, the refrigerators would rapidly deteriorate, making their provision
non-sustainable and non-cost-effective. For this reason, a Cold Chain advisor would also be included for the
first year of the project to help develop such a capability as well as participate in procurement and training of
the Clinical Facilitators in cold chain maintenance and monitoring.
In addition, a priority would be given to providing training and promoting "user-friendly" services to
sensitise health delivery personnel to policies enhancing the quality of treatment of patients. These policies
range from implementing the norms of "baby-friendly" hospitals, to the human relations aspects of patient
care, creation of "Patients' Rights", and education of the public to those rights.
(iv) Strengthening the Management and Clinical Capabilities of Health Personnel.
Training is considered an important part of the reform process. Small training centers would be
refurbished and equipped in each district based at the Central District Hospital. District Health Authorities
(DHAs) would receive approximately 100 hours of training specifically devoted to health systems
management. UNICEF would procure the services of trainers and training materials, as well as provide
logistic support for training of district health authorities on topics to enhance the management of specific
refonns including: the use and maintenance of revolving drug funds; rational drug use; use and application of
health services utilization information; use of computers; public health management; and financial
management.
All physicians and nurses (and limited numbers of other health personnel) would receive
approximately 1,370 hours of clinical in-service training over the first two years of the project. DHAs would
also complete all clinical in-service coursework. UNICEF would procure the services of trainers and training
materials, as well as provide logistic support for clinical in-service training. The UNICEF training modules
would include: medical-genetic counselling; prevention of substance abuse; reproductive health; management
of STIs; HIV/AIDS prevention; acute respiratory diseases; diarrhoea diseases; safe motherhood and new-born
care; EPI; malaria; breast-feeding; and iodine deficiency disorders. Existing modules would be reviewed and
updated as needed before implementation. International and local technical assistance would be procured to
assist in the development of new modules covering: health promotion; TB diagnosis and management
(DOTS); prevention and management of cardiovascular diseases; appropriate use of antibiotics; basic record-
32



keeping and health information reporting; and, health information systems. The International Technical
Assistance would also: review the overall content of the training courses; make recommendations for future
development to better address the full spectrum of topics and issues relevant to primary health care; and,
assess and make recommendations related to post graduate medical and nursing education in primary health
health/general practice. The purpose of this training would be to introduce improved methods of patient
treatment and new treatment protocols and procedures.
The significant number of hours dedicated to clinical in-service training in the project would initially
decrease the availability of health personnel to provide medical services in the district facilities. However,
patient volume is low and facilities refurbishment would have to be completed. It is also critical that the time
and effort be invested in improving the knowledge and skills of the medical practitioners to improve quality
of care.
For purposes of this project, a significant addition has been made to the UNICEF pilot strategy. To
facilitate and monitor the uptake of new diagnosis and treatment methods and guidelines, one Clinical
Facilitator would be supported by the project in each district to: provide on-site technical assistance and
evaluation to the doctors and nurses in the reformed primary care clinics in the field; to reinforce and monitor
uptake of methods, protocols, and procedures taught in the clinical in-service training; to identify recurring or
unmet training needs of the doctors/nurses in the reformed primary care clinics; and, to assist in project
monitoring and evaluation.
UNICEF would be responsible for monitoring the day-today and month-to-month progress of
implementation of Component 2 with routine quarterly reports to the PCU in a format/content agreed to prior
to loan effectiveness. As a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), the project would assess several key
questions related to Component 2:
(i) Can the availability of medications in or near clinics and the provision of basic lab/medical equipment
significantly increase patient utilization of primary care services especially among children?
(ii) Is a revolving drug fund sustainable under the specific circumstances set in this project?
(iii) Does retraining of specialist physicians in limited topics related to primary health care improve their
knowledge and their use of that knowledge in clinical practice?
(iv) Does ongoing, on-site in-service training and clinical facilitation improve uptake of new approaches and
knowledge in clinical practice?
(v) Do integrated approaches to providing clinical services at the primary health care level improve the
quality of care?
(vi) Does training in rational drug use with clinical facilitation actually change physician prescribing habits?
(vii) Does the provision of integrated primary health care services improved patient satisfaction with access
and quality of care?
The evaluation of Component 2 would be the responsibility of the MOH. International technical
assistance would be required to design and supervise a series of household surveys and of observational
studies (of clinic operations and physician practices) at baseline and at the end of the project in both the
intervention districts and the comparison districts to assess impact and outcomes attributable to the project.
Local consultants would be used to implement the surveys/studies and to collect the data for project
evaluation. Results from the household surveys can also be used to validate other sources of data by
comparing to similar information collected through official reporting sources.
33



Component 3: Project Coordination and Evaluation ($1.01 million)
The proposed project would support the operations of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and also a
strong monitoring and evaluation program. The MOH has already appointed a PCU Director, an accountant,
a procurement specialist and an interpreter. The PCU would also have a training coordinator, who would
learn by doing within the project, under the guidance of the UNICEF trainers, as well as from other donors
and NGOs who are actively training in Azerbaijan. This person would essentially be the liaison between the
project, the technical personnel of UNICEF, the MOH and the districts. A procurement advisor would be
employed during the initial project implementation period to provide technical assistance to the procurement
specialist.
34



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
Table 1. Components Project Cost Summary
Local     Foreign      Total
US$        US$         US$
Thousand   Thousand   Thousand
A. Capacity Building for Health Policy Reform
1. Analysis and Planning Development              19.3        87.8       107.1
2. Health Financing Reform                        65.0       232.8       297.8
3. Pharmaceutical Policy Development              26.9        47.6        74.4
4. Management Information System Development      79.3        198.9      278.1
Subtotal Capacity Building for Health Policy Reform  190.5    567.1      757.5
B. District Level Primary Care Reform             1,522.7     1,717.9    3,240.6
C. Project Coordination and Evaluation              638.8       229.2      868.0
Total BASELINE COSTS     2,351.9     2,514.2    4,866.1
Physical Contingencies                              148.5        40.0      188.5
Price Contingencies                                 255.3       203.6      458.9
Total PROJECT COSTS      2,755.7     2,757.9    5,513.6
35



Table 2. Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(US$ Thousand)
Local      Foreign        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Rehabilitation of Facilities              482.6          -           482.6
B. Vehicles                                                70.2         70.2
C. Office Equipment
Computer Equipment                          7.7         194.2        201.9
Software /a                                             51.8          51.8
Other Office Equipment                       .          15.5          15.5
Subtotal Office Equipment             7.7         261.5        269.2
D. Furniture                                  21.1          -           21.1
E. Pharmaceuticals                                        464.5         464.5
F. Training Equipment                          .           21.8         21.8
G. Medical Equipment
Cold Chain Equipment                         -          169.3        169.3
Basic Equipment for PHC                                 618.0        618.0
Laboratory Equipment                                    77.3          77.3
Subtotal Medical Equipment              .          864.5        864.5
H. Technical Assistance
Consultant Services                        691.9        692.1    1,384.0
Training and Study Visits                  478.9        99.7         578.7
Studies and Surveys                        123.5          -          123.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance         1,294.4       791.8       2,086.1
I. Public Education & Information Dissemination  37.3      35.3         72.6
J. Miscellaneous
Supervision and Monitoring lb
Total Investment Costs                         1,843.1     2,509.6       4,352.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salary and Wages              201.0          .           201.0
B. Incremental Operating Cost                307.8         4.6          312.4
Total Recurrent Costs                          508.8         4.6          513.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                           2,351.9     2,514.2       4,866.1
Physical Contingencies                         148.5         40.0         188.5
Price Contingencies                            255.3        203.6        458.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                2,755.7      2,757.9       5,513.6
36



Annex 4: Financial Management
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
The Organizational Structure of the Project
One of the key features of this project is the involvement of UNICEF in the implementation of most of
one of its components. Under the overall supervision of the MOH, the project would be administered at the
following two levels.
*  Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for all of Component I (Capacity Building for Health Policy Reform),
for the civil works aspects of Component 2 (District Level Primary Health Care Reform), and all of
Component 3 (Coordination and Evaluation); and
*  UNICEF office in Baku for Component 2 (District Level Primary Health Care Reform) apart from civil
works (which would also be administered by the PCU). There would be a contract agreed between the
MOH and UNICEF for the implementation of this component.
A Task Force has had the responsibility of designing the project and it is now being converted into a
Steering Committee for the Project (chaired by the Deputy Minister of Health). The Committee would
comprise the key officials from the MOH responsible for various aspects of reform and Primary Health Care,
and it would (inter alia) have a representative from the Ministry of Finance to ensure smooth coordination with
the MOH.
Financial Management Functions
Staffing
UNICEF would be responsible for monitoring the day-today progress of implementing the second
component and producing routine quarterly reports to the PCU in a format/content agreed prior to Credit
effectiveness. A Project Director will be appointed and will be responsible for liaison between the PCU and the
UNICEF office. The existing UNICEF Accountant will report directly to the Project Director (UNICEF) and
assist with  the project's accounting  and  financial reporting.   The Accountant will have an
Administrative/Financial Assistant funded through the project who will have the required accounting and
financial management qualifications and relevant experience along with computer slcills. This position is
expected to be filled as soon as the contract between the MOH and the UNICEF is finalized.
The financial functions at the PCU level will be carried out by an Accountant, who is already in place.
She is in-charge of keeping appropriate accounting records, preparing quarterly reports and making
replenishments requests for components under the PCU management.
Compliance with OP 10.02
The current general financial management framework of the UNICEF office, as described by the Head
of the program in Baku, meets the Bank's financial requirement as spelled out in the OP 10.02, except for the
annual audit. It provides an adequate internal mechanism with policies, regulations and procedures in place that
are designed to meet the project's objectives and provide accurate and complete accounting records. In
accordance with these policies and procedures, UNICEF will keep accurate and systematic records for the
project component that it is managing, and will do so in line with the Contract Agreement to be signed between
the Government of Azerbaijan and UNICEF. It has been agreed and noted in the Agreement that UNICEF will
keep separate ledger account through which all UNICEF's receipts and disbursements for the purposes of the
37



project assistance will be channeled. Once the planned staffing in UNICEF is put in place and the necess;ary
training conducted, the financial management system of the UNICEF office will have the potential to provide
reliable financial information to all the stakeholders.
An international consultant, with extensive prior experience, has already been put in place to set up a
financial management system for the PCU. The financial management system will be in compliance with OP
10.02 and will be able to generate the LACI required reports for reporting and replenishment purposes. The
PCU Accountant is presently participating in the design of the financial management system (along with the
financial management consultant), and will be fully trained on the system once completed. The PCLU's
financial, administrative, and procurement systems are also presently being designed and are expected to be in
place before project effectiveness.
Staff Training
Apart from training that is being given by the international financial management consultant, the PCU
Accountant has had accounting formal training in Turin, Italy. This is assisting the Accountant in the testing of
the new financial management system and is allowing her to make any necessary changes to improve the system
further, as necessary.
It was agreed with the Head of UNICEF that the position of Financial Assistant will be filled with a
fully qualified person with minimum requirements for training. Assurances were also provided that training
will be provided, if necessary, to familiarize him/her in the IDA required reporting mechanism.
Reporting Mechanism
In the initial phase of the project implementation, the project will not disburse funds based on PMRs,
although the project will be LACI compliant. The LACI requirements have been discussed with the UNICEF
representative as well as the PCU Accountant. It was agreed that UNICEF will modify/renew its reporting
system that will be able to provide timely quarterly reports compatible with the LACI requirements. The
reports will generate updated project, financial, procurement, and physical output indicators. For replenishment
purposes, the PCU will request the Disbursement Office in Washington for all the activities under Components
I and 3 (and also for civil works under Component 2). UNICEF, on the other hand will send replenishment
requests directly to IDA, after the initial umbrella withdrawal application has been made and agreed to under
the contract agreement.
For monitoring purposes, UNICEF will report to the PCU and the Ministry of Health (with a copy to
IDA) as follows:
* within one week at the end of each quarter, a quarterly project management report for the component of the
project under its direct management (District Level Primary Health Care Reform); and
* within five months of the close of each calendar year with the annual financial statements of account for the
component of the project under its direct management (same as above).
It was agreed that during the initial transition period, the PCU would not be fully equipped to prepare
quarterly PMRs. Disbursements during this period will, therefore, be carried out using traditional methods
using full documentation, i.e., Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) reimbursements, direct payment, etc. It was
further agreed that even though the PCU may initially be using traditional disbursement method it will, in
parallel, produce PMRs not necessarily for replenishment purposes but for reporting and gaining experience.
Once the PCU has gained experience, and the improved Financial Management System is reviewed and found
satisfactory by IDA, the Project will move to PMR-based disbursements (with the agreement of the Borrower).
Once converted, the PCU will be responsible for preparing quarterly PMRs, acceptable to the Bank, each of
which will include: (i) financial report summarizing sources of project financing and project expenditures,
38



disbursement, and forecasted project expenditures; (ii) reconciliation of the Special Account; (iii) project
progress report comprising output monitoring and summary of project progress; and (iv) procurement
management report.
UNICEF: The following reports would be produced by UNICEF for the project:
*  Within one week at the end of each quarter, a quarterly project management report for the component
of the project under its direct management (District Level Primary Health Care Reform);
*  Within five (5) months at the end of each fiscal year in which funds are expended, UNICEF will
provide the PCU and IDA with a statement of account showing the use of funds. UNICEF will also
provide the PCU and IDA with a copy of its independently audited financial statements for such year,
together with the opinion of independent auditors on such statements.
* UNICEF will prepare and furnish to the PCU and IDA not later than six (6) months after the completion
of the Project, a report summarizing the activities financed under the contract and assessing the results
achieved against the objectives of the Project. This will become part of Implementation Completion
Report (ICR).
Special Account & Flow of Funds
A Special Account will be opened and operated by the PCU in the Azerbaijan International Bank where
IDA funds will be transferred periodically for components that are managed by the PCU. In parallel, a Project
account will also be opened for the counterpart funds. UNICEF, on the other hand, will not open any Special
Account but will instead receive funds on a quarterly basis directly from IDA into their Headquarters account in
New York. Upon approval of the application, IDA will commit the annual authorized amount, under a blanket
agreement, from the Credit for payment to UNICEF and will issue a confirmation letter to that effect.
Advances to the PCU Special Account and to the UNICEF bank account in NY will be based on the forecasted
cash-flow needs for each quarter. As mentioned above, it has been agreed that UNICEF will not open a
separate bank account but instead maintain a separate US dollar ledger account. All documents will be made
available for the independent auditors to inspect as and when necessary.
Audits
External independent auditors will be selected prior to project effectiveness for Component 1,
Component 3 and the civil works of Component 2 of the Credit. The auditors will prepare a project audit report
for these components. The audit will be conducted in accordance with the IDA's financial policies and as per
ISA. The audit TORs and engagement letter will be submitted to IDA for review as specified in the following
Action Plan.
Project Readiness for Implementation and Risk Assessment
The formation of the PCU is still at its early stages and the capacity is presently being developed.
Activities under the Action Plan, if implemented properly, will result in proper financial management
arrangements that is capable of providing accurate and timely information for project management purposes.
The Action Plan will be monitored closely to ensure satisfactory financial management system is put in place
before effectiveness. IDA will also undertake an assessment of the financial management arrangements upon
full implementation of the Action Plan to decide on possible additional actions or declaring FM system
adequate.
39



Action Plan for the Implementation of the Financial Management Arrangements
For the successful implementation of the financial management arrangements, two separate Action
Plans have been prepared, discussed and agreed upon between IDA and the relevant counterparts during
appraisal. Plans are as follows:
For PCU:
Activities                                   By Date
I   Appoint remaining staff including procurement specialist and support
staff                                                         Done
2   Appoint fm consultant to install fin system                    Done
3   Ms. Leyla (PCU accountant) to attend accounting course on IAS in
Turin                                                         Done
4   FM consultant to train staff on systems and procedures         Ongoing
5   MOH to provide adequate office space for PCU                   Done
6   MOH to provide adequate office equipment & furniture for PCU   Done
7   Purchase accounting software capable of producing PMR, acceptable   Done
to the Bank                                                   __I
8   Present shortlist of auditors acceptable to IDA                Done
9   Accounting software (capable of producing PMRs) installed and  Done
tested
10  Complete Financial Management Manual (for inclusion into the   Done, May 7, 2001
Project Operational Manual)
11  Bank staff to review and confirm adequacy of financial management   Done, May 9, 2001
arrangements
12  Open Special Account and Project Account                       Before Effectiveness
13  Appoint Auditors                                               Before Effectiveness
14  Produce full PMRs (and quarterly thereafter)                   December 31, 2001
15  Consider a move to PMR-based disbursements                    June 30, 2002
For UNICEF:
Activities                                   By Date
1   UNICEF to confirm placing adequate staff, including qualified  Assurances Provided
accountant (at UNICEF, Baku)
2   UNICEF to provide assurance of adequate office space and office  Assurances Provided
equipment for proper management of component
3   UNICEF to initial Contract between UNICEF and MOH              All substantive issues agreed
verbally.
4   For monitoring purposes, UNICEF to generate sample PMRs        Before Effectiveness
reflecting IDA reporting requirements
5   IDA to review and provide feedback on sample PMRs              Within two weeks after
receiving PMRs
40



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
(US$ M)
Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                      0.72              2.78              1.01              0.40
Total Recurrent Costs                 0.09              0.20              0.21              0.10
Total Project Costs                   0.81              2.99              1.22              0.50
Total Financing                       0.81              2.99               1.22             0.50
IDA                                   0.76              2.63              1.14              0.47
Govemment                             0.05              0.36              0.08              0.03
41



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
Procurement
The procurement of goods, works and services would be done in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants
by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999). The World
Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, and the standard forms of contract and request for proposals
will be used under the project.
Procurement Management
The PCU under the MOH will be responsible for overall project implementation and progress
monitoring. The PCU will ensure that the procurement procedures, criteria and documentation agreed with
IDA, are complied with satisfactorily. The procurement management responsibilities and procedures are
described in further detail in the Project Operational Manual (OM). The PCU will oversee the procurement
and award of contracts under the project. The PCU will also have responsibility for carrying out
procurement intended for PCU operations (incremental operating costs), civil works and the capacity
building component. To carry out its procurement responsibilities, the PCU has recruited a full-time, in-
house procurement officer (whose procurement qualifications were reviewed by the Bank during project
appraisal and found to be satisfactory). The procurement capacity of the PCU will be strengthened through
part-time international TA service at the beginning of the project. The PCU procurement officer will be sent
to Turin, Italy or to the International Law Institute in Washington, D.C., for an intensive procurement training
during the first six months of project implementation.
Procurement Arrangements
The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories under
the project are summarized below in Table A. Model bidding documents will be prepared by the PCU for
use under the project. These documents, which are based on World Bank Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) were again reviewed at appraisal and found to be suitable for use under the project. A general
procurement notice will be published in the United Nations' Development Business, Number 559, May 31,
2001. The GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement. Procurement under the project
would be undertaken in accordance with the procurement arrangements shown in Table A and Al. The
procurement schedule for the project is presented in Table B1. The main procurement methods are
highlighted below.
Works
There will be a total of ten minor works (refurbishment) contract packages (two packages for each of
the five districts) that would be procured under the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures under
unit rate or lump-sum, fixed price contracts. The PCU will carry out small works procurement and use ECA
regional sample NCB documents. Invitation for bids would be advertised in newspapers of national
circulation. The aggregate amount under NCB is estimated at US$618,000.
Small Works. Works contracts that are simple in design and small in value (under US$10,000)
would be procured according to Small Works procedures. There will be five of them (one for each district).
Such works contracts are labor intensive, geographically scattered and spread over time, due in part to
42



climatic conditions, and they would be procured under lump-sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from at least 3 (three) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation and according to Bank guidelines. The PCU will use sample bidding documents developed in the
ECA region. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, and relevant drawings where applicable. The award would be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract. The aggregate value under minor works contract is estimated to be
US$23,000.
Goods
No procurement through international competitive bidding is expected because of the small value of
goods packages and low overall aggregate value of these goods. All IDA-financed goods procurement will
be carried out using International and National Shopping (NS) procedures, and Direct Contracting.
International Shopping (IS): Goods such as office equipment, computers, training equipment and
vehicles with each contract below US$100,000 will be procured following IS procedures. The aggregate
value under IS procedures is estimated at US$203,000.
National Shopping (NS): Goods that are small in value and readily available off-the-shelf that are
low in value with each contract below US$6,000 will be procured following NS procedures through the
comparison of three price quotations. The aggregate value of contract under NS is estimated at US$159,000.
Direct Contracting.: The MOH is currently using a data base system that is proprietary in nature
(ORACLE). Under the proposed project, it is agreed that it is convenient and efficient to expand the existing
system by acquiring products and licenses from the same supplier rather than different systems. Direct
Contracting procurement procedures will used for this software. The aggregate value of this package is
estimated at US$57,000.
Consultant Services
Rationale for Selecting the UN agency, UNICEF on a single source basis. The MOH has already
been collaborating with UNICEF on district health care reform. UNICEF established a pilot program in 1996
as part of an attempt to reform the financing and delivery of PHC to ensure access to effective, efficient and
equitable services. The program started in Kuba District and has more recently been expanded to Masalli,
Lenkeran, Celilabad and Neftcala Districts. The evolving model provides a useful basis for an expanded
district-level pilot program which could be supported under the proposed IDA-financed operation. UNICEF
staff have been instrumental in implementing and monitoring these reforms, and are intimately familiar with
both their content and "lessons learned". Furthermore, strong relationships have already been developed
with the initial implementing districts, facilitating communications and clarifying expectations, etc.
UNICEF's participation in the project would provide an additional level of control and accountability, and
would increase confidence that the project resources would be well and appropriately utilized. The UNICEF
program has recently been evaluated by an external team. Overall, the evaluation concluded that there is
enough evidence of success to justify further development, though, especially with more focus on specific
objectives and targets. There are, therefore, very strong grounds for wanting to involve UNICEF in the
implementation of the third component of the proposed project. UNICEF would, therefore, be hired to
provide technical assistance and advise in the area of district level primary health care reform under the
project. The aggregate value of this contract is estimated at about US$2,986,000. This contract amount
includes the cost of medical equipment and goods procured directly from UNICEF stocks estimated at about
US$1,416,000, as well as the procurement of goods not available from UNICEF's stocks which are estimated
at about US$250,000 and which would be procured through national shopping procedures in accordance with
Bank Guidelines.
43



Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS):  For consultant service for the health financing
component of the project, a consultant firm would be hired under the QCBS procedure. The estimated value
of the contract under this method is US$344,000.
Fixed Budget Selection (FBS). For services such as questionnaire preparation and surveys, where
the consultant will be paid on the basis of a predetermined sample size, the FBS method of consultant
selection will be used. The estimated aggregate value of contracts under this method is US$119,000.
Least Cost Selection (LCS). For consultant assignments for auditing, where the activities are well
established, standard and routine, the LCS method will be used. The estimated aggregate value of contracts
under LCS is US$36,000.
Individual Consultants (IC): For consultant services, such as systems analysis, information systems
specialists, health facilities architects, pharmaceutical specialist, monitoring and evaluation specialist,
procurement specialist, training coordinator and PCU staff, individual consultants will be hired to provide
such services. The aggregate value of contracts under IC is estimated at US$688,000.
Training
Several training activities such as study tours, appropriate health care services modeling, orientations
to policy reform, stakeholders seminars, and analysis and development planning will be financed under the
project. The aggregate value of training activities under the project is estimated at US$181,000.
Incremental Operating Costs
The project will finance incremental operating costs of about US$153,000, consisting of
expenditures for office supplies, courier services, postage, telephone, Internet connections, PCU
vehicle maintenance and fuel, and travel and per diem for project supervision. Incremental operating
costs will be procured on the basis of an annual agreed budget.
Bank Prior Review
Bank prior review would be required before final decisions on contract awards are taken on Bank-
financed items for the types of procurement action described below. Prior review for works and goods
contracts would be conducted in accordance with the provisions described in Appendix 1 of the Procurement
Guidelines, and those described under Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines for consultant services and
training- contracts. Based on the capacity assessment, the recommended prior review thresholds are as
follows:
Civil Works - NCB: Below US$100,000 and above US$10,000, prior review all contracts
Civil works - Minor Works (MW): Below US$10,000, prior review all contracts
International shopping (goods): Below US$100,000, prior review - all packages
National shopping (goods): Below US$6,000, prior review 1 st 3 contracts;
Consultant services - firms: US$50,000 and above, prior review - All contracts;
Consultant services - individuals: US$10,000, prior review - 1st five contracts
44



All other contracts, which are not subject to prior review, shall be subject to ex-post review by World
Bank supervision missions. The World Bank missions will review at least one out of every five contracts
which are subject to post review.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementsl
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                ICB             NCB              Other2           N.I.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                                        0.00              0.62               0.02       0.00           0.64
(0.00)           (0.25)             (0.01)     (000)           (0.2)
2. Goods                                        0.00              0.00               0.42       0.00            0.42
(0.00)           (0.00)              (0.39)    (0.00)          (0.39)
3. Services and Training                        0.00              0.00               4.35       0.00           4.35
(0.00)           (0.00)             (4.35)      (0.00)         (4.35)
4. Miscellaneous                                0.00              0.00               0.00       0.10            0.10
(0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)     (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                                        0.00              0.62               4.79       0.10           5.51
l                          ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~(0.00)  (0.25)           (4.5        (.00)          (.0
1/        Figres in arenthesis are the amounts to be financed b IDA. All costs include contingencies.
2/       Includes minor works, goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting services, services contracted with
UNICEF, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operatin costs related to managin the roect.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                           Selection    Method
Services
Expenditure       QCBS           SS         FBS         LCS           IC         Other        N.I.F.     Total
Category                    (UNICEF)2                                                                   Cost1
A. Firms                0.34           2.99     0.12         0.04         0.00          0.00      0.00         3.49
<0 0 0  1    ~(0-34)       (2.99)   (0.12)1       (0.04)       (0.00)       (0-00)     (0-00)1      (3-49)
B. Individuals          0.00          0.00      0.00         0.00         0.68         0.00       0.00         0.68
_  (0.00)        (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.68)       (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.68)
C. TrainIng3            0.00          0.00      0.00         0.00         0.00         0.18       0.00         0.18
(0.00)        (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.18)     (0.00)       (018
Total         0.34          2.99      0.12         0.04         0.68         0.18       0.00         4.35
._____________  (0.34)        (2.99)    (0.12)       (0.04)       (0.68)       (0.18)     (0.00)       4.35
I \ Including contingencies
2\ UNICEF contract amount includes the cost of medical equipment and goods (about US$1.4 million procured from UNICEF stocks and US$0.25
million not available from UNICEF stocks procured through national shopping).
3\ Study tours, seminars, workshops.
Note:     QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SS = Single Source Selection
IC = Individual Consultants
FBS = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
Other = Training
N.l.F. = Not IDA-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA.
45



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$ thousands)              Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works
Small works                             <100,000                   NCB
and >I0,000                                       0.62
Minor works                              <I0,000                   MW                     0.02
2. Goods
Intemational shopping                   <100,000                    IS                    0.20
National shopping                        <6,000                    NS                     0.02
3. Services
Consultant services (firms)              >50,000               QCBS, FB, LC               3.37
Consultant services (individuals)        <I0,000                    IC                    0.68
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  4 .9 1
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$4.91 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
46



Table B1: Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods and Schedules
DETAILED PROQUREMENT
PLAN
21-Apr-01
GOODS, SERVICES AND              Estimated Cost     Method of Procurement    Number of         Schedule
WORKS                               US$ 000                                    Contracts
Procurement   Short list      Issue RFP      Receipt of    Technical      Financial    Negotiations
Notice       prepared                     proposals    evaluation     evaluation    and contract
Works
Training Centers and Warehouses       23                 Minor Works           5 contracts       Sep-01        Oct-01         Oct-01        Jan-01        1-Nov-01      1-Nov-01        Dec-01
District facilities                   618                    NCB               10 contracts      Sep-01         N/A           Oct-01         Jan-01       I -Nov-01    I-Nov-01        Dec-0 1
Goods
Vehicle                                34            Intemational Shopping      I contract        N/A         2-Jul-01      mid July 01     1-Aug-01        N/A         2-Aug-01        Sep-01
Basic Office Fumiture for PCU          6               National Shopping        I contract        N/A         2-Jul-01      mid July 01     1-Aug-01        N/A         2-Aug-01        Sep-01
Basic PCs for PCU and MIS             168            Intemational Shopping     2 contracts        N/A         2-Jul41       mid July 01     1-Aug-01        N/A         2-Aug-01        Sep-01
Audio/Visual Equipment or              I             International Shopping     I contract        N/A         2-Jul-01      mid July 01     1-Aug-01        N/A         2-Aug-01        Sep-01
Training Center and PCU                                                                                                  I
Oracle License                        57               Direct Contracting       I contract        N/A           N/A         mid July 01     1-Aug-01        N/A         2-Aug-01        Sep-01
CONSULTING SERVICES
UNICEF                               2,986                    SS                I contract      Mar-0 1        Mar-01      mid Mar 2001     Apr-01         Apr-01        Apr-01         Jul-0 1
Health Financing                      344                   QCBS                I contract     end Nov01    Mar 15 2002    Mar 19 2002      Apr-02        May-02         May-02         Jul-02
Audit                                  36                    LCS                I contract      May-01         Apr-01         Apr-01      mid May 01        N/A          I-Jun-01      I-Ju1l-1
MIS Consultants                        70            Individual Consultants    2 contracts        To be arranged as needed throughout implementation
Pharmaceutical                         80            Individual Consultants    2 contracts        To be arranged as needed throughout implementation
Monitoring and Evaluation             178            Individual Consultants    2 contracts        To be arranged as needed throughout implementation
PCU Consultants                       350            Individual Consultants    9 contracts        To be arranged as needed throughout implementation
Baseline and Impact Evaluation        119                    FBS               2 contracts        To be arranged as needed throughout implementation
Surveys
TRAINING
Training                              181                                                                                l
Incremental Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                       1
Administrative Supplies &             153              National Shopping           NA             To be arranged as needed throughout implementation
Communications
Counterpart Contribution: Not         109
IDA Finance                          553                                                                                                  l
47



Section 1: Capacity of Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements:
Brief Statement
The overall responsibility for project management and coordination rest with the PCU within the MOH. The PCU will be supported by Technical Assistance consisting of a full time Procurement
Specialist, a short-term Procurement Specialist, and a Financial Management Specialist. The PCU Procurement Specialist is currently receiving on-the-job training working along with the
procurement staff of other PCUs working on World Bank projects in Baku.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper Status. A CPAR for    Are the bidding documents for the first year ready by negotiations.
Azerbaijan has not been done.                                                                  Yes[] No [X]
MOH-UNICEF contract has been prepared.
Section 2: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: 9/2001
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice:   05J30/2001
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes. For consultant services
Domestic Preference for Goods: No
Retroactive financing: No
Advance Procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. Apart from the MOH-UNICEF contract,
no packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The PCU will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by Bank's supervision missions. The
Procurement Plan will be updated annually. Procurement information will be recorded by the PCU and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information
will include: revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts, as
well as compliance with aggregate limits (within 15%) on specific methods of procurement. A Management Information System (MIS), with a procurement module, will help the PCU monitor all
procurement information.
Co-financing: No.
Section 3: Procurement Staffing
Indicate the name of Procurement staff or Bank's part of the Task Team responsible for the procurement In the Project:
Rame: Leonardo M. Concepci6n (ECSHD)    Ext: 32859
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
There is no procurement capacity at the Bank Office in Baku. The PCU will complement its procurement capacity by hiring a part-time foreign TA procurement Specialist as needed. The
Procurement Officer will receive a four-week intensive procurement training at the Intemational Law Institute in Washington, D.C. in September 2001.
48



Disbursement
The proceeds of the Credit (SDR 4.0 million) would be lent to the Azerbaijan Republic. The
proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines in the "Disbursement
Handbook". The project has been designed to be carried out over a period of three years, and the project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 2004. A period of six months would be allowed to complete
disbursements, with the Credit Closing Date of December 31, 2004. This would be the final date for
presentation of requests for approval or authorization to disburse on project components. The percent of
expenditures for goods, works and consulting services to be financed under the Credit is given in Annex 6,
Table C below.
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$ million            Financing Percentage (IDA)
Civil Works                                0.20            40%
Goods                                      0.25             100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
Consultant Services and Training           1.19             100%
UNICEF Agreement                           3.00             100%
Incremental Operating Costs                0.10            80%
Unallocated                                0.26
Total                                      5.00
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA, and managed by the PCU of the MOH. The Authorized Allocation would be equivalent
to about four months' expenditures, or about US$150,000. However, the Initial Deposit would be limited to
an amount equivalent to US$75,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus
the total of all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA, shall be equal to or exceeds SDR 1.0
million equivalent. The MOH would comply with the Disbursement Handbook, including:
(i) Payments out of the Special Account would cover eligible expenditures under the Project, and the MOH
would reimburse the Special Account for any ineligible expenditures; and
(ii) Replenishments of the Special Account would be made at least on a quarterly basis, or whenever the
balance reaches less than one-third of the Authorized Allocation.
UNICEF would not open any Special Account but would instead receive funds directly from IDA into its HQ
account in New York.
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
Disbursement would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for expenditures under
contracts less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods, US$100,000 equivalent for works, US$50,000
equivalent for the services of consulting firms, US$10,000 for the services of individual consultants, and
studies, training and operating costs. Detailed documents evidencing expenditures will be reviewed and kept
by the PCU and made available for the required audit as well to World Bank supervision missions.
I Eligible expenditures include office supplies, courier services, postage, telephone, Internet connections, PCU vehicle maintenance and fuel, and
travel and per diem for project supervision. The remaining incremental operating costs of the PCU such as rent, utilities, VAT, and others would be
the responsibility of the Government.
49



Table D: Schedule of Disbursements
Semester Ending:                                Disbursements
Semester Amount    Cumulative Disbursement      Cumulative
(US$ million)         (US$ million)          Disbursement
Percentage
December 31, 2001                    0.6                    0.6                    12
June 30, 2002                        0.2                    0.8                    16
December 31, 2002                    0.8                    1.6                    32
June 30, 2003                        1.8                    3.4                    68
December 31, 2003                    0.6                    4.0                    80
June 30, 2004                        0.5                    4.5                    90
December 31, 2004                    0.5                    5.0                    100
Total                                5.0                    5.0                    100
The following is an estimated schedule of the counterpart funds needed for the Government's
contribution to the financing of the project.
Table E: Estimated Schedule of Government Counterpart Funds
Semester Ending:                                Disbursements
Semester Amount    Cumulative Disbursement     Cumulative
(US$ million)          (US$ million)        Disbursement
Percentage
December 31, 2001                     0.04                    0.04                 8%
June 30, 2002                         0.18                    0.22                 42%
December 31_ 2002                     0.19                    0.41                 79%
June 30,_2003                         0.05                    0.46                 88%
December 31_ 2003                     0.03                    0.49                 94%
June 30, 2004                         0.02                    0.51                 98%
December 31_ 2004                     0.01                    0.52                100%
Total                                 0.52                    0.52                100%
50



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              10/06/00              10/06/00
Appraisal/Negotiations mission departure         04/23/01              04/23/01
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/31/01
Prepared by: Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance: World Health Organization, UNICEF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Michael Mills                              Program Team Leader, ECSHD
Daniel Miller                              Health Specialist, HDNHE
Rasul Bagirov                              Human Development Officer, ECSHD
Dominic Haazen                             Financial Management Specialist, ECSHD
Antonio Lim                                Operations Officer, ECSHD
Leonardo Concepcion                        Senior Implementation Specialist, ECSHD
Carmen Laurente                            Program Assistant, ECSHD
Dilek Barlas                               Sr. Counsel, LEGOP
Jonathan Pavluk                            Sr. Counsel, LEGOP
Hannah Koilpillai                          Disbursement Officer, LOAEL
Armin Fidler                               Sector Leader, ECSHD
Annette Dixon                              Sector Director, ECSHD
51



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
1. Project Concept Document*
2. Reports:*
J. Holley    Consultancy Report on Development of the Proposed Health Project
I. Sheyman    Consultancy Report on Development of Health Financing Component
F. Stobbelaar  Consultancy Report on Pharmaceuticals in Azerbaijan
PCU          Operational Manual
*Including electronic files.
52



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
Status of Bank Group Operations in Azerbaijan (Operations Portfolio)
As ot Date 03/13/2001
Closed Projects       3
IBRDIDA *
Total Osbursed (Acbve)        86.50
a which has been repaid   0.00
Total Dsbursed (Closed)        149.00
of which has been repaid  0.00
Total Dsbursed (Active + Closed)  235.44
of wnich has been repaid  0.00
Total Undisbursed (Active)     134.15
Total Undisbursed (CAosed)     7.06
Total Undisbursed (Active + Cosed)    141.21
Active Proiects
Last PSR
Supervision Rating                                             Oribinal Amount In USS Millions
Project ID                    ProJec Name                 Development   Implementation       Fiscal Year             IBRD                IDA          GRANT             Cancel.
Oblectives       Proaress
P035813                       AGRIC DEVT & CREDIT   S                           S               1999                     0               30                0                 0
P008288                       BAKU WS                  S                        S               1995                     0               61                0                 0
P058969                       CULT HERITAGE PRSV   S                            S              1999                      0               7.5               0                 0
P057959                       EDUC REF                 S                        S               1999                     0                 5               0                 0
P040544                       FARM PRIV                S                        S              1997                      0              14.7               0                 0
P008287                       GAS REHAB                S                        S               1997                     0              20.2               0                 0
P008283                       IBTA                     S                        S              1996                      0                18               0               0.2
P008284                       IRRIG/DRAINAGE REHAB S                            S              2000                      0               42                0                 0
P035770                       PILOT RECON              S                        S              1999                      0               20                0                 0
P055155                       URG ENV INVST            S                        S               1998                     0               20                0                 0
Overall result                                                                                 Result                    0             238.4               0               0.2
53



Azerbaijan
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 11/30/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company         Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1999 Amnoco Caspian    31.52     0     0 12.99  31.52       0     0 12.99
1998 Azerb. JV Bank       0      1     0     0       0      1     0     0
1997/98     Baku Coca Cola    5.25       0     0     0   5.25      0      0     0
1999 Baku Hotel        17.5      0     0     0   17.5       0     0     0
1999 Early Oil Fin    14.82      0     0  6.11  14.82       0     0  6.11
1999 Lukoil Overseas   18.53     0     0  7.64  18.53       0     0  7.64
1998 SEF Azdemiryol    0.04      0     0     0   0.04       0     0     0
1998 SEF Azerigaz      0.24      0     0     0   0.24       0     0     0
1998 SEF Rabitabank    0.25      0     0     0   0.25       0     0     0
1999 Turkish Petrol   12.51      0     0  5.16  12.51       0     0  5.16
1999 Unocal Chirag    18.62      0     0  7.68  18.62       0     0  7.68
Total Portfolio:      119.28     1      0 39.58 119.28      1     0 39.58
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2001 AzerJV Increase      0    60      0      0
Total Pending Commnitment:      0    60      0     0
54



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
Azerbaijan at a glance                                                               9/1V2000
Europ S&
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Contral     Low-
Azerbaian      Asia  incme        Development diamond'
1S999
Population. mid-yet (mffias)                           8.0       475      2417                   ife expectancy
GNP peW Catta AlAs meo#o  US$)                         460    2t150        410
GNP (ANias" mehd. USSS bUas)                           3.7      1,022      988
Averoe annual  owth, 189349
Populaton(%)                                           1.0        0.1       1.9
Labor WM fote %   ..2                                             0.6       2.3     GNP                              Gross
per       F    _               primary
Most reeat netirate (blast yer mlihle 199349)                                       capita                       enrolment
Poty % ofpptdaton boebw natfonal povety llneJ)          es
Urban popultion (ofotal                                 Stpulstn)  51  67   3l1
ife expectancy at birth (YeAs)                          72        69        80
InIant mcrtalty(per 1O e/A. blths)                      17        22        77
Ctn  maiutfion N    of children under 5)                10         8        43                 Access to safe water
Access to IMroed water sourCe (% of populaton)        -4 ..                 64
Illiteracy % ntpopufbbn age 15+)                         0         3        39
Grosspriary enrolment 0% otocl9Age popuaon)            106       100         6              -    Azerbalan
iaie                                                 108       101       102              -Low-income group
Femaie -                                             105        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
195 1989       1998      1989
Economic ratios
'3O1P  SSbii ti)                                ..      ..        42        4.0
Gross domestic InvemenGOP                       .        ..      45.8      39,6                      Trade
E*rt1 of goods and serviceGDP             ,     .        ..      24.1      338
Gross domesic savingsGOP                        ..      ..       12.0      22.
Gross nation  savinGDP                          ..      ..        8.1.     10.3
Cnuent account baanceGDP                        ..       .       37.7      27.Domes 
Total deb(GDP                                                    12.8,     14.7     Savings
Toal debt tv spot                               ..      .. e.8              3.9
Present value of debtGDP                        ,,      ,        13.0
Present value of debtexwport                   ..       ..       51.8
Indebtedness
197949  198949      1898       1999  199903
(average nnualromwh)
GOP                                   ..      3.2    t0.0         74         ,AzetBjan
GFP per capita                        ..      -.4      6.7       4.6.        ..                    Low-income group
Exoftsofgoodsandesvkes                ..    11.1    .11.2        87.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     198s      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          75
Agriculture                                    ..       ..       21.4      23.3
-Industry                                       ..       ..      42.6      35.4    50..
Manufactudng                                 ..        ..      10.4       5.5    25
Services                                       ..       ..       36.0      41.3      o
Pdvate consumption                             ..       ..       77.2      65.5   .*.    94 6m-90                97    9 -
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..       10.9      11.7                    GDI       S  GDP
ImportS of goods and servies                   ..       ..       58.0      50.6
1979489  1989499      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (#)
(aveage annual growfhJ
Agriculture                                    ..      2.3        6.2      24.0 o
Industry                                       ..      3.9       14.8       3.1
Manufactudng                                 ..   -30.2       -20.7     -34.5    40
Services                                        ..     3.1        7.9       3.3
Prdvate consumption                            ..    -0.7        21.0     -14.4            94                97
General govemment consumpton                   ..      4.9        0.4       8.4
Gross domestc investment                       ..    26.0        20.4     -11.9    40
Imports of goods and servies                    ..    16.3       21.A     .17.3                  Expofls   ciriports
Gross naftonal product                         ..      0.5        7.7      -2.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with ts Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
55



Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflabon (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer pnces                                                     -0.8      -8.9     400
Implicit GDP deflator                                              -6.9      -5.1    2D00.                           _
Government rinance                                                                      0v
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o      Q4   rr    "       7    O
Current revenue                                                    17.0      19.8    -200-
Current budget balance                                             -2.8      -2.1               - GDP deflator        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -4.8      -7.0
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1199       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                                 678     1,025     2,000
Crude oil from new fields                                         133       383
Petroleum products                                                393       321     1,5D0
Manufactures                                                       56       239
Total imports (cif)                                               1,793     1,476     1.0*0
Food                                                              175       208       SW
Fuel and energy                                                    28        21
Capital goods                                                     791       627        o
93  94   95   95   97   go   99
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..        120        79
Importprceindex(1995=100)                                           100        96                 aExports      *tiWorts
Termns of trade (1995=100)                                          120        83
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                     1,010     1,282      o
Imports of goods and services                                     2,425     1,919          93
Resource balance                                                 -1,415      -636.   .10
Net income                                                         -203      -526
Net current transfers                                                40        56    -20
Current account balance                                          -1,578    -1.106    |30
Financing iems (net)                                              1,505     1,246
Changes in net reserves                                              74      -139    -40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                    ..        623       546
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                           ..   3,869.0   4,118.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                         Compositton of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                526       587
IBRD                                                               0          0                      10    4
IDA                                                               160       199                  27
Total debt service                                             '    92         51                   1       9
IBRD                                           .         ..         0         0                                     9a9
IDA                                                                I         I
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                    29
Official creditors                                                -17        54
Private creditors                                                   5        -4
Foreign direct investment                                       1,083       373
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0                   251
World Bank program
Commitments                                                       40        60      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  '              '   45        61      B - IDA    D - Other mulliateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                                0         0     C - IMF                      G - Short-tern,
Net flows                                                         45        61
Interest payments                                                   1         1
Net transfers                                                      44       60
Development Economics
56



Annex 11: District Selection
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
There are 67 districts in Azerbaijan. Twenty are occupied by Armenian forces and, therefore, are not
accessible to the World Bank project. Four districts have undergone some level of PHC reform under the
UNICEF pilot projects (Massali, Celilibad, Lenkeran, Kuba) and were deemed ineligible for the World Bank
supported project. In discussions with the MOH, it was decided that there were sufficient resources to
implement a PHC reform project (modified from the UNICEF pilot model/approach) in five new districts. A
high priority for MOH was that all regions of the country have representation in the project. Therefore, the
country was divided into five zones (northeast, northwest, central, southeast and southwest), and it was
decided that one district would be selected from each zone with selection of one comparison, non-
intervention district from each zone as well.
UNICEF identified that a key predictor of success in its pilot projects was the readiness and
willingness of key health leaders in the districts to undergo reform. In discussions with MOH, fifteen
potential districts were identified from throughout the country that subjectively appeared open to primary
health care reform and, therefore, were considered to be good candidates for the project.
The fifteen candidate districts were assessed by the Task Force on fifteen health or health services
variables: Infant Mortality Rate (IMR); Cardiovascular Disease Mortality Rate; Total Population; Number of
Intemally Displaced Persons (IDPs); Poverty Level; Distance from Baku by car; Matemal Mortality Rate;
hifectious Disease Mortality Rate; Number of Vaccine-Preventable Disease cases in 1999; Number of
Doctors per 10,000 Population; Number of Mid-level Health personnel per 10,000 population; Proposed
Govemment Health Budget per capita for 1999; and Actual Government Health Budget per capita for 1999.
After some discussion, the Poverty Level was abandoned as an assessment variable because it was discovered
that district-specific data on poverty levels did not exist. The data assessment was synthesized and discussed
by the Task Force and consensus was reached on the districts to be selected for interventions and for
comparisons.
Justification for Districts Selected
The two candidate districts in the northwest zone were similar on most variables. However, Samkir
was selected because it has twice the population of the other district, twice as many IDPs, higher numbers
and rates of TB, twice higher rates of CVD incidence, and had an outbreak of measles (vaccine preventable)
in 1999. The comparison district would be Qazax. The three candidate districts in the northeast zone were
similar on most variables. However, Xacmaz was selected because it has twice the population of the other
districts and had higher numbers of TB cases. The comparison district would be Qusar. The four candidate
districts in the southeast zone were similar on most variables. However, Salyan was selected because it has
much higher rates of infectious disease death rates and CVD incidence rates, as well as was in greater need of
rationalization of services with higher ratios of doctors and mid-level personnel per 10,000 population. The
comparison district would be Sabirabad. The two candidate districts in the central zone were similar on most
variables. However, Goycay was selected because it has much higher infectious disease mortality rates
compared to the other candidate districts in the zone, much higher CVD incidence rates, much higher rates of
TB, and higher ratios of doctors to 10,000 population. The comparison district would be Kurdemir. There
was very little data for the variables to compare candidate districts in the southwest zone. Therefore, Sarur
was selected because it had a larger population. The comparison district would be Babek.
57



Azeri Indicators by District                                                                                                          =
Xacmaz*    Qusar       Devici     Quba      Qazax*    Samkir*  Sabirabad  Celilibad
IMR (1999, per 1,000 live births)                           16.7       32.1       14.3       19.1       17.6       16.8       13.0      17.1
CVD Mort (1999, per 100,000 popn)                          216.3      274.8      169.2     362.9      536.9        317      313.2      209.9
Total Pop (1999 - non census year)                       144,700     81,500    46,100    137,500     81,200    173,800    137,300    171,000
# IDPs (1999)                                              3,255       563      2,413      2,911      7,124      13,029    23,035       1,445
Poverty Level
Distance from Baku including:
car road (km)                                               157        177        122        167        454        385        176        211
by air (kIn)
Matemal Mort (1999, abs n)                                     I         1          0          1          0          0          0          0
Matemal Mort (1999, per 100,000 live births)                42.7       66.8         0       47.8          0          0          0          0
Inf Dis Mort rate (1999, per 100,000 popn)
(includes inf dis, parasitic)                              20.0       28.2       15.2      22.5        4.9         6.9       5.8        6.4
Inf Dis Incid rate (1999, per 100,000 popn)
(includes inf dis, parasitic)                           2,467.2    3,796.3    1,796.1     937.5    2,039.4    1,880.3      592.1    2,095.3
Dis of the circ syst morb rate                           3,307.5    4,271.2    1,974.0    6,599.3    3,669.9    6,665.1    8,231.6    4,899.4
Vaccine prev cases (1998+1999)          Tuberculosis  112+107   38+39      25+16      90+109    19+19       55+68      78+82      75+82
Pertussis    0+0        0+0        0+0       0+0        0+0        0+0        0+0        0+0
Diphtheria   0+0        0+0        0+0        1+0       0+0        0+0        0+0        0+0
Tetanus      0+0        0+0        0+0        0+0       0+0         0+0       0+0        0+0
Poliomyelitis  0+0      0+0        0+0        0+0       0+0        0+0        0+0        0+0
Measles      0+0        0+0        7+0       4+0        0+0         15+0      0+2        0+2
Doctors per 10,000 popn (1999)                              13.8       15.3       12.4       14.7       32.3       20.4       11.1       14.1
Nurses midwives per 10,000 popn (1999)                      53.6       50.6       44.4       43.4       98.3       70.9       46.4       47.7
Zone                                                           I          I         I          1          2          2          3          3
Proposed budget 1999 per cap                                 6.3        6.3        6.5        6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3
Actual Budget 1999 per cap
(local) ($USD)                                              2.5        4.3        5.6       3.1         7.9        3.2         2        2.1
58



.__________   Masalli   Salyan*   Goycay*    Samaxi   Kurdemir  Sarur*          Babek    National
IMR (1999, per 1,000 live births)                           12.0      15.0       14.6        15.7      17.3       15.8        22.8       16.5
CVD Mort (1999, per 100,000 popn)    .                     370.6     289.5     354.8        344.1     425.9                            315.44
Total Pop (1999 - non census year)                       174,600   112,600   100,900       80,800    92,500    111,614     72,055   7,896,200
# IDPs (1999)                                               526      2,090     2,382        5,946     3,153                           821,909
Poverty Level
Distance from Baku including:
car road (kmn)                                              236        138       253         116        189
by air (km)                                                                                                1418 (Ihour) 418 (Ihour)
Maternal Mort (1999, abs n)                                    0         0          l          0          0                               51
Maternal Mort (1999, per 100,000 live births)                  0         0         0           0          0                              43.4
Inf Dis Mort rate (1999, per 100,000 popn)
(includes infdis, parasitic)                               13.7      39.1       12.9         7.4       5.4                              22.9
Inf Dis Incid rate (1999, per 100,000 popn)
(includes inf dis, parasitic)                             452.5   1,450.3   1,413.3      1,087.9   1,483.2                           2,065.3
Dis of the circ syst morb rate                           2,185.0   9,807.3   9,705.6      3,769.8   4,501.6                           4,582.1
Vaccine prev cases (1998+1999)          Tuberculosis  129+142   70+62      103+86    25+30       34+27                            4,323+4,627
Pertussis    0+0        0+0       0+0        0+0         0+0                              43 +22
Diphtheria   2+0        0+1       0+0        0+0         0+0                             20+6
Tetanus      0+0        0+0       0+0        2+0         0+0                              3+1
Poliomyelitis  0+0      0+0       0+0        2+0         0+0                              0+0
Measles      0+0        0+0       0+0        2+0         0+0                              2,890+1,075
Doctors per 10,000 popn (1999)                              13.1      26.1       20.4        15.8      12.8                              33.7
Nurses midwives per 10,000 popn (1999)                      30.8      68.2       54.6        56.1      61.5                              72.5
Zone                                                           3         3         4           4          4          5          5
Proposed budget 1999 per cap                                 6.3       6.3        6.3         6.3       6.3
Actual Budget 1999 per cap
(local) ($USD)                                              2.5       6.6         6          4.5       2.7        5.21        5.21
59



Annex 12: Monitoring Evaluation Plan
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
Monitoring and evaluation would be of supreme importance to this project for several reasons: (i)
this project is funded as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), and specific questions and issues are to be
tested and answered by the design of the project; (ii) it is the first World Bank funded health project in
Azerbaijan, and it is critical to properly measure the progress and success of the project in order to assess the
degree to which client capacity has been strengthened; (iii) the project represents initial efforts on the part of
the Government in health care reform, and it is important to measure the impact of the initial reforms to know
whether the strategies are successful or not, to refine the reform strategies, and to build support and
momentum for expanded health reform in the country; and (iv) project resources should always be properly
and cost-effectively utilised.
The Justification for the Selected Targets for the Evaluation Indicators
(i) The number of patients seen at reformed PHC facilities would increase by 40 percent. The
baseline status was assessed by direct observation and interviews during field visits to unreformed districts.
Consistently, medical providers reported seeing approximately 100 patient-visits per month per doctor in the
facilities. However, an interview- and observational-based survey of PHC clinics performed by IMC/Curatio
International in 2000 in districts in southern Azerbaijan documented very low utilization of services in clinics
ranging on average from 32 to 52 patient-visits per doctor per month. Similarly, a household survey
performed by IMC/Curatio revealed that the utilization of outpatient services in public facilities was very low
among those members of the household who were the last ones to become ill during the previous three
months (0.045 visits per person per month) despite the fact that 67 percent of the illnesses were considered
by the patient to be moderate or severe. The target of a 40 percent increase in patient utilization was
considered to be a realistic and achievable objective.
(ii) The proportion of infants in the population that receive immunization (DTP3) on time would
increase 20 percent. The baseline status was assessed from the Government of Azerbaijan's application for
GAVI funds which reported a national weighted estimate of DTP3 on time coverage to be 67.8 to 77.0
percent. The target of a 20 percent increase in DPT3 coverage by one year of age is consistent with the
Government's plan and the objectives set by GAVI in approving the Government's application.
(iii) The proportion of pregnant women in the population who have at least six prenatal visits would
increase by 30 percent. A household survey performed by IMC/Curatio in southern Azerbaijan revealed that
only 41.1 percent of pregnant women received any antenatal care. WHO guidelines for safe motherhood
suggest -a minimum of four prenatal visits during pregnancy with entry into care -as early as possible in the
gestation. The target of a 30 percent increase in the proportion of pregnant women in the population who
receive at least six prenatal visits was considered to be a realistic and achievable objective. The target of six
prenatal visits rather than four visits was selected based on the fact that stillbirth rates are high (13 percent in
rural areas, 9 percent average all areas combined) indicating lack of access to and/or low quality antenatal
services.
(iv) The proportion of adult patients seen in the reformed PHC facilities for whom a blood pressure is
recorded in the patients' medical records would increase by 50 percent. The baseline status was assessed by
direct observation and interviews during field visits to unreformed districts. Review of medical records
during field visits consistently revealed large deficits in record-keeping and medical documentation. Rarely
was a blood pressure recorded in the medical records. The target of increasing by 50 percent the proportion
of adult patients seen in the reformed PHC facilities for who a blood pressure is recorded in the patients'
medical records was selected as an aggressive attempt to introduce the opportunity to screen for and detect
hypertension.
60



(v) The proportion of outpatients seen in the reformed PHC facilities who receive antibiotics by
means of injection would decrease 50 percent. The baseline assessment was performed by an international
pharmaceutical consultant who performed interviews and observational field visits. His assessment was that
there was a " high number of prescribed products per visit, overuse and irrational prescribing of antibiotics,
and the completely outdated overuse of injections." The target of decreasing administration of antibiotics by
injection by 50 percent was selected as an aggressive objective reflecting a strong emphasis on training and
monitoring in the project related to rational drug use and consistent with global public health concerns about
injection safety and about emergence of drug resistant microbes.
(vi) The per capita number of hospital and polyclinic beds would decrease by 25 percent. In 1998,
there were 8.4 hospital beds per 1,000 population in Azerbaijan and is higher than other countries that have
greater resources to spend on care (e.g., 7.8/1000 or lower in Westem Europe). The target of decreasing by
25 percent the per capita number of hospital and polyclinic beds was considered to be a realistic and
achievable objective.
(vii) Patient satisfaction with access and quality of care provided in the reformed PHC facilities
would increase by 20 percent. A household survey performed by IMC/Curatio in southern Azerbaijan
revealed that 69 percent of the survey respondents were satisfied with the treatment they had received in
outpatient public facilities. However, somewhat paradoxically, 86 percent of respondents cited factors such
as "convenient and unimpeded availability of medications, improved quality of health services, convenient
and unimpeded access to health services, upgraded professionalism of providers, and upgraded equipment at
the facilities" would determine their willingness to participate in health insurance. Therefore, it is not clear
what actually is the level of patient satisfaction with access and quality of care. Patient satisfaction will be
assessed among users as well as non-users of health clinics at baseline by clinic user surveys and by
population-based household surveys. A target of increasing patient satisfaction by 20 percent was considered
to be a realistic and achievable objective.
Proiect Monitoring
UNICEF would be responsible for monitoring the day-to-day and month-to-month progress of the
implementation of the component, with routine quarterly reports to the PCU in an agreed format. Monitoring
indicators would be finalized before loan negotiations and would include (but not be limited to): RDF
accounting, drug supply monitoring, number of prescriptions per clinic visit, number of drugs administered
by injection, height/weight recorded for children <5 years for all visits, number of prenatal visits per
pregnancy, proportion of deliveries at home, pregnancy month of entry into prenatal care, number of children
breastfeeding at discharge from hospital, number of children exclusively breast feeding at age four months,
proportion of active pulmonary TB cases confirmed by sputum smear, proportion of active pulmonary TB
cases that complete treatment or were cured, proportion of children <1 year that receive DTP3, proportion of
children that receive measles vaccination at age 1 year, proportion of malaria cases microscopically
confirmed, birth-weight recorded in newborns, number of abortions performed, total number of births,
proportion of reproductive age women using contraception, number of maternal post-partum infections,
prevalence of ARI and diarrheal illness in children <5 years, mortality rate in children <5 years, cold chain
status, etc.
Project Evaluation
This project is designed to provide direct material support and substantive training to five districts
(Goycay, Salyan, Samkir, Sarur, and Xacmaz). In order to better evaluate the project, five additional districts
have been selected (Qusar, Qazax, Sabirabad, Kurdemir, and Babek), matched by region, to serve as
comparisons. In the control districts, there would be data collection on key project indicators, but there
would be no other investments supported by the project. Selection of the intervention and comparison
61



districts was based on qualitative information from key informants, as well as on objective and measurable
criteria that were developed jointly by UNICEF, the MOH, and the World Bank.
As a LIL, the project would assess several key questions related to Component 2: (i) Can the
availability of medications in or near clinics and the provision of basic lab/medical equipment significantly
increase patient utilization of primary care services especially among children?; (ii) Is a revolving drug fund
sustainable under the specific circumstances set in this project?; (iii) Does retraining of specialist physicians
in limited topics related to primary health care improve their knowledge and their use of that knowledge in
clinical practice?; (iv) Does ongoing, on-site in-service training and clinical facilitation improve uptake of
new approaches and knowledge in clinical practice?; (v) Do integrated approaches to providing clinical
services at the primary health care level improve the quality of care?; (vi) Does training in rational drug use
with clinical facilitation actually change physician prescribing habits?; and (vii) Does provision of integratecl
primary health care services improved patient satisfaction with access and quality of care?
The indicators for evaluating and project objectives for Component 2 were developed by the Task
Force and include: (i)the number of patients seen at reformed PHC facilities would increase by 40%; (ii) the
proportion of infants in the population that receive immunization (DTP3) on time would increase by 20%;
(iii) the proportion of pregnant women in the population who have at least six prenatal visits would increase
by 30%; (iv) the proportion of adult patients seen in the reformed PHC facilities for who a blood pressure is
recorded in the patients' medical records would increase by 50%; (v) the proportion of outpatients seen in the
reformed PHC facilities who receive antibiotics by means of injection would decrease 50%; (vi) the per
capita number of hospital and polyclinic beds would decrease by 25%; and (vii) patient satisfaction with
access and quality of care provided in the reformed PHC facilities would increase by 20%.
Baseline and end-of-project data would be collected for the key project indicators using four
methods: routine project monitoring, household surveys, clinic user surveys, and observational studies.
______________________________    ________    _       T   Evaluation   M ethod
Indicator                 Project      Household    Clinic User    Observational
Monitoring      Survey         Survey           Study
# patients seen                           +             +                              +
DTP3 on time                              +             +                              +
# prenatal visits                         +             +
BP recorded                               +                                            +
Injected antibiotics                      +             +                              +
Per capita hospital or polyclinic beds    +
Patient satisfaction                                    +              +
The evaluation of Component 2 would be the responsibility of the MOH. Intemational technical
assistance would be required to design and supervise a series of household surveys, clinic user surveys, and
observational studies (of clinic operations and physician practices) at baseline and at the end of the project in
both the intervention districts and the comparison districts to assess impact and outcomes attributable to the
project. Local consultants would be used to implement the surveys and studies, and to collect the data for
project evaluation. Results from the household surveys can also be used to validate other sources of data by
comparing to similar information collected through official reporting sources.
Household surveys and clinic user surveys would be based on statistically valid, random samples
(probably multi-stage cluster design) using a pooled sample from the intervention districts to compare to a
pooled sample from the comparison districts. Clinical practice observation studies would consist of on-site
interviews of facility staff and observations of clinical services and practices in intervention and comparison
districts. Factors to be assessed include (but are not limited to): medical equipment available, status of cold
62



chain, clinical in-service training obtained, review of sample of medical/immunization/child growth records
for completeness and quality, availability of patient education materials, selected practice behaviors (e.g.,
injection safety), etc.
A Summary Schema for the Evaluation of Component 2
Intervention Districts                            Comparison Districts
Baseline                                              _
Household survey                                       Household survey
--multistage cluster design                            -multistage cluster design
Clinical practice observation study                   Clinical practice observation study
--in specific PHC facilities targeted to receive      --in random sample of polyclinics
refurbishment, equipment, and training
Clinical practice observation study
--in random sample of polyclinics that staff would receive
training but no refurbishment, equipment, or clinical
facilitators
Clinic User Survey                                    Clinic User Survey
--in specific PHC facilities targeted to receive      --in random sample of polyclinics
refurbishment, equipment, and training
Clinic User Survey
--in random sample of polyclinics that staff would receive
training but no refurbishment, equipment, or clinical
facilitators
End of Project
Household survey                                      Household survey
--multistage cluster design                           --multistage cluster design
Clinical practice observation study                   Clinical practice observation study
-- in specific PHC facilities that received refurbishment,   --in random sample of polyclinics
equipment, and training
Clinical practice observation study
--in random sample of polyclinics that staff received
training but no refurbishment, equipment, or clinical
facilitators
Clinic User Survey                                    Clinic User Survey
--in specific PHC facilities that received refurbishment,   -in random sample of polyclinics
equipment, and training
Clinic User Survey
--in random sample of polyclinics that staff received
training but no refurbishment, equipment, or clinical
facilitators
63



Considerable in-service training in critical clinical areas of primary care would be provided through
the project. Evaluation of this training would include initial pre-testing of participants to ascertain the depth
and appropriateness of their knowledge of clinical procedures, particularly those to be reviewed and up-
graded during the life of the project. As a standard training intervention, a post-test would also be given.
Perhaps more important would be the direct monitoring and on-the-job training to be provided by the Clinical
Facilitators to insure that this training is adopted into practice by all clinical staff. One of the important
functions of the Clinical Facilitators would be to evaluate the results of this effort. In addition, baseline and
end-of-project assessments would be made of clinical practice through direct observation studies and patient
satisfaction surveys.
Both the PCU and the UNICEF teams include administrative personnel trained in World Bank-
approved procurement methods and financial reporting. At the same time, both teams would be monitored
and supported by World Bank procurement and financial experts provided specifically for this purpose. To
ensure the proper use of resources, and fortify the technical capabilities of the project, the UNICEF team
would also be staffed by a Field Monitor who would spend most of his/her time in the pilot districts,
specifically monitoring and adjusting the implementation of the reform interventions. He/she would report to
an Assistant Project Officer who would also actively participate in field monitoring, as well as be responsible
for much of the actual report writing and evaluation of project activities.
Finally all the standard reports would be provided. These include quarterly reports to the World
Bank from both UNICEF and the PCU, and also end-of-project reports. These standard reports would be
supplemented by reports by individual consultants, including the UNICEF health reform advisor; and the
reports of World Bank supervision missions.
Finally, the project would also be subject to periodic financial audits.
64



Annex 13: Proposed Organization Structure
AZERBAIJAN: HEALTH REFORM
Ministry of Health
Vice Minister
...................................... .......................................................
Steering Committee
MOH, WHO, NGOs.
etc.
.  Technical advise
Project Coordination Unit
Director, Finance, Procurement
Project Coordination
and Evaluation
UNI 1UNICEF                                     CHIEF DOCTORS
Contractor
*  Coordinates with Pilot                            (5 Pilot District)
District
65






.  44t   4 Tbjbal   40  t _     \       ; I                         ; ~~~~~~~~~~~T. kesken6                                                                                             IBRD 31 286
-E O R G I A                      ;9,to4-RUSSIAN                                                       ;     l  
~~~ _. IoTbrlssx>   ~~-i~J   i < ' rX   FEDERAT10N                   , ~~AZERBAIJAN
r -'t '_,='',t'\t;_,4 S'~~1\<'% 97<> ~ 7H7- ; 0HEAlTH REFORM PROJECT
0>-Rk-   t     +         Z       9          )GiTAF                SAKI  =2                                                                                                       ,t J-Fg PIO MWSMCT5
i   aW<  t;  --E<RN:t1N434~~~~~~~~S.k                                                      IUBiARR
0~~~~~~~~~OU Sh                                                                                        -   -- \-.|-- i- - -AHadbW':t\'i+__i.s
Z  A R M E N I A   , $, t K al b   'S X                       <                                 f     +       j   F                                                                          4k -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
XegCHyA 0            SECTlb  I ,,Q  ! USAEDERATIEN 
<   1-  d i        w                          )    ~  ~ ~ ~ ~              >         V9 -' g 0  ttti                             stp-_" T. Z
ndnoeIf tnstn*ToJM V Ef<i'<....... d,/                                                                                       ....- GERIA = X ea1 
on~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A -h -ga -1tu                                                                                               INERAIOA BOUNDARIES o
45  Ab                        41                 a          4d                8i-   /.!1   FJRIXf f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 81RO   I0 BA   -     EPS  A     ARAE   REPI     IRl \2



