Report No. PID9643
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Health Reform (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Population; Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       AZPE69293
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Mr. Azer Maharramov
Ministry of Health
4 Kicik Daniz Street
370014, Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Mr. Azer Maharammov
Tel: 994-12-936055
Email: medis@medis.baku.az
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 23, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 17, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 6, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The World Bank Economic Report on Azerbaijan in 1993 was entitled From
Crisis to Sustained Growth. Since then Azerbaijan has overcome both
political and economic crises, and has committed itself to a financial and
structural reform program. While the overall picture is that of a
macro-economic success story in a transition economy, a deeper analysis
reveals that the economic progress has been uneven and that major social
problems persist. Public expenditures have borne the brunt of fiscal
adjustment following the adoption of a tight fiscal policy stance since
early 1995, and have declined by about one third in revenues in relation
to GDP since 1992.The World Bank has not carried out a full review of the
health sector, but a short concept paper was written in 1997 and the
main issues facing the sector have also been reviewed in the context of
various macroeconomic missions and the 1996 poverty assessment. In
summary, the main sector issues include: (a) The health status of the
population and especially the poor. Azerbaijan experienced a worsening of
the health status of its people in the period immediately following
independence from the former Soviet Union, as a result of the economic
difficulties of transition and also the war with Armenia (nearly 20
percent of the country's population is still internally displaced or a
refugee). Since about 1995, many of the national health status statistics
are reported to have improved and are now at the same levels as at
independence. Despite this encouraging rebound in the official health
status statistics since the mid-1990's, there are still some serious
grounds for concern. First, while the official data seem to indicate
recent improvements in most of the health indicators, the evidence from
social assessments and household surveys indicates that much of the
apparent improvement is due to non-reporting, as households are
increasingly not using public health facilities from which official



statistics are generated. Second, there are some substantial regional
variations in reported health status among the 65 districts. Third, the
two main causes of mortality are cardiovascular disease and cancer, and
the rate of cardiovascular disease has been increasing in recent years.
Fourth, the reported national rate for maternal mortality increased
dramatically after independence, but it has not returned to the
pre-transition levels and remains extremely high. Fifth, there has also
been a significant reemergence of morbidity from some infectious causes.
There are still significant gaps in immunization programs and the
incidence of tuberculosis has increased in recent years. (b) Decline in
real public spending on health. A major challenge for the system has been
the collapse in real public spending on health, despite the Government's
efforts to protect public health expenditures as a share of total spending
in recent years. According to the MOH, public health expenditures amount
to about $8 per capita.    Reduced budgets to the district health systems
in Azerbaijan have led to cost cutting in all areas. Drug shortages have
been common, and equipment has not been maintained adequately. The
insufficient wage levels of health staff, and the late payment of
salaries, have led to serious governance problems. (c) Inefficiency and
inequity of resource use. The health care system remains characterized by
inefficiencies, including the following: (i) over provision of doctors and
medical staff; (ii) reliance on specialist doctors at the primary care
level; (iii) low levels of services provided by medical staff; (iv) over
provision of hospital beds and infrastructure; (v) reliance on historic
norms" based methods of resource allocation; (vi) over emphasis on
secondary hospital care at the expense of primary care; (vii)      long
lengths of hospital stay; (viii) lack of drugs. While these are sectoral
characteristics generally, the inefficiency of the sector militates
against the poor in particular.(d) Reduction in quality and access to
health services. The quality of, and access to, health services have
considerably deteriorated. There are various reasons for this, including
the high informal costs of care, the lack of essential drugs and
equipment, and the poor quality of service and facilities. Many buildings
are dilapidated, and staff typically have little incentive to work hard or
well for their patients. (e) The planning and implementation of health
reforms. A new law on "Health Protection of the Population" was passed in
1997. In 1998, a Health Reform Commission was established by Presidential
Decree to develop a reform strategy, and in 1999 a document entitled
"General Concept of Health Care Reorientation" was produced. Some of the
characteristics envisioned for the new system are planned to be: (i) the
rational use of the health delivery network, funding mechanisms, staff and
other resources; (ii) the establishment of a new legal base for the
system; (iii) primary care as a priority; (iv) reform of the
sanitary-epidemiological services; (v) transition to the principles of
insurance; (vi) the development of fee-for-service; (vii) reform of the
pharmaceutical sector; (vii) privatization of public health services;
(viii) the accreditation, certification and licensing of medical
establishments, personnel, medicines and foodstuffs; (viii) the reform of
medical education; (ix) the reform of medical science; and (x) the reform
of the health information system. The publication of the general concept
document was then followed by the publication of the "State Program of
Health Care Reform". This document includes a broad timetable for the
introduction of various reforms and also suggests an allocation of
responsibilities for their implementation.The proposed project would be a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), with a strong emphasis being placed on
-2 -



learning from the experience of the first IDA support to the health sector
in Azerbaijan. The key performance indicators would reflect the
strengthening of primary health care services in the targeted districts,
and the extent of knowledge among MOH officials in appropriate strategies
to carry out such reforms
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to test ways to
strengthen and reform district primary health care services.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Government is committed to reforming the health sector, but so far
there has been rather little external assistance. The Ministry of Health
is keen to learn more about the experiences of health reforms in other
countries where the World Bank is active. There is also a strong interest
to replicate the existing UNICEF-supported program, but substantial
funding is needed to do so.
4. Description
Component 1: Capacity Building for Health Policy Reform.(i) Analysis and
Planning Development. This sub-component will support the development of
appropriate models for Primary Health Care, and will comprise a variety of
national training events and observational tours for government officials
primarily to other transition or Eastern European countries where more
efficient and cost effective health care delivery models have been
implemented.(ii) Health Financing Reform. This sub-component will include
training, survey work and technical assistance support in three main
areas: financial planning of the health system (including analysis of user
fees and equity, estimation of the contents and costs of a basic health
care package, and an analysis of health care financing options); the
feasibility and possible development of health insurance; and an analysis
of private health spending.(iii) Pharmaceutical Policy Development. This
sub-component will support the development and implementation of national
policy reforms in the form of appropriate treatment protocols, essential
drug policy, national drug formulary, promotion of rational drug use, and
decentralized decision-making. Limited pharmaceutical sector studies will
also be supported, focusing on lessons learned from the ongoing
UNICEF-supported pilots of revolving drug funds, from the new district
level activities (especially experience related to rational drug use), and
from the evaluation of the effectiveness and sustainability of revolving
drug funds. (iv) Management Information System Development. The health
information system and communications will be strengthened to help manage
the reformed health services, as well as to enhance monitoring,
evaluation, supervision and staff development.
Component 2: District Level Primary Care Reform.
This project is designed to provide direct material support and
substantive training to 5 selected districts. In order to evaluate the
project, 5 additional districts have been selected, matched by region.
These "control" districts will serve as comparisons where data collection
will occur on key project indicators, but where no other investments will
be supported by the project.
(i) Rationalization of health care services will be undertaken, with
substantial community involvement, to reduce the number of hospital beds
-3 -



and rationalize medical staff as part of the reforms and transition to
the provision care in outpatient, primary care clinics.
(ii) The implementation of primary health care models will be done with
the support of field monitors and clinical facilitators. This will
provide on-site technical assistance and evaluation to doctors and nurses
in the primary care clinics, as well as facilitate and monitor the uptake
of new diagnostic and treatment methods and guidelines. Community
involvement, through the creation of district and community steering
committees, will be critical to insure that the needs of the communities
are being met.
(iii) Improvement of and access to primary care services through civil
works will be undertaken to refurbish approximately 20 primary health care
facilities in each district. This is primarily to make the health
services more attractive and conducive to better quality care. A small
amount of money will be provided to each district to make basic repairs in
the health centers in accordance with the rationalization plan. The
provision of good quality primary health care services also requires the
availability of basic medical equipment, supplies, and cold chain
equipment to support primary care. Each participating district will be
provided with an initial quantity of essential drugs valued at about $0.50
per capita to establish a revolving drug fund.
(iv) Strengthening of the management capabilities of the district health
personnel will be implemented by UNICEF to enhance the management of
specific reforms. This will include: use and maintenance of revolving
drug funds; rational drug use; use and application of health services
utilization information; use of computers; public health management; and
financial management.
(v) Clinical in-service training will use the existing and modified UNICEF
training modules as well as new modules in multiple clinical subject
areas. To help organize the extensive number of training and other public
events anticipated under this project, the PCU will include a full-time
project training coordinator. A training plan (covering both components)
will need to be developed.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost
GOVERNMENT                       $0.5
IDA                              $5.0
Total Project Cost               $5.5
6. Implementation
The implementation period for this project would be three years. The
executing agency would be the MOH, through a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). There would be joint responsibility between the MOH, UNICEF and
the local government administrations of the selected districts for the
implementation of the district health service reform component.
7. Sustainability
The long-term sustainability of the district health service reforms
introduced by this project depends upon: (i) adequate fiscal resources to
maintain the refurbished facilities and new equipment, and to ensure an
- 4 -



appropriate inventory of necessary drugs and other medical supplies; and
(ii) support by the community and local leaders of the changes in the
revised patterns of practice and standards of care provided by physicians
and other health workers. These issues, however, need to be considered
within the broader context of the health care financing system. This
project would not provide comprehensive solutions to the fundamental issue
of sectoral sustainability; but rather it would begin simply to assist the
Government to explore how to secure a more sustainable system of health
care financing, with better control over public and private expenditures.
This would be done by stimulating a national dialog on policy changes
necessary for health reform in Azerbaijan; generating support in the
central government for the reform process itself; introducing a common
understanding of terms and objectives; performing critical assessments
related to health financing reform; and strengthening the capacity in the
MOH to plan, implement and evaluate health reforms.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from other World Bank supported projects in Azerbaijan have been
taken into account in the conceptualization of the proposed project. These
include: (i) the iportance of high-level borrower commitment; (ii) the
realization that the system of project approval and processing is
relatively slow; (iii) the concern in the Government about costly/outside
technical assistance (TA); and (iv) the need for project implementation
capacity to be emphasized during project preparation. The lessons from
the design and implementation of health projects in the region have also
been considered in the design of the project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  None.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michael Mills
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (9-011-44-1780) 740-410
Fax:   (9-011-44-1780) 740-410
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 13, 2001.
- 5 -



