CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 1992)
Currency  Unit    =    Malaysian  Ringgit  (M$)
US$1   -   M$2.51
M$1    =   US$0.398
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADS      - Asian Development Bank
SM       - Bahasa Malaysia
CDC      - Curriculun Development Center
CIP      -  Core Investment Program
DC       - Development Committee (Ministry of Education)
DDU      - Distant Deprived Underenrolled Schools
DSD      - Development and Supply Division (Ministry of Education)
EMIS    - Educational Management Information System
EPC      - Educational Planning Comnittee (Ministry of Education)
EPRD    - EducationaL Planning and Research Division
EPU      - Economic Planning Unit (Prime Minister's Department)
ETD      - Educational Technology Division
ETS      - Education/Training Sector
FLU      -  Foreign Loans Unit
ICU     -  Implementation Coordination Unit
IIEP    -  International Institute for Educational Planning
JKR      -  Jabatan Kerja Raja (Public Works Department)
JS      -  Joint Secretariat
KBSM    - Kurikulun Bersepadu Sekolah Menengah (Integrated
Secondary Curriculum)
KBSR    - Kurikulun Sari Sekolah Rendah (hew Primary School
Curriculum)
M&E      - Monitoring and Evaluation
KEMAS   -  Coimunity Development Department (Ministry of Uational and
Rural Development)
MOE      - Ministry of Education
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
NDP     -  New Development Policy
NEP      -  New Economic Policy
NIC      -  Newly Industrialized Country
O&M      - Organization & Management
OPP2    -  Second Outline Perspective Plan
PAC      -  Project Advisory Committee
PGDE    -  Post-Graduate Degree in Education
PIER    -  Program for Innovation, Excellence and Research
PKG      -  Teacher Activity Center (same as District Resource Center)
PMT      -  Project Management Team
PY       -  Project Year
RC       -  Resource Center
RM6      -  Sixth Halaysia Plan
SDP      -  Staff Development Program
SED     -  State Education Department
TED     -  Teacher Education Division
TTAC    -  Teacher-Training Advisory Committee
TTC      -  Teacher Training College
UPE      -  Universal Primary Education
USM      - University Sains Malaysia
VET      -  Vocational Education and Training
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
T.URD  PRIMARY AND SECOMDARY  EDUCATION SECT-PROJECT
Tde)lS of Contents
page No.
LOAII AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.       INTRODUCTION
II.    THE SECTOR
A.  Overview   .   . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . i . . . . . . . .                               2
B.   Achievements  in Primary and Secondary Education  . . . . . . .                                3
C.   Issues  in Primary and Secondary Education
Quality of Education ...............                                                       4
Access   . . . . . . . . .                                                                 6
Efficiency of Educational Management .   . . . . . .   . . . .                             7
D.   Government's  Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                9
E.   The Bank's Role  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               11
III.    THE PR-OJECT
A.   Objectives  and Scope   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              14
B.  Detailed Description
Policy Framework   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              15
Promoting Quality and Excellence   ...  .                    .     .....  .   .  .     .  16
Expanding Equitable Access  to Quality Education  . . . . . .                             20
Improving the Efficiency of Educational Management   . . . .                              22
IV. PROJECT COST. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs .                                                                                        24
B. Financing .                                                                                    26
C. Management and Implementation
Status of Preparation  ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  28
The Sector Approach  ....  .                 .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .     .  28
Management and Implementation                . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  29
Procurement  .....  .               .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .  29
Disbursement   .....            .      .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .     .  31
Accounts, Audits, Reporting and Supervision  . . . . . . . .                              32
V.      IMPACT ON POVERTY ALLEVIATION. WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT AND THE
ENVIRONMENT   . .  .         .  .  .  ....  ....  .  ....  ....  .  ....  ....  .  ....  ...... .  32
VI.     BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits   ....  .             .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .     .  32
B.   Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               33
This report Is based on the findirgs of an  ppraisal misson which visited  talaysia In Novewber-DccAmber 1991
comprfsIng f. Oelatoy (Sr. Operations Officer, Task Manager), H. Go (Architect/Implaemntation Specalifst,
Consultant), K. Hinchtiffe (Economist, Consultant), J. KIrk (Distance Education Specialist, Consultant) and H.
Martinez (Principal Educator). Contrfbutions were also made by 0. Chpnmn CManagement Infornatfon System
Specialist, Consultant), N. Dalupan (Education Planner) anH A. Salmon (Principal Educator) iho led the pr.-apprafsal
mission. Peer Reviewers were S. Asher (Sr. Operations Offieer), H. Martinaz, W. Ree (Principal Economist), end
C. Shaw (Sr. Educator). N. Lockheed (Sr. Sociologist) provided valuable cowmnts. The post*apprasfsl mission
(April 1m9) consisted of Delannoy, Go, Hinchtiffe and Martinez. The document was reviewed by B.O. Babson (Chief,
EA1PH) and C.E. Nadavo (Director, EAI).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PagEe No,
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
TEXT TA-BLES
1. School Construction Program .21
2.  Breakdown of Education Core Investment Program under RM6      25
3.  Phase I Investment Costs by Categories of Expenditures  .     25
4. Financing Plan .27
5. Procurement Arrangements .30
AhNqNEXES
1.  Socio-Economic Indicators ... .  .  .    ..... .  .  .  .  .   .    35
2.  Basic Educational Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
3.  Past Trends and Future Options for Education Expenditure  .    40
4.  Fifth and Sixth Plan Sectoral Allocations, 1986-95  . . . .    48
5.  Statement of Policy   ....  .  .  .  .   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    50
6.  Action Plan and Performance Indicators  . . . . . . . . . .    59
7.  Teacher Requirements for Primary and Secondary Education  .    69
8.  Distance Education/Resource Centers . . . . . . . . . . . .    70
9.  Program to Support Innovation, Excellence and Research  . .    71
10.  Projections of Enrollments and Classroom Requirements . . .    80
11.  Staff Development Program, Specialist Services, Studies . .    81
12.  Education Management Informatior System (EMIS)  . . . . . .    85
13. Project costs estimates: (a) Project cost summary;
(b) Project components by year; (c) Project components by
year, including contingencies; (d) Summary accounts by year;
(e) Summary accounts by year, including contingencies;
(f) Summary accounts by Project components  ... .  .  .  .    .    89
14.  Recurrent Costs Implications  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    92
15.  General & Specific Implementation Criteria and Guidelines .    93
16.  Guidelines for the Allocation of Loan Proceeds  . . . . . .    98
17.  Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . .     99
18.  Disbursement Schedule and Profile .      . . . . . . . . . . . .   102
19.  Supervision Plan  ....  .  .    .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   103
20.  Project Processing and Implementation Schedule  .....        .   104
21.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File    105
CHARTS
1.  Structure of the Education System . . . . . . . . . . . . .   106
2.  Ministry of Education   ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   107
3.  Education Plan,iing and Research Division  . . . . . . . . .   108
4.  State Education Department  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   109
5.  District Edu^ation Office ... .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   110
6.  Project Management Operational Chart .  . . . . . . . . . .   111
7.  Project Management Team ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   112
8.  Development and Supply Divisiov . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   113
9.  Foreign Loans Uni': ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   114
t4PS: IBRD Nos. 23711, 23712, 23713, 23714



THIRD PRIMARY AND SECOND      ATION SECO  POCT
Loan and Project Simmary
1423xDYe[:    Malaysia
622 = :      US$141.0 million equivalent
TerIm:        Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Oh1ectiy  :   The proposed Project would support implementation of the Sixzh
Development Plan (1991-95) and attaimment of Malaysia's goal of
reaching fully developed nation status by 2020 ("Vision 2020").
Building on the achievements of the first two Sector Projects while
paving the way for change, it would strengthen and expand the
foundations of the education pyramid, primary and secondary general
education, and improve the efficiency of sectoral management.
The Government has prepared a Letter of Policy reflecting its
commitment to these objectives.  The Letter stresses:  (a) the use of
resource allocation and implementation criteria designed to equalize
educational  opportunities  and pursue quality  improvements;  (b)
greater flexibility in approachling sectoral issues through operations
research; (c) the introduction and systematic monitoring of measures
to improve effectiveness of the delivery system and to reduce unit
costs; and (d) containment of the growth of recurrent expenditures.
Progress would be measured against agreed quantified indicators.
Dhscrlation:  The Project would be the Third Sector Loan for primary and secondary
general education, and the first one following a financial time-slice
format. Given the magnitude of the Sixth Plan, agreement has been
reached with the Government on (a) a core program of Investments to
be supported by the Bank Loan and (b) a phased implementation
totalling seven years in two time-slices. The Project would finance
about 41% of the first four-year (1993-96) time-slice. It would:
(a) Promote guality and excellence in the teaching/learning process
by: (i) strengthening the teacher-training system and expanding its
capacity by about 10% (3,000 places); (ii) supporting curriculum
implementation through improvements in the quality, availability and
utilization of educational resources including: institution-building
in existing State and District Resource Centers, rehabilitation of 4
State Resource Centers, and provision of distance education, open
learning and conventional equipment, programs and materials; (iii)
developing and implementing a Program to support Innovation,
Excellence and Research (PIER) with a four-fold focus on: mathematics
and science achievements; small, isolated primary rural schools;
pilot-operations in educational communications; and experimental
research with new pedagogic approaches and different input mixes;
technology; (b) Ex&and equitable access to quality education by: (i)
finalizing strategies for early childhood development and special
education and initiating their implementation; (ii) constructing/



- ii -
rehabilitating  and  equipping  about  4,400  primary,  and  3,200
secondaryclassrooms; and (iix) providing housing units for about
3,000 teaihers and boarding facilities for about 20,000 primary ard
secondary  students  in  selected  rural  areas;  (c)  Improve  the
efficiency of sectoral and project management by: (i) implementing
a staff development program with a strong practical orientation for
about 1,000 senior and middle level managerial and technical
personnel; (il) strengthening the existing Educational Management
Information System (EMIS) for policy-making, sectozal planning and
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation (M&E); and (iii) upgrading
project management/implementation capabilities.
Benefits:     The Project would create some 253,000 student places, mostly for
children   from   educationally   or   economically   disadvantaged
backgrounds; this would help Government to maintain universal primary
education, to increase secondary enrollments by about 8%, and to
directly enhance the schooling environment where sub-standard
classrooms  threaten  learning achievements.    However,  its main
benefits would be of a qualitative nature, as quality inputs and the
emphasis placed on research, M&E and management would enhance the
system's ability to produce graduates equipped with the skills,
attitudes and values required to maximize the productivity of tne
large public and private investments planned in knowledge-based
industries, vocational/technical training and higher education.
Greater flexibility would prepare the education system to meet the
demands of an increasingly complex and volatile economic environment;
increased efficiency would facilitate the accommodation of many
competing sectoral claims within resource availability.
Rinks,:       The risks involved in this third-generation project are relatively
limited, although those facing the Sixth Plaa for Education/Training
as a whole are worth mentioning. At the project level, enere is a
risk of implementation delays and disbursement lags.   Measures
recently adopted concerning site acquisition, civil works supervision
and disbursement requests processing have begun to show results and
are expected to prevent a reoccurrence of this type of problem. The
other two risks relate more to the Plan. One is that, at the macro
level, sustainability might become problematic if all of the sectoral
investments in the Sixth Plan (notably in higher education and
vocational/technical training) were to materialize simultaneously and
under the present high unit cost/low cost-recovery regime. This risk
is considered manageable given the quality of the macro and sectoral
dialogue concerning fiscal reform and the financing of the social
sectors, the advanced stage of Government's thinking on alternative
delivery and financing mechanisms, and Malaysia's strong record in
human resource development.    The third risk  -- that of slow
implementation of key policy measures of a sensitive nature -- could
compromise the educational and training capacity-building effort
needed to achieve fully industrialized status.   The commitments
expressed in the Letter of Policy and the focus of the policy
dialogue underlying the Annual Implementation Reviews should be
adequate safeguards against this risk.



;                                     9~~~~~~~~~~~~ iii -
Estimated Castv:a/k/                         Local     Forelgn     Tota
--------- US$ million ---
A. Oualitv and exeellence
1. Teacher training                        15.1      12.9       28.0
2. Educational resources                    6.9       9.7       16.6
3. Research/Innovation                      1.8      ....
Sub-Total                               23.8      23.8       47.5
B. Access and eauity
1. Primary schools                         72.3      41.6      114.0
2. Secondary schools                       76.1      47.7      123.8
3. Housing and boarding                  ,132         7.0       20.2
Sub--Total                            161.7       96.3      257.9
C. Manw-erial efficiency
1. Staff development                        3.0       6.6        9.6
2. EMIS                                     0.5       2.0        2.5
3- Project implementation/management                  Q..
Sub-Total                                3.8       8.9       12.7
Total Baseline Cost                    189.2     128.9      318.1
Price contingencies                        11.7      12.2       23.9
Total Project Cost                     201.0     1L            2
Financing Plan
Government                                   201.0       -        201.0
IBRD                                           -11.               141.0
Total                                  201.0    ,4.         au
Estimated Disbursements:                         IBRD Fiscal Year
1993   1994    1995   1996
------- US$ million ----------
Annual                                      29.6   46.8    45.2   19.4
Cumulative                                  29.6   76.4   121.6  141.0
Eg2nomic
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
MGMs:              IBRD No. 23711, 23712, 23713, 23714
A/ Inclusive of taxes equivalent to US$7.9 million.
k/ Amounts may not add up due to rounding.



NALIAYSI
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The New Economic Policy (NEP) implemented during 1970-1990 largely achieved
its objectives of accelerating growth, sharply reducing ,everty and promoting ethnic
equity.  Over this period, real GDP growth averaged alwost 7% p.a. (over 9% in the
past four years), and poverty incidence declined from 49.3% of households to 17.L%.
By the eighties the modernization of the economy from a mainly agro-based to a more
iniustrialized one was well on its way.  This trend was reinforced by the pragmatic
shift from a strategy of heavy Government interventions and regulations to a process
of liberalization and privatization, following the economic downturn of the mid-
fllghties. Liberalization was also instrumental in attracting substantial foreign
.nvesv  't vhiich has doubled every year sinee 1987 and has considerably strengthened
economic;  owih.
1.2      A new basis for overa , development policy -- the New Development Policy
(NDP) -- has been set out i,     Second Outline Perspective Plan (OPP2) for the
nineties and in more detail         Sixtb Plan (1991-95).  The objectives of growth
with equity are retained, but &:   chani,.; in emphases and approaches.  Strategies
to maintain high growth rates include add&.Acinal encc^agement to the private sector
and a concomitant reduction in the public -ector's direct participation in the
economy, further trade liberalization ':nd iiacentives to stimulate investment and
competitiveness, and measures to accelerate industrial development. The 7.5% annual
projected GDP growth rate through the nineties is expected to be driven by two
forces: first, a widening and a diversificatio?. of the manufacturing base away from
electronics and apparel towards high technolog- high value-added sectors; second,
an expansion of the tertiary sector involving the ahoorpt{on of newly emerging
communication and data processing  technologies.    In  terms cf distributional
objectives, the focus is to be narrowed on eradicating hardcore poverty (about 4% of
households), while the private sector is expected to play a greater role in
equalizing participation of the various ethnic groups in the economy.
1.3      The Plan, and Malaysia's goal of becoming a newly industrialized country,
or NIC, by 2020 ("Vision 2020") have considerable quantitative and qualitative
implications for the education and training system. Demand for labor is projected
to increase by 3.1% p. a., with the largest shares of new jobs expected to be in the
services (55%) and in manufacturing (36%). As the labor market is already very
tight, this implies the need for a larger pool of more and better educated
individuals, i.e. secondary education graduates (a) whom employers find more readily
trainable in sophisticated technologies and capable of swiftly adapting to the
changing needs of a highly )mpet;tive economy, or (b) who have mastered the higher
order and problem solving b..lls required to go into higher education. Those people
should have received a broad based education emphasizing mathematics, science,
technology, innovativeness and communicative abilities, including proficiency in
English as a second language. The importance of these disciplines is underlined by
the fact that, with natural resources becoming less plentiful and labor, more scarce,
productivity gains will play an increasing role as a source of growth. Whether and
how Malaysia can finance and sustain the many competing investments required by OPP2
at all levels of the education system, and how best to achieve the "culture of merit
and excellence" underlying Vision 2020 is the challenge facing the Ministry of
Education (MOE). Socio-economic data are provided in Annex 1.



II. THE SECTO
A. Overview
2.1      Since Malaysia's  independence  in 1957,  education has always  figured
prominently as an integral part of Government's development policy. The sector has
been used as a major vehicle for promoting national social, economic and
distributional objectives. A unified education system has been established, and a
common curriculum has been adopted. Bahasa Malaysia (Bh) (the Malay language) is the
sole language of instruction in secondary education.1/    The structure of the
education system is presented in Chart 1. Universal Primary Education (UPE) has
practically been achieved (99.8% in 1990), and gross enrollment ratios are 83% and
49% respectively, for lower and upper secondary education, 16.4% for post-secondary
and 2.7% for higher education (17.5% and 4.5% when students abroad are included).
The gender gap is closed in primary and secondary education, and educational parity
has been practically achieved across the races. Primary teachers are trained in 28
Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs), and secondary teachers, in the TTCs and/or the
Universities. In-service training is offered on a large scale in the TTCs, in the
existing network of 4 State, 350 District and 4,230 school Resource Centers (RCs)
and, for administrative training, in local institutes. MOZ, with its 13 professional
and 12 administrative divisions and services, is responsible for the formal education
system (Chart 2).   Its four-tiered (five in Eastern Malaysia) chain of command
reflects the country's administrative structure. The Educational Planning Committee
(EPC), the sector's highest policy making and planning body, is assisted by the
Educational Planning and Research Division (EPRD)(Chart 3).   In each of the 13
states, a State Education Department (SED)(Chart .4), supported by Division and
District Education Offices  (DEOs)(Ghart 5) are in charge of implementing the
Government's  educational  policy   and of providing  feedback  to central MOE.
Development and support services include the Federal Inspectorate, a Curriculum
Development Center (CDC), an Examinations Syndicate, a Textbook Division, an
Educational Technology Division (ETD), and the Resource Center network.   Basic
educational data are provided in Annex 2.
2.2      Education Finance.  Malaysia's educational strategy has consistently been
backed-up by substantial budgetary allocations. Over 1987-92 the Government has
allocated to MOE between 17.7% and 19.6% of its total recurrent expenditures, and
between 12.9% and 17.1% of its development expenditures.  Between 1981 and 1991,
combined public recurrent and capital expenditures, expressed as a percentage of
total Government expenditure, increased from 13% to 18%. As a percentage of GNP they
have hovered aroutnd 6%. and compare *ery favorably with expenditures/GNP ratios in
the region. The distribution of recurrent expenditures across levels of education
has been quite equitable and remarkably constant over the past decade. In 1990, the
allocations were 39% for primary, 38% for secondary and 23% for post secondary
education. Additional scholarships incorporated within the development budget are
the equivalent of an additional 1.5% for secondary and 3% for tertiary.   The
contribution of private financing is, on average, comparable to the mean for Asia
(1987) but it reflects the combined result of limited cost recovery in local higher
education (5.8%) and almost 100% private financing for the bulk of students enrolled
I/ At the primary level, BM is taught in all schools, but the main language of
instruction in some schools is Chinese or Tamil. One extra year (remove claas)
following primary education is provided to students from Chinese and Tamil-
language schools to upgrade their BM to the proficiency level required for
secondary education where BM is the sole language of instruction.



abroad. The pattern of capital expenditures suggests that relative allocations are
likely to char.ge in the future. Between 1981-89, primary and secondary education
were allocated 58%, and vocational/tertiary education, 42% of development
expenditures. Over 1986-90, the shares rev&rsed to 42% and 56%, respectively. While
actual capital expenditures fell over the two periods for primary and secondary
education, they increased by 62% at the tertiary level.   Such changes will have
carry-through effects on recurrent funding during the ninoties (Annex 3).
B. Achievements in Primary and Secondary Education
2.3      Overall, the development of education in Malaysia has been impresslve, due
to the strong commitment of the Government, supported by substantial resources. The
most noteworthy achievements are discussed below.
2.4      Egualization of educational onnortunities.   Rapid enrollment growth (9%
during 1985-90) has been accompanied by a gradual closing of attainment and
achievement gaps across rural and urban areas. By 1987, the mean level of education
for the three major ethnic groups ranged from 7.4 to 7.6 years for males and from 5.8
to 6.4 years for T3males. This is all the more remarkable that, at independence,
only 2% of Malays, 8% of Chinese and 11% of Indians had post-primary education.
While there is still ger.der inequality in higher education, the gap is closing
rapidly, especially for Malay females (Mnex 2, Table 7).
2.5      Innovative curricula.  New curricula were introduced in primary education
in 1983 (the KBSR) and in lower secondary education in 1989 (the KBSM). Based on
a child-centered approach in the acquisition of basic skills (the "3Rs"), the KBSR.
encourages active pupil participation, as well as the provision of remedial and
enrichment activities by teachers. The KBSM provides general education with major
time allocations dedicated to basic skills and core subjects (BM, mathematics,
English, and science), contributing to higher student achievements. Introduction of
the new curricula was supported by the publication of new textbook& for all grades
and by extensive teacher in-service programs. Implementation was carefully monitored
and evaluated through a broad process involving the CDC, the Federal Inspectorate,
the Universities, the Teachers' Association and the SEDs.  Evaluations have been
positive and there is widespread recognition that the KBSR and KBSM have largely met
their objectives of promoting unity, quality and equity.
2.6      Teachers. The number of teachers, classroom sizes and teacher workloads are
more than adequate to provide quality instruction. The 120,000 primary and 73,000
secondary teachers are all qualified by G.,vernment standards, except for some 14,000
teachers in remote schools.  Ordinary p0mary teachers teach  .; 21 hours/week to
groups averaging 33 students.  Their secondary counterparts t   . 18 hours/week to
classes averaging 34 students.   The training network prov'    both pre- and in-
service training for teachers at all levels.  The priorit   -ten to high qual. y
teacher education is reflected in the significant level oa resources allocated to
this activity. Unit costs in TTCs are as high as those tn the Universities, and
triple those in the Polytechnics. In-service training is provided to upgrade the
academic and professional skills of teachers, to guide them in the implementation of
the new curricula and to enhance their commitment and motivation. About one-third
of all teachers attend at least one course every year.
2.7      Tnxtbooks.    The textbook production and distribution system is well-
structured and managed. Students have a set of books which reflect the KBSR and KBSM
requirements. The textbooks for the Malay-language primary schools are written by
MOE writers and the printing and distribution are contracted to private firms, while



-4-
those for the Chinese and Tamil-language primary schools are written and published
by commarcial publishers. The secondary school textbooks are mostly contracted, on
a competitive basis to commercial publishers, workirg under MOE's guidance. This
joint public/private effort has resulted in high-qnality secondary textbooks while
strengthening national editorial and publishing capacity. An 6fficient Textbook Loan
Scheme has ensured that books are available free of charge for 90% of the pupils.
2.8      Resource Centers (RCs).  The network of RCs supports teachers and school
managers in improving educational quality by encouraging active teaching/ learning
methods, while emphasizing resource-based delivery techniques. Initially designed
for in-service teacher training, the State RCs were reoriented during the Fourth
Bank-financed Project (Ln 1329-MA) to assume responsibility for coordinating
professional and training activities as well as research, and acting as a vehicle for
educational decentralization.   The District RCs,  also called TeachAr Activity
Centers. or PKGs, have played an increasingly important role as intermediates between
the State and the school level RCs and the bases from which support networks for
headmasters and teachers operate.
C. Issues in Primary and Secondary Education
2.9      As the Malaysian education system matures, the challenges it faces are also
changing.   The emphasis is shifting away from the planning of large physical
programs, now well in hand, towards more sophisticated problems of technological
choices, cost-effectiveness and marginal resource allocations, requiring greater
flexibility and a stronger managerial orientation.  Quality concerns (paras. 2.10-
2.15) now tend to focus on the skills and knowledge implications of "Vision 2020" and
on closing the achievement gap between urban and rural areas. The access problem
(paras. 2.16-2.18) has both a quality dimension (the need to improve or replace
existing facilities where rapid enrollment growth is jeopardizing learning outcomes,
mostly in urban areas), and an equity dimension (the need to create new capacity to
maintain UPE, notably in hard-to-reach areas, and progress towards universal
secondary education).   Efficiency in the management of resources (paras. 2.19-2.25)
is assuming increasing importance, as the search for excellence and a relative lack
of financial constrairits have led to a tendency to select costly options, which may
not be sustainable given the already high level of recurrent expenditures and the
proposed expansion of vocational and higher education.
Quality of Educa&ion
2.10     MOE is constantly seeking ways to improve educational quality.   For
instance, examination results are closely monitored to diagnose problems (Annex 2,
Table 8). Scores have generally improved, notably in BM, but. MOE is concerned about
a declining trend in English and slow progress in mathem.. itcs and science, as well
as persisting differences by disciplines across types of p,mary schools and between
urban and rural areas at the secondary level.   This analysis focuses on:  (a)
teachers; (b) educational resources; (c) curriculum implementation; (d) mathematics
and science.
2.11     Sunnly and demand of Teachers.  Given that training teachers is expensive,
matching the supply of teachers to demand is an important task. Like many other
LDCs, Malaysia went through a period in which pria   education was expanding
rapidly, requiring a fast growth in the number of primary teachers. This period is
over. UPE is practically achieved, the primary cohort is not growing as fast, and
teacher requirements will start decreasing soon. Government estimates that the need
for TTC graduates will decline from about 8,000 p.a. (1991) to about 6,500 by 1996.



-5-
This assumes classes of 25; if class size was larger, teacher requireuents would be
further reduced.  The need for secondgry teachers is projected to continue growing
until 1997, when it will stabilize azound 10,000 p.a.   Half of this demand is
proposed to be met by the TTCs, and half by the universities. Government needs tc
plan in greater detail the distribution of capacity across both types of
institutions, given world-wids recognition that Universities provide more broad-
ranging training and deeper subject-matter competency.
2.12     Teoching methods. Malaysian educators are engaged in a professional debate
about what makes good teaching practice and how best to achieve high educational
standards.   The KBSR calls for "student-centered" teaching nractices and for an
active participation of teachers in the development of teaching aids; yet,
evaluations show that even in the best Malaysian schools, teachers continue to use
"teacher-centered" approaches and to rely more on commercially-produced teaching
aides, as students seem to respond better to these. Given the objective of raising
performance in mathematics and science, there is a continuing need co bettar
understand which methods and practices are most effective. Another debate concerns
the role the existing radio and IT programs should be playing in support of teachers.
Radio programs are designed as "enrichment" activities and do not cover the core
material of the currieulum.   More interactive radio, better sequencing of the
programs and more monitoring of their impact on achievements would be advisable. Yet
another debated topic is the use of multigrade teaching practices in isolated,
underenrolled rural schools. These techniques, which would be well adapted to the
37% underenrolled primary sokaols (averaging 81 students), are practiced in less than
one-third of these schools. Administrators generally prefer to resort to biannual
intake and boarding schools. These debates tend to be compounded by the fact that
TTCs' response to demands from the profession, e.g., in introducing new courses, has
been limited by other constraints and priorities.
2.13     Educational Resources. The school system has been well endowed with quality
inputs (textbooks; teaching/learning materials; radio, TV and audio programs; and RC
network). Although these programs have had a positive impact on learning outcomes,
a more rigorous approach to their management could further enhance their benefits.
In this respect, the textbook production and distribution system is exemplary, while
other educational support services still offer room for improvement. For instance,
the Educational Technology Division (ETD) is aware that the collection of radio and
TV programs held at the District RCs is now outdated and needs to be replaced. Along
with the increased support expected from it by the RC network, the replacement of
these tapes will require an increase in capacity, technology, and staff development.
The RCs, at the State level, suffer from inefficiencies in the balance between
different facilities, wide variations in the utilization of different types of
services, quantitative redundancies and qualitative weaknesses in staffing and lack
of maintenance capacity.   At the district level, staffing, and operating budget
constraints have reduced the RCs' level of activity and impact. At the school level,
the number of TV sets or VCRs made available to individual institutions, in the
absence of global timetable planning, has considerably 'imited viewing time, while
in other schools, endowments, some from parental sources, exceeded needs. At this
stage of Malaysia's development, the way marginal resources are allocated and managed
is as important as their level.
2.14     Curriculum Implementation.  A review of KBSR and of KBSM implementation
suggests three p.oblem areas:  (a) primary textbooks, (b) the student assessment
system, and (c) the addition of new subjects to the curriculum.   The primary
textbooks were produced rapidly to meet the schedule for introducing the KBSR and
have not yet been revised to reflect recommendations from practitioners   and



-6-
researchers. Pupils continue to learn from textbooks which have recognized
weaknesses in sequencing, illustration, in being too demanding at some stages and too
simple at others. The fact that workbooks are sometimes too difficult has slowed
down the introduction of multigrade teaching techniques which require independent
study by the pupils. The use of textbooks as exercise books in the first three
trades is also costly,  in that it requires their replacement every year.   The
issessment system provides information on students' scores by subject but not on the
;opics or areas in the curriculum which are not being mastered and need to be
revised. For instance, schools and curriculum developers are not provided with
information on whether concepts and skills introduced in a parti.4ular grade are too
easy or too difficult for children to master, whether sciencl and mathematical
concepts are acquired when taught under an integrated approach, stc. As a result,
urriculum revisions are more based on subjective observation than on factual data
cf. footnote to Annex 2, Table 8). At the Central level, the Exam.nation syndicate
s good capabilities but wishes to increase the international training of its staff
in state-of-the-art techniques. Such capacity building would also help, downstream,
to strengthen school-based assessment administration which MOE plans to improve by
training principals and teachers and by developing an item bank. Finally, over the
years the curricula have become cluttered with additional topics which, while
intrinsically legitimate, tends to compete for pupils' time with core subjects.
2.15     Mathematics and Science.   To increase the economy's pool of high level
technicians, engineers, and scientists, MOE is seeking ways to stimulate early
pupil's interest in mathematics, science and technology. OPP2's aim is to raise the
number of scientists from about 400 to 1,000 per million population (Japan:5,000) by
the year 2000. To that effect, MOE is pursuing a multi-pronged strategy. The KBSR's
"Man and his environment" integrated science program attempts to show the relevance
of science in everyday life, as a first step towards attracting secondary students,
especially from rural areas, into advanced scientific streams.  Other activities
include the opening of science centers, the introduction of computers in schools
ublications, science fairs, school-based science projects, etc.. An in-depth atud'
If secondary science teaching is being conducted with assistance from II
nternational Institute for Educational Planning).  It is to be discussed before
school year 92/93 at a national/IIEP Feminar, and is expected to lead to a revision
in the curriculum and in teacher training. The Second Bank-financed Project (Ln 974-
MA) which included science education, showed that the provision of laboratory
facilities is not sufficient, and examples elsewhere suggest that modest incentives
could spark local initiatives and innovations that would promote a "scientifi
culture".
Access
16     The Ouality Dimension.  Although some 26,000 classrooms were built durin
ie Fifth Plan, the even faster expansion of enrollments means that many students
especially in urban areas, still work in difficult conditions which tend to
negatively affect academic performance.  About 30% of primary, and 15% of secondar
classes have more than 40 students. The students: classroom ratio averages 39:1 i
)rimary, and 48:1 in secondary education, which is on the high side; it reaches 63:
some districts, which is beyond the critical threshold. The classroom; class rati
ias remained around 85% in primary, and 69% in secondary education in recent years
this implies an abnormal level of double sessions, including entire "afternoon
schools". Double session, while manageable in primary education, is a more serious
constraint in secondary education, especially in examination classes and under the
SM, as time spent on task has to be reduced, putting Malaysian students at a
sadvantage compared to children from countries where both the school year and the



-7-
school day are longer.   Finally, the stock of schools include about 15% and 5%
overage buildings (over 40 years old), some of which present safety hazards and must
be replaced for capacity maintenance.
2.17     The Equity Dimension.   Maintaining UPE and increasing the secondary
enrollment ratio will also require additional capacity creation, especially in
disadvantaged districts.  Taking into account the expected decline in enrollment
growth, the maintenance of UPE during the Sixth Plan period is estimated to require
construction of about 9,600 classrooms.   At the secondary level, there are wide
differences in transition rates among districts (ranging from 45% to 98% between
primary and secondary and from 19% to 87% between lower and upper secondary); these
discrepancies reflect a combination of capacity constraints and movement towards
schools other than those operated by MOE and tend to match the poverty map. The Plan
projects classroom needs for secondary enrollment growth and expansion alone at about
4,000.
2.18     Boarding Facilities and Staff Housing.  MOE's policy of providing boarding
facilities to students and housing to teachers in remote areas is justified but needs
to be more rigorously targeted. About 2% of primary and 11% of secondary students
are accommodated at school. Although the cost of boarding is high, it is required
in order to attract and retain at school children from hard-to-reach areas or
disadvantaged socio-economic backgrounds.   Similarly,  the provision of teacher
housing is necessary to implement government's teachers' deployment policy and to
increase  commitment,  stabilitv  and  efficiency  in  isolated  regions  where
communications and living conditions are poor. MOE plans to pursue this program
while tightening the criteria for linking it to demonstrated needs.
Efficiency of Educational Management
2.19     A study of 15 Asian countries in the mid-80s (Mingat and Tan, 1989) showed
that Malaysia had lower than expected post-basic enrollment ratios, given its GNP
p.c. of about US$2,300, and the high share of GNP spent on education (6%). At a time
of growing competing claims on educational allocations, raising efficiency would
enhance the sustainability of the proposed investments while accelerating progress
towards quality and equity objectives. This analysis focuses on: (a) unit costs;
(b) technical and managerial skills; (c) physical norms; (d) Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E); and (e) absorptive capacity constraints.
2.20     Unit Costs.  Publicly financed recurrent unit costs are high, especially in
primary education, and offer ample scope for efficiency gains.  The above study
indicated that, as a percentage of GNP p.c., unlt costs in Malaysia were 25% above
the average for 15 Asian countries (all levels of education), and 39%, 12% and 24%
above, respectively, for primary, secondary and higher education. More recent sector
work has shown that unit costs in primary secondary education increased by over 30%
between 1990-92 and that educational recurrent expenditures have been rising
substantially faster than total recurrent expenditures. The main reason behind the
high unit costs is not teacher salaries, which until recently tended to be lower than
the regional averages (when compared to respective p.c. GNP). Rather, it is, for
Rrimary education, the very low pupil:teacher ratio -- averaging 20:1 overall and
12:1 in underenrolled schools -- compared to 33:1 in the 15 Asian countries, or 24:1
in 26 upper middle income countries (Annex 2).   This, in turn, is due to the
automatic application of generous staffing norms -- 1.5 teacher per class under the
KBSR (which has led to an average of 1.7:1 in regular schools) and 3 non-teaching
staff, even in schools with as few as 20 students.  In secondary education, unit
costs are more in line with regional norms. They are driven up by the much higher



-8-
expenditures in residential and vocational schools and in the junior science colleges
(under the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development) which together
account for 35% of expenditures in upper secondary schools, while they enroll only
9% of students. In teacher training, the student:trainer ratio is exceptionally low,
at 6.8:1.
2.21     These practices have resulted in two worrying trends.  First, during 1988-
90, the number of teachers increased much faster, by 10.0% and 11.7% for primary and
secondary education, respectively, than enrollments (4.9% and 0.8%). Second, the
growth rate of actual operating expenditures has accelerated over the past years
(from 2.2% in 1987 to 20.7% in 1991), due partly to increases in unit costs at
individual levels and partly to faster growth of enrollments at the more expensive
levels. These trends are not sustainable and need to be corrected, especially in
light of MOE's plan to expand other levels of education.   In any restructuring,
special attention should be paid to protecting the non-salary part of recurrent
expenditures, especially the "per capita grants" (paid to schools to finance
pedagogic materials and equipment) which remained at the same level during 1972-90.
These were revised in 1991 under the Second Sector Project, and should continue to
be adjusted regularly to protect instructional quality.
2.22     Physical   norms   and   standards.       Physical   planning   norms   and
facility/equipment utilization criteria also contribute to high unit capital costs.
Space standards and building norms tend to be generous (para. 2.37), resulting in a
savings potential of around 15% on school buildings. There is a need to review the
rationale of the adopted norms and standards of boarding, staff housing and communal
facilities, (a) to plan and build more economically without sacrificing quality and,
(b) to set up a national school building code based on research and studies.
2.23     Technical and Managerial Skills.   MOE still faces shortages of the
sophisticated technical and managerial skills required to achieve its goals.
However, the management of its large staff development program first is to be
strengthened foi maximum practical impact.   Under the First and Second Sector
Projects, some 8,000 educators and administrators will have been trained in a broad
range of techniques and under a variety of options (this is additional to the 9,600
officials trained under national financing). Yet, some MOE top officials express
skepticism about the multiplier effect of this program.   The training lacked a
specific long-range, carefully mapped out strategy to address well identified
sectoral issues. It was biased towards pedagogy over management. Returning trainees
often transferred to other positions; some feel the environment to which they
returned was not conducive to innovation and initiative; no feedback based on
monitorable indicators of progress was requested. MOE has now decided to establish
a Unit to select and orient the trainees more rigorously, monitor their performance,
and follow-up on the application or dissemination of their new skills.
2.24     Policy Research and Analysis. Monitoring. Evaluation.  MOE has a rich data
base which can be more systematically tapped as new information needs emerge. Its
sophisticated Educational Management Information System (EMIS) consists of two
mainframe computers and eight data bases (covering statistics, examination results,
and inputs; data on budgets, costs and expenditures are not included). The system
is well integrated vertically; an experiment is on-going to decentralize it via the
use of computers down to the school level, so as to improve the quality/timeliness
of data and their use for microplanning and management. It has allowed a strong
monitoring of statistical trends as well as of project schedules and inputs delivery.
A recent development is that the Ministry of Finance is now experimenting, prior to
Government-wide adoption, with a new MIS designed to improve fiscal management, which



will require the derivation of efficiency indicators. Estimates of this type -- as
well as analysis of the trade-offs of different investment strategies and financing
scenarios, and the establishment of realistic priorities -- are likely to become
increasingly critical to support MOE's case in budgetary arbitrations. They could
also be used to guide new investment. Given the large volume of solid pr' Lry data
already collected by MOE, this should not pose a problem and in fact, wodld allow
fuller utilization of precious information presently underexploited. MOE is in a
position to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of particular input mixes and models of
school organization.
2.25     Absorptive capacity constraints.  The pace of physical implementation of
MOE's program under the First and Second Sector Projects has been adversely affected
by lengthy administrative procedures, staffing constraints, communication and
logistical problems, particularly in Eastern Malaysia States (Sabah and Sarawak) and
the lack of experience of many contractors in a fast-growing construction sector.
These issues (para. 2.36) were a major cause of the Fifth Plan "spill-over" (M$1.5
billion, consisting of unfinished hardware elements). They need to be addressed
upfront, under the Sixth Plan.
D. Government's Strategy
2.26     General.  The Government's educational strategy underlying Vision 2020 and
OPP2 is mapped out in a revised version of the 1961 Education Act expected to be
approved in early 1993. The supporting investment program is presented in the Sixth
Plan (1991-95) approved in July 1991.  The Plan allocates 15.4% of total projected
expenditures to education/training, (M$8.5 billion, or US$3.4 billion), a 46%
increase over the Fifth Plan.  This is to be compared to a 40% increase across
sectors. The allocation for primary and secondary general education (including
teacher traLiing) is M$2.8 billion or 33% of the education/training sectoral (ETS)
total (Annex 4, Table 3).
2.27      bj.ectivs.  Human resource development is a major thrust of Vision 2020,
OPP2 and the Sixth Plan, as achievement of the country's socio-economic objectives
(unity, growth, and equity) depends on thte availability of an educated, skilled,
adaptable and trainable labor force as well as the existence of a responsible
citizenry wi.h attitudes and values conducive to industrial development.  The focus
is on raising the quality of education and expanding access to the low income groups
and the undeserved regions by improving the efficiency of the delivery system.
2.28     ProRosed Policies and Investment Program.   (a) grimary Education:   UPE
(Universal Primary Education) would be maintained through the construction of 12,200
new classrooms. Suspension of the automatic promotion policy is under consideration.
Other features include materials to promote a strong reading culture and develop
manipulative skills and scientific interests at an early age; and consolidation of
the curriculum reform through a large-scale program for teacher training in remedial
instruction and upgrading in key disciplines (M$1,020 million, or 12% of the ETS
total).  (b) Secondary General Education:  towards the goal of universal secondary
education, the Plan envisages enrollment increases of 60% in lower, and 19.3% in
upper secondary education (1990-95), through the construction of some 18,000
classrooms. The policy framework proposes to (i) replace the arts/science streaming
by a more liberal arrangement under which students would choose from among 2 to 4
electives from 4 groups (humanities, vocational/technical, or VET, science, religious
education) to give students an early exposure to technical subjects; (ii) provide
special education; and (iii) strengthen the role of Parents-teachers associations,
especially in rural areas. Other investments cover: the construction and equipment



- 10 -
of four additional fully residential schools for rural students with high academic
potential; the provision of boarding facilities for good performe-rs in lower
secondary schools; the construction of two elite sports schools; and the production
of reading materials, workbooks and teaching kits (M$1,472 million, or 17% of the ETS
total).  (c) Teacher Training:  the Plan aims at increasing enrollments by 26.50
while improving the quality of teacher training. This goal would be reached through
the construction of seven new TTCs (8,400 places) including one for VET teacher
training. Qualitative improvements would result from tighter selection criteria and
the retraining of trainers.  The policy of increasing the proportion of graduate
teachers in secondary schools would be pursued through skills upgrading and
continuation of the post-graduate diploma in education (PGDE) (M$334 million, or 4%
of total ETS total). (d) Other. Secondary vocational and Tertiary Education fall
outside the immediate purview of this report, but should be mentioned because of the
magnitude of the investments contemplated and their implications for the rest of the
sector, respectively, M$531 million (or 6% of ETS total) and M$2,591 million (30% of
ETS total). The remaining allocations are M$1,636 million (19% of ETS) for non-MOE
education Programs and M$777 million (9% of ETS) for programs in non formal,
industrial, commercial and management training.
2.29     Assessment  of  the  Government's  Strategy.    The  above  strategy  is
educationally sound, and its objectives are appropriate in the context of Vision
2020. The emphasis on a "culture of merit and excellence", the importance given to
mathematics, science and technology (S&T), R&D, and greater efficiency are especially
welcome. The strategy does, however, raise a number of issues.
2.30     First, the proposed investment program is a formidable one, and there is a
need to grioritize.  Physical needs have been overestimated in a number of cases
(e.g., for primary education). Technically, the Plan's Investment program could be
implemented, as it is within MOE's proven absorptive capacity; however, it would
cover only 63 and 41%, respectively, of identified needs in primary and secondary
general education.   Therefore,  the Government reviewed the trade-offs between
competing objectives such as (a) introducing repetition in primary education vs.
maintaining UPE; (b) the allocation of new secondary education capacity between
quality improvements and enrollment expansion; (c) giving priority to primary or to
secondary education in the effort to reduce double session teaching; (d) the pace at
which to proceed towards the universalization of lower and upper secondary education.
Its choices are reflected in the sub-projects implementation criteria and guidelines.
(Annex 15).
2.31     The financial feasibility of the program is the second question,  if
development expenditures are to increase by 34% at the primary, 29% at the secondary,
55% at the tertiary levels, and 100% for training programs (compared to the previous
Plan). OPP2 states the priority to be given to primary and secondary education, to
equalize income and help the rural poor. Yet the post-basic enrollment ratios are
much lower than in comparable countries, and developing vocational/technical and
higher education is particularly expensive. Improving quality and the efficiency of
delivery  to  expand access  is also  costly.    Assuming  these  investments  are
implemented, thair sustainability could become problematic, in view of the trends
discussed in para. 2.21 and the already high share of Government's recurrent budget
allocated to education (19.6%).
2.32     Third, the strategy reflects a preference for traditional, uniform, often
costly options, where flexibility and experimentation might lead to greater
effectiveness and efficiency. Examples include: (a) the proposal to reintroduce
repetition in primary education, a policy which in many countries has resulted in a



- 11 v
further lagging behind of at-risk students; (b) the dominance of teachers in the
quality input mix; (c) the sub-optimal utilization of physical facilities, due to
design problems (State RCs), staffing problems (Distric2 RCs), or reluctance to use
multigrade teaching in unde-- nrolled schools; and (d) o.casional conceptual over-
design, for instance with t . large range of additional subjects offered in upper
secondary education, combined with a tendency to overequip workshops in arts and
humanities streams.
2.33 Conclusions. Bank missions reviewed with Government the entire Sixth Plan's
Primary and Secondary Education Investment Program and the underlying policies. This
led to the identification of:   (a) a core program  of investments approved for
possible Bank financing, subject to agreed implementation criteria and guidelines;
(b) "potentially core" activities which would be supported on an experimental basis
and could be brought to scale in a next phase, under specific conditions; taken
together, categories (a) & (b) account for about 80% of the total MCE Plan allocation
for primary and secondary general education; and (c) non-core activities, which have
a lower priority or high unit costs or alreaey have secured a source of financing.
Given the sophistication of Malaysia's educational management, it was agreed that
Bank support of the Plan would be based on a financial time-slice format.   By
contrast with the physical investment approach followed for the first two sector
projects, involving a pre-set number of sub-projects and implementation schedule, the
financial time-slice gives Government the flexibility to substitute, from year to
year and within agreed limits and criteria, among various types of investments
identified for Bank support (categories a and b above). This formula allows faster
disbursements by giving priority to sub-projects most ready for implementation. In
view of the magnitude of the Plan's investment program, it was also recognized that
its implementation would be stretched over seven years and supported by two
successive time-slices to reduce commitment charges to the Government.   In this
report, the term "Phase I" is used to refer to the first four-year time-slice (1993-
1996) while the term "Third Sector Project" refers to Phase I, plus a few
conventional (software) project elements (cf para. 3.1). Tables 2 and 3 in Annex 4
show the Core Investment Program and Phase I in relation to the Plan.
E. The Bank's Role
2.34     Past involvement.  Since 1969, the Bank has invested US$ 464.2 million in
ten projects, which makes it the main source of external finance for education (over
90%). These operations, spanning all levels of the sector, have made a substantial
contribution to physical expansion, quality improvement, and management.   Four
projects are still under implementation:   the First and the Second Primary and
Secondary Education Sector Projects (Loans 2685-HA and 2987-MA); the Industrial
Training Project (Loin 2601-NA): and the University Development Project (Loan 2887-
MA). Overall implementation progress is satisfactory, although somewhat slow with
respect to disbursement processing under the First Sector Project, and strategy
formulation under the University Development Project.
2.35     Lessons learned.   Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been
prepared for the First, Third and Fifth Projects (PPARs No 2520, 6280 and 9709) and
Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for the Second, Fourth and Fifth (PCRs No 4471,
6499, and 7749).   The main problems encountered and lessons learned from these
documents, and from on-going supervision work, are summarized below.
2.36     A number of projects, especially the first four, experienced administrative
bottlenecks, leading to implementation delays (up to 117% for Ln 974-MA) and cost
overruns (19% for the same project). These problems, which were especially acute in



- 12 -
Sabah and Sarawak, were related to: the acquisition of communal land ruled by tribal
laws; the absorptive capacity of JKR, the local Public Works Department in charge of
supervising and controlling the quality of civil works; the difficulty experienced
by HOE in collecting evidence of payment for pre-financed expenditures; quantitative
and qualitative staffing and equipment constraints in MOE's Finance, and Development
and Supply (DSD) Divisions, which for a long time slowed down the processing of
accounts; and the two-tier auditing system, involving MOE and the Auditor-General's
Office, which had led to delays of up to one-year in submitting audits. A range of
remedial measures have been taken by Government, including: (a) advance planning for
land acquisition, facilitated by the availability of adequate funds (introduced under
Ln 2987-MA); (b) the increased engagement of private engineering consultants to back
up JKR (introduced under Ln 974-MA); (c) regular DSD trips to Sabah and Sarawak (Ln
2987-MA) to collect perforated vouchers as evidence of payments, and active search
for streamlined disbursement procedures better adapted to Government's sophisticated,
computerized financial reporting and control system; (d) assignment of a full-time,
certified and experienced accountant to DSD (para. 3.33). MOE's strong performance
in the Fifth Project led to the adoption of the sector loan format by the Eighth
Project.
2.37     A number of projects illustrate Malaysia's tendency to apply liberal space
norms and cost standards (Lns 599, 810, 974, 1657, 2685 and 2987-MA): for instance,
in the two on-going Sector Loans (2685 and 2987-MA), classrooms for primary classes
of 40 continue to be built on the basis of 750 sq.ft, although 600 sq ft is a
generally accepted norm for Bank-financed projects. The tendency to overdesign has
occasionally led to hasty capacity expansion: PCR No 7749 (Ln 1657-HA) mentions that
new, expensive facilities were built for two training institutes, although the
existing buildings could probably have been remodelled and expanded at a far lower
cost; similarly (Lns 1657-MA and Sixth Plan proposals), the type of workshop
equipment selected for electives is costly. Such efficiency considerations so far
have not been particularly worrisome for an upper middle income country such as
Malaysia; they do, however, take on a new urgency in the context of an ambitious
Sixth Plan.  For the proposed project, the norms to be applied have been clearly
defined, and efficiently gains will be sought through experimental research and will
be jointly monitored.
2.38     The Second and Third Projects  (Lns 810 and 974-MA) which introduced
educational radio, TV, etc. offer important lessons on the use of esucational
technology.  One is that the impact of these programs depends on their quality,
relevance, and utilization. Surveys of teachers suggest a number of factors which
have reduced viewing time, such as poor linkages with the curriculum, limited appeal
to children, sub-optimal time tabling, and uneven distribution of equipment across
schools. Additionally, teachers were not trained in the utilization, maintenance and
evaluation of audio-visual aids, and the budgetary requirements for operation and
maintenance (spare parts, consumables) were not taken into account. This has raised
some skepticism about distance education among MOE officials in the more remote
states, presumably the main beneficiaries of these technologies. Rather than ignore
these potentially powerful teaching aids, the project proposes, as per PPAR No 2520
and PCR No 4471, to: (a) focus on basic aids (library endowments) along with advanced
technologies; (b) provide for timely and adequate training and recurrent funding to
ensure the productivity of these costly investments; and (c) monitor distribution,
utilization, students' perception and impact on achievements.
2.39     Another important set of lessons relates to the limited impact of software
aspects (training, specialist services, studies) of projects (Lns 599, 974, 1329 and
2685-MA). Under Lns 599 and 974-HA, spe.ialist services were not utilized, or were



- 13 -
replaced by more training. Similarly, the studies financed under Ln 2685-MA to lay
the ground for a revision of the sectoral strategy did not fulfill their potential
as a vehicle for strengthening national research capabilities and for promoting a
broad dialogue. At this stage of its development, the sector can confidently seek
more exposure to, and cross-fertilization with, outside trends and experiences and
the matter is a design one. PCR No 6499 (Ln 1329-MA) stresses the importance of
closely linking the specialist services and training to the issues addressed by the
project, and of carefully planning all stages of the process, from TORs to
implementation and impact indicators. The same recommendations, which hold true for
innovations such as curriculum changes (Lns 599, 810 and 1329-MA), are relevant for
the research, the MIS and the staff development components of this project. They are
fully compatible with the time-slice sector lending format, which requires clear
initial agreements, criteria and indicators. Twinning arrangements between MOE and
reputable specialized institutions would be used to optimize the impact of the
project's software aspects.
2.40     Bank Assistance Strategy.  The Bank's country strategy aims at helping
Malaysia to define and implement the broad policy and institutional measures and the
investments required to achieve growth with equity.   This involves economic and
sector analyses focusing on stA.ategic issues, the development of sound policy
frameworks, institution-building and investment programs and support to Government's
key areas of emphasis.   Human resources development is one of these, as a pre-
requisite for increases in productivity and in private sector investment.   In
education/training, the strategy aims at enhancing the ability of the system to
respond to the skills demands of a competitive, rapidly evolving, hi-technology
economy, while completing the unfinished equity agenda. Central to this is the need
to determine the most efficient mix, level and type of public and private sector
interventions in the regulation, financing and delivery of services. in primary and
secondary general education, the Bank will continue to support a strategy of (a)
balanced expansion to reach underserved regions and expand the pool of secondary
graduates and (b) quality to reduce remedial costs and ensure the productivity of the
large investment planned in industry,'VET and higher education.
2.41     Rationale for Bank Involvement.   With this project, the close working
relationship built between the Government and the Bank over twenty-two years of
cooperation in education would continue in a new phase. The types of non-financial
inputs for which Bank involvement has been appreciated -- a constructive sector-wide
policy dialogue, assistance in sharpening the focus of programs, and institution-
building -- would now be applied to the new educational challenges raised by the
refocusing of -,he economy mapped out in Vision 2020, OPP2 and the Sixth Plan. The
financing of the social sectors has already become a central theme of the overall
policy dialogue with Government. The project would provide an opportunity to discuss
future sectoral policy issues, including efficiency, the need for increasingly
sophisticated management tools (EMIS, M&E), and the strengthening of capacity for
innovation and introduction of cutting-edge technologies such as distance education
and open-learning. Helping the Malaysian. education system to meet the skill demands
implicit in the transition to NIC status would also mean supporting an educational
model of relevance to other Bank borrowers, especially rapidly industrializing
countries and culturally diverse societies.



- 14 -
III. THE PROECT,
A. Obiectiveg and Scope
3.1      General. The proposed Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
would build on the achievements of the first two Sector Projects with a shift in
emphasis to reflect evolving sub-sectoral needs and issues. It would finance the
first financial time-slice (1993.-96) of the agreed core and potentially core
investment program (para. 2.33) plus three conventional (software) project components
(a research program, para. 3.17; an Educational Management Information System, para.
3.30; project management, para. 3.33). The next time-slice (from 1997 or.) is also
expected to be financed by the Bank, on the b&sis of agreed efficiency criteria
(para. 3.5).
3.2      Objectives.  In support of the Sixth Plan, OPP2 and "Vision 2020" (para.
1.3), the proposed Project would promote qMalitc and excellence in, and expand
equitable access to, primary and secondary general education; it would also improve
the efficiency of sectoral management.
3.3      Scone.  To achieve these three objectives, the Project involves a Policy
framedork and three investment components:
(a) Policy framework. The Letter of Policy and the Action Plan would emphasize
(i) the use of resource allocation criteria designed to equalize
educational opportunities; (ii) greater flexibility in approaching sectoral
issues, notably via operations research; (iii) the systematic monitoring of
measures to improve the effectiveness of the delivery system and reduce
unit costs; and (iv) containment of the growth of recurrent expenditures;
(b) Ouality and excellence. Funds would be provided to: (i) rationalize and
expand teacher training capacity by about 10% (3,000 places) and enhance
the quality of teacher tratning; (ii) improve the quality, availability and
utilization of educational resources through a distance education/open
learning program involving institutional strengthening, the upgrading of 4
state RCs, the production/distribution of multi-media kits and packages for
teachers and students, and the provision of library endowments to schools;
(iii) conduct a Program to promote Innovation, Excellence and Research
(PIER), with a focus on small rural schools, innovation in mathematics/
science, research, and pilot-operations in communications technology;
(c) Equitable access to guslity education. Funds would be provided to: (i)
construct/rehabilitate and equip about 4,400 primary and 3,200 secondary
classrooms; (ii) provide housing for about 3,000 teachers and boarding for
about 20,000 students mostly from rural areas; and
(d) Efficiency of educational management.   Funds would be provided to: (i)
implement a staff development program for about 1,000 senior and middle
level managers and professionals; (li) strengthen policy analysis, sectoral
planning and budgeting, and implementation monitoring, notably by
reinforcing the existing Educational Management Information System (EMIS),
and introducing a Geographic Information System (GIS); and (iii) reinforce
project implementation capacity at the central and state levels.



- 15
B. Detailed Descriltion
B.1      Pollcy framework
3.4      The Government and the Bank have agreed on a Letter of Sectoral Policy
(signed by MOE's Secretary-General, Annex_ O including an Action Plan (Annex 6),
targets and performance indicators, which would guide Project implementation. The
main policies contained in the Letter would be linked to the above objectives of:
(a) Promoting guality. In primary education, MOE plans to pursue its all-out
effort to improve the effectiveness of remedial programs.  It would clarify
the roles of the various institutions involved in teacher training for
secondary schools; with the Teacher Training Advisory Committee (TTAC),
headed by the Deputy Direccor General of Education and composed of the
Deans of Education of the Universities and representatives of the Teachers'
Union and of principals, it would prepare a concerted plan for secondary
teacher training; in particular, appropriate measures would be taken to
strengthen the training of mathematics and science teachers, on the basis
of the joint MOE-IIEP study.   MOE would also implement a number of
institutional and budgetary measures required to better integrate
educational technology in the curricula. Finally, it proposes to improve
the effectiveness of the teaching/learning process by experimenting with
alternative approaches to implementing the KBSR and the KBSM, involving
various input combinations; the findings would be disseminated among
practitioners and taken into account in the revised edition of the
textbooks (1994 for the KBSR), the TV and radio programs, and the methods
used for training teachers, school and classroom management practices.
Innovation in the teaching of mathematics, science, and in small schools
would be supported at the school and district level. Criterion-referenced
achievement tests would be introduced in Year 3 to monitor progress in
mathematics in a representative sample of schools;
(b) ExDanding equitable access. Comparative review and operational research
would be used to determine the most appropriate and replicable strategies
for early childhood development and for providing compensatory care and
education  to  rural  children  from  deprived homes.    In  the  school
construction program, priority would be given to maintaining UPE;
preserving the existing stock over expansion; increasing the lower, over
the upper secondary enrollment ratio;   reducing double sessions at the
secondary, before the primary level; and eliminating classes over 46; and
(c) Imnroving managerial efficiency. MOE would prepare a staff development
plan to organize training and specialist services around three thematic
clusters. Trainees would be selected on the basis of a specific work
program and impact would be monitored. In order to accommodate the Sixth
Plan's numerous claims on its budget, the Ministry would experiment with a
menu of unit cost-reduction and efficiency measures including: basing the
number of teachers on the number of students instead of classes to bring
the student/teacher ratio more in line with that in middle income
countries; improving multigrade teaching; greater use of distance education
techniques for teacher training and classroom instruction; continuing the
development of private education at the secondary and higher levels;
reviewing its staffing, technical, budgetary and utilization norms for all
educational facilities.



- 16 -
3.5      Given  the  importance  of  improving both  quality  and  efficiency,  at
nUntia;ions. assurWars were provided by Government that, in line with its stated
policy objective of lowering average unit costs, and the proposed introduction of
tighter new budgeting practices scheduled for MOE in 1995, it would: (a) develop and
implement  a mechanism  to monitor  in detail  the  growth  and  distribution  of
Government's education recurrent expenditures; (b) beginning in FY 1993, develop and
subsequently introduce efficiency measures and budgetary norms satisfactory to the
Bank designed to contain the growth of recurrent expenditures in primary and
secondary education while ensuring that the share of such expenditures allocated to
pedagogic materials and administrative costs is maintained at no less than their
average 1991-92 level (about 11); and (c) not later than June 30, 1993, develop and
implement a formula to maintain the real value of the per capita grants in primary
and secondary education at no less than their 1991 level.   To provide further
guidance, during the first project year (PYl) sector work would be conducted by a
team from public and private institutions to determine, in light of labor market
needs, the justification for, and magnitude of needs in, specific areas of
expenditures in the sector.
3.6      At negotiations, assurances were also provided that Government would (a)
implement the project in accordance with (i) the policies, procedures, criteria, and
indicators as stated in its Letter of Sectoral Policy (and specified in the Action
Plan), and (ii) guidelines and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) consult
with the Bank sufficiently in advance in respect to any material change in any
provision of said Letter or Action Plan during project implementation. Finally, an
understanding was reached on the dates and procedures for the joint reviews:
beginning in 1993, (i) implementation reviews would be held between Government and
the Bank by April 30 of each year, on the basis of annual progress reports to be
submitted to the Bank for comments by March 15; (ii) interim reviews -in the form of
joint workshops focused on priority quality issues-would be held by November 30 of
each year, on the basis of progress reports to be submitted by October 15; and ('ii)
an independent in-depth review would be held by the end of the second year of project
implementation (by November 30, 1994).
B.2.     Promoting quality and excellence
B.2.1    Teae.her Training (USS31.0 million equivalent, including contingencies)
3.7      This sub-component would (a) rationalize and expand teacher training
capacity for primary and secondary teachers; and (b) improve the quality of pre- and
in-service training in the TTCs, the RCs, and the Universities.
3.8      The TTAC (para. 3.4 a) has been created to advise MOE on:  the numbers to
be trained, locus of training, taking into account teacher:class ratios and teacher
specialization; courses and methods; the training of trainers; and the development
of linkages between TTCs and the Universities. In line with Government and Bank
estimates, some 3,000 additional teacher training places would be provided. They
would either take the form of 3 new TTCs or be located in Universities, depending on
Government's final decision on the institutional locus for (a) secondary teacher
training; and (b) in-service training, which could continue to utilize 20% of TTC
capacity or could increasingly be shifted to the RCs with open-learning and distance
education support. A qualifying implementation criterion against teacher training
capacity expansion would be preparation of a Plan, approved by the TTAC and
satisfactory to the Bank, based on a study of world-wide trends in teacher training,
to determine how many secondary school teachers will be trained by the Universities
and by the TTC8 respectively, as well as the areas of training and the cost. The



- 17 -
Proj act would finance civil works contracts, furniture and equipment for tnese 3,000
places. Annex 7 gives details on teacher requirements.
3.9      To improve the quality of teacher training, Government proposes to continue
to tighten admission into the TTCs, to upgrade one-third of their trainers, and to
strengthen the teaching of key disciplines and methodologies (mathematics, science,
multigrade and the use of audio-visual aids). The project would complement these
actions with the introduction of self-paced learning kits for the teachiuig of the
KBSR and KBSM and for untrained teachers (para. 3.14) and training (para 3.27).
B.2.2    Educational Resources (US 18.7 million)
3.10     In support of curriculum implementation, this sub-component would improve
the quality, accessibility for hard-to-reach schools and broad use of education
resources. It would (a) develop distance education and introduce oRen learning on
an experimental basis (paras. 3.11-3.14); (b) strengthen and/or expand the network
of Resource Centers at the State, District and school level (para. 3.15); and (c)
continue to provide schools with librarv endowments (para. 3.16).
3.11     Distance Education and 0pen Learning.  The Project would support:  (a) a
strengthening of ETD's institutional capacity; (b) the provision or renewal of
equipment at the school level and improvements in its management; and (c) the
development and distribution of multimedia instructional kits and packages,
videotapes and cassettes. First, in order to produce new radio, TV and audio-visual
programs, to provide adequate support to the RCs and to adopt new emerging
technologies, ETD needs some institutional building.   ETD is in the process of
tendering (under Government financing) the construction and equipment of a new
Center, which will bring under one roof its 6 Sections, presently scattered over the
capital city, and will provide it with improved facilities. In addition, the Project
would finance the training of specialized staff in techniques of program and material
production, research methodology and equipment maintenance (costed in the Staff
Development Program, or SDP, paras. 3.27-3.29).
3.12     Second, the Project would continue the program undertaken under the First
Sector Project to equip all 6800 primary and 1325 secondary schools with audio-visual
(VCR, TV, radio and radio-cassette) equipment. In addition to the hardware, it would
provide for an (a) inventory of all equipment in the school system coupled with a
technical audit to provide recommendations for more effective use, including the
introduction of a budget line for maintenance and parts; and (b) the strengthening
of the countrywide M&E system to monitor utilization and impact, provide feedback,
allow for adequate and timely replenishment and maintenance of the stock, ensure
equitable deployment and reduce interruptions in utilization. Teachers would be
trained in how to make the best use of progrAms in the classroom. Completion, and
review with the Bank of the inventory and the technical audit would be an
implementation criterion for this investment. The M&E system would be upgraded prior
to approval of the PY2 expenditure program. The Project would finance the equipment,
the inventory / audit, the M&E system, and (under the SDP) specialist services and
training.
3.13     Third, teaching/learning resources produced by CDC, the State RCs, the
Teacher Education Division (TED) and the Schools Division with the help of practicing
teachers would be made available to selected institutions. They would include multi-
media kits and packages as a priority, together with videotape and audio-cassettes.
The kits are boxed packs of resources on a particular curriculum-related topic for
use by teachers in the classroom; the integrated packages are activity-based, self-



- 18 -
instructional modules designed for students working individually or in small groups.
The proposal to broadly distribute material of international quality standards comes
in response to the finding that the effectiveness of less experienced teachers, often
posted in poor rural areas, increases sharply with the availability of well designed
instructional  material.    Although  the  production by  teachers  would not  be
discouraged, it would be de-emphasized. A set of 8 kit for the teaching of BM,
English and mathematics, specially designed for 1,000 small, isolated Schools, and
5 pre-school kits for 250 rural "chools would be developed by CDC and the schools
Divisions (in liaison with KEMAS, the government agency to whom the pre-scILool
program was returned in March 1992) and distributed.
3.14     While these kits aim to provide top quality pedagogic support to promote the
adoption of more flexible and stimulating teaching practices, four packages would be
designed to experiment, in at-risk schools, with more up-to-date, open-learning
technologies where the learner is the center of the process. The first Rackag (2
modules, 10 copies each to 125 districts) would be developed by CDC and TED for the
in-service training of teachers in the new methods and approaches of the KBSR and
KBSM. The second package (5 modules, 10 copies each to all TTCs and RCs) would
support the self-paced skills upgrading of untrained primary teachers. The thir
Rackage would consist of self-learning materials for children in rural schools, who
need more systematically sequenced instruction, more practice and more remedial
activities to master the key concepts of the four core subjects taught in primary
school. Thes- materials would be developed by the Schools Division in coordination
with Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) which has already successfully experimented with
this approach in the small rural schools of Sabah. They would be made available to
all students in 250 selected rural schools, with priority given to the schools using
multigrade techniques. The fourth Rackage would support the introduction of more
open and flexible learning strategies in secordary schools. It would consist of 12
self learning modules for lower secondary students in mathematics (3), geography (3),
learning skills (5) and citizenship (1) which have already been partly developed.
With minor quality upgrading, they would be distributed to the 350 Teacher Activity
Centers or PKGs (10 copies each). The utilization and impact of these resources
would be carefully monitored on a sample basis.   The Project would finance the
development and distribution of all the above kits and packages.
3.15     Resource Centers network.  The Project would upgrade the 4 State Education
Resource Centers financed under the Second Sector Project, develop/pilot a more
pedagogically efficient model for the future, and increase the effectiveness of the
existing 350 PKGs by upgrading the skills of their staff and ensuring the adequacy
of their operating budget.   In light of the issues discussed in para. 2.13, an
independent O&M study of State RCs would be conducted and reviewed with the Bank.
The study would make recommendations for improving the organization and management
of the existing State RCs, in turn leading to proposals for the design and operation
of future ones. As for the 350 PKGs, they have just been allocated one full-time
staff each; these 350 officers would be trained (e.g, at Universiti Sains Malaysia
or at Institute Aminuddin Baki, under Government financing) in resource management
and resource-based training. Because maintenance and the provision of spare parts
have been a problem in the past, they would be contracted under Government financing,
and monitored at the annual joint reviews, together with RC utilization and impact.
The opening of budget lines to ensure adequate capital/recurrent budgetary
allocations and to allow the efficient operation and maintenance of the RCs, as well
as of all project-financed educational facilities would be an implementation
criterion.    Subject  to  the  above  criteria,  the  project would  finance  the
development/piloting of a more cost-effective model for State RCs including the O&M
Study; remodelling and additional equipment as needed to that effect for the 4



- 19 -
existing State RKs; the equipment of 200 PKGs (the remaining 150 having been equipped
under the Second Sector Project); and additional training and specialist services for
RCs and PKGs under the SDP (Anne8$_).
3.16     Llbrary endowment:s for schogls.  Primary schools have book shelves in a
storage room, and books are taken to the classroom by the teachers whereas, secondary
schools have school libraries which are widely utilized to support the various
activities recommended by the curriculum.   Throughout the country there is a need
to continue the programs undertaken under the first two sector projects to upgrade
the book collections and increase the number of reference books (dictionaries,
atlases, etc.). On the basis of an inventory of needs to be prepared by districts
as an implementation criterion, books, shelves and related library science equipment
would be purchased to ensure an adequate supply of books. The Project would finance
about 5 books per primary school student and 10 books per secondary school student,
and adequate storage space as needed.
B.2.3    Program for Innovation. Excellence & Research (PIER) (USS3.2 million)
3.17     To promote innovation and excellence, a Program supporting four types of
activities would be undertaken under the gfi eral responsi'ility of EPRD. The four
PIER sub-programs would finance, respectively: (a) mathematics/science sub-Rrogram:
(i) pilot operations aimed at improving the teaching and practical applications of
mathematics and science in primary and secondary schools; (ii) implementation, in
secondary schools, of the recommendations of the MOE/IIEP study on science teaching;
(b) small. isolated rural schools: proposals presented by districts and PKGs to
improve the quality of teaching, improve transition rates and raise examination
scores in schools;  (c)   distance education sub-program:   pilot testing of new
communication technologies to accelerate the process of educational development in
line with breakthroughs taking place in more industrialized countries;   and (d)
research sub-program: research projects designed to explore alternative approaches
to make the delivery system more flexibla, more effect:.ve and more efficient, with
a view to maximizing learning achievements and equalizing learning opportunities.
3.18     More specifically:  (a) (i) the mathematics/science sub-program would make
mini-grants available at the local level to schools (up to M$5,000 each) and PKGs (up
to M$10,000) to finance science proj"cts such as school science fairs, competitions,
science camps, or applied science research (e.g, pollution monitoring and
prevention). About 200 proposals, equally split between schools and PKGs -- would
be supported over a 4-year period; (b) the small rural and poor urban schools sub-
program would support (up to M$l million for each of Sabah, Sarawak and Pahang) on-
going or new  experiments  such  as  the  "training and visit"  system  and the
"godfathering" system of Sarawak, or the training of rural primary teachers in
English (RUPEP, initially supported by the British Council) and the "principal
support group" system of Sabah; (c) the distance education sub-program (M$0.5
million) would support feasibility studies, trials and evaluation of pilot operations
developed by ETD and approved by the Bank to reach the most isolated schools. The
sub-program would cover interactive radio as well as such other technologies as
battery-operated HF radios, with print material support; use of solar-or battery-
powered satellite earth stations for direct broadcasting of live TV and radio
programs or for video downloading; video-conferencing; and interactivi computing; and
(d) under the research sub-program (totalling M$3 million), about 10 research
proposals leading to policy formulation would be prepared by the relevant divisicns
with local Universities involvement. Examples of topics include (i) alternative
strategies for pre-schooling and early childhood development (in liaison with KENAS);



- 20 -
(ii) more flexible classroom organization and management models; (ili) interactive
radio in mathematics and languages; (iv) development of curriculum-based assessments
in remedial education; (v) criterion-referenced assessment of Year 3 mathematics
achievements. This education research sub-program would be closely linked to the
policy research activities described in paras. 3.30-3.31.
t.19     All the above sub-programs would be under the responsibility and overview
of EPRD (except for the distance education sub-program, to be managed directly by
ETD).   One MOE Division has been appointed to coordinate each of the four sub-
programs. Worldwide experience has shown the importance of fair, open and balanced
participation of the various stakeholders in this type of activity. To launch this
component, a workshop would involve MOE central and local officials and
practitioners, and University and independent researchers to (a) ensure their broad
participation in the operations research and educational research sub-programs; (b)
specify their respective roles in the preparation, selection, conduct, peer review,
result monitoring and dissemination/ utilization processes; (c) finalize these
mechanisms,  including funding arrangements.   As research is relatively new to
Malaysia, EPRD would, under a twinning arrangement spanning training, specialist
services, and studies, receive design and implementation support from a 'world-class
educational research institution working in association with local universities.
3.20     Armex 9 provides details on responsibilities and procedures  for the
preparation, screening and selection of the proposals, their costing/ funding,
monitoring and evaluation, and findings analysis and dissemination, in which local
agencies would play an important role.  Results would be discussed at the joint
Anrr.al Reviews with a view to subsequent expansion. The funds would be disbursed
through EPRD and ETD, whose budgets would be replenished prior to approval of each
year's expenditure plan. The Year 3 mathematics assessment would be prepared by the
Examinations syndicate and CDC. Its results would be used for KBSR and textbook
revisions and for teacher in-service training.
3.21     Assurances were provided by Government that:   (a) all Project-related
research, studies and pilot-operations would be conducted on the basis of
arrangements, including terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) not
later than the beginning of school year 93/94, MOE would introduce in a sample of
schools a Year 3 mathematics criterion-referenced test and monitor/analyze its
results. The Project would finance: contracts payments and research grants to EPRD
and other MOE units, SEDs, PKGs, schools, University and independent researchers; the
publication of outstanding research papers; equipment or training as recommended by
the MOE/IIEP study; Malaysia's participation in international learning assessments
and communication equipment. The twinning arrangement is included in the SDP (paras.
3.28-3.30).
B.3      Expanding equitable access to quality education
B.3.1    Early Childhood Development and Special Education (outlay_ included
under the PIER)
3.22     Government has adopted a pre-school approach to early childhood development,
an option which could be complemented by home or community-based care to maximize the
benefits for the children and improve the conditions for replicability. As for
special education, a term used to refer to pupils with learning difficulties as well
as to handicapped children, it is central to the Government's goal of promoting a
caring society. Given the early stage of MOE's thinking in these two areas, the
project would focus on pilot-operations with different approaches, and the



- 21 -
finalization of a strategy, prior to expansion under the next time-slice, to be
determined at the in-depth review (end-1994). The Project would finance operational
visits, training, experimentation under the PIER, and limited equipment/civil works.
B.3.2    Primary and Secondary School Construction Program (US$ 254.2 million)
3.23     These two programs would finance the construction, equipping and furnishing
of primary and secondary schools to maintain UPE, improve the studying conditions
where quality is jeopardized by overcrowded or sub-standard facilities, and increase
the enrollment ratio in secondary general education. They would cover all 13 States
and the Federal Territory as shown in Table 1:
Table 1: School Construction Proarm
Number of Ctasses    New Places    New Teachers
(000)       Needs
Level of  Number of      Quality       Quality  Scen. Soen.
Education Classrooms  New   Inr.   New   Imr.    1    2
Primary    4,420   3,536    684   117    29    6,365  4,597
Secondary   3.132   1566        566    53     54    2819   819
Total   1  7:552  |5J102   2450   170    83    9 184
Based on: (a) Classroom:class ratios of 85X (P) and 69X tS) respectively;
Cb) Students:class ratios of 33:1 (P) and 34:1 (s) respectively;
(c) Teacher:class ratios of 1.8:1 (actual, both levels) for scenario 1,
and 1.3:1 fn primary, for scenario 2, to illustrate the potential
efffcfency gains.
3.24     The proposed Project would build about 253,000 student places, equivalent
to about 38S of the Sixth Plan total school construction program. Of these, about
one-third would be for replacements or quality improvements (replacement of unsafe,
overcrowded or double-shift facilities). The breakdown between primary and secondary
education is about 59% and 41%, reflecting Government's concern for equity. The
resource allocation and implementation criteria have been designed to prioritize
among districts essentially on the basis of needs, using poverty as a further
criterion to select among districts with otherwise equal needs.  Annex 1Q shows
enrollment projections as well as estimates of needs, Sixth Plan and Phase I
proposals for school construction.
3.25     Three potential constraints received special attention during preparation:
(a) lengthy and intricate land acquisition procedures (para. 2.36), especially in
Sabah and Sarawak due to, inter alia, lack of an effective cadastre system; (b) the
limited experience of the Federal Development Office (JPP) newly established in the
State of Sabah to implement all Federal Development Projects in lieu of the State
JKR; and (c) rudimentary self-help construction ("gotong-royong") based on
traditional techniques, which are used by rural communities in Eastern Malaysia when
Government services are slow in responding to demand for schools. To address these
constraints: (i) tlhe Economic Planning Unit has now adopted the practice of approving
for inclusion in each year development budget only those projects for which sites
have been acquired; to facilitate advance acquisition, special government-financed
funds have been set up in Sabah and Sa'rawak, and site selection and acquisition
procedures have been streamlined; as a result, sites have already been secured for
over 60% of the entire civil works program; (ii) in Sabah, the new JPP, in carrying
out its responsibilities, would exclusively use the services of experienced private
consulting firms to eliminate implementation delays in past projects due to site
problems and dubious contractors performance; for Sarawak, the threshold amount for



- 22 -
school construction to be directly handled by private consultants through the SED has
been raised, reducing the workload of the overburdened State JKR; and (iii) during
PFY, the SEDs of East Malaysia would review the possibility of improving the building
methods and technical standards of gotong-royong to extend the life of these
facilities and improve the quality of the schooling environment they provide. Final
understanding on these mechanisms was reached at negotiations.
B.3.3    Teacher housing and boarding grogran (USS21.2 million)
3.26     This sub-component would provide housing units for about 3,000 teachers
posted in isolated rural areas, and about 20,000 boarding places for able secondary
students from poor rural families.   Implementation criteria in both cases would
include commuting distance for the teachers, and the boarders. The boarding schools
could be located in urban areas due to catchment considerations, but would only
accept rural or hard core poor urban children. The Project would finance civil works
contra;cts for construction of the above schools, housing units and boarding
facilities.
B.4      Improving the efficiency of educational management
B.4.1    Staff development program (SDP)(USSl0.4 million)
3.27     The SDP would be geared towards promoting exchanges of experiences and
cross-fertilization with the international educational community, while obtaining
concrete results at the school level.   It would combine training,  specialist
services, and studies around three "thematic clusters": (a) the teaching/learning
process (about 40% of SDP costs) including curriculum innovation, teaching
methodologies, instructional design, educational technology, computers science,
distance education/ open learning, and research; (b) management, cost and financing
of education systems, including planning, financial and personnel management, testing
and assessment (40%); and (c) specialized areas such as early childhood development
and special education (20%).
3.28     Some 1,000 middle to sr. level MOE professionals and managers would
participate in the SDP, which would complement Government-financed in-country
training program for about 20,000 teachers/principals over the Sixth Plan.   The
program would cover (a) fellowships abroad for Master's (30 staff) and PhD (10 staff)
programs in technical and managerial fields not available in Malaysia; (b) specially
designed courses (6-12 weeks) in collaboration with reputable universities abroad
(about 200 staff); (c) operational visits for selected key officials to observe
success stories with approaches which Malaysia is considering (about 85 staff-weeks);
(d) in-country courses (6-12 weeks) by top world specialists in specific areas (about
700 staff) and (e)  regular and ad-hoc consultancies by outside specialists to
provide assistance in critical project areas or on sectoral issues (about 7 man-
years).
3.29     The SDP, to be implemented by EPRD's Central Staff Development Unit, would
be articulated around a number of umbrella "twinning arrangements" between MOE and
reputable international Universlties or specialized institutions, in partnership with
local Universities.   Two key twinning arrangements would focus respectively on
educational research (the PIER, paras. 3.17- 3.21), and on the EMIS (paras. 3.30-
3.31).    Under  the various  twinning  arrangements,  well-known  subject matter
specialists would help MOE to finalize the design of the SDP; they would provide
training, as well as technical guidance and operational support to the States, and
an independent perspective on research activities (peor reviewing, advisory panel).



- 23 -
Applicants for training under the SDP would be selected on the basis of a contract
with MOE linking the proposed courses to a concrete task or work program related to
one of the three clusters; the contracts would outline a follow-up plan, indicators
of impact, and a bonding clause.   Annual reviews would examine the supporting
administrative measures required to ensure the institutionalization of approaches,
methodologies and skills learned by the trainees.   Pending its formal creation,
EPRD's Central Staff Development Unit is already functioning under the Chairmanship
of the Deputy-Director General I.   Development and execution of the twinning
arrangements would be based on a detailed plan, including a phased schedule of
implementation, which was reviewed at negotiations. Agsurjnses were provided by
Government that not later than March 1, 1993, it would enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with appropriate institutions or universities
to provide support for implementation of the research (PIER) and the EMIS components.
The Project would finance twinning arrangements for a total of about 270 staff-years
of training (of which 120 abroad) and 7 staff-years of specialist services. Details
are provided in Annex L1.
B.4.2    Policy Analysis. Planning and Budgeting.  =&E (USS2.7 million)
3.30     The Project would strengthen the capacity and utilization of the EMIS as a
tool for policy-analysis, management and decision-making. The focus would be on (a)
improving the horizontal integration of the .EMIS; (b) developing complementary
indicators and an early warning system to monitor progress towards Sixth Plan goals;
(c) conducting special studies; and (d) reinforcing the budgetary process in response
to Ministry of Finance's (MOF) requirements.  (a), (b), and (c) wculd be closely
linked to the educational research sub-program under the PIER (para. 3.18).
3.31     EPRD's Policy and Research Unit would play a central role in this sub-
component, to be coordinated by EPRD's Director himself. This senior official would
oversee the preparation of an overall MOE Plan identifying the studies to be
conducted, assigning responsibilities and proposing a dissemination scheme; however,
the main focus would be the use of the EMIS to strengthen the budgetary process (d)
above. Improving the horizontal integration of the RMIS to include budgetary and
financial data would allow progress towards monitoring and studying the linkages
between inputs, outputs and costs/expenditures. By the first Annual Review, on the
basis of a survey of information needs of decision-makers and an analysis of MOE, EPU
and MOF reporting requirements, a set of the most critical indicators of Plan
implementation would be specified to form an early warning system. Special studies
requiring cross-divisional coordination would be conducted to shed light on important
issues for decision-makers, while intensifying the use of existing data and enhancing
national research capacity.   For PY1, these studies, to be fed into the budget
preparation process, would cover: (a) the efficiency of educational expenditures in
the past five years; (b) financing scenarios for the development of post-basic
education; (c) impact evaluation of the use of radio and TV programs in the
classrooms; (d) achievements in mathematics/science of pupils in single-grade,
multigrade, double-session Alasses. Finally, to reinforce the budgetary process, a
cost accounting and analysis function would be established in the Finance Division
prior to the first Annual Review. Training in advanced analytical and quantitative
techniques would be provided to existing staff in the concerned MOE and MOF Units.
3.32     At neg2tiatogns, Government and the Bank reached an understanding on the
staffing, funding, operating and utilization norms for all project-financed
facilities. These norms would be reviewed annually between MOE and the MOF and with
the Bank with a view to increasing efficiency. The Project would finance: under the
twinning arrangement mentioned in para. 3.29, the necessary specialist services (3



- 24
staff-years), staff training (49 staff-years), operational visits (8 staff-months)
and seminars; the purchase of advanced microcomputers; and selected software,
including the Geographic Information System which allows multivariate analysis of
distributional inequities. Annex .12 provides details on the EMIS, including the
norms and the instruments to be used to monitor and oval &ate project implementation,
especially learning achievements.
B.4.3    Proiect management and imolementation (USSQ.6 million)
3.33     MOE's implementation capacity at the central level (DSD) is being and would
be further strengthened in line with the on-going and proposed increase in its work
load.   DSD is already a well managed entity, headed by a senior, experienced
educator. Its capability is being reinforced through (a) the computerization of its
project management system, and the purchase of additional computers, printers,
software and training services under Loan 2601-MA (Secone Industrial Training
project) and (b) the recruitment of a full-time architect/civil engineer under the
proposed Polytechnic Development Project. These measures would go a long way towards
eliminating occasional bottlenecks. To further sharpen DSD's efficiency, the project
would support three actions. First, a full-time qualified and experienced accountant
was appointed to DSD to reinforce the effectiveness of its loan management; this is
expected to result, among other things, in the submission, to the Auditor General's
Office (AGO), of higher quality financial statements, in turn definitively
eliminating past delays in the submission of audit reports to the Bank. Second, the
Project would finance, and build on the recommendations of, an independent 0&K
assessment of DSD (to be reviewed at the first Annual Review) covering training
needs, procedures governing the flow of information and work, physical lay-out,
additional computer software, etc.  Third, the project would also provide modest
supplemental funding for operation and administration to assist PMT staff in
intensifying its supervision of State and District level implementation activities
and to provide additional technical assistance to the SEDs, particularly Sabah and
Sarawak.   At the State level, JKR has,  in recent years,  begun resorting to
consultants to reduce backlogs in civil works quality control. The adequacy and
timeliness of this assistance would be examined at each Joint Annual Review. The
Project would finance the O&M study, the supervision fund as well as the preparatory
report for the in-depth review (end CY-94) to be conducted by an independent body.
IV.   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
4.1      Sixth Five-Year Plan.  The baseline cost of the Government's Investment
Program in Education proposed under the Sixth Plan (RM6:1991-1995) is estimated at
N$8.5 billion, equivalent to about US$3.4 billion. The allocation for primary and
secondary general education and related activities amounts to about N$2.8 billion
(US$1.1 billion equivalent), of vhlch MS$2.1 billion (US$0.8 billion) represents the
Core Investment Program (CIP). The CIP foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$0.3 billion equivalent, about 40% of baseline costs. Detailed costs are provided
in Annex 13.
4.2      Summary of Phase I Costs.  The Project costs of US$342.0 million, covering
a time-slice of 4 years (1993-1996), represent about 42.7% of the total costs of the
CIP, with an estimated foreign exchange of US$141.0 million, or 41.2 % of the total
cost (Table 2). Table 3 provides a breakdown of investment costs of Phase I by
categories of expenditures.



- 25 -
x3bt2  : Breakdown of Education Core Investment Progran wnder RN6
RK6
US milton a/
Phase I     X      Phase II      X      Total Wh
Prwmotina quality and Excellence
1. Teacher Prof. Dev. Prog.                31.0               46.0                 77.0
2. Educational Resources                   18.7               13.6                 32.3
3. Educational Research
Subtotal                    52.9      15.5     6.        -W T        am
ExDandina Access &-Eauftv
1 PRE Schools                                                 31.8                31.8
2. Primary Schools                       .120.9               146.2               267.1
3. Secondary SchooLs                      133.3               151.4               284.7
4. Teacher Housing                         10.6                25.2                35.8
5. Student Boarding Fac.                   10.6                25.2                35.8
6. SpeciaL Education                      2        1
Subtotat                   275.5     80.5    U319H0       W-    &64.
ImorQving Wnaaerial EffIc.
1.7Staff Developminnt Prog.                10.4                 0.5                10.9
2. Monitoring & Evaluation                  2.7                 4.8                 7.5
3. Project Management & Admin.            0.6        -0.62
13.7                 5.9 1..3           19.6
TotaL Project cost         342.0    100.0      460.9     100.0    802.9
Nu mnbers may not add up due to rounding.
i Including physical & price contingencies.
TabLe 3: Phase I Investment Costs by Categories of Expenditures
Ms                           U6S                    % Totl
%FoFWgn    Bas
Loca    Foreign   Tota        Ll    FoMagn   Total          Excage    Cost
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CMI Wors                     303.3   194.8  558.1          144.5    77.8  222.4              34.9     09.9
B. Equdpment                      0.7    00.1   00.8            2.7    23.9   20.6              90.0      8.4
C. Funitur                       68.0     19.3   77.3          23.1      7.7   30.6             24.9      9.7
D. Bool and Matab                29.7      9.9   39.0          11.9      3.9    15.6            24.9      6.0
F. Spabt Sevices                 0.8      1.4    2.2           0.3     0.0    0.9              04.9      0.3
F. Staff Tradning
1. Loca FelowsNpe &Trg.        6.6      2.8    9.4           2.6      1.1     3.6            29.9      1.2
2. Ovasea Fallow. &Tig.        3.3    29.8   33.2             1.3    11.9   13.2             90.0      4.2
- - - - - - -        - -- --    --     - -
Sub-Tottl                         9.9    32.7   42.0            4.0     13.0   17.0             70.0      5.3
G. Rsaearch, Studies & Grnrt      0.4      4.3   10.7           2.6      1.7    4.2             39.9      1.3
H. Management and AdrnSntrat      0.8      0.5     1.3          0.3      0.2     0.5            39.9      0.2
Total BASEUNE COSTS             475.0    322.9  796.6         199.2   128.9  316.1              40.5    100.0
Phyesc Condngxce                 0.0     0.0    0.0            0.0     0.0     0.0             0.0       0.0
Prb Contlngerw                  30.0    30.7   73.3           11.7    12.2   23.0              50.9      7.6
- - - - - - -          -- -- --    -- -
Totl PROJECTS COSTS             512.2   359.0  871.8          201.0   141.0  342.0              41.2    107.5
______        ______- -_                    _-___         _   __   __-__         _   __   __   _   _-_
Value Sced by 1000000.0 .    10/15/92
IV   Numbers may not add up cdue to rounding
4.3          Baseline  costs for the RM6 program refer to May 1992 prices.   Civil works
costs were based upon awarded contracts and cost analyses for similar facilities
under the ongoing First and Second Primary and Secondary Education Sector Projects.
The total cost of construction and site development averages M$414 (US$165



- 26 -
equivalent) per m2 for primary schools and N$650 (US$259 equivalent) for secondary
schools. Prices in the remote and mountainous areas of Sabah and Sarawak are about
10% higher. The cost of land and professional fees are not included in the above
unit costs. Equipment and furniture costs are based on MOE/DSD and JKR's standard
equipment lists, which are adequate and economical. Specialist Services (SS) cost
estimates are based on recent experience in Malaysia and comparable SS in ongoing
Bank supported human resource projects. The costs of overseas fellowships include
travel, housing, accompanying family, if any and tuition costs.
4.4      Project costs include a contingency allowance of US$23.9 million   for
estimated price increases. No physical contingencies have been applied to the base
cost estimates, since total expenditures are limited by the total budget allocation
for the Sixth Plan period and any significant changes in costs would be handled
through adjustments in physical targets. Price contingencies were estimated on the
basis of the implementation schedule and expected annual price increases of 4.0% for
local costs and 3.9% for foreign costs.  Accordingly, aggregated price increases
represent about 7.5% of baseline costs.
4.5      The foreign exchange component of US$ 141.0 million (about 41.2% of total
estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the following estimated
foreign exchange percentages: civil works 35%; imported equipment 90%; furniture
25%;  books  25%;  specialist services 65%;   and overseas  training 90%;  local
fellowships and training 30%.
4.6      Indirect taxes and duties are estimated at M$19.9 million (US$7.9 million
equivalent) based on the current 2.75% tax on building materials, furniture and
educational materials.   Imported equipment and instructional materials would be
exempt from import duties.
B. Financing
4.7      The loan of US$ 141.0 million would finance 41% of total estimated project
costs, equivalent to 100% of its foreign exchange costs (Table 4) or 42% of total
net- of-tax cost. As Sixth Plan implementation is an on-going process, retroactive
financing of up to US$14.1 million (no more than 10% of the proposed Loan) would be
made available to the Government to finance expenditures (all eight categories)
incurred after July 1, 1992. Government has agreed that all contract eliible for
retroactive financing (tentatively at about US$8 million) would comply with Bank
Procurement Guidelines.



- 27 -
Tabi 4.: Finacfng Plan )
CMS mittion)
X Share
Catesory of Expenditures  Government  IRD Total  IBRD
CIAl Works             152.0    84.3  236.3   35
Equipment               2.8    26.2  29.0   90
Furniture              24.3    8.4  32.7   30
Books and Educationat  14.3    5.3  19.7   30
Materials
Spefialtst Services
Fellooship. Studies     0.3    0.6  0.9   80
and Special Support
Research and Studfes    2.7     1.9  4.5   40
Training                4.2    14.2  18.3   40
I eration & Adininistration    0.3    0.2  0.6   40
Total      |  201.0   14110  342.0
ad Figures may not add up due to rounding.
4.8      Recurrent Costs Implications and Sustainability. Over the past two decades
the Malaysian economy has been extremely buoyant (para. 1.1), allowing Government
recurrent expenditures to increase considerably during the period and by 15% p.a
during 1990-92.   Even with these large overall increases, education has been
allocated above the average. The result has been to increase the sector's share in
Government total recurrent expenditures from 17.7% in 1989 to a historical high of
19.6% in 1992. Government revenue increases now appear to be slowing down. For 1992
they are forecast at 5.7% and for 1993-96 at around 7%. Unless MOE's share of total
expenditures continues to rise, or revenues are substantially above those forecast,
the rate of growth of allocations seen in the recent past cannot be continued. Over
the past two years, unit costs have increased substantially due largely to salary
increases and restructuring, and the 1992 budget allocations are 38% higher than
actual 1990 expenditures. All additional costs resulting from these exercises should
be worked out by end-1993. To achieve the enrollment targets set in the Sixth Plan
and assuming constant 1992 unit costs over the remainder of the period, expenditures
will roughly need to increase by around 7% p.a. (in real terms). This is broadly in
line with the forecast growth in total Government recurrent expenditure and should,
therefore, be feasible within NOE's current share of total recurrent expenditures
(subject to the provisos in para. 4.11 below).
4.9      The Project will increase recurrent costs mainly through those parts of the
school building program which allow for an expansion of primary and secondary
enrollments. Additional enrollments in Project schools are estimated at 117,000 at
the primary, and at 53,000 at the secondary levels. Based on current unit costs,
these will add around  M$216 million to MOE's budget.   The total addition is
estimated at M$274 million once all project components are in operation (the other
components with recurrent cost implications are school boarding places and the new
teacher training places). If MOE maintained its share of total recurrent Government
expenditure at the 1992 level and total expenditures grew at around 7% p.a. as
forecast, the Project's recurrent costs would be equal to 3.1% of the Education
recurrent budget in 1996. They would be equivalent to 13.2% of the total increase
allocated to Education.
4.10     These projections and the apparent relative ease of Project sustainability
(and to a lesser extent the feasibility of sectoral expansion planned over the Sixth



- 28 -
Plan period) are subject to a number of considerations which, given the behavior of
MOE's expenditure over the past few years, are critical.   First, they assume no
further increases in unit costs which, between 1990 and 1992, will have increased by
over 30 percent (current terms) for primary and secondary schooling. Any further
increases would probably have to be met by a reduction in the volume of inputs as
pressure develops to halt MOE's rising share in total recurrent Government
expenditure. Second, an additional pressure on primary and secondary education will
come from the need to rapidly expand post secondary education, for which enrollment
ratios are still low. Sixth Plan allocations for this sub-sector have increased at
a higher rate than for primary and secondary schooling and their higher unit costs
are likely to drive up the share of the total recurrent MOE budget. Third, a number
of additional policy changes being considered for primary and secondary schooling
could have important cost implications. These include vocational wings in secondary
schools, special education, a rapid expansion of upper secondary schooling and a
fully university-trained secondary school teaching cadre.  Fourth, the education
expenditure projections as shares of overall expenditures are based on an assumption
that Government revenues will remain buoyant through the mid 1990s. This may require
additional revenue raising actions which are under active review as part of the macro
dialogue on fiscal reform.
4.11     While the Project's recurrent costs appear to be comfortably within the
Government's and sector's financial capability, the possible sources of the above
concerns will need to be taken seriously.   In the event of recurrent funding
problems, the Project is such that the school building program which generates the
majority of recurrent costs could be slowed down. Iowever, a more proactive approach
is recommended, involving:   (a) a rigorous examination of the recurrent cost
implications of initiatives which are planned or being considered; (b) a concerted
approach to issues of cost recovery and private education, especially in tertiary
education; and (c) efforts to increase efficiency, especially at the primary level.
Annex 14 provides estimates of the Project's and the sector's recurrent funding
requirements.
C. Management and Implementation
4.12     Status of Drenaration.  At Negotiations, the DSD/PMT submitted for MOE a
detailed expenditure plan for the first year of the 4 year time-slice (Phase I) and
a projected plan for the next three years; both plans are being finalized in light
of the Bank's review and comments. Sites for about 60% of the entire construction
program have been acquired; land titles and proofs of acquisition would be retained
by DSD for random review by Bank missions.   The identification of Key Twin
Institutions is at an advanced stage and all TORs were reviewed during negotiations.
4.13     The Sector ARRroach.  With its long implementation period (1991-97), the
Sixth Plan lends itself well to a sector approach with time-slice financing, which
offers flexibility for making adjustments as the Plan progresses and sharpening the
focus on key policy areas as needs evolve. As this would be a third-generation
operation, implementation responsibilities are now fully integrated in the MOE
structure, and there is no need to a set up a special entity to provide centralized
direction and coordination to design, select and supervise "sub-projects". However,
the Project would mai.ntain the use of criteria to guide the implementation, and, as
needed, the substitution of sub-projects within the general framework defined in
Chapter III, and of indicative guidelines for the broad allocation of the Loan among
programs (with a margin of flexibility not exceeding 10% in financial terms). Gi-en
the high degree of substitutability among investments implicit in the time-slice
format, this is necessary to ensure that the key objectives of the project are



- 29 -
achieved and that an appropriate balance is maintained between hardware and software
components. The criteria and the guidelines are detailed in Annexes 15 and 1i.
4.14     Management and implementation responsibilities.   The primary executing
agency for the Project would be MOE, which has established a MOE Development
Committee (MDC) to oversee the implementation of all ongoing Bank-financed projects.
The MDC, which is chaired by MOE's Secretary-General (Chart 2), is assisted by a
Secretariat which provides regular technical guidance to DSD/PMT on project
implementation, raises issues needing attention and makes recommendations.   It
includes senior MOE staff from the Educational Planning and Research (EPRD) and the
Development and Supply (DSD) Divisions (Charts 3 and 8). The Secretariat provides
interagency consultation and coordination with (a) the Economic Planning Unit (EPU)
of the Prime Minister's Department, which allocates investment budgets, (b) the
Treasury, which allocates recurrent budgets, (c) the Public Works Department (PWD),
which is responsible for the execution of civil works and, (d) other government
agencies. In managing, monitoring and evaluating project components the Secretariat
is supported by and receives advice from a number of Technical Subcommittees. At the
central level the Secretariat works closely with the Implementation Coordination Unit
(ICU) of the Prime Minister's Department, which is in charge of monitoring the
physical and financial aspects of national projects. At the regional level, the
Secittariat collaborates with the State and District Development Committees, which
include representatives from all federal and state agencies involved with the
project, and are in charge of overseeing development programs at their respective
levels, under the chairmanship of the State Chief Minister, ex officio, and the
respective District Officers.
4.15     To ensure more effective integration of policy/quality considerations on one
hand, and physical/financial aspects on the other hand, project implementation would
be entrusted to a Project Management Team (PMT, Chart 7) consisting of existing staff
and fully integrated in MOE's structure. PMT's institutional locus is the Foreign
Loans Unit (FLU) of MOE's Development and Supply Division (Chart 8). The FLU (Chart
9) is a permanently established unit responsible for implementing projects supported
by bilateral or multilateral sources. The PMT is headed by a project director, a
senior education specialist, who ensures articulation between EPRD's pedagogical
concerns and PWD's requirements for civil works. PMT members include staff from DSD
and EPRD under a teaming arrangement essentially similar to that in previous
education projects. The DSD and EPRD both have considerable experience in project
management, having jointly implemented a number of Bank-financed education projects.
The PMT would, in addition to its usual implementation tasks, prepare each year for
the joint Annual implementation review (by end-April) a draft detailed expenditure
and implementation plan for the following year of project implementation and
estimated budget lay-outs for subsequent years. In preparing this plan, PNT would
ensure that the agreed-upon criteria and guidelines for of implementation and
substitution of sub-projects by the relevant Directorates, and for allocation of Bank
Loan funds among programs are complied with. Joint Annual reviews would examine lO1
of district allocations at random. Annex 17 provides details.
Procurement
4.16 Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 5 below:



- 30
Toble : Pro curement Arrange enta
(US$ million)
Total Cost
Category of Expenditure   Procurement Method  (inc. cant.)
ICe    LCB    Other
Civil Works            25.0  211.3       -         236.3
(9.0)  (75.3)              (84.3)
Equipment              16.7    8.3       4.O       29.0
(16.3)   (6.9)    (3.0)     (26.2)
Furniture                      32.7      -          32.7
(8.4)               (8.4)
Books & Educational                     19.7Q       19.7
Naterfals                              (5.3)       (5.3)
Specialist ServIces     -               15.3        15.3
and Fellowships                        (13.6)     (13.6)
Studfes                 -       -        4.5        4e5
(1.8)      (1.8)
Local Training                           4.0        4.0
(1.2)      (1.2)
Operatf0n and Adeinistratfon   -  -      0.5        0.5
(0.2)      (0.2)
Total         41.7  252.3      48.0       342.0
(25.3)  (90.6)    (25.1)   (141.0)
0v  International and local shopping an basis of three prico quotations.
SpecIalist services engaged in accordance with Bank guidelrnes
Note: Ffgures In parenthese fndicate moumts ffnanced by the Bank.
4.17     Civil Works.   Civil works contracts costing US$5 million equivalent
(aggregate US $25 million or more) would be procured under ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines.  This would be the case for civil works contracts
for the construction of new TTCs (or university-based teacher training capacity).
All other civil works contracts, valued below US$5.0 million (and estimated to total
US$211.3 million equivalent,  including contingencies)   would consist of new
construction or expansion of school buildings. Experience in current Bank-financed
education operations has shown that these contracts do not attract foreign
contractors,  due to their dispersed locations and small size.   The domestic
construction industry is well developed and competitive and can carry out the civil
works components efficiently. Foreign firms would be allowed to participate in LCB
contracts in accordance with PWD procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank.
4.18     Goods.   Procurement methods for goods and services are as follows:
Equipment would be grouped to the extent practicable to form bid packages costing
US$200,000 or more. These packages would be bid under international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures. Small items or. groups of items estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 would be purchased on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally
in accordance with government procurement practices, which are acceptable to the
Bank.  The aggregate amount of such packages would amount to US$8.3 million for
equipment and US$32.7 million for furniture.   Small packages of equipment of a
specialized nature, not exceeding US$100,000 each, may be procured through
international shopping procedures based on comparing price quotations from at least
three suppliers from two countries. Other small value items estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 may be procured through local shopping procedures based on at least



- 31 -
three price quotations or may continue (as under the first two Sector Projects) to
be supplied under existing Government bulk procurement contracts, based on local
competitive procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. All of these Items would
not exceed an aggregate total of US$4.0 million (US$2.5 million for international
shopping and US$1.5 million for local shopping and direct contracting). Books and
instructional materials amounting to US$19.7 million would be procured by local
(US$13.5 million total) and international shopping (US$6.2 million total) from
sources which assure that the rights of copyright owners are respected.   The
Government has developed a network of national and international publishers who are
cost-effective, competitive, and best placed to respond to the linguistic and
pedagogic demands of the KBSR and KBSM. For comparing foreign and local bids under
ICB, qualifying domestic suppliers and manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the rate of customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers or
15% of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
4.19     Consultant&.  Consultants for Bank-financed services would be selected and
appointed in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Overseas
fellowships would be arranged in accordance with agreed criteria for fellowship
selection and through negotiated employment contracts acceptable to the iBank.
4.20     Review Qf Procurement.  The following contracts will be subject to Bank's
prior review:   (a) all contracts awarded on the basis of ICB; (b) the standard
bidding documents to be used in LCB and the first LCB contracts for goods and works;
and (c)  sampling (10%) of overseas fellowships, training, consultants and studies,
to be determined at each Annual Review. All other contracts would be subject to
post-review by the Bank. Prior review would cover about one-fifth of the value of the
contracts to be funded from the Loan.
Disbursements
4.21     The proposed Sector Loan of US$141.0 million equivalent would finance 100%
of the estimated foreign exchange of the project. Disbursements would be made on the
basis of: (a) 35% of the cost of civil works and related professional services; (b)
100% of the C.I.F cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured goods and 65% of the costs of other locally procured goods;
(c) 30% of the cost of furniture, books and materials; (d) 80% of the cost of
consultants, overseas fellowships and operational visits; (e) 40% of the cost of
local training; (f) 40% of the cost of research and studies; (g) 40% of the cost of
operation and administration. All disbursements for contracts above US$1,000,000
equivalent for civil works and US$400,000 equivalent for goods and services financed
by the Bank loan would be fully documented.   Disbursements for contracts below
US$400,000 (US$1,000,000 million for civil works) and for fellowships and study tours
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation of
expenditures would be retained by the Project Management Team at DSD and made
available for review by Bank missions.   In view of the satisfactory budgetary
procedures and financing of previous education and training projects, it was agreed
to accept the Government's preference not to establish a Special Account.
4.22     Disbusement Profile.  The proposed Sector Loan would be disbursed over a
time-slice of four years. The closi_g date is expected to be December 31, 1996. The
disbursement schedule (Aznnex 13) indicates a faster pace of disbursements than the
Bankwide and Regional averages for education projects. This is judged feasible in
light of the strong pipeline of sub-projects (equivalent to over two years of
implementation) at an advance stage of preparation, Including fully secured sites.



- 32 -
Monthly reviews would be held by MOE and MOF, in order to identify any slowd(.Wl in
disbursements and promptly take corrective action as needed.
Accounts. Audit. Renorting_and Supervision
4.23     The DSD/PMT would establish and maintain project accounts for all project
expenditures in accordance with accounting principles and practices acceptable to the
Bank. Project accounts and the SOEs would be maintained separately. The Proji..ct
would be subject to normal Government accounting and auditing procedures, which are
considered acceptable by the Bank.  DSD/PMT would submit to the Bank within six
months of the end of the Malaysian fiscal year, i.e. by June 30 of each year,
starting in 1993, auditors' reports including separate audit of accounts relating tc
disbursement against SOEs.  The Project's Supervision Plan is in Annex 19.  Its
Processing and Implementation Schedule is in Annex 2Q.
V.   IMPACT ON POVZRTY ALLEVIATION. WOMEN IN DEVELOPKENT AND THE ENVIRONMENT
5.1      The NEP has been a resounding success in terms of poverty alleviation and
the equalization of educational opportunities.   Through its resource allocation
criteria, the Project would further support achievement of the Sixth Plan's central
objective of eradicating hardcore poverty. Regarding female promotion, while there
is still an unfinished agenda in higher, vocational and non formal education, gender
parity has been achieved in primary and secondary education. There is still however,
qualitative differentiation. The Project would, 6ith the assistance of the Women's
Bureau, explore and introduce measures to encourage girls in secondary education to
prepare for admission into the more technical and managerial streams in higher
education, leading to more remunerative professions.
5.2      In recent months, environmental concerns have assumed central prominence in
Government's development plans and in the Bank's country strategy, cutting across
such sectors as forestry, sanitation and environmental health. The project would
reinforce this strategy in several ways. By supporting implementation of the KBSR,
which has a strong environment focus, and school-based science projects in such areas
as pollution monitoring and prevention, it would contribute to enhancing awareness
of the need to protect Malaysia' s rich natural resource base and would encourage more
students to enter environment-related scientific streams. Safety procedures similar
to those practiced in industry would be followed in the construction of civil works.
Additionally, the wide use of cement asbestos materials in the construction of school
buildings, which presents potential health hazards, would be strongly discouraged.
At negotiations, assurances were provided by the Government that it would maintain
and enforce regulations (issued in May 1992) to prohibit the use of cement-asbestos
materials in project school and educational buildings.
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1 The Project would create some 253,000 school places for children mostly from
educationally or economically disadvantaged backgrounds; this would help Government
to maintain UPE, to increase capacity in secondary education by about 8%, and to
directly enhance the schooling environment where sub-standard classrooms threaten
learning achievements. However, its main benefits would be of a qualitative nature,
as quality inputs and the emphasis placed on research, M&E and management would
enhance the system's ability to produce graduates equipped with the skills, attitudes



- 33 -
and values required to maximize the productivity of the large public and private
investments planned in knowledge-based industries, vocational/technical training and
higher oducation. Greater flexibility would prepare the education system to meet the
skills demands of an increasingly complex, competitive and volatile economic
environment.   Increased efficiency would facilitate the accommodation of many
competing sectoral claims within resource availability.
B. Risks
6.2      The risks involved in this third-generation project are relati-. ly limited,
although those facing the Sixth Plan for Education/Training as a whole are worth
mentioning.  At the project level, there is a risk of implementation delays and
disbursement lags.  Measures recently adopted, and assurances received concerning
site acquisition, civil works supervision and disbursement requests processing have
begun to show results and are expected to prevent a reoccurrence of this type of
problem. The other two risks relate more to the Plan. One is that, at the maco
level, sustainability might become problematic if all of the sectoral investments in
the Sixth Plan (notably in higher education and vocational/technical training) were
to materialize simultaneously and under the present high unit cost/low cost-recovery
regime.   This risk is considered manageable given the quality of the macro and
sectoral dialogue concerning fiscal reform and the financing of tho social sectors,
the advanced stage of Government's thinking on alternative delivery and financing
mechanisx.s. and Malaysia's strong record in human resource development.  The third
risk -- that of slow implementation of key policy measures of a sensitive nature --
could compromise the educational and training capacity-building effort needed to
achieve fully industrialized status.  The commitments expressed in the Letter of
Policy and the focus of the policy dialogue underlying the Annual Implementation
Reviews should be adequate safeguards against this risk.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) it would (i) develop and implement a mechanism to monitor in detail the
growth and distribution of Government's education recurrent expenditures;
(ii) beginning in FY 1993, develop and subsequently introduce efficiency
measures and budgetary norms satisfactory to the Bank, designed to contain
the growth of recurrent expenditures in primary and secondary education
while ensuring that the share of such expenditures allocated to pedagogic
materials and administrative costs is maintained at no less than the
average 1991-1992 level; and (iii) not later than June 30, 1993, develop
and implement a formula to maintain the real value of the per capita grants
at no less than their 1991 level (para. 3.5);
(b) it would (i) implement the project in accordance with the policies,
procedures, criteria and indicators as stated in its Letter of Sectoral
Policy (and specified in the Action Plan) and in accordance with guidelines
and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) consult the Bank
sufficiently in advance when considering material change of any provision
of said Letter or Action Plan during project implementation (para. 3.6);
(c) all Project-related research, studies and pilot-operations would be
conducted on the basis of arrangements, including terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.21);



- 34 -
(d) not later than the beginning of school year 93/94, MOE would introduce in
a sample of schools a Year 3 mathematics criterion-referenced test and
monitor/analyze its results (para. 3.21);
(e) not later than March 1, 1993, MOE would enter into contractual twinning
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with appropriate institutions or
universities to provide support for implementation of the PIER and EMIS
components (para. 3.29);
(f) it would maintain and enforce regulations to prohibit the use of cement-
asbestos materials in project school and educational buildings (para. 5.2).
7.2      During negotiations, the Government and the Bank reached final understanding
on the following, which will guide implementation of the Letter of Policy:
(a) the Action Plan, including targets and indicators (para. 3.4);
(b) the dates and procedures for the joint annual implementation reviews,
interim reviews and the in-depth review (para. 3.6);
(c) final details of the mechanism to ensure adequate advance land acquisition
and civil works planning, including the use of consultants by JKR (para.
3.25);
(d) the plan for developing and implementing the twinning arrangements (para.
3.29);
(e) present staffing, funding, operating and utilization norms for all Project-
financed facilities, to be reviewed annually (para. 3.32);
(f) a detailed implementation and expenditures plan for the first year of
project implementation, and budget outlays for the following years (para.
4.12); and
(g) criteria and guidelines for the implementation of sub-projects and the
allocation of Bank Loan Funds (para. 4.13).
7.3      Expenditures incurred after July 1, 1992 and eligible for reimbursement
under the proposed loan, would be financed retroactively up to a total of US$14.1
million equivalent (para. 4.7).
7.4      Subject to the provisions in paras. 7.1 through 7.2 above, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US $141 million
equivalent to Malaysia, with a term of 17 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
at the standard variable rate.



MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIUARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PRoJEI
Socio-Economc Indicators
I Per Capita MP       Mean onthLy               Poverty hI           Enrollments f/        Transition Rates /
te  (978 prces)     Household Inome pj                                   (000)                                      Infant Deaths and
State            Ns                NS               AbsoLuto   Rotative                           Pr1bery/    Lower Sec./         Rate IV
(XO f      _ou_eholds)  Pr_ _rv   Secondary   Lower Sec.   U_ _er Sec.
Johor             3,983               1,220                 1.6       10.2     283        159         86.46        60.59             12.23
Kedah             2.600                 860                 8.6      30.1      185        100         74.69        65.21             15.74
KeLantan          1,739                 726                 7.3       29.9     176         88         70.05        66.87             15.17
Kuala             7,60%               2,102                 .                  135         84           .            .
Lspur
Labumn              .                   .                   1.6       15.3      .           .        103.61        60.77               -
klaka             3.587               1,190                 3.8       12.5      70         49         91.82        65.95             10.12
Negan             3.62A               1,162                 2.3       9.6      103         59         88.26        64.36              9.86
Pahang            3,278               1,092                 2.2       10.3     156         78         82.64        59.50             14.65
Perak             3,357               1,067                 4.9       19.4     285        176         86.71        58.22             15.63
Portis            2,973                 852                 3.4       17.6      24         14         91.01        58.23             11.67
Pulau             4,934               1,375                 2.2       8.9      128         90         93.42        61.94             11.96
Pino9
SaIeh             4,500               1,358                 8.7        .       227        101         83.76        57.00              17.6
Sarawek           3.883               1,199                 3.3        .       222        122         81.90        59.11             10.5
Seltngor          6,558               1,790                 1.1       7.9      280        142         83.50        61.93             10.92
TerensgEnu        7.124                 905                10.2      31.5      114         49         75.54        63.96             15.53
Malaysia          4,392              1.254                  4.0               2,390      1,311        83.29        61.58             13.45
Sources: a  Sixth  alaysioa Plan, 1991-1995
y Household Survey, 1989
LI MIOE, 1989
N Dep,rtment of Statistics - Vital Statistics, Peninslar Maloysia, Sabah, and Sarawak (1989)
Nuwbens msy not add up due to rourding.
F lam



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
NALAY$IA
THIRD PRIMUAR AM SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Educational Data
(1990, unless otherwise indicated)
Total Population             :  17.9 million (Malays: 61.7%; Chinese: 29.6%;
Indians: 8.0%; Others: 1%)
Population Growth Rate  :  2.5% p.a. (1985-90)
GNP per capita               :  US$2,227
Urban Population             :  41.5%
I. EDUCATION DATA
.-able 1: Enrollments
Enrollment
Level                 Age-Group       Grade      Enrollment   % Female    Ratio (%)
Primary                  6-11          1-6        2,447,206         49           99.8
Secondary               12-16          7-11       1,304,212         -              -
Lower I               12-14          7-9          942,801        50           83.0
Upper k/              15-16         10-11          361,411       51           49.1
Post-Secondary
and Colleges g,         17-18         12-13          121,042        -            16.4
Form VI                 -             -            55,799        59              -
Pre-Uri-versity         -             -            12,124        47
Colleges d/             -                          53,119        45             -
Higher u/               19-22         14-17          53,476         44            2.7
g/  Includes 89,221 students in Remove Classes. The lower secondary enrollment ratfo excluding students in
Remove Classes Is 75X.
kf  Includes 331,289, 24,845 and 5,277 students in academic, vocational and technfeal secondary schools,
respectively.
/  1989 data. Governwent calculation of the enrollment ratfo fs based on the 17.18 age growp although maan
college coure exceed two years.
gy Includes 17,011 and 7,978 students in teacher training and polytechnic colleges, respectively, and 28,130
students in the Hra Institute of Technology and Tunku Abdul Rahman College.
s/ 1989 data on enrollments In the country's seven universftfes. The higher educatfan enrollment ratio fs
based on the 19-24 age group.



- 37 _
Table 2:   Physical Data
Page 2 of 4
Staff
Enrollments    Teachers    Schools    Clamroo          Classe      Boarders    Housing
Primary       2.447,206       120,025      66828        62440        73,639       52,817      12,343
Secondary y     1,367,493       72,455       1,327        28#281       40,769      151.292       6,475
f Ordinary teachers (i.e., excluding special function teachers) um br 106550 nd 63,396 in primry and
secondary schools, respectively.
g/ Utility classroom.  Plan classroom  are 63.362 and 29,9SS for primary nd s*condery sAools, respectively.
h NuWer of teachers in staff quarters. The n -ers of availabte units are 9,310 and 5,107 for primary nd
secondary school staff, respectively.
i Includes Remove Classes through Form VI, and GCE/Natriculation ClaesaJ In secondary schools.
Table 3: Key Ratios
Student-      Student-      Student-      Te cher-     Ctassroour      Bo rders-     N0uAIngs
Teacher        Cless       Clsssroon       ctess         Class        Enrollment      Staff
Primary         20            33            39            1.6           0.85           0.02         0.10
Secondary        19            34            48            1.8           0.69           0.11         0.09
/ For ordinary teachers, the student-teacher ratios are 23 and 22 and teacher-elass ratios are 1.4  nd 1.6.
at the primary and secondary levels, respectively.
/ Utility classrooms.
The ratios of availeble units to teachers are .08 rnd .07 at the primry  n  socondary levels, repctively.
Tabl2-4: Class Utilization
Double Shiftingf
Number              Percent   Nukbe                  Percent
mf
Primary                                  1,060                 16%        10,158                14%
Secondary                                  781                 61%        12,755                31%
Oversized Classes
Mora Than 45                            More than 40
Students                                SLW2nts
Number             Percent    Number                 Percent
Primary                                  8,456                 11        22,025                30%
Secondary                                1,072                 3%          6,132                15%
Underenrglled PriMary Schools (Less than 150 Students)
Number                                            2,532
Average enrollment                                    82
Students:teacher                                      12
Percent with Multigrade Teaching                      31%
M/ The n,ber of afternoon schools is dedted frm the total nuer of schools In calculating these
proportiors.



- 38 -
Page 3 of
Table 5:  Teacher Training
Teacher Training Output
Teacher Training Colleges a/                           11,215
Primary                                               n.d.
Secondary                                             n.d.
Unziversities 2d                                        2,328
Proportions of Graduate Teachers in Secondary Schools
Lower Secondary                                           9%
Upper Secondary                                          76%
Lower/Upper Secondary                                    52%
n/ 1989 data.
of 1987/88 data.
Zakble 6: Private Education
Private Schools I/
i  Nuka              Enroll enus               Teachers
Primary                            43                     6,896                     475
Secondary                        447                    115,903                   6,669
2  1989 data. Includes full-tfme teachers only.
Table 7:  Mean Years of Education by Sex and Age Groups, 1984 and 1987
Ago              Mean Years of Iducatlon. 1984                      Nean Years of EdLucation, 1987
-at-                    Fent -es    -      -ales                           Fomales
roL   Nalaw   Chinese  Indian   Palay   Chinese  Indfan  Malay  Chfnese  rIndian  Nalay  Chfnose fIiEan
15-19    7.0      7.1     6.6    6.4       6.7      6.0    9.2       8.5     8.5    9.2      8.6      7.9
20-24    7.3      7.7      7.0    6.4      6.8      5.8    9.9       9.0     8.9    9.5      9.7      9.2
25-34    6.6      7.2      7.2    4.8       5.7     5.5    9.0       8.6     8.2    8.0      7.8      6.8
35-44    5.0      6.0      6.5    2.5       4.0     4.5    7.2       7.6     8.0    5.3      5.6      5.3
45-54    4.3      5.8      6.3    1.7       3.1     2.5    5.0       5.8     6.3    2.4      3.3      3.7
55-64    3.7      5.0     4.1    1.2        2.0     1.7    3.4       4.3     5.5    1.0      1.6      2.5
: 65    2.8       3.7     4.0    0.9        1.1     1.52    2.3      2.6     3.2    0.2      0.6      1.1
All      5.7      6.4      6.3    4.0       4.8     4.7    7.6       7.4     7.6    6.4      6.0      5.8
oure*: 30 percent smloe  1984 and 1987.
otes: The obwe caluelatfons are based on the _aabers file" I.e. all mabers of a household *14 years have been considered
In the calculations.



- 39 -
Page 4 of 4
Igtaa:  Studen PerformaneIP  Ratm *t the Pdrtlmrv Sdwobl Acheemt tast  IUPORI Iltnad 61. 19097.190 tIn lEI
UMaOW   F INSTIWCTIOI        BAHASA MALAYSIA IBM)                        CHtSEU                                TAML
Sub99                         19 1987    1199               1987 1998 1897   1000  19e  1990    1987   1989      1988       1890
_aes MValsa IsMI              o-70.0   0.70.0   e-84.0             e-80.1   o-08.4   o-02.4             o-54.0   0-64.1    e-47.0
91.90   w-59.7  w-04.5   w-90.0   50.1   w-35.8  w-38.7   w-34.1   34             w-22.0  w-30.4   w-28.9
or-87.0  or-90.9      -               _         _          _
Chise                                                              *-826.0  c-S3t   0-78.8
_        -       -         -       83.0   w-00.2  w 3OS.0   w-70.4    _            _       _          _
er-87.2  or-88.4      -
TWnIl                                                                                                   o-72.8   o.75.7    e-74.4
_        -       -         -        -      -          - _               75     w-32.2  ww62.0   w-65.9
or-85.9  or-89.2      -
EnlIsh               65.0        69.1    63.3       53.2   72.8    05.0      09.4       72.7    50.8      51.5      57.1       02.9
tmatIcs               60.0       68.5    75.4       57.8   809.     91.3      92.3     e9.4    60.0       05.3      07.7       47.9
8en: Exemeton Syndicate
&f do 1997 tst was emnbstwed to 805 ehwols;
W a - oomWrwenlon w * writing; or a oralrmaing;
gJ remit. shown hwe are for tudent rated 'A  1exo. *  (good) and *C- Istfatory);
/ begmnn In 1990. the teat admInistered In BM and English wet differnt for th ntl IMesypeWngl and th netionsl - type
IChins or ToAhl) prIary schools.
Too2.2: Student Pformanoe IPese Rot") at the *Low.r Certificate of Eduatin  ISRPI thew 'Malalv oefcat of Edution" ISPNI. and
e *Maladv  Hioher Cei lo  Education" ISTPM  1987.1990 On %)
RANS_  OF PASS RATES AUG40 STATES
1987                        1988                               1980                    1990
______________   Lowest       HighetH         LOeWt          Highest           Low st         Highest   Lowet        Highest
SRP                                                                                                   02.6       70.9
8IJil        00.4         74.2           00.8           70.1              02.2           78.0
Pend-h
MLaysl                00.9                          07.8                          09.0                       09.3
59.4         79.0           58.7          98.5               04.7           82.8        58.8       80.3
Malara                                        _                                               -  
72.6                         72.0                          70.7                       71.5
Pers_kolaha      42.4         79.7           80.6           91.0              47.5           90.0        50.5      80.1
Vokseon                 II 
60.1                         70.4                          82.7                       80.3
-                      -                     -                                                                  -        - i,   
Perselahen        00.8         92.5           80.4           95.1              88.0           90.2        80.0        91.2
(PrinalpalI
level  pas es                                                                   .-__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
Mlaymsa              9S7                             2.7                          93.3                        80.8
80u: Exaninstion Synate
:  Of th four nedonel examintions: (a) %JJln Pnpalan Skoish Rsnah PSA). at the end of Grud VI, Is. tocWomlly speakIng
an _smsnt It Is not used as a solecon tool (al sdets are promoted to Form 11.  ilb  Hnd Poruh Plaran ISAP) at the
nd of Form 11. Is botha *elotfon and a otlficatIon -  midon  howwr, as of 1990. promotion to Form IV wIA bome automoaft.
as aflrot te towerd un iwver    g uppe sondary _edution; (a)  I Paeran Maoyi (ISMI IO" level owAvalont. at th end
of Form VI. bedo to etfiftion * well o seoloton to Form VI (prewnvsty lvwl); d) 8lilU m%ll Pekolh-n Malaysi I(8PM)
rA  lv sq*vmnt. at the end of Form VII Is lso both a seleon - well   a cedfication tool. Soolb     assesment Is a
mnaor fhtr of the K8SR nd KSSM Inplmrnettion. Ewn _nti  end  _sm nts are entially nor_.rfend.



40-                                 ANN    3
Page 1 of 8
THIRD PRIAR  AND aEODAYEDUCATION SECTOR PROJCT
PAST TRENS AND UTUR  OPIONS =O  EDUCATION EXPENDITURE
I. Edugation Exjpndiue  1986-92
1.    Over the past decade, the Malaysian Government has allocated significant
resources to the educational system. In most years these have been equal to
between 5.8 and 6.2 percent of GNP. As a share of total Government expenditure,
allocations to education have increased In nine out of the past eleven years.
The annual rates of growth of recurrent and total expenditures on education since
1987 are shown in Table 1. Since 1989 recurrent expenditures have increased by
an annual average of 14.9 percent. An a result of capital exprnditures in 1991
and 1992 being below those of the previous year, total education expenditures
have 'only' grown by between 10 and 11 percent a year.
Table 1. Annual Rates of Growth of Educational Expenditure 1987-92
ExpendLture   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Recurrent      3.1   6.8   7.1  12.6  17.7  14.3
Total         -2.2   6.6  13.4  16.8  10.8  10.7
2.    Over the past two decades the Malaysian economy has been extremely buoyant
with the rate of growth of GDP averaging 6.7 percent a year. Since 1988 the average
rate has been  9.0 percent.    This  success has  allowed Government recurrent
expendltures to increase at an average rate of 11.0 percent a year. Even with these
large overall increases, however, education has been allocated over the average in
each of the last four years. The result has been to increase education's expenditure
shares as Table 2 demonstrates.   They are now at historically high levels.
Subtracting debt and other transfer payments from the recurrent budget to leave
departmental expenditures, education's share has increased from 29 to 33 percent.
IBhl L: Education's Share of Government Recurrent and Total Expenditure 1989-
1992
Expenditure   1989  1990  1991  1992
Recurrent    17.7  18.3  18.9  19.6
Total        17.4  17.5  17.8  18.0
3.    The data above reflect the Government's normal classification of education
programs.  There is, however, a significant additional item of expenditure which
needs to be consldered.  This is scholarships, the most important of which are
provided by NARA and the Public Services Department. Together in 1991, the allocation
was 1*678 million, equivalent to 11.6 of the recurrent education budget. For 1992



- 41 -
AI,R=E 3
Page 2 of 8
the allocation is M$623 million. Adding scholarships to the education recurrent
allocation takes its share of total recurrent expenditure to 21.4 for 1992.
4.    Since 1986, recurrent extienditures in educstion have increased by over ten
percent a ye&r. Enrollments have increased by much less. Between 1986 and 1990 they
increased anraually by (percent):
primary           2.3      post secondary  2.4
lower secondary   0.2      university       6.7
upper secondary   1.9
Increased expenditures partly reflect higher rates of enrollment increase at the more
expensive levels of education and partly reflect increases in the average annual
expenditure per child at each level of education - the unit costs.
II.   Unit Costs and Their Determinants
1.    The basic set of unit recurrent cost estimations by level in Table 3 is for
1990 - the latest year for which enrollment data exist (apart for the universities
where the latest are for 1989). These estimations require some qualifications and
elaborations.
(a) The  figure  for  secondary  general  covers  both  regular  and  fully
residential schools. The latter are few but much more expensive. An
EPRD report for 1983 estimated that they we-re ovker five times as
expensive per pupil;
(b) For all post secondary education there is an additional charge on
Government of scholarships. In 1991, the value of all scholarships was
equivalent to 89 percent of the allocation to all ten universities; and
(c) The estimations are of recurreut costs only.   Capital costs differ
substantially between  tertiary and pre-tertiary education.    Rough
estimates of costs per place are M$26,000 polytechnic, M$3,500 secondary
and M$1,900 primary.
Tabte 3: Unit Recurrent Costs by Level of EdLcation 1990
Unit Cost (14)   Unit Cost (Primary * 1)
Levet
Prfmary                         770           1.0
Secondary general             1,294           1.7
Secondary vocatfonal          2,916           3.8
Polytechnic                   2,083           2.7
Teacher trainfng              7.829          10.2
KAR Institutes                 7.642          9.9
TAR College                    1,436          1.9
Universitfes                  10.360          13.5
Note: IV The Pro-University unft cost is an average weighted by enrollments
for ARA Instftutes nd the TAR College.
W The overalt ratio for post-secondary fs a weighted average based on
enrollments and the weighted unit cost ia NS8.240.



- 42                                       3
Page 3 of 8
2.     Another way of presenting the unit recurrent costs is to compare them to tie
level of per capita income. This enables comparisons to be made between countries
without having to use exchange rates and allows for differences in standards of
living between countries. Table 4 presents the results of such calculations for
Malaysia and for comparator sets of countries for the mid 1980s, as well as
converting the 1990 unit cost figures from table 3.
table 4: Unit Costs as a Percentage of GNP Per Capita: Malaysia and Comparator
Regions Mid 1980s and 1990
I             East Asia  Latin America  Malaysia  Malaysia
1980s        1990s        1980s      19908
Primary          11           9            14         12.5
Secondary        20           26           21         21
University      118           88          190        168
Source: Malaysia mid 1980s. Tan end NIngat (1989) East Asfa,
South Asia nd Latin American 1980, Ningat and Tan
(1986).
Note : ) Malaysfan GNP per capita 1990 was USS2,277.
bJ Between 1990 and 1992. unit costs for primary
and secondary education, expressed as a X of GNP,
increased to 13.9 and 24.5X, respectfvely.
3.     Unit costs in Malaysia as a percentage of per capita income tended to be
higher thar. in comparable regions of the world in the mid 1980s in both primary and
university education. By 1990 the unit cost measures in Malaysia had fallen a little
as teacher salaries failed to keep pace with increases in per capita incomes. This
is also likely to have been the case in many other countries.
4.     Since 1990 allocations to the education sector have increased significantly
as described in para.l above. Rough calculations using the 1992 budget estimates
and Ministry
enrollment projections suggest that the unit cost of primary education in 1992 will
be M$1,030. Given current projections of per capita income, primary unit costs will
be equal to 14 percent - back to the situation in the mid 1980s. For secondary
schooling, the 1992 unit costs are estimated to have risen to M$1,806, equivalent
to 24.5 percent of per capita income,
up from 21 percent in 1990.   A lack of enrollment data since 1989 for the
universities precludes a similar update being made for that level of education. It
would appear that the large increases in education expenditure in recent years - well
beyond any increases in enrollments - have resulted in Malaysia's unit costs again
diverging from regional patterns following, perhaps, a brief period of convergence.
5.     The major determinant of unit costs at primary and secondary levels is the
salary cost per student. This depends upon the level of salary and the number of
pupils per teacher.  In Malaysia in the mid-1980s pRimarv teacher salaries as a
multiple of per capita income were slightly belo  the regional average.   The
relatively high unit costs, therefore, at that level of schooling were not the result
of high salaries. They were the result of low pupil:teacher ratios. Across all
primary schools the ratio in 1990 was 20:1. This compares to an average across:
15 Asian countries of 33
4 Southeast Asian countries of 29
33 lower middle income countries of 29
26 upper middle income countries of 30



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8
The unit c-i measure for reoular secondary schools in Malaysia appears to be more
in line wit .ther comparable countries. Again teacher salaries appear to have been
relatively low in the mid-1980s. Pupils per teacher in 1990, however, were 19:1
compared to a regional average of 23:1 (in the vocational schools they were 9.2:1
and in the MARA junior science schools 9.0:1). It is the low pupil:teacher ratios
in Malaysia which result in the relatively high unit costs.
III.   prolections and Plans
1.     The Sixth Plan contains projections of enrollments for each level of
education. Some of these reflect past trends and some reflect changes to policy.
In addition, there are a number of other policy changes which while not leading to
increased enrollments are aimed at quality improvements and will involve additional
costs.   Given the already high share of educational expenditure in the tctal
recurrent budget, the implications and feasibility of the planned changes require
analysis.
2.     Recapping from section I, operating expenditures in education over the past
three years have increased by 54 percent compared to an increase of 37 percent in
overall operating expenditures. As a result, the share has increased from 17.7 to
19.6 percent: or from 29 to 33 percent of total departmental expenditures. The
large increases have been allowed due to a growth in Government revenues of 15.2
percent a year over the past three ,e.rs. However, in 1992 revenues are forecast
to increase by just 5.7 percent, and over the following three years by around 7.0
percent.    Unless education's share of total expenditures  continues  to rise
significantly, or revenues are substantially above those forecast, the rate of growth
of allocations seen in the recent past will not be sustainable.
3.     Much of the increase in the past two years or so has resulted from salary
increases arising from changes to the salary structure of teachers and of the public
service as a whole plus across-the-board increases. There have, however, also been
substantial increases in the number of teachers, well beyond enrollment increases.
Between 1988 and 1990, primary
teachers increased by 10.0 percent and secondary teachers by 11.7 percent. In 1992
there are further planned increases of around 8,500 teachers.
4.     Utilizing the enrollment projections for 1995 from the Sixth Plan together
with the unit costs for 1990 inflated by the (roughly) one third increase which has
occurred between 1990 and 1992 for primary and secondary schooling and a quarter for
post secondary education to reflect the lower share of salaries in total costa at
this level, total expenditures will roughly be 70 percent higher in. 1995 than in
1990. Much of this increase has already taken place and been accommodated through
the 1991 and 1992 allocations but the implied annual average increase of around 14
percent for the whole 1990-95 period suggests that significant increases will be
sought for the sector over the next few years.
5.     The comments above relate to the education sector as a whole. Of added
importance for the provision of primary and secondary schooling is the faster rate
of enrollment expansion planned for tertiary and higher education. Over the 1990-95
period, enrollment projections in the Sixth Plan imply growth of 15, 31 and 57
percent for primary, secondary and post secondary education respectively. The share
of the total recurrent budget allocated to post secondary education will increase,
adding to any pressures already being placed on primary and secondary schooling.



-44                                   ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 8
This trend is likely to continue into the future as the Government attemp% to expand
access to tertiary education from the currently relatively low level tt one more
comparable to countries with similar economic structures and ambitions. One pointer
to this is the pattern of increases in capital expenditures in the Sixth Plan over
those in the Fifth Plan - primary 34 percent, secondary 29 percent, tertiary 55
percent and training programs over 100 percent. The recurrent cost implications will
begin to accrue from the middle of the decade.
6.     The projections and discussion above relate only to enrollment expansion.
There are also several initiatives which have been accepted in principle or are being
currently considered in attempts to increase the quality of schooling. Among these
are:
(a) the development of vocational wings in upper secondary schools;
(b) the creation of a secondary school teacher cadre consisting only of
university      graduates; and
(c) fast and slow tracks within primary schools.
In addition,the pace of planned increases in the transition rate from secondary Form
III to IV appears not to have been finally determined. There are also, apparently,
pressures to increase the number of special function teachers in primary schools.
Each of these measures would have significant recurrent cost implications.
6.     The pressures to expand and develop the education system are strong.  Some
are inevitable and in-built and some still depend on decisions being made. Given
the analysis of education financing in this paper it will be important to ensure that
the recurrent cost implications of any proposed policy changes are calculated in
detail early on in the decision making process. Even without any additional sources
of increased expenditures, the planned expansion pnth may have difficulties in
operating within the current (relatively high) share ox education in total Government
recurrent expenditure.   Much depends on the ability to maintain increases in
Government revenues.
IV.    Options
1.     If financial pressures do develop, one set of options would be to slow down
current plans to increase the access to schooling and/or postpone interventions for
quality improvements. As both are regarded as undesirable, expenditure growth would
need to be curtailed in other ways. These might include:
(a) a significant increase in the level of cost-recovery in post-secondary
education and training plus further encouragement of private
institutions; and/or
(b) an identification and introduction of measures to reduce the average
annual cost per student at each level of education.
While some attention is currently being given to (a), less attention is being given
to (b).  In the remainder of this paper, a number of possible interventions to
constrain the unit costs of primary and secondary schooling are provided with, in
some instances, some indicative illustrations of the implications.
2.     Primary.   Currently there are 2532 small (underenrolled) schools which
represent 37 percent of all primary schools. Enrollments in these represent 8.5
percent of the total. The average number of students per class is 15.5 and per
teacher is 12. The average school has an enrollment of 82, has 6.85 teachers and



-45 -                                ANNEX3
Page 6 of 8
just over five classes.   (Alternate year entry schools may have three classes).
Changes in the organization of teaching, particularly larger multigrade classes,
could lead to a reduction in the number of teachers. At present, Circular 3/67
allows teachers according to the number of classes. For instance, schools with
enrollments between 71 and 95 are allowed n + 1 (where n - number of classes) and
between 96 and 120, n + 3. With more multigrade teaching, the number of classes could
be reduced, and hence the number of teachers, without sny change ogf lgislation (or
the norms).
3.     If the 'average' underenrolled school decreased its teaching staff from 6.85
to 5.0 (a pupil:teacher ratio of 16.4, still low) this would lead to a requirement
of 12,660 teachers instead of the current 17,354. Emoluments would be reduced by
around 4 percent of the primary total.   Alternatively,  the teachers might be
redeployed to reduce overcrowded schools. Currently there are 8456 classes with
enrollments of 46 or more. Using the current teacher:class ratio norm of 1.5, the
redeployed teachers could support 3129 classes. Obviously it would only be feasible
to introduce additional teachers to reduce class sizes in large schools where there
are several classes at each form level, but the indicative figures, of savings or
redeployment, give some idea of what might be achieved.
4.     In the regular primary schools there are 60,164 classes.   The overall
student:teacher ratio is 20.5. Altering the teacher:class ratio would change the
student:teacher ratio and the number of required teachers in the following (rough)
way.
Teacher:Class     Student:Teacher Ratio  Required Teachers
Ratio
1.8                   20.6                109,000
1.6                   23.3                 96,000
1.4                   26.6                 84,000
The average student:teacher ratio for five Southeast Asian countries including
Singapore is 28.6 and for middle income countries as a whole is 29. For Malaysia
to move to a ratio of 24:1 in the regular schools would reduce the required number
of teachers by around 16,000 out of a total of 120,000. Emoluments for these teachers
are around M$180 million, or 12 percent of total primary school emoluments.
5.     In regular secondary schools, the student:teacher ratio is closer to the
regional average (19 and 23 respectively). The main avenues to reduce the unit costs
of overall secondary schooling would be via the vocational, fully residential and
junior science schools. These can be up to four to five times as expensive as the
regular schools. At the very least some systematic efforts could be made to examine
the additional benefits which emanate from these schools.
V.     Concluding Remarks.
1.     (a) Over the past few years Government expenditures have been increasing at
unprecedented high  rates.    However,  education  expenditures  have
increased at an even higher ratis resulting in greater and greater
shares of the total being allocated to it;



- 46-
Page 7 of 8
(b)  Government projections of revenues from 1992 onwards indicate lower
growth rates than over the last five years or so;
(c) Unit costs tend to be significantly higher than in other comparator
countries when expressed as percentages of per capita income. This is
particularly the case at primary school. The reason for this is low
pupil:teacher ratios;
(d)  In  the  near  future,  constraints  on  the  expansion  of  education
expenditures may grow as the share goes beyond 20 percent (and 35
percent of total departmental expenditure);
(e)  The relatively low level of post secondary enrollments in Malaysia and
the desire to increase these may lead to greater shares of the education
budget being focused on this sub sector; and
(f)  In such circumstances and if existing programs to increase access and.
quality are to be maintained, and others introduced, in the primary and
secondary schools it appears to be appropriate to begin to consider
alternatives for restructuring expenditures in ways which will have the
least effect on education outcomes.   This Annex has suggested some
directions to follow toward that end. More work is required to provide
further details of the costs and outcomes of these alternatives, and
others. It would be preferable if the Ministry of Education was to be
the leader in any such exercise rather than the EPU or Ministry of
Finance.
Ffnancial Otl (1981-922
1. EmwIf tures
Table 1: EdLcationaL Expenditures 1981 - 1M
Year   Recurrent    Growth    Denelotnt    Total   Growth
(MM)       X          (W)        (NSa)     X
1981    2,7A6        -          791       3,517     -
1982    2,991        10.0      1,082      4,073     15.8
1983     2.915      -2.5        988       3,903     -4.2
1984    3.183        9.2       1,009      4,192     7.4
1985    3,473        9.1        8n        4,345     3.6
1986    3,743        7.8       1,064      4,80?     10.6
1987    3,862        3.1        610       4,672     -2.2
1988    4,115        6.8        865       4,980     6.6
1989    4,407        7.1       1,242      5649      13.4
1990    4,962        12.6      1,634      6,596     16.8
1991    5.840        17.7      1,472      7.312     10.8
1992     6.674      14.3       1U423     86097      10.7
owure:s Nfnistry of Financo Econowmc Raport various years.
Note s a 1981 - 1990 are actuatl 1991 estimted nd 1992 allocated
expenditures.
w These totals also cevr aducatfonal program in minietrie
other than Educati.n.



- 47                                               ANNEI  3
Page 8 of 8
Tabl N& : Minstry of Education lxsndDurea 1985 - 1992 (OMa)
Year      Recurrent      increase       Primry a         noreas       Rec. Ed. Exp. as X Total
Total           (X)         Secondary         (M)                Re. Exo.
1988       4,044                          2,727                                 18.5
1989       4,332            7.1           2,890           6.0                   17.4
1990       4,945           11.8           3,291           13.9                  17.0
1991       5,701           17.7           3,809           15.7                  18.5
1992       6.672           17.1           4,435           16.4                  19.6
Note:      1988 - 1990 are actual, 1989 nestited and 1992 allocated expenditure.
The allocations to priwary and secondary do not lnclude hotels, food, scholarships, textbook loans
or the cost of central Ninistry operations, mch of Aihch Is directed to primary and secondarv
schooling.
Table 3 Educational Expenditures as Shares of Total Government
Expenditures and GNP
Year    Education as Z of Total   Education as X of Totat    Total    Total as a X of
Rec. Exo.                 Dev. ExD.                           GNP
1981              17.3                       7.0               13.0           6.3
1982              17.9                       9.4               14.5           6.8
1983              15.9                       10.2              13.9           6.0
1984              16.1                       12.0              14.9           5.7
1985              17.3                       17.2              16.0           6.0
1986              18.6                       14.1              17.4           7.2
1987              19.1                       17.1              18.7           6.3
1988              18.9                       16.5              18.4           5.8
1989              17.7                       16.1              17.4           5.9
1990              18.3                       15.3              17.5           5.4
1991              18.9                       14.2              17.8           5.9
1992              19.6                       12.9              18.0           5.9
Note: W  The relatively high share in 1987 was combined with a decrease in the absolute anoumnt.
W 1981 - 1990 represent actual expenditures *nd OUP, 1991 estimated nd 192, allocated
expenditure  nd forecast GNP.
TdbLe 4: Increases in tht Growth Rate of Operating Expenditures, 1987-91
Recurrent Expenditure                         Total Education          Expenditure Per
(NillIon N Ringgit)       X Incrrse       Enrollments (Ntilion N          Student
Year                                                         linusWt)               (NS Rfnoupt)
1986               3,743                                      3,655                    1,024
1987               3,835                     2.2
1988               4,044                     5.4              3,802                    1,063
1989               4,332                     T.1
1990               4,845                    11.2              3,927                    1,234
1991               5,850                    20.7
Note: 1986 to 1990 recurrent xpenditures are actual whilt the 1991 figure is the budgeted one plus
a recent request for suplementation.
mm-



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1: F'fth and Sixth Plan Sectoral Allocations. 1986-95
(NS mittion)
5NP                     6HP
Prograwm                           Allocation      Expenditure     Allocation
EDUCATION                                                   5,457            5,382           7,724
Pre-school                                                      0                0               0
Primary Education                                             760              76            1,020
Government and Government-aided Schools                      760              760           1,020
secondary Education                                         1,558            1,543           2,003
Government and Goverment-a.ded Schools                     1,041            1,026           1,472
PARA Junfor Science Colleges                                  65               65              51
Technical and Vocational Schools                             452              452             480
Higher Education                                            1,739            1,727           2,591
Polytechnics                                                 234              228             296
KoleJ Tunku Abdul Rahman                                       2                2              20
Institut Teknologi KARA                                      161              155             300
Universiti Halaya                                             80               80             326
Universiti Sains Malaysia                                     183             183             255
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia                                53               53             325
Universiti Pertanfan Malaysia                                 82               82             276
Universiti Teknologi talaysia                                372              372             324
Universitf Islm Antarabangsa                                  62               62             325
Universitf Utaro Malaysia                                    511              511             144
Teacher Education                                             144              144             334
Other Educational Support Programmes                        1,257            1,208           1,636
TRAINING                                                      355              318             777
Industrial Training                                           330              299             580
Industrial Trafning Institutes                               104               87             112
KARA Vocatfonal InstItutes                                   15,              152             266
Youth Training Centres                                        54               44              27
Pusat Oiat MARK                                               16               16              45
TVEIT (C/) Development                                         0                0              30
Attitujdfnal Change                                            0                0             100
Non Formal Education and Traininog                              0                0              30
Commercial Training                                             7                7              27
NARA Commercial Institutes                                      7               7              21
Youth Entrepreneurship Institute                               0                0               6
Management Training                                             18              13             140
NatIonal Institute of Pubilc Administration                    12               7             130
Institut Dminuddin eaki                                        6                5              10
Total                               5,812            5,700           8,501
Note: W/ Technical and Vocational Education and Industrial Training.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Tabte 2: The Core IMveotmmnt Proerm
Sixth Plan                    Core (Phase 1)      Potentlally Core (Phase I)       Non/Core (d)
(a)                             (b)                        (c)
Pre schootIns
Early childhood
exprimentation/chilLd
monitoring
Prlmarv educatlon
  12000 ctassroomsfequipment              4,400 clasmrooms
- library endouments                              x
- other learning mmterials                        x
Secondbrv peneraL educatlon
-alU 8100 CLarooms/equlpment               3,100 classrooms
- 4 PARA Junior Scfence Colleges                                                                      x
- Vocational wings on general                                                                         x
secondary schools
- Sports Schools                                                                                      x
- Special Education                                            Training  strategy-
forilatton, experlientation
- Fully residential                                                                                   x
Teacher Trainina
- 6 TTCs                                     3 equIvalent
Resource Ceters
10 State RCs                                                 Developent of a model
abtl 3: Sunmarv of Plan. Core IrMetmmnt Prearm. and Prolect (Phase 1)
NS million
* 6th 'evelopment Plan
Edecation + training allocation                               S5S00
of dhfch:
*  EducatIon only                                                    7,700
of ehdch:
*  Primary + Secondary Educatfon (nel. Teacher Training)             2A800
of uhich:
*  Core Investment Progrm                                            2,100
*  Total Cost Phase I (Inct. contingencies)                            872
of which:
*  Phase I baselfne costs                                              794
*  Phase I Foreign Exchane (Loan * oumt)                               360
Note: Ammots have  een rounded.
R_ gaEC



- 50-                               ANNEX 5
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION MALAYSIA.               Page 1 of 9
LEVEL 7. BLOCK J.
DAMANSARA TOWN CEbkT.RE
50604 KUALA LUMPUR                          Telephone, K.L. 25569(
Direct
Cable: MINISTED
Your ref:
Our ref KP(BPPP)S 02/.
Dae 2/D/1 JLD.IlI( 
Date:  X    May 1992
Vice President
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
World Bank
Washington D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
HAXAYSIA- THIRD  PRLMARY  AND  BZCONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
Statement of Policy and Plan of Action for
Primary and Secondary Education DeveloDment
1.  With reference to the proposed World  Bank loan for the
development of primary and secondary education subsector, we
are pleased to inform the Bank of our Statement of Policy
(Attachment 1), Plan of Action (Attachment 2) and Performance
Indicators (Attachment 3) regarding the Primary and Secondary
Education Development for the next five years (1992-96).
This proposed programme is an integral part of a broader
policy to improve the quality and managerial efficiency of
the education system while providing increased access to
education and thereby ensuring that wider national objectives
are met.
2.   The Government  of Malaysia  recognizes   education  as
integral to the promotion  of  national  identity, unity and



-1                          ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
integration, socio-economic development and the eradication
of poverty. The Second Outline Perspective Plan (1991-2000)
and the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (1991-1995) reaffirm
the central role   played  by  education  and   training   in
accelerating sustainable growth   while   further   improving
equity. The project would support a substantial proportion
of the Government's education programme covering curricula,
teacher training, educational resources, staff development
and school facilities.
3.   An elaboration of our objective5  and  proposed  plan of
action in those areas are outlined in Attachments 1 ,2 and 3.
4.   We are pleased that we have reached agreement  with  the
World Bank on our programme. We are looking forward to your
cooperation through the annual joint reviews to ensure the
success of the project.
Sincerely yours,
Name : DATO' NOHD. NOORDIN BIN HASSAN,
Title : Secretary-General,
Ministry of Education Malaysia.



A.    An C
1.
2
3.
4.



- 53-                                 AM= 
Page 4 of 9
System.   This system will link inputs, costs and learning outcomes
towards guiding decision-making and classroom practices, and promoting
responsiveness and accountability.
B. Ouality ImRrovement
5.    In recent years, Malaysia has taken steps to improve the quality and
relevance of primary and secondary education as well as reduce the urban-
rural disparities in student achievement. The new primary education
curricula (KBSR) and the new secondary education curricula (KBSM) were
introduced in 1983 and 1989 respectively. Both aim at the overall growth
of the individual.   Essential elements of the new curricula include
subject integration, active pedagogic approaches, teacher-produced
materials, remedial programmes, school-based assessments and extra-
curricular activities. To facilitate the effective implementation of
these new curricula, among others, efforts were stepped up in teacher
training, the ratio of ordinary teachers per class and special function
teachers per school were increased. Further, schools were supplied with
adequate reading materials through a Textbook Loan Scheme (TLS), video,
TV equipment and programmes.
6.    To further enhance the effective implementation of the new curricula,
greater efforts will have to be made in terms of teacher training
programmes, the suitability of textbooks, utilization of teaching-
learning materials and monitoring achievement in several subjects namely,
Science, Mathematics and English. Steps will also have to be taken to
overcome the problem of shortage of adequate facilities, oversized
classes in urban areas and double-shifting, particularly in secondary
education.
7.    To address problems related to quality improvement,  the Goverument
intends to take the following steps:
(i) Curriculum Implementation. Every effort will be made to improve
the effectiveness of the implementation of KBSR. These include:
revising the syllabus and other curricular materials; testing
various approaches ln the teaching of KBSR and strengthening
remedial  programmes  in primary  schools.    As  for  secondary
education, similar actions will be taken to improve the effective
implementation of KBSM. Integration of the teaching of thinking
skills and process-writing will be explored to improve learning.
School-based assessments, as well as centrally administered
examinations will continue to be strengthened. This will include
the introduction of Standard III criterion - referenced
mathematics test in a representative sample of schools.
(il) Teachers,
(a)   A new strategy in teacher training which involves the
cooperation between the Teacher Training Colleges (TTCw) and
universities will soon be implemented. The introduction of
twinning arrangements with local and foreign universities
will be part of this strategy and will complement the on-
going post-graduate diploma of education  (PGD8).   TITC
expansion will be designed to meet expected teacher demnmd



-54-
Page 5 of 9
in the  future.    It will  also  take  Into account  the
Increasing role played by in-service training by state,
district and school resource centers, the Introduction of
new training technologies, and the need to streamline
admission and designate colleges to cater for specific
national needs.   Concurrently, the required expansion of
university level (PGDE and graduate) programmes has been
planned and will be implemented during the proposed Third
Sector Project.
b)    At TTC level, the quality of progrdames will be enhanced
through stricter admissions screening, the expansion of
training opportunities for trainers, and the upgrading or
introduction of disciplines or techniques deemed critical
for the successful implementation of KBSR. Special emphasis
will be given to the teaching of Mathematics, Man and the
Environment,  multi-grade  teaching  for  under-enrolled
schools, as well as the use of textbooks and other pedagogic
materials. For KBSM, the emphasis will be on Mathematics
and Science, Living Skills, Computer literacy and language
skills. The duration of the practicum for the basic 2 1/2
year course will remain unchanged but will be spread out
over two semesters.
c)    In-service training will also be conducted at the State
Educational Resource Centers, Teachers' Centers (PKG) and
School Resource Centers. It will be organized around local
needs and projects involving clusters of schools.  These
micro-projects will address specific classroom practice
problems while strengthening teacher support networks, as
well as improving the management and team building skills of
headmasters. Follow-up actions at school-level and parental
involvement   will   also   be   given   due   importance.
Reinforcement will be provided through the provision of
improved teaching materials and self-instructional modules.
(ill)             Teaching and Learning Materials.    In implementing the
curriculum, the Ministry of Education (MOE) will continue to
use a variety of teaching and learning resources, ranging
from textbooks to relatively sophisticated technologies.
Given the large investments involved and the mixed
experiences of the past, the Ministry's strategy is to
consolidate the quality, utilization and maintenance of the
materials, equipment and technologies already in use, and to
test the most effective combination of conventional and
alternate delivery modes before expanding or launching now
approaches.
(a)   fzftbooks.
In line with feedback on implementation of the KBSR and
DBSM, steps are being taken to improve textbooks and
teachers' guides. These will be more self-contained while
the workbooks will be simplified. Appropriate measures will
be taken to improve the distribution of textbooks and the



- 55 -                               ANNEX_5
Page 6 of 9
management of the Textbook Loan Scheme (TLS) at school-
level.
(b) The Resource Centre Network.
The Resource Centre Network comprising of the State
Educational Resource Centers (PSPN), Teachers' Centers
(PKG), and School Resource Centers (although requiring
managerial improvements) have proved promising, and will be
expanded. However, the development of the network will be
gradual so a a to incorporate lessons learnt from past
experience. New centers will be opened when adequate
operating budgetary resources are made available, especially
for maintenanice. Steps will be taken to ensure greater
efficiency in operations, a more demand-driven, operational
research orientation, tighter linkages with schools, and
feedback to pre-service programmes.
(c)   Use of the Media.
There will be continued effort to upgrade existing
provisions for the production, dissemination and utilization
of educational medial towards enhancing teaching and
learning. Towards this end, the development of educational
radio, television and audio-visual learning packages will be
based on the following guidelines, namely:
- a concern for the relevance of programmes to teachers and
students based on needs assessment;
- improvement in quality of programmes and resource
materials through internal and external quality control,
as well as staff development to improve production and
technical skills; and
- impact monitoring of the effectiveness of programmes, the
strengthening of management capabilities, and the
improvement of logistics which support a greater
integration of educational media into the process of
teaching.
Programmes will take into consideration the needs of the remote rural schools as well
as the needs of KBSR and KBSM.  At the same time, the MOE will look into the
possibility of increasing new learning modes, and introduce new technologies aimed
at providing the best pedagogic support to the isolated and less experienced rural
teachers.
(iv) Research and Innovation. The focus of MOE's research programme on
practical problems and operational results will be strengthened.
Research projects will be increasingly local-based. They will featurv
more systematic participation by headmasters and teachers. Research
programme into areas such as problems in the learning of Mathematics and
Science as well as special education will be carried out.   The
integration of research, monitoring and evaluation, teacher training and
administration will be reinforced, and other considerations to bring
about effectiveness will be taken into account.



- 56 -
Page 7 of 9
(v) Mathematics and Science.   One key element of the Government's
development strategy is the expansion of its knowledge-based industrial
and services sector. In support of this objective, measures are being
taken to stimulate interest in Mathematics and Science among children
from an early age, and to promote excellence, healthy competition,
innovation in the ways these disciplines are taught or applied to
practical everyday life problems.  These include the introduction of
computers  in the classroom,  identification of the most promising
approaches to the teaching of Mathematics and Science, and the
utilization of materials and laboratories.
C. Equitable Access to Ouality Education.
8.    A large scale school construction programme has enabled Malaysia to reach
Universal Primary Education (UPE) and 83% lower secondary education
enrollment ratio. Nevertheless, severe capacity constraints exist. In
many districts, particularly, in urban areas, e.rollment growth has.
outpaced the provision of facilities.   This has resulted in a high
percentage of double shifting schools, overcrowded classrooms as well as
sub-standard schools which may affect instructional quality.
9.    The Government's objective of promoting a caring society which caters to
the needs of disadvantaged groups, has resulted in the need for
additional facility requirements. In this respect, we plan to improve
and expand special education for handicapped students. As the Sixth Plan
civil works programme may not be able to accomplish all the targeted and
estimated needs, we have established priorities as follows:
(i) Eauitable Access to Ouality Education:  Resources will be
allocated with priority to under-served/under-equipped districts,
as determined by the proportion of double-shifting, sub-standard
and overage classrooms, along with many other criteria which have
been in practice.
(ii) Universal  Primary and Lower Secondary Education:    The
Government'r ultimate objective is to extend universal schooling
to 11 years   IF the meantime, the maintenance of UPE and progress
towards universaal lower secondary education (ULSE) will be the
priorities.  To accelerate attainment of ULSE, studies will be
undertaken to determine the causes of drop-out trends and the low
transition rates from primary to lower secondary in some
districts, especially where SES indicators are favorable.
(iii) Increasing Upper Secondary Enrollments: As recommended by
the Cabinet Report (1979), it is the intention of the government
to gradually provide increased accessibility to upper secondary
education.     However,  the  implementation  will  take  into
consideration the availability of facilities, budgetary allocation
and staff requirements. The demand/supply equilibrium and quality
conditions to ensure the success of the measure will be closely
studied to guide investments.
(iv) Special Education: In the effort to give more opportunity
and to provide better education to the handicapped and those with
learning difficulties, measures will be taken to increase



57 -                                  AMEX 5
Page 8 of 9
appropriate education facilities and opportunities for enrollment.
The Government's approach will initially focus on training, the
finelization of a strategy, and operations research on remedial-
education, so as; to make appropriate decisions on physical
inveitment.
(v) Bo4rding and Staff Housing:   Boarding for rural primary
students, where this is the only alternative to provide quality
UPE and to enable secondary students from underprivileged
backgrounds to remain in school,will continue to be provided.
Staff housing, especially, to rural teachers, will be provided to
slow down teacher turnover and improve commitment and efficiency.
IN all three cases eligibility for boarding/housing will be
subject to more stringent criteria.
D. Efficiency of Educational Management
10.   Malaysia already allocates one of the highest proportions of GNP to
education (6%) across industrializing countries. To ensure that the past
and proposed efforts generate commensurate quantitative and qualitative
development and are sustainable, cost-efficiency will receive increased
emphasis. Some existing programmes which have not yielded the expected
results will be reviewed and reoriented. New measures will be introduced
and a m-'chanism will be put in place t monitor the educational and
financial impact of key policies. Even though educational expenditures
will continue to increase to accommodate the population growth, the
overall objective will be to improve access and quality at a lower
average unit cost.
11.   Staff Development Prorramme:  This programme, aimed at upgrading the
skills of central, state and district level professional staff, will be
directly linked to team projects with a specific operational objective.
The following three areas will receive priority: i) the planning,
financing, management, organization, monitoring and evaluation of the
education sector; ii) the design of pedagogic materials; and iii)
educational research,  including testing and assessment.   The Staff
Development Programme will be carried out by way of a proposal outlining
selected criteria, as well as monitorable indicators of follow-up and
progress. Candidates will be bonded upon completion of training.
12.   Management of Educational Resources.  Unit costs have gradually risen
across all levels of the education system, as a result of the dynamic
nature of the system. As such, attention will be given to efforts to
contain these costs and, where possible, to reduce them while
simultaneously increasing the impact of overall expenditures. IN
addition, the Ministry will undertake to increase the cost-efficiency of
primary and secondary education during the Plan period through a variety
of measures, including but not necessarily limited to the following:
(i) Staffing.
(a)   strengthening multigrade teaching in under-enrolled primary
schools which practice it, and
(b)   studying staffing ratios of under-enrolled schools.



-58 -                                       5
Page 9 of 9
(li) Facilities,
Efforts to consolidate very small schools (with 20-70 students)
into more economic units have been successful.   The number of
these schools has stabilized to around 800.   Therefore,  the
process of intensifying the utilization of facilities will rely
more on the introduction of multigrade teaching techniques, as
indicated above. The reduction of double shifting, at all levels,
will be carried out as and when conditions permit.
(iii)    Operational Budgets.
By FY1995, all facilities in the school system will receivw
adequate budgetary provisions for maintenance and non-salary
expenditures.    This process will begin  immediately  for new
facilities and equipment, and will be spread over two fiscal years
for existing ones.
13.   Financing of Education.
In order to reduce the burden of educational development on the public
budget, the Government will study alternative financing scenarios for
secondary and tertiary education.
14.   Monitoring and Evaluation.
A basic organizational structure has been agreed upon to oversee the
implementation of the proposed Third Sector Project. As in the previous
two Sector Projects, this structure will involve MOE's Development
Committee; a joint secretariat comprising the Educational Planning and
Research Division (EPRD) for the policy and qualitative aspects and the
Development and Supply Division (DSD) for the physical aspects, with
appropriate liaisons with the Economic Planning Unit (EPU), and the
Implementation and Coordination Unit (ICU) in the Prime Ministers'
Department. Responsibility for implementation coordination will remain
with the DSD. Both EPRD and DSD will be strengthened to ensure efficient
monitoring and evaluation activities.
15.   In order to measure the intended efficiency gains, and to facilitate the
appraisal of the next time-slice by the Bank around end-1994, MOE will
be equipped with the tools to monitor project performance on the basis
of agreed criteria, targets and indicators.  The existing Management
Information System (MIS) will be upgraded to link educational statistics,
outputs in terms of learning achievements, budgets and expenditures.
E.  SnglIsaaL2n
16.   Joint in-depth reviews of project and sector progress will be held once
a year on the basis of an implementation report prepared by the DSD. The
project's resource allocation, sub-project selection and efficiency
criteria have been set so as to achieve an adequate balance between
equity and efficiency considerations on one hand, and between hardware
and software aspects on the other. Therefore, implementation plans and
performance indicators, as far as possible, will remain with the 10*
range by objective and within objectives, by programme.
FG~ _rA"u



T01RD PRI#ARY AND SECgNDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Action Plen and Performance Indicators
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                        PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
OSJECTIVE                   RESPONSIBILITY        ACTIONS/INPUTS/PROCESSES                  1992  1993  1994  1995            INPUT            PROCESS         OUTPUTIOUTCONE
WlL I rTY1ELLCE
A. Curricu,um Imdementati n  CDC                  KBSR
a. Revie syltabus and                      x    x      x    x
other curriculum materials
b. Continue to upgrade the                 x    x      x    x                               Number of
skills and professionalsm                                                               headuasters
of headmasters and teachers                                                              and teachers
trained
c. Implement Integrated Primery                  x     x    x           I. Number of
Living Skills In primary                                                 implementing
schools for form  I through V                                            the subJect
yearly
if. Numer of
teachers
trained
ES                 d. Carry out and analyze criterion        x    x       x    x                                                 Report of
reference test In Standard 3                                                                               nalpyls
Mathematics in a astle of schools
CDC                e. Try out on pilot basis various               x                                            Inber             setnline dteI
irnovative appeoaches to the                                                             studHef          m onitoring of
teaching wnd learning of KISR                                                            proJects         achieve.entsl
candwcted        oncosts.
CDC/FIS            f. Monitor the impletentatfon of KMSS    x    x        x    x                                Reports Of       Nonftor chieve-
(to be c d irted by CDC ond the                                                          Implem.otation  mints
State Curricult Comeittee)
CDC                a. Complete introductfon of all KBSM            x                                                             Number of
subJects at Form I through V                                                                              subJects
Introdced
b. Complete training of resouree          x                                                 NU&er of
persontel for all subJects at                                                            resource
Form I through V                                                                         persornel and
other participants
involved
ox
1 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



{:   ~ ~i!l;'             ii.ff
|~ 11 ii ;; I  
X    '     II        Ifi 



THlDPIN  ^*  M" -cJArsu^l  PROJECT
ACtImi Ptln mg Perfo Ittndicators
I"P U EXrarlom sesow"             PERFoNUSACE raDsiAToms
oBeJ iEcr                  RESPN3f BLUlliT       AT W ZN PUrS111IMSES                    t99Qe 1993 1M19                 IP7POCES                         ouTpurJTDuToK
b. Str  thn caurss. in                    x    x    x    x                                 Xumber of
Nsthemthics. Scimnce. miti-                                                            teacher traIned
grudb teaching, tfputer                                                                in each
Liter ay nd ue of ne
techostogy in alt TTCs
c. Restrueture the 19-eak                x    x    x    A
Practics into 9  eeks in
_mtter rIII and 10 week
in semester V
ItS/TED           d. Training of pwrsa tel to               x    x    x    x                JuOterof          Lfst of
devetoped selfinstructifnal -staf                                                       pitot projects
sodets for in-sere teachr                                             trained          developd
training (in 1)
CDC               e. Trainng of ps rsomteswel                x    a    x    x
es develement of sodAes for
pro-ervice teher training
f. Uporde teache trainer                  x    x    a    x                 Naber ad
qu,ifficstion                                     .                       of teahe
trainrw withs
a) let deg
b) N.A.
C.
1. Dte EOActien               Rm                 a. Centime  to mm inoa mmnts              X    X a         x                              List of
sn Lasrig                                       an studl   nd facilities                                                               flities
b. Contimn  to train       fprtin         x    x    a    a                                1ber of
staff                                                                                  staff  nt
for training
c.  fenti,w. to keep an ineitotor        X    X    X    X
of equipment
d. Centlm  N & E syste(lm c                   a    a    a
hoos to manitor ue; form 
to mnitor cr_Wehenn of                                                                                         ii
Pico                                                                            0



THIRD        AIMUT "  SECOWARY    gmC^I    PROJECT
Actlo Ptan VWd Perrorzen1ce Inatcators
iMPLEMETATION SOHEDULE           _             PERFORNANCE INDICATORS
OBJECTIVVE                  RESbOUSIUILITY        ACTIONS/11PUTSIPROCESSES                 1992  1993  1994  199           INPUT            PROCESS         OUTPUT/OUTCOME
a. Ensure adequate maintenane                    x
en operation budpet wid
ETD/TED/CDC        f. Review the utilization of the                x                          umbear and     Number of In-
present *ultimedfa kits and                                            types of        service courses
packeges, nd initiate                                                  mltl-media       conckcted to
preduetion of new ones as                                             packages        disei Inate
needed                                                                 supplied        utiltiztlon of
pw.a
SD/ETD             g. Detelp mid distribute on              x                                                UPSR results taCple
ptlot baIs self-learning                                                               basis) coq red with:
packes for ppils In                                                                    a. natfonal  wer ae
siltigrade scools                                                                      b.  ultlgrad  adwools
without elf-learning
2.   eseuroe Centres          F/OVU              a. open budget line for each              x     x    x    x                 Yearly SERC
Resource Centre (including                                               operational
adequate staffing opersting                                              budget allocated
nd mintwwno rssources)
ETD                b. Monitor:
- State Resource Centre                x    x    x    s                  T1ho tken       I. SAbor and tWp           I
eenstrucRti.n/aqc ant                                                  for co_truc-   of trainfog course
* Attendanc                                                              tin of MEC   fr SEItC staff and
nWd saiwy Of  tacher
Ii.  mer   of teahr
bro fing meaterials
from SC
ifi. 11h1br of tachers
attending courses at SC
S. Library nd                 ETD                a. Arrmno  for prouemroent wnd                  s xuhr of                                    Nuaer of boks
Teaching  rd                                    distribution of library books                                            books sopplied  in chcot library
Learning Stterfeis                              to new primary md secondary schoots                                      to chools
(nan-book ate ale)
b. Provide teaching-tearning             x     x    x    x                  Nuhber and        Nudear mid tnpe
materials (transp rency                                                  types Of         of disseminetion
maker, VCR. OP. SW  screen                                               materials         oeurses an Oh  usem
etc) to Mc, SERC, and                                                    supplied         use of materials          0
Educatonal Technology inits                                                               spplied
In ETD & WEO 
0. MrPMrD/ I    tipI. ERIETD                        a. Appoint coordinator for each         x                                                                            o
Exflleee ndRemerch                              of the 4 subrprogram_



TIIIRD PI=U  AM  AEDR  EWtIOR POECT
Actin Plan ag PerforMnce IndlCatJrs
IUEI%WITALItIUEiEPERPORNANCE INDICATORS
eUJfllVE                    RESMIIILIT            CTIOISIINIPUTSE S                                   I  SCNEDULE           INPUT           PROCESS           UTPUTM/UTCOKE
b. Ensure adente PIER                     x                               X at rescreh
prating funding                                                       fwid utilized
for PIER projects
c. Specify tM pres ard                    x           I_r rese
criteria for the selectiGn                                            casletd
of prtosals, the fudri
_mant NM*chni,
likaaul with IIS, finltize
d. Detern the necessay                    x
oaf ction
*. DImnation of findinp                         x    A    X
at state nd distriet lewt
A. Soaclt EdwalAn            Scho                *. Opeatioal  tw                                      x    xa
A. ~Ji.LI~Ea1i~       Division
b. TrIning to 14rova teache                           x    x ll                r of
epertisf In th  field of                                               Participants by
spetClized sere                                                        type of courses
c. DSaln and initiate                            x   x    x               uSber of studies/
experiment  ndwr PIER                                                  projects conducted on
trial basis
d. Construction of 11 new                             x    x
prmary and secondery
pecial education shools
e  Finalyzetion of strategy                           x
B. Primarv and Secondarv      DSDJEPID/JKR       a. Acquire land; X actual/                 x     x    x    x               X ectual/pLanned
pshog                                            planned for Pninsutar,                                                  area eaquired
Sabah and Sarawak                                                      by resion
b. Prepare pltnsfdesigns                  x
for urban schools                                                                                               r
c. Seminar on mnintenence and             x                                                                          n
practfee                                                                                                         0
.5.



Pag~e6 of
3I                                          IC
It   St                         C          I
iti



A=   Owrd   ormm In et
PERfOult   INDICATOES
OUdCI1E                    2fE ISZIuLJTr AXTIotl  uSsES                            199Z 1993 1994 19ff           it             PROCESS        GJTPUr/TE
b.Ftpr* a full IOE ets                  x    x                                                    A1 c Of
remuialt
a) WUn
b) PE
c) -
d) 13
c. Sltenr a mua atlV   O                     s    a    A
- d. Sltor project  _dr PVI                  x    x    x
0. Irsln tN  a"f  l ived In            a    x    a    x
Inciter rach ud flminan
f. ntuuthn   th. a.fty Of              x    a    x    x
of int inoltud In policy
research onmlysis
C.   EwttM                   nPI             a. Crat5 cat ceOiftinw                  x                           Cst of 0I) prietry
Divilen             cmt mlysls hfnetlum                                              sntlefn (I  seiry
eackastion
b. LII* ffronciat defta iots 53        N    N
* nyacs fort  m
~~~~~~~~* s Ztaf i 1X 
_p atiq hI*ts
NI/In~pm~M     b.    mlus  bindinsrwa
P.                                              "Nt   VW  Illorf cm"  s                   x    a        
by M, 111
flu.                     pavru.mn                                                                                               'Veve
c.  o      delomnt of verridear              x
*t    s for sit lewis (Pm  I1
through 
gid" tlltor Edtlon                            at Curriculum           n,ll  Centre    Tnse   te_r -.rsalal   Adil 0_1li
UM   Uicattaml Plmnning ad 1e-ad Division        in   Edaatilni Tedmotog Diislon           D    Pirms DivisonO
OS   cwlo-t 0d awly Divisimi                     ES    Eamintl, Suilcate                  NOF   Nlnistry of Fnn
S    school Divlisin                             CSD           Seri ce Division           UK   State Etatfion  aws Centre
To   leacw  Eftatien Diviseon                     IS   hdl Irptora  of Sdhools            SC    Sdwol Resore. Cutro
tC    Teher' Centra



- 66 -
e4M  6
Page 9 of 10
Interim And lecro Indicators
Objective/lndfcetors                          Resp.         Bas      | 1992      1993   1994   1995
Value
A. qLlITYIEXCUELLCE                                                                *
1. Coarer and  nalyze UPSM  results (atfonat averag  vs a         EPRD/
sample of schools):                                             Schools              To be determined prior
* national average                                              Division             to beginning of School
* underenrolled schools with wstigrade cleaecs and trained    Exm                    Year 93. The ENIS and PIER
teachers                                                    Syndlc.               teamn wltl construct the
* reguler schools with sIngle-grade elasses  nd untraIned       Local U.             sample and experlments to
teachers                                                                          monitor these frdfcators
^ underenrolled schools with  tiltigrad  etles
with/without self learning materfals for p ts115
* doubte-sesson schools
* afternoon schools
* schools with god-fatherlng system
2. Introdce Year 3 ath criterion-referenced                        EPRD/Exm
tests In a sample of schools.                                  Synd cate             To be determfned by SY 93
3. Improve avalf abtlty of Key  nputs in a s* ple of remote        EPRD/
schools                                                       SEDS
* nu*er of books/student
* muaber of pages used                                                               To be determined by SY 93.
* number of hours spent on m_ths                                                     The ENIS and PIER teaws
m nuer of school days                                                              wfil construct the sample
* nuber of classes tauoht/day                                                        and experiments to monitor
d nsaber of classes taught/year                                                      these fndicators
*    'ier of books in school lfbrary
time spent by teachers in providing remedial edection
4. improve balance between teacher suplpy  nd denad by lenl    EPRD/TED             b/       b/
and by ubJect:
* Primary -                                                                  -8130      -20959
* Lower and Upper Secondary: Nath                                            +2387      +  612
scenc                                         -1332      - 1925
Engilsh                                       -827       - 343
ON                                            -4107      -  999
5. ncrease the:
X of teacher borroing materals from state         EPRD/ETD/        20      20
RCa                                                                   School          20      20
X of teacher attending courses at state ts        Dvisions
B. CCESS/E-QUITY
1. Nonitor  separately for Peninsula/Sat h/Saraak, nd by          D5D 43
level the nisber of:
*  now clsroom  built
*  average classroom  replaced                                                               To follow standai
*  clmsroon sbove 46 students                                                                     format
*  cilsses in doubte *sin/afternoon sson
2. Rede the differene in tranition rates beten  the                 END
national veraoe  nd the 20  lowest districts                                    19.6
*  Primry to lowr secondry                                                      19.6
*  Lowr to usmer secndarv 
3. Redue the differen   in pa   rate  acrss districts              EP/          To be
*  USP                                                         Emm           provided
*  SWP                                                          S fdc.       by lst
*  uP                                                           _       _ ReviIc        



- 67 -
Page 9 of 10
objective/lndIcators                         Rasp.         ase           1      9931 1994   19
Valwe
C. EFFICIENCY
1. leiplement In service trafning by level, subject matter,      TED and     a/
type of progrx (including IAB & open learnig):                SOP Unit                       To follow standard
*  Teachers (by level)                                                                          format
* Principals
* Specific functfon teachers (one-year)
* RC staff
* AdninIstratorsand professIonal staff
2. Inprove the design and mantenance of schootl facilittes       DSD/JKRI    750
Average classroom size In primary schools                 Finance      sq.ft.
* Preventive buildirg and equipment mintenance budget to   DivisIon
be determined on the basis of a study.
Prmary schools
- Secondery Schools t
3. Irprove the classroom:class ratio (plaivutilfty)              EPRDISD
-Primary                                                                      85
- Secondarv                                                                   69
4  Freeze or reduce the ru. ,r of underenrolled school           EPRDI        2,400
S  Increase the students/teacher ratio In udrerolled             EPRM            12
schoots                                             -         __.__
Bring the growth rates of educational recurrent  ipenditure     NOF wd       ERE-
(ERE) more in line with that of total reurrent expenditures    NOE's        20.9X         b/
(TRE)*                                                          Finance     (91 -92)   20.2X
Dlvision    TRF-
15%        16.8k
P.O.
=__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  (90-92)  -
a/ in Project File
bi Govemrmnt figures
RbrNm   INTWCAxO



-68-                                                       NE
Pagel IOf
MALAYSA
THIRD PRINARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROnECT
Act f n Pion and Pertrnc  I ndfcolors
Key Inclicator,F of Ou-tcanz
[  . .   .  .                                                .   lwowl~~~~~~~~~~~~190Vaue
objective           Level of                        Indfcator                                      Doesred Change
Education
A. Daueli             riar
A. Quatt  Primary  - Survival rates (by sex)                        94.9     Mafntafn or Incrose
- USPR pass rates (by sex nd by mediu                     Increaes
of instruction)
- Naths                                      68/92
- English                                    57/69
* 3h                                         33/85
*Cognitive achievements in 3rd graeb           To be      Inereas
maths (by sex in a s tplo school(s)           deter-
ofmied    Increse
- Transition rates to Form I (by sex)           86.7    Increse
Lower Secondary    - Survival rates (by sex)                        93.0     Maintafn or Incroese
- SRP pass rates (by sex)                       69.3      Incroese
- Transition rates to uwppr secondary (by       67.2      Maintain
sex)
Upper Secondary    - Survival rates (by sex)                       98.4       Increse
- SPN pass rates (by sex)                      71.5       Mafntain or Increa
-   in scientific/stream  (by sex)             24.3       Increas
Teachers             Nusmber of graduates from:
-  TTCs                                      11 200     Maintain or Reduce
- Universities                               2.300      Increse
(broken down by sex and subJect)
- X of secondary teachers with University                 Incroase
degrees (by sex)
- lower secondary                              9
- LuPer secondary                             so 8
Primary            - Enrotlments                                2,450,000    Incrase
-Femalo particfpation.(U)                          49    Mafntain or Inceas
Lower Secondary    - Enrollments                                  943.000    Incres
- Female participation (U)                          50    MaintaIn
Upper Secondary    - Enroltments                                  423.000    Increas
+ Form VI          - Female participatfon (U)                          51    Maintain
Primry             - Unit costs (NS)                                  770    Maintafn or Reime
- Students/teacher ratio (by district)              20    Increas
Secxndary          -Unit costs (NS)                                 1,294   NMintaIn or Reduce
- Studets/teacher ratio                             19    Increas
Vocational         - Unit costs (MS)                                3.162    N':ntaIn or Reduce
- Students/teacher ratfo                                  I Increase
Polytechnic        - Unit costs (MS)                               2297    MaintaIn or Redcme
- Students/teacher ratio                         14.6     Incre se
Pre-Univerelty     - Unit costs (NS)                                6 533    Maintain or Reduce
- Stuiehts/teacher ratio                         H.8      Increas
Teacher training   -Unit cost (NS)                                  7,829    Maintain or Reduce
- Trainees/Trainor Ratio in TTCs                 6.8      Incrase
- Number of districts with teacher/clss           42      Reduce
ratio aboev the 1.5:1 norm (pricmry
education)
Sector             -U of NOE in total recurrent budget             19.6      Pafnt&In or Incr ea
-X of NOE recurrent budget allocated to         11.6    MNantafn or Inceese
non-sealary operating costs
Per capita grants as a X of NMOE prilry       see       Maintain In real
and secondary expenditures                Auiex 12    term
u -



THIRD PRIR  AN D SECARY EDUt0TION SECTOR PROJECT
Teacher Resirem.nts for Pr mrw and Secondarv Edat ion
Pik my             1931            1992            1998           1994            1995           1996            1997
1. OWL ovmtait             2*129.0        2.001,700       2.678,100      2.73,7700       2,00           280,600         2*54.00
2.  _VU,UDI TTSdw           120.616         132,140         137A00         143             149.5n2        152,259         155.001
8 _SwiuilTed_            19is"           19.09           19.39          19.07           1.73           18.92           19.06
4. _nmnt T.l                107.125         110.2M9         115,242        11t9            127.2          132,88        143.604
3. 3mau_oar.w                 23.1            230             2.19           2292           215             21.77          20.57
. TC aiusm                    77               .W1             773          l1i0ma         a6.2             0,470          0.470
7. TIC  _m  1_u              1174            1932            17,4           22.19          10               *00           12.940
3a TIC PNmuM                 23.66           23003
-                         _      _      __                                              ____
b.udy                 1331            13t2            __ I"$                        low_            lit            17s
1. am%   nIw                ,233          1,233.20        1.49.06        1.566.60        1.57.2         1,63431         1.723.200
2.   _        Too            90                  1          394 121                        SUN             01
4.U A4Mb _W                                                  15.3                           I.'m *3                        2.12
Told Tb                       1,233           1.7_                           24 0           2.61S.66                       313
7.NoT__w N
106                        0.731           7403            "An           S666            63.22           SIaN"          37o460
NMw Tuuo"
L   1 Tm                      2.759           8.025" .1                      4611           4,6n            4.61           5.041
*. 0  rwda                    amam                              M2m                         AM              am             am
10. T_ am fad.                6_120          5.377           6,719           7.205          SAM             6,723     8     ,9
11. T_O  A b 9_.770
IoUh  47* 101 bzkw
fK uV"M VWn                  75.3            70.450         04.154          96.37                         100,619        Oo,469
bma C.dl 51.               4.59            4451           46.115          4150           4.632           .2.21            .622
Uv~  immnm9 -w nm ammo



- 70 -
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION   CTOR PROJECT
Dfstanc Education
Kft/packaea            Discfpline                      Taroet Growt                            Nurbers
A. KIJ           ON, Engisdh, Maths          DOU                                                1,000
0. KIt #2        Pro-school                   Rural Schools                                       250
C. Packg  #1
6 TED)         KBSR 9 KBSN                  in-service training of teachers   10 modules, 10 copies each to 125
dfstlets RCs
D. ePckaso in
(wlth TED)   Teaching skills               20,000 untrafned teachers under   5 modules, 10 copies each to all
certification courses              TTC  and State/Districts RCs
e. Pacaj
Division,
with USn)       Core dsciplines              Pupils in Prfmry, iuLtfgraded                       250
Rural Schools
F Pa kahe A4   Naths (3), Osography (3).   Lower Secondary Students               10 copies to each of 350 PKGs
Exmin tfon skills (3),
_________    CitizenshiP (1) _ _         _



- 71 -
MAXIIA
THIRD PRIMA    AND SECONDARY ED 1A0
Program to SuN=ort Innovation. EXcelle
1.        The Program to Support InnovatLon. ftcelleng
aims: (a) to assist policy makers, school managers anc
and (b) find cost-effective strategies for the delive
has 4 subprograms: (i) math and science - minigrants
science learning; (ii) programs for distant unler-
Sarawak and Pahang; (iii) distance education sub-pro
of Interactive radio and other communications technolo
(iv) a school based operational research sub-program
text of the SAR. More specific details are glven bel
Pror_ to tumort Innovatfon. Exel lnce and 11
lptmntfng Agecies     Evelus
N_ onftorinh
SIBPROORAN 01:      Schools Divfsion.   EPMD, state
INNOVATIOS IN SCIENCE  Schools nd Resource    Depsrtbnts
AIM  ATNETICS       Centers
S    UPROSN U.2:    Schools Division,   EPRD
DEPRIVED UNDERENRROLLED  Ecwxtf on Departamnts
SCHOOLS             In three States: Sabah,
Sarauak and Pahano
SWUNPfWhR  53:      ETD                 EPD, Inqpec
DISTAMCE EDUCATION                      Internmtfon
Instftutfon
SU8PROGRUN  :       EMD, Universftis snd  EPRD wfth In,
EDUCATIOAUL RESEARCH    Tear Edwcation  Institutlon
Dfvfsion
SUBPROGRAM #1:  INNOVATION SCI
Ninigrants for Schools and Resource Centirs (RCs%.
2.        The purpose is to stimulate innovation ir
science, to increase student learning and to motivate s
maths related careers.
3.        Hinigrants will be made available to schools
Ninigrants to Schools.
4.         The schools will be encouraged to present
proposal is for two years and includes:
(a)   staff development activities: seminars, in
to national conferences, etc;



- 72 -
Page 2 of 9
(b)   student activitlo: In-school science fairs, competitions, visits to
Industries, museum or special geographical places, student science
camps, *tc;
(c) indicators of achievement: methods the school will use to show that
there has been improvemnt In the student's scence and mathematics
abilities and attitudes: for example, percent passing the national
examinations, percent selecting science related careers, examination
scores; and
(d)   costs of the proposed activities and financing plan: how much will the
rohool contribute, how auch will the project pay and possible
contributions from local industry and local agencies.
Minigrants to RC's.
5.          The State RCu. will present proposals to the National Governsrent to
improva the science and m*thematic activities In their districts. Proposals will
include:
(a) organization of district level science fairs;
(b)   organization of district level sclnce camps (two or three weeks in the
summer dedicated to science actvities);
(c)   district olympiads: In mathematics and science s-ibjects;
Each proposal will also indcate:
(d)   parameters for measurlg the Improvements: I.e. expected increases  a
science test score s* ni.bers of students who pass national examinations;
and
(e)   costs and financing plan.
valuation of P o .
6.          The school proposals will be evaluated by the State RC's based on the
following criteria:
(a) feasibility: are proposed actiWities feasible?
(b)   costs: are the costs reasonable?
(c)   benefits: are the indcators for measuring improvement clear and well
ldentifled?
7.          The Science and athmaties Assoclations will be invited to participate
In the evaluation of proposals.



- 73 -
ANEX 9
Page 3 of 9
SUBPROGRAM #2: SMALL UNDERENROLLED RURAL SCHOQLS
8.          The purpose is to experiment with new ways of improving learning and
retention in the small schools. Sabah, Sarawak and Penang will present proposals
which will include:
(a)   introduction of interactive radio  - development of programs  and
materials and monitoring of results.  Initially, the programs could be
adapted from the LEARN TECH Project.  Some initial support could be
provided by this entity;
(b)   evaluation of multigrade schools in Sabah and development of specific
techniques to train teachers and to assist them in carrying out a
multigrade approach;
(c)   godfathering systems for isolated schools in Sarawak with very specific
and measurable indicators and monitoring of results; and
(d)   development and piloting of specialized materials for children who are
weak in either mathematics or language, special training of teachers to
use the materials and systematic evaluation of the results.
9.          These proposals will be prepared by the Education Departments in each
participating States and will be evaluated by EPRD and presented to the annual
seminars.   Implementation will be the responsibility of the State Education
Department. Findings will be discussed with the World Bank team, at each annual
review with a view to subsequent expansion if conclusive.
SUBPROGRAM #3: DISTANCE EDUCATION AND OgEN LEARNING
10.         To  encourage  innovation  in  the  integration  of  communications
technologies with distance education and open learning methodologies; to increase
access to educational opportunities, improve the quality of learning experiences and
promote equity in the provision of teaching and learning, particularly for
disadvantaged schools.
11.         This subprogram has close links with Subprograms 2 and 4 in which
alternate methods of delivery are being proposed:
2(a)  experimenting with interactive ratio to improve the quality of learning
and retention in small under-enrolled schools;
2(d)  development of specialized materials in key subject areas for children
in under-enrolled schools;
4.2   experimenting with different approaches to the teachinb; of the KBSR and
KBSM;
4.3   new approaches to teacher in-service training.



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 9
12.         Initially, ETD will prepare a feasibility proposal for the use of
Interactive Radio for the teaching of Mathematics, English and Bahasa, and for the
revision of the Radio programs currently transmitted to primary schools. Other MOE
Units, including the Schools Division, the Teacher education division and the
Curriculum division will be invited to submit proposals for the use of media in
accomplishing their objectives, Following is a list of the research topics that can
be proposed for funding.
Research Topics:
13.         All sectors of the MOE will be encouraged to submit proposals for
funding under this subprogram.   The following activities have already been
identified as possible research topics.
(a)   the use of HF radios to allow teachers in extremely remote schools
(especially in Sabah, Sarawak and Pahang) to communicate with colleagues
or resource persons and to participate more regularly in inservice
programs. Recent trials have alreedy indicated the suitability of this
low cost, reliable technology for data transfer and fax communications
to remote areas;
(b)   the radios would also enable students to interact with specialist
teachers giving support to self-learning print materials;
(c)   the use of solar or battery-powered satellite earth stations for direct
broadcasting of live TV and radio programs or for video program
downloading (accelerating thu dissemination and reducing the cost of
copying video programs);
(d)   this pilot project would equip a designated number of very remote
schools with satellite earth stations powered by either solar power
generators or batteries enabling them to receive the same television and
radio broadcasts as the majority of schools. It also has the potential
to deliver live lessons from a central studio or classroom to the remote
students;
(e)   this technology would also increase the effectiveness of AV materials
distribution, by downloading video and audio programs from the
communications satellite to earth stations in both remote schools and
PKGs;
(f)   video-conferencing: two-way, interactive, compressed video provides the
potential for a high level of participation.   As the cost of the
technology falls, it is gaining wider consideration as a viable form of
educational delivery;
(g)   telekom Malaysia have an in-house network of six sites designed mainly
for formal business meeting, seminars and small conferences.   It is
proposed that the MOE trial a range of activities to determine the
capability of video-conferencing. These might include presentations of
lectures, cutorials and seminars for teacher inservice training and
other  staff  development  activities  in  addition  to  possible
administrative uses;
(h)   interactive computing:  the feasibility of using computers linked by
data bridge to deliver computer-based instruction to rural schools needs
to be investigated in addition to current schools computing projects.



- 75 -
ANNEX, 9
Page 5 of 9
This would make use of another technology to more equitably share
available expertise across the country;
(i)   selected schools could be linked on a network for the pilot project
which would also trial a range of hardware and software. In addition,
the use of satellite communications for distribution of computer-based
learning materials could also be investigated.
Evaluation of Proposals:
14.         Similar criteria to those suggested in Subprogram #1 would be applied
to proposals submitted for funding under this Subprogram:
-     The feasibility of the proposal
-     The cost of the proposed trial
-     the potential benefits of the application
-     The appropriateness of the application to the educational environment
-     Policy considerations
SUBPROGRAM #4: EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH
15.         This subprogram will be coordinated by EPRD and carried out by the
Teacher Education Division, Malaysian Universities and Research Institutions with
the collaboration of well known international research institutes. Following are
samples of the kinds of research topics to be included.
(a)   Development of curriculum based assessment in Remedial Education;
(b)   Models for delivering education to pupils with special needs;
(c)   Development and try-out of self learning modules for in-service and pre-
service training of teachers;
(d)   School-based research. Qualitative methodologies to identify, describe
teaching methods and propose alternatives;
(e)   New strategies for teaching mathematics in rural schools;
(f)   Improving methods for teaching mathematics in lower-secondary schools;
(g)   Home and community based pre-school programs.
Program Pregaration Seminars
16.         A series of seminars will be organized for the development of proposals,
monitoring of the programs and dissemination of results. At least one seminar will
be organized every year for these purposes. The Twin Institution will participate.
17.         The first seminar will take place following the negotiations of the
project and will have the following objectives:
(a)   Presenting  proposals  that  Universities,  Research  Institutes  and
Education Bureaus would submit for financing and discussing them with
the evaluation panels;



- 76 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 9
(b)   Presenting results of similar programs being carried out in other
countries to stimulate the presentation of proposals for the second year
of the program. Well known international researchers would be invited
to summarize the international experiences with (a) math and science
learning, (b) improving learning in small schools, (c) distance
education and new technologies and (d) education research with empbasis
on cost-effective practices and efficiancy analysis; and
(c)   Promoting interaction and exchange of ideas between Malaysian and
international researchers.
18.         Seminar Organization and Agenda.  The seminar will be organized by EPRD
with University Sains Malaysia. EPRD will prepare a list of participants from
Malaysia (approximately 30) and a list of 4 to 5 International Experts to be
invited to participate and present a summary of programs that are being carried out
in the rest of the world. (IIEP and the Bank can provide assistance in identifying
the experts.
19.         A possible agenda:
First Day:  Introduction of Participants.
Presentation of Malaysia's Research Programs. (EPRD)
Presentation of Bank Financed Program and Subprograms
in other countries.
Four groups: Presentation of Subprograms/Proposals.
Second Day: In four groups: Presentation and Discussion cf Proposals
to be financed by the Project. (Each group will discuss
one of the    four subprograms)
Third Day:  Presentation of International Experiences.
Fourth Day: Meeting of the evaluation Panels for each of the four
subprograms to agree on proposals to be financed.
Fifth Day:  Summary and Conclusions.
20.         Budget and Financing.   A specific Budget for the seminars will be
prepared by EPRD.   The seminars will be financed by the Project and the first
seminar will be financed with funds available under the retroactive financing
scheme.



Page     j
,EM, mwIES an  nWs
PRtE  l  FOR IWIWATIU, E O1W         M13 NiESEe
FRSXaUUllE            PROWECTStACTIY1TIES              WO-ORDINATOR             INPLEINTIMG AGENCIES               EVALAtATING AND           ESTIMATED COSTS
N.SOITOhIG AGENCIES            |_r
1. SUB-PROG    E  1   $choots                                     SD                        schoo               District Eduration Offices,          S1'000 00
(Unit Science  and Math)                                 State Education Departments and
EPRD
Innovations in      1) Minirdgres  for Staff                                                                                                   $3,000 - $5,000
Science and            Dewelopment activities:                                                                                                    per school
Mathmoatics
- seminar
- in-school workshops
a attendance to mtional
cenferences etc.
if) Ninigrants for Students
activities:
- in-school science
fairs
- competitions
- visits to industries,
LAnaDm on special
geographicaL places,
students sclence
caps.
Resource Centres - PKGs                   ETD
State Resource Centre        District Education Offices,       UC= 10,000 per
0) Minigrants for                                                                      State Education Departments and     Sl 000000
organization of                                                                     EPROD  with Malaysian
district levtl science                                                              Mathematies Association
fairs.
ii) Ninigrqnts for
wranfiuatlon of
district levels science
eps.
iii) Ninigrants for district
olypopada: In
Mathemtics and Science
subJects.                                                                                                         750,000
including staff
iv) Prodcction of                                         Ketatan Resource Centre       Kelantan Education Departmnt,    training
Eductianl MWedia                                                                    ETD and EPRM.                     awmnting to
Materials: Production                                                                                                 $125,000 nd
of Teaching Materiats                                                                                                 consultance
for teachers under                                                                                                    fees saowtting
Integrated Approach for                                                                                               S75 000 a
the Subject hNan and                                                                                                  S5500400
his Enviro,uent.m
v) Proposed graded                                       Kedah Resource Centre         ETD, EPRO with lnternational          $700,000
Mathema tics                                                                       instution.
Materials ProJect                                                                                                        World Bank
Costs $3.2a



Page a of 9
Rusm AM  STUDIES AiM  iNUITS
PROGRE FOR IWMATIE,  CGELLB9CE AM REARCU (cent.)
PROGRAINE              PROJECTSIACTIVITIES          CO-ORDINATOR              INPLEMENTING                    EVALUATING AND               ESTIMATED COSTS
AGENCIES                    WONITORING AGENCIES
2. SUB-PROGRAIUNE 2                                            SD
ODprived                I) Development of self-                            Sabah State Eduntation            Schools Division wnd EPRD,    S786490 lncluding
small Rural                instructional modeles                           Department                        Inspectorate                   staff training viz;
Schools wnd poor          for kultigrade Schoole                                                                                              i) Educational
Urban Schools              In Sahab.                                                                                                             visit to New
Zealand S75,000.
ff) Paha*ng Saruaak                                                                                                   ff) Training of 20
proposas                                                                                                              tachdws
813.830.
" i) Studi visit to
RECV S5.525. 
S9,135
3. SUW-PRaUMUE 3                                               ETD            ETD, Edue tfon Departments        EPD, ETD  Inspectorate             10.5 .ftlion
of Sabab, Sarawk an
Distanc  E iAcation                                                        Pd'wh . CDC
4. SU-PROG PE 4                                               EPRo            Schools Division with U3          EIPR  with international         120B.040
f) Interactive Radio in t                          CDC                               instftution.
Edueatf on Research       of underenrolled
schools.  Delop ent
of curriculum base
asse"ssmnt (CBA) in
Renedial Eduecatin.
Schools Division with tEM.       EPMD with international           S 29.200
if) A study of Different                                                              institution.
Models of service
deliveries nd
different models of
Integration for special
needs PupitlsStudents.                                                            EPRD with international          $1,483.200
Teacher Education Division.      fnstitution, RECSAM.               lncluding:
111) Development of *.lf-
taught Nodule in                                                                                                  1) trafning of key
Mathmatics for pre-                                                                                                  persoem    -
service trainee                                                                                                      S133S600
teachers and in-service
teacher.                                . 



ap~
FMM, suaIS Am mwn
PFR   EM  FOR IUWATIOU  EXLUE  0M   EihMCU (cont.)
OCUM -                  PROJECTS/ACTIVITIES      |        c-DmiNATO           i      INPLENETING       |   EVALUATING AND    |       ESTINATED
AGENCIES          MONITORING AGENCIES
it) corulttancy-
S164,000. 
Si,1es,600
rv) Leocty basd actien                                      School, PPD.             PP  State                  S 30.000
research.                                                                        Edzatien
Depuubt.
v) Strategies in the                                      Pahang Resource           ETD. ED with               SS01000
teachfng of                                            Centre                    international
Nathemeties in rural                                                             institvtion
primry schools.
vi) I cwoing the Quality                                   Terengganu Resource       ETD, EPD with              S621.000
of Teaching and                                         Centre                   international
Learning Nathemetics                                                             institution
in Rural Lower
Secon"dry Schools in
Peregu.
vii) Nome and commauity-                   SD                      SD, U1N            SD, EPRM  with             S 29.964
bused Pre-sehool                                                                 internationrl
Progra_m.                                                                        institutional
viii) Third Grade
Mathematics
Assessments.



PALAYSIA
THIRD PISIARY AND SECOMDAY EBUCATIO SECTOR PRCJECT
T bts 1: Prolections of Enroloients and Clasaromn Reuuirements
Student P' es hi               Teacher Needs SI
-    ~         ~~ "4iev  of ClassrDoas---
PriodV           (1)         (2)         (3)          (4)          (5)         (6)           (7)         (8)         (9)          (10)       (11)
LOel of EdM.    Eqpmisn   eRidtlan   Reduction  Replacetent    Total Nt uer of                   New       Qulity        Total      Scenario  ScenrIo
of double   et..46                                Cl_as  t                  iqx v.                   o1      *      2
_ _ _ _        ___           #ses0u                 _      __                               __      __ _ _
prim"urf           12,235      S,167        n.s.         n.s.        17,395       n.a      .                          646.224
S     _edo         8,5          S.97        n.s.         n.s.        17.81        n.a.           ._Z.6
Total Needs       2.067        fC4.14C                              35.211                                          1.269.78-
Primry             9,640                   1,070        1,070        11,780      13,859       420,500      92,283     S12,783       21,204      15,245
Sseco,ry           4.050       1!51t         506        2.024            lI.?                  99.5 119.512    39.024              14.5       3i..
Total Ptan           690       1518        r 1,576      3,094                    25,595 f60,012           291,795    911,807        35.780     29,821         c
00
t1992-95)
Primary            3,536                           n84               4,420        5,200       141,440      35,360                    9,360
Secondary           1.566                        1.6                  3                        534i244     53.24 Z&L
Total Phase I      5,102                         2,450                7,552       9,739       194,684      88,604                   17,530
pgc:  Goven nt and  ission eatf ntes
W   Based on the preseont tlssroot:css ratios of 85X ond 6W  respectively for prfmry and secondary educ tion.
i Based on primery and mcsc clry students:cls ratios of 07:1 (regutlr schools) snd 34:1 respectively.
aI Scenario fIfs based on the present primary and secondary teachermclass ratios of 1.8:1 for both levels. Scenario J2 Illustrates the potential
for officiency gains with a teaKtewr:cles ratio of 1.3:1 at the prfimry letel.
Fitlm:  construc.e



- 81 -
=E 1 1
Page 1 of 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff DeveloRment Program (SDP). Specialist Services. Studies
Development of the Twinning Arrangements
1.          Rationale.  It is proposed to group project software activities (staff
development, specialist services, and studies) under a limited number of "umbrella'
Twinning Arrangements in order to: (a) maximize the internal cohere?;ce and synergy
of these activities towards project objectives; (b) facilitate their management; and
(c) achieve economies of scale.
2.          Partners.  The Twinning Arrangements would be contractual arrangements
between (a) MOE, through its Central Staff Development Unit and (b) one, or a
consortium of, reputable international Uriversity(ies) or Institutions, in
association with (c) Malaysian universities.
3.          Coverage.  The Twinning Arrangements would cover: (a) long and short-
term fellowships overseas; (b) specially organized courses abroad; (c) in-country
courses; (d) short or medium-term specialist services in the form of attachments,
or punctual visits for specific operational tasks (e.g., an "expert panel"); (e)
studies, operational visits, and seminars.
4.          Criteria for Selection.   Like  in the engagement of consultants,
competitive bidding is not an effective method to select the twinning institutions.
'The dominant factors in choosing twinning institutions are their competence and
experience and the staff assigned, the quality of the proposal and the relationship
between MOE and the twinning organizations.
5.          Areas of Concentration.  The Twinning Arrangements would be limited to
state-of-the-art, cutting-edge areas and disciplines which are relatively new to
Malaysia, or for which training at the desired level is not yet available, or which
present particular practical problems of a technical, logistical, or financial
nature. Given these criteria and the project objectives, it is proposed that the
training, specialized services and studies be organized around three "thematic
clusters": (a) pedagogy (about 40% of the costs of this sub-component) and (b)
educational cost/ financing/ efficiency (about 40%); and (c) other specialized
areas, such as early childhood development and special education (20%). Table 1
shows a tentative breakdown by discipline.
6.          Kev  steps.  Malaysia already has extensive links with a network of
world-class universities and institutes, and is already familiar with the steps to
be taken to develop a full Twinning Arrangement. In broad-outline, these would
include:
(a)   designating a small task force, headed by a high level coordinator, to
lead the process; this task force, as is, or restructured with
involvement of the twinning partners, would be subsequently in charge
of managing implementation of the Twinning Arrangements. It should be
noted that the proposed EPRD Staff Development Central Unit, although
not formally created, already operates under the Chairmanship of MOE's



- 82-                                  ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
Deputy Director-General I.  Formal establishment of the
Unit would be an implementation criterion for the SDP, to
ensure that full-time staff is available to manage the
program;
(b)   preparing Terms of Reference for the Twin Institutions, including: (i)
tasks and functions to be performed; (ii) responsibilities in
assisting MOE with: the final design of the twinning programs,
identifying qualified specialists, ensuring the timeliness and quality
of services performed, M&E, progress reporting, activity and impact
monitoring; (iii) budget and an outline of the financing and accounting
mechanisms (revolving fund, SOEs, etc...), auditing; (v) a tentative
schedule of implementation (end-August, 1992);
(c)   shortlisting 3 to 6 potential Twin Institutions for each of the
Twinning Arrangements envisaged (end-September, 1992);
(d)   sending a Letter of Invitation to the shortlisted Jnstitutions and
inviting them to submit a proposal (end-October, 1992);
(e)   for each Twinning Arrangement envisaged, evaluating the proposals
submitted and obtaining detailed information from the top two
institutions selected through field visits (end-December, 1992); and
(f)   selecting the Twin Institutions, negotiating and signing the Twinning
Agreements and proceeding with implementation (end-February, 1993).
7.          Timing.  Given that the above can be a relative'y lengthy process, it
is proposed:
(a)   that it be conducted on the basis of a plan, covering the above steps,
which was reviewed at negotiations (the draft Letter of Invitation was
prepared for negotiations as part of this plan) and monitored during
subsequent Annual Reviews; and
(b)   that interim arrangements be made, for instance with prospective Twin
Institutions, or with existing sources of services, to ensure smooth
initiation of key project components (e.g., upfront training of MOE
staff in advanced analytical and quantitative techniques for the EMIS,
detailed design/initiation of the PIER/research component), as long as
provisions are made to ensure continuity between these, and the final
arrangements.
Because the early start of the PIER and the EMIS components is critical to the
success of the project and because these two components involve approaches which are
relatively new, the contracts would have to be signed by March 1, 1993.
Finalization of the other Twinning Arrangements may take somewhat longer, although
it would be highly desirable for the entire program of training, specialist services
and studies to start as early as possible.
3b IYEAI



NA AYSIA
THIRD PRIMART AND SECONALRT EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
The Staff Develoment Proorma tSOP): Trainina. Ssecialist Services and Studies
Specially     In-Country   Local, Govt.-                 Study
ArehlObjective (X of SDP Cost)                Specialist Services   PH.D   N.A.      Designed       Special       Finmced       Studies*      Tours
___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   Course  Courses                  .
A. PAGOGY (40S)                                                                                   (6 to 12       (6 to 12
weeks)        weeks)
1. Curriculue and methodology                                 6 months          1      3       40 staff      125 staff        IAB,                    Japan
- New tewchng methods (Cuttigrade)                                                                                    Universities,                Korea
- Path  nd sciene                                                                                                          RCs                     Singapore
- School  nagemen skills                                                                                                                           Colobia
2. Edocational Research                                      12 months          2       2      25 staff       75 staff        Local                   USA
- Design of PIER                                                                                                      Universities,                Canada
- limpementation                                                                                                           RCs
- ,raining
- Dissemination
3. Testing end Assessment                                     6 months          1       2      25 staff       75 staff                                UK, USA
- Training
- Design and iapleentation of grade 3 & 4
assessment
- Introduction of criteria in UPSR                                                                                                                              co
12 months         2       3       35 staff      75 staff         USm                    Australia
4. Educational Technology                                                                                                                             Bolivia
- Training in instructional design                                                                                                                 Canada
-Developmant of Radio, TV, audio programs, kits                                                                                                    Hong Kono
and packages
- Development of H & E forms
- Interactive radio
- Coputers in education
Open learning
- Research on technology                                                                   125 staff      350 staff
Sub-Total        3 staff year split
between Peninsula,
Sabah and Sarawak
S. COST, FINANCING AND MAGEMENT OF EDUCATION (40N)
1. Planming and maagent                                      18 months          2      3      100 staff      150 staff         IAB                    Chile
- O & M                                                                                                                                            France
- Norms                                                                                                                                            UlK, USA
- Efficiency analysis
- Decentralization
A)
2. Advanced policy analysis & quantitative techniques        18 months          2      3        5 staff       50 staff                                Chile       m
- Cost and financing                                                                       (upfront)                                               France        ;
- Investment scenarios                                                                      20 staff                                               UK, USA
- MIS mengement and use o
- GIS
- Costing techniqes
Sub-Total         3 staff year split                   125 staff      200 staff
between Peninsula,
I Sabah and Sereak  I_I_II



Specially   | In-Country   Local, Govt.-                   Study
Area/ojective ({  of SDP Cost)                 Specialist Services   PH.D   N.A.         es,ed         special       Financed       Studies*      Tours
______________________________________________ ________________Couirse                     Courses    ____________
C. SPECIALIZED AREAS (202
1. Early chiI ciood                                           6 months           .       2                                                               France
- Review of on-going progra ard option                                                                                                                 Chile
- Prepare and implement school-readiness                                                                                                               Korea
- Design profile and implementation of                                                                                                                 India USA
complimentary pragrems
2. Special education                                           6 months           .       2
- l.aining                                                                                                                                             To be
- Experiments                                                                                                                                          deter-
- Strategy                                                                                                                                             mined
Sub-Total                    _ _I                          50 staff      100 staff  I
Total                 7 staff year         10   20           300         650 staff    19,Q00 staff
Note:    *Studies (priorities to be agreed at each review mission)
A.       ULITY
(a) Clinical skills of teachers and ilpact on remedial instruction;
(b) Teachers decision-making and use of inputs in the classroom;
(c) Correlation between teachers education and teaching practices;
(d) Self-studies by TTCs and teacher training models in developed countries;
(e)  Impact evaluation of radio and TV programs;                                                                                                            00
(f) Teachers time allocation and students, time on task;                                                                                                    4
(g) Comparative study of maths/science teaching/achievements in single and double shift, multigrade and afternoon schools;                                  I
(h) Impediments to maths/science achievements in primary schools;
(i) Staffing and use of per capita grants in maths/science achievements;
(j) Child status and school readiness profiles;
(k) Sumnmary analysis of research findings in Malaysia: destination Ml school leavers; determinants of achievements; the operation of smalt schools; impacts
of specific initiatives;
(l)  The economics of input mixes in s&WIl schools;
(m) Comparison of "value-added" achievements betwpen pupils in regular, fully residential and Jr science schools.
B.      ACCESS/EQUITY
(a) Patterns of female education and achievements in Malaysia;
(b) Study of States with opposite poverty/achievement variables.
C.      EFFICIEN f
(a) Educational Resource allocation and expenditures in Malaysia 1987-92: levels, patterns and efficiency;
(b) Financing scenarios for developing education during the Sixth Plan and Study of justification for increasing WOE's recurrent budget beyond the present
19.6%;
(c) School maintenance practices in Malaysia;
<d) Scope for improving the quality and durability of gotong-royong construction;
(e) Study of personuel: staffing patterns, skills and training needs, incentives;
C() Scope for greater decentralization in educatiorna management in Malaysia.
Filememe: SDPSS.A11                                                                                                                                                       S



NLUAYI
THIRD PRIPARY AND SE"ARY EUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Edckation Manasement Informntlon Svst_
Issue                     Obiective/Activities              Responsibilty        Timing        Indicator                 Comments
A.a PDat lig of 1. Inmrove horifont   ipteoration:              _:               Mars - Jure    COi fiance      Twiming institution to be
- Integrate InanciaL (budgetary,       EPRO/Computers    1993            wit NMOE        lwoLved from the outset for
costs, and expenditure) date into    Dfv./Fin. Div.                    data use        this entire cosponent (design
1. be k harizental         ENis                                  MfE:                              Ptan (cf C     and iapt;nentati" pase)
integration           - review codbooks                       Budget Division                   below)
leading to  ack       - determine uhich data bseQs should
of access to            be tilned on a permeibntly/ad hoc
existing data or        basis (corceptul frmwork)
dupLica ton in          prepre Coeputer programs to
data collecting          ggregte and merge data  ets
efforts.                di d   nsseiate  nformation tout the
intagrated data bais to relevant
NHE division
2. Utilization of      2. Streofthen th  use o  data for            E:              Nars - Jun      List, Inl.    To be reviewed at 1st review
ERIS dota              ftf jon meklns   om:                    EPUDIFin. Div./   1993            respn1bi-    mission; special attention to be
focusigoan             - nop n             of cross-           TED/CDCfSchools                   lities         paid to peer reviewing nd
systea                   diisional special studies *round    Divis10nr                                           dissednation mechoman;
description,             research or evalution qustions        EXJ Syndcate                      Cocpl1ince     monitorfns to take plce every
trend                    coabining dta already available       Tech/Voc.                         with NME       year.
idantification,          with aditional dat coll cted on    Inhstr..of                           data use
proJect                  a sope bsis at a deegragated          F1roIt .                          Pltn - Ex:
monitoring,               leel (scdho  or below)               Bud9et Diision                    GIS, Bridges
projections              us new m   ltsis, lntwrpretation                        Ps9in for
*d presenta ton tedmiqua  for:                          FY94
due ation p4lnming/statistics
studbnt performance; casting
nuu;F bud t preparation;
enpenditure eontrol/ ecosmtird
3. Nad for             3.                 t    ind.catom  nd      Sam  as abo       Prior to 93    Set of          The set of Indicators need nrt
indicators of          an   mt calm   tee                                        Anmal           indicators     be different fram those proposed
effetivnass and           sury  nformation needs of                              weiew                          in the Apprastl Report.
efficiency               dfcSion- aketr  In NME  nd HOF
relevant to  OE's      - review r      portin reupyremnts of
nd MOfPs                 HOF or other ministries
conoern                - iduitffy crfVteal tst of
indicators to allow omrLy
detection of diarerpanes/
problems
B. Need to Sag=  tb    1. Strenethen the  udbet creoeration
F1nance iistrv s   process
S  establish nd maintain a cost         W Finranc        Prior to 93    First Report   First Report to focus on cycLe
ff1sfev snd              saccountinganalysis function in      Division/             e Arutl     by 92 fitaL   unit costs and corpcnents;
the Finonce Divfsifn                 Schools Div.I     Review          Review          agenda for subsequent work to be
IbnaoeUR!1                                                       Service Div.                                     discussed
- Redvw norin and standards                              Every year      As per Anrex   Trend should be towards               Q
(personnel, mterials, areas,                           at ArniaL       6               maximizing output
budget)                             NOE:              Review                          (effectiveness) for a given
EPRM/Finence                                     LeveL of inputs (cost) or             o   -
Div others                                       minimizing costs for the same
"OIF:                                            levei of outlouts



_blective/Actfvities             Resoowibilitv        Timfn_       Indicator                 Camints
C.                      t1. Preomir  m-wide at"  for  t use
a aoint high-ltel  coordinatsor       EM  (PaticyI       Prlor to 93    Coordinator    impte enttion of Ptan to be
for: coord7nating lntegratior of     Research Div.     Anml           available to   nonitoreri at Amal Reviews
for Decision-Nakirn        data bese; develcpingj qal. mnting   or Computers      Reiew          guide post-
Yti-poicies to isprove data access;  Div.)                             ppraisaL
preparing data use plan                                               d sslaIn
- clarify llnso of
authoritylrespasibhilfty for:                                        Plan to be
monitoring  aa bas _  od                                              reviewed at
accssing WOE dota; initiating/                                        93 Amual
coadacting/disseminating policy                                       Review
resesrch, evwau.tion and
monitorng r sults
- udpt data collection plan to
determine data to be collteted on
n Wenuel basis, cenwwa basis, or
spcial  tudy bfi
2. TrainUM awf
- study Visits of ether DIUS         NMEIfhP             1993/l94       Nubr to be   Total not to *xescd a staff-
dbterined:   m*nths
USjMeuicoI
Evatu tion
- sbort tom training of EPU staff       PID               Isdi*te       uNorb/
in policy nd statistica I tnlyuis                                      Training       Respectivety 6, 3 nd 4 staff
and in advanod analytical                                             cespteted       months over a 3 year-period
t eniqaos (GSI)
- lone-ture training for EPD staff    EIR                 Bogin 1993     6 staff
in data and plicy analysfi                                                            30 staff-years (Phs)
- traininf  wrkshosd on policy        EIRD                lgin 1992      9 wee&s over
l picatlom  of We indicators                                          3 yeas
tralnd
3. rIMarLindLu...NW Vmi
-                                     UnresI th    r  rPaLICoqAaters    1993  To be
cosputer Ilfnk  to the mInfram       Di'rifonf                        detwin d
Firnce                          wth Twin
Dfvision                         Inetitutioni
- increase the nuer of micro                                            S micro
eoputers r valable for MIS Use                                       conputwr
- incr eas the avalabIlity of micro                                     Softwar
coquter basud data mergomcnt *d                                       avaltable
analisf  oftwar                    ,
Ff Ir     1011C.1118



NALASIA
TN113 PRINM   AiM SECOSMY muTcyim SECT= PJECT
Use of the EI0  for DecisioAn-kie
Eiih                               r               I           ftalna
TWINU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
gv Etlon PlnioStatistics * size of the system, future growth, etc., In tew of users, facilities, physical i,puts, snd process mesueent
i $fijrPlalmFin#                ne.  _   sesmnt system to mesuro the learningl performnce ot students s
/~~~~~~~ * unit costs and their constituent et qionents; linked to cost anatvsis 
#  Fwr onel Mbf"anaont* calculation of replacement and additional .taSf                                                                          
e/ ~~~~~~~* links Ca), (c). and Cd) given goals set in (a) and (bt) 
ts                                                              Am* shwing   E the we of it. resources
Flename: NIS.A12                                                                                                                                             _



- 88 -
AM12
i          'm NOMSAI2                                                                                         Page 4 of 4
THIRD PRIMAIY Am UoDR  EDUCATIi PROJECT
--~~~~~~xs in MinSctra Nr ---
1990                 1993        1994        199f        1996
Primr
Pedaoalcal inmuts
- Staffing
Teacher: class ratio                      1.5            1.48/1.7
Specfal teachers:school                    5
Non-teaching staff                        3/13
- Starting teacher salary (NS)                     545             545S
- Textbook Loan Scheme  llocatfon                 1.3x            1.33X
as X of primary allocation
* School grants per 500 puipls (NS)
General recurrent                            7.250            7,250
Library                                      1.830            1,830
Welfare servlees
- Student-teacher anul  stipend (NS)              4,140           4,140
- Hostel suct     (NS)
Boardins (p.a./student)                       60               60
Food (p.d./student)                        2.60/2.90       2.60/2.90
Other
- Area per 40 student clasroom (sq.ft)             750             750
- laintenance per classroom (NS)                   I
Pedaaoeleal InrJus
- Stafffng
Teacher: class ratio                          1.5           1.52/1.78
Special teacher: school                      9/15
Non-teaching staff: school                   1/15             6.83
iborotory personnel                          8/
- Starting teacher salarie (NS)
University-trained                           1,170            1,170
Non-University trained                        5S              545
- Textbook Loan Scheme allocation
as Z of secondary allocatfons                2.3             2.37X
- School grants (per 500 puptls) (NS)
General recurrent                           11.225           11,225
Library                                      3,450           3,450
welfare seryfeis
- Student-teacher anul stipnd (NS)                6,000           6,000
Hostels subsfdies (NS)
Doarding (p.a./student)                       60               60
Food (pdl./student)                          2.4              2.90
- Physceal norms (sq. ft.)                         750             750
- Maintenanc per classrow      ) (S
fan:  Circuler No. 3/67( ); Finane Divslon; itilc works Dartment
j orm
Actuat, to be coepleted at the tim  of first  wAl  revie
to be provided by MOE/MOF
^ to be determined by  OE/MF by FY94



- 89-                                                      ANNEX 13
page 1 of 3
MAYSIA
3rd Prfimry and Secondiry Edue tfon Sector Project
Phes 1: 1993-1996
Project Cost Summary
Ns                              US                            S Totat
..............................    ...........................        Foreign      ae"
Locat   Foreign     Total        Locat  Foreign    Total     Exchange      Costs
..............................    ........................... ................. ........................ ......................................
A . Promtinr    tty
1. Teacher Prof. Dev. Prog.         37.9      32.2      70.2         15.1     12.9    28.0           4S.9       6.8
2. Edscational Reources             17.3      24.3      41.6          6.9      9.7      16.6         58.4       5.2
3. Educatfon Reserch                 4.5       3.0       7.5          1.6      1.2       3.0         39.9       0.9
..............................     ........................... ................. ........................ ......................................
Sib-Total                               59.7      59.5      119.3        23.6     23.8      4t.5         49.9      14.9
S . Acess wnd Equity
1. Prlmry School Expulsfon         181.8     104.2     286.0         72.3     41.6    114.0          36.4      35.8
2. Second. School Expansfon        191.2     119.5     310.6         76.1     47.7    123.8          38.5      38.9
3. T.Housfng and St.Bordine         33.3      17.5       50.7        13.2      7.0      20.2         34.4       6.4
..... i  ....... ii ....           ...........................   ....................
Sub-Total                              406.3     241.1      647.4       161.7     96.3    257.9          37.2      61.1
C . Iproving Nanagerial Eff.
1. Staff Develop ent                 7.6      16.6      24.2          3.0      6.6      9.6          68.8       3.0
2. Monit.Evnl.& Policy Anal.         1.2       S.1       6.3          O.S      2.0       2.5         80.6       0.8
3. ProJect Management * Ach.         0.8       0.5        1.3         0.3      0.2       0.5         39.9       0.2
........... .......  ...........    ...........................   ....................
Sub-Total                                9 6      22.3       31.8         3.8       8.9     12.?         69.9       4.0
Total SASELIKE COSTS                   475.6     322.9      798.5       189.2    128.9    318.1          40.5      100.0
Physfcal Contirgeniees                0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0
Prfe  Contingencies                  36.6      36.7       73.3        11.7      12.2     23.9         50.9        7.5
...............................  ...........................   ...................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   512.2      359.6     871.8       200.9    141.1    342.0          41.2      107.5
,....................................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 10/15/1992 12:15
AAYSIA
3rd Prim_ry and Secondary Educatfon Sector ProJect
Phase 1: 1993-1996
NS
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                   TotUl
............................................
1993   1994   1995   1996   MS   USS
A. Proaotno Quality
1. Teacher Prof. Dev. Prog.          6.4   12.3   34.9   16.5   70.2   28.0
2. EducationaL Resources            10.0   14.2   14.2    3.2   41.6   16.6
3. Education Rese rch                1.8    2.0    2.0    1.6    7.5    3.0
.................................. ........................................... ....
Sub-totaL                               18.2   28.6   51.1   21.3  119.3   47.5
B. Access and Equfty
1. Prfm_ry School Expwnsion         78.9  110.6   87.3    9.3  286.0  114.0
2. Second. School Expansion         65.1   90.2   90.2   65.1  310.6  123.6
3. T.Nowing and St.Boarding         14.6   28.1    8.0    0.0   50.7   20.2
.............. ..............................
Sub-total                              158.6  226.9  185.5   74.4  64T.4  257.9
C. Iqwoving Maonaerial Eff.
1. Steff Development                 6.0    7.8    7.2    3.1   24.2    9.6
2. Mnit.Eval.& Policy Anl.           1.9    1.9    1.7    0.8    6.3    2.5
3. Project MNagem ent & Ad.          0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    1.3    0.5
...................................__
Sub-totat                                8.3   10.0    9.2    4.3   31.8   12.7
Total USALIKE COSTS                    185.1  267.5  245.8  100.0  796.5  318.1
Physfcal Continencies                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Contive ncies                  6.6   20.1   26.8   17.9   73.3   23.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                    191.1  287.6  274.6  117.9  871.8  342.0
Taxes                                4.6    6.7    6.4    2.6   20.2    7.9
Forefgn Exchanus                    74.8  119.3  11S.S   50.1  359.6  141.1
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 10'1S/1992  12:15



-89 -                                                   ANNEX  13
page 1 of 3
3rd Prb uYy nd ScodryS 4coion $"ctor Project
Phase It IM9-1996
Project Cost S&ory
USS                         X Total
.................       .....   ................. ... - -. .- ..... -  Fxrorgn  soa
Local  Foreign    Total        Local Foroign    Total    Exchanqe    Costs
A . Prootfng QulAity
1. Teacher Prof. 0ev. Prog.       37.9      32.2      70.2        15.1    12.9    28.0          45.9       8.8
2. ducationel Resources           17.3      24.3      41.6         6.9     9.?    16.6         5#.4        5.2
3. Educatfon R"earch               4.5       3.0       7.5         1.8      1.2     3.0         39.9       0.9
. .............................   ...........................  ....................
sub-Total                             59.7      59.5    119.3         23.8    23.8    47.5          49.9      14.9
* . Aces  nd Equlty
1. Primay School Expnosion       181.8    104.2    286.0          72.3    41.6   114.0          36.4      35.8
2. Second. School Expwufon       191.2    119.5    310.6          7.1    47.7   123.8           38.5      38.9
3. T.ousing nd St.Soarding        33.3      17.5      50.7        13.2      r,o    20.2         34.4       6.4
...... ~:...... i. ...... ;      .... .   .....;;. ..................................... ;;vv**e^s=*w ........ .......
Sub-Total                            406.3    241.1    647.4         161.7    96.3   257.9          37.2      81.1
C . tIpoving Nmnsriatl Eff.
1. Staff O tvelop. nt              7.6      16.6      24.2         3.0     6.6      9.6         66.6       3.0
2. whnit.Evn  .& Policy Anat.      1.2       S.1       6.3         0.5      2.0     2.5         80.6       0.8
3. ProJect Nanagnemnt & Ac.        0.8       0.5       1.3         0.3      0.a      0.5        39.9       0.2
Sub-Total                              9.6      22.3      31.8         3.8      8.9    12.7         69.9       4.C
........... .................. ...........................  ....................
Totol PSELINE COSTS                  475.6    322.9    79".5         189.2   128.9   318.1          40.5    100.0
P Ifcl Continaancf*e                0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0      0.0
PF r    Con intf.cies              36.6      36.7      73.3        11.7    12.2    23.9           50.9      7.5
.... ...... o ...... ;  .......................  ...........................   .................. ..
Total PRECTS COSTS                   512.2    359.6    871.8         200.9   141.1   342.0           41.2    107.5
Valuet Scaled by 10000W0.O  10/15/1992 12:15
kJALASIA
3rd Prifmry Wnd Secondary Educatfen Sector ProJect
Phase 1s1993-1996
mg
Project Coionmnts by Year
Bee costs                   Total
....... .......................
1993   1994   199S   1996   NS   USM
A. prmotirn Qualfty
1. Teacher Prof. Dev. Rrog.        6.4   12.3   34.9   16.5   70.2   28.0
2. Educ tionel Resocvres           10.0   14.Z   14.2    3.2   41.6   16.6
3. Eucamtfon Research               1.8    2.0    2.0    1.6    7.s    3.0
............................................
Sub-total                             18.2   28.6   S1.1   21.3  119.3   47.5
S. AcceUs and Equity
1. Primary Sehool Expuf onn       78.9  110.6   87.3    9.3  286.0  114.0
2. Second. School EpaWnsain       65.1   90.2   90.2   65.1  310.6  123.8
3. T.Wousing and St.Boarding       14.6   26.1    6.0    0.0   50.7   20.2
..4......... ;T w    ........................
Sub-totat                            18.6  228.9  185.5   74.4  647.4  257.9
C. Ilqroving ManageiaW l Eff.
1. Staff Deloprnt                  6.0    7.8    7.2    3.1   24.2    9.6
2. Naft.Evel.& Pollcy nal.          1.9    1.9    1.7    0.8    6.3    2.5
3. Project Nwp"mg nt & AIse.        0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    1.3    0.5
....... ........................ .......
Sub-totat                              8.3   10.0    9.2    4.3   31.8   12T
Total BASELINE COSTS                 18S.1  267.5  245.8  100.0  796.S  316.1
Physicat Contfngencies              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Contine ncies                 6.6   20.1   28.8   17.9   73.3   23.9
.........................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                  191.7  287.6  274.6  117.9  871.8  342.0
Tome                                4.6    6.7    6.4    2.6   20.2    7.9
foreign Eaxdtag                    74.8  119.3  115.5   50.1  359.6  141.1
....V Scaledby  .......0 10/15/1992  12:15
t ugs Scldb  10010000.0 10/15/1992  12:15



- 90                                                                ANNEX 13
page 2 of 3
IALAYSIA
3rd Primry and Seondary EducatIon Sector Project
Pha se IM1931996
Projects C'wonents by Year
Totaels Including Contingenfes               Totals Including Contingenies
....................................          ......................................................... ..................
1993   1994   199S   1996  Total            1993   1994   1995   1996  Total
A. Prosting Quality
1. Teacher Prof. Dev. Prog.            6.8    13.6   39.2   19.8   79.4            2.7    5.3   15.3    7.7   31.0
2. Edcactional Resources              10.9   15.7   16.5    4.5   47.5             4.3    6.P      6.4     1.7   18.7
3. Education Research                  1.9    2.2      2.2     1.9    0.1          0.7    0.8      0.9    0.7    3.2
....... ............... ............ ....................................
Sub-To.l                                   19.6   31.4   58.0   26.1  135.1             7.8   12.3   22.6   10.2   52.9
I. Access nd Equity
1. Priary School Expwnion             81.3  118.4   96.9   11.2  307.9            32.3   46.4   37.9    4.3  120.9
2. Seco n. School Expanslon           67.2   96.8  100.5   75.6  340.2            26.7   38.0   39.3   29.4  133.3
3. T.Nousin  ad St.Eoarding           15.0   30.0    8.9       0.0   53.9          6.0   11.8    3.5    0.0   21.2
.................... ;  ... i  ...  ; .... i; ........... ..........................    ....................................
Sub-Tottl                                 16.6  245.3  206.3   86.8  702.0             64.9   96.2   80.6   33.8  275.5
C. Improving Managerial Eff.
1. Staff Development                   6.2    8.5    8.0    3.7   26.4             2.5    3.3    3.1       1.4   10.4
2. NonIt.Eval.&  Pollcy Anl.           2.0     2.0     1.9    0.9    6.9           0.6     0.8     0.8    0.4    2.7
3. Project Nanagement & Ad.            0.3     0.4     0.4     0.4      1.4        0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.6
...................       ...........         .................................
Suh-Totel                                   8.6   10.9   10.4    S.0   34.7             3.4    4.3    4.0       1.9   13.6
.................... iii................ ....................................
Total PkOJECTS COSTS                     191.7  287.6  274.6  117.9  871.8            76.1  112.8  107.3   45.9  342.0
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 10/1S/1992 12:15
MALAYSIA
3rd Prinery and Secondary Eckcatfon Sector Project
Phase 1: 1993-1996
Ns
Summary Accouts by Year
Base Costs                                  Foreign Exchange
...................................................    ............................................................................
1993       1994        1995        1996      Total           X    Amunmt
1. IVISTMENT COSTS
.......... ...................
A.  Civil Works                           127.1      193.4       177.1        60.5      558.1          34.9  194.8
B.  Equipment                              10.3       24.4        23.1         9.0       66.8          90.0   60.1
C.  Furniture                              17.4       25.S        22.1        12.3       77.3          24.9   19.3
0.  Books and Materials                    15.3         8.1        8.1         8.1       39.6          24.9    9.9
E.  Specialist Service                      0.7        0.8         0.6         0.1        2.2          64.9    1.4
F. Staff Trainfng
1. Local Fellowships i Trg              2.6         2.8         2.6        1.4         9.4          29.9    2.8
2. Overseas Feltows * Trg               8.2         9.6         9.4        6.1        33.2          90.0   29.8
Sub-totat                                  10.7        12.4       11.9         7.5       42.6          76.6   32.7
0.  Research,Studies 4 Grants               3.2         2.6        2.6         2.2        10.7         39.9    4.3
H.  Manogement and Adfnfetr                 0.3        0.3         0.3         0.3         1.3         39.9    0.5
...................................................          .................................................................. .........
Total BASELINE COSTS                      185.1      267.5       24S.8       100.0      796.5          40.4  322.9
Physical Contingencies                  0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                     6.6        20.1        28.8       17.9        73.3          50.1   36.7
...................................................    .................................................................. .........
Total PROJECT COSTS                       191.7      287.6       274.6       117.9      871.8          41.3  359.6
Taxes                                   4.6         6.7         6.4         2.6       20.2           0.0    0.0
Foreign Exchange                       74.8       119.3       115          50.1     359.6         100.0  359.6
Values.Scaled.by.1000000................................................................................
t ugs Sc           I db   OOO.0   10/15/1992   12slS



ANNEX 13
- 91-                                          page  3 of 3
MALAYSIA
3rd PrImary and Secondary Educatfon Sector Project
Phase 1: 1993-1996
Suamary Accoaunts by Yaar
Totals Including Contingencies           Totals Including Contingencies
.. ........... ......................., ........................................... ................... 
1993   1994   1995   1996  Total        1993   1994   1995   1996  Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
....................
A. Civtl works                      130.8  206.6  195.7   69.3  602.4        51.9   81.0   76.5   26.9  236.3
B. Equipment                         10.7   26.5   26.1   10.6   73.9         4.2   10.4   10.2    4.1   29.0
C. FurnIture                         17.9   27.1   24.4   13.9   83.3         7.1   10.6    9.5    5.4   32.7
D. Books and Materials               16.8    9.9    1.0   12.3   50.0         6.7    3.9    4.3    4.8   19.7
E. Specialist Services                0.7    0.9    0.7    0.1    2.4         0.3    0.3    0.3    0.0    0.9
F. Staff Training
1. Local Fellowships & Trg         2.7    3.0    2.8    1.6   10.2         1.1    1.2    1.1    0.6    4.0
2. Overseus Fellows & Trg          8.4   10.4   10.6    7.2   36.6         3.4    4.1    4.1    2.8  1V.4
............ :......    .......   ;.......  ...   ....................................................... ....................
Sub-Total                            11.1   13.4   13.4    8.8   46.8         4.4    5.3    5.3    3.4   18.3
G. Research,Studiea & Grants          3.3    2.8    2.9    2.5   11.5         1.3    1.1    1.1    1.0    4.5
H. Management and Adhinistr           0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    1.4         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                 191.7  287.6  274.6  117.9  871.8        76.1  112.8  107.3   45.9  342.0
._._........................................... ............................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 10/15/1992 12:15
NALAYSIA
3rd Primry and Secondary Education Sector Project
Phae 1: 1993-1996
Suamary Account by Project Coamonent
Teaher Educatio              Primry  Second. T.HousIn               Monit.Ev  ProJect
Prof.      nol   Edusetio  School   School    9 and    Staff    al.&    Manage..
Oev.   Resource       n    Expamio Expensio  St.Board Develp.m  Policy         nt &
Pro.        a    Research      n         n        lag       ant      Anal.    Adm.
1. IUVESTNIIT COSTS
A. Civil W"orks                      41.1        4.8       0.0    238.5    225.5       48.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
B. Equi unt                           2.1      20.4       0.0      14.0      30.0       0.0       0.0       0.3       0.0
C. Furniture                          2.1       0.0       0.0      27.6      45.1       2.5       0.0      0.0        0.0
0. Books and Moterfals                8.3       15.2      0.0       6.0      10.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Ei Specfolist Services                0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       1.4       0.8      0.0
F Staff Training
1. Local Fellowhips & Tug            2.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       6.5      0.6       0.0
2. 0 #rsss Fellows 8 Trg             14.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      14.5      4.6       0.0
........................ ............................................................
sb-total                             16.4       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      21.0       5.2      0.0
0. R.serch.Studies & Grants           0.3        1.2       7.5      0.0       0.0       0.0       1.7      0.0        0.0
11. _ummt  Wd Adhnistr                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        1.3
............... _ _ _ _..
Total BASELINE COSTS                 70.2       41.6       7.5    286.0    310.6       50.7      24.2      6.3        1.3
Physical Contingoeneis              0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                 9.2        5.9       0.6     21.8      29.6       3.2       2.2       0.6       0.1
.4....i:..... _W .                                                ...._9 .......  14
Total     CT COSTS                   79.4      47.5       8.1    30r.9      30.2       53.9      26.4      6.9        1.4
Tom                                  1.6      0.6        0.0      8.0       8.4       1.5       0.0       0.0      0.0
Foien EgxcaW                       37.0       27.8       3.3    114.3    133.7       18.9      18.3      5.6       0.6
Values S-led by 10000010.0  10/15/1992  12:15



-92 -                                                      ANL 14
THIH  lINET AnI UECOIAR  EDUCTn 5ECTI  P ECT
to  t  mm   tho EdUetlon SIee           199 510w
19W   t9@O          1000  1MO      M           199S         199           199
Inroll-     unit Cost        otal      Total Cost    Enroll-         Unit         Total
111           No           Cost                  1 Iwnt            Cost          Cost
1.000           ,,,                                  , , 1.000       Ns          NS
Primry              2448            770        l.81                       2.808         1.024        2,873
Lowr Scondary         943         1.294        1.220                      1.126         1.721        1.938
Upper Secor8ary
Norml                331         1 294          428
Vocatioal             31         3.162           96                        477         1,721          821
52         4.205         219
Sixth For*             62         1,294           SO                         69         1,721          119
Tacher                 23         7.829          160                         27         9.786          264
Training
Polytechnic             9         2.29            21                         18         2.871           52
DpLom                  2S         6.533          163                         4          S166           359
UniversIty             53        10.360          549                         90        12.950        1,165
Other                                            206                                                    49
Total                                          4,855         6.674                                   8 261
Ave.Annual                       .                ------19.5-  -  ---                       7.9     . ------------
Incree
As a X Total
Govt.R cExP.                                      17.9          19.7                                    19.9
Source md Notes:
J       1990 enrolmnts from EPM, Educatlonal Statistics of Nalaysia 199U-1995 enrollments from Sixth Malaysia Plan
1991-95 Table S. Unit Costs for 1990 calcuated on basis of actual expenditure. Unit Costs for 1995
calculated on bati- of 199M  budget allotations. These sho  roughly a on third IncreQ8 in unit costs. For
post s       y    re enrollments ar not avilaoble, unit cost Increases are estloated at 25S to reflect lower
salary shares.  it i assu  d that 1992 unit costs will stay constant throughout the period.
e nt Cot IinlicatIaeu of Prolect CPhm  1)
Enrollment       unit        Total
Ite_          Exp nsion        Cost        Cost
Primary              116.700          1.030      120
eeontry             53.244          1800        96
oarding              20.000             9fS       19
T  ch  rarSinin       3.600           9.860       35
Total                                            m
g   Covemsnt recurrent expenditures ae assmd to incras by 7 percent a yr to the ed of the Project
period.  In 192 thw        (allocated) 1.925.. if Ninistry of Edcation expenditures increas  at the same
rate as  veremnt expenditure by 1996. the Project incremental Sexeditures mill be equal to 270/8748 .3.1
percent of total education rerrent expeniture.
mum m_aq



93                                ANNEX l-
Page 1 of 5
EPQLSE] THIlRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATI Qt PROJEGT
UGneral and Specific Implementation Criteria and Guidelines
I. INTRODUCTION
1.          The Third Project would include: (a) investment elements to be allocated
at the national level (EMIS, Project management), some to be subsequently
distributed to the States (educational resources and library endowments); (b)
discrete elements to be geographically determined (TTC or university-based teacher
training places, State RCs); and (c) elements to be broadly distributed
geographically, and for which demand is expected to exceed available funding
(schools, staff housing, boarding facilities, Staff Development Program/SDP, aud
Program for Innovation, Excellence and Research/ PIER).   Substitution will be
possible among (b) and (c) types of investments, and within (c), some selection will
be required.
2.          General and specific criteria are proposed to flexibly guide the
implementation, substitution and, where needed, selection of sub-projects. The
general criteria apply to (sub) project implementation as specified. As for the
specific criteria, they serve three purposes: (a) where the allocation exercise is
essentially completed (as for the schools construction program), they are
implementation and substitution criteria; (b) in other cases, such as the teacher
training capacity and the RCs, they are meant to ensure that certain management
improvements requested by Malaysian practitioners are adopted upfront (hence the
term "qualifying criteria"); and (c) finally, they were designed to act as a
screening device for the select-ion of research projects under the PIER and of
trainees under the SDP.
II. GENERAL CRITERIA
1.          All (sub) projects comply with the following conditions:
(a)   Relevance:  the (sub) project must have been identified as part of: (i)
the Core Investment Program (CIP) which covers: teacher training;
educational resources (distance education and open learning equipment
and materials, library endowments); State and District RCs; primary and
secondary  schools,  staff  housing,  boarding  facilities;  staff
development; or of (li) one of the project's software components
(pedagogic research, innovation, and pilot operations in math/science,
small rural schools, communications technology; early childhood and
special education; EMIS and project management).
(b)   Economic and financial feasibility:  for all facilities, there should
be evidence that adequate provision have been made for (i) capital
outlays in the Sixth Plan; and (ii) recurrent budget allocations,
notably for operating and maintenance expenditures, including spare
parts and consumables and, for schools, regularly adjusted per capita
grants; and
(c)   Effliciena: to monitor efficiency and effectiveness, key baseline data
(enrollment, agreed norms for staffing, area and construction,



* 94-
Page 2 of 5
recurrent budget, unit costs) should be available for the TTCs (or
equivalent), the RCs, schcols, staff housing and boarding facilities.
III. SPECIFIc CRITERIA
A.  CiLvl NwOr  2rogrA anroi ets
1.          This category includes primary and secondary schools, staff housing,
boarding facilities, teacher-training capac ty (TTC or University-based), and State
RCs.
2.          All Schools.  For extension, replacement or new construction of both
primary and secondary schools, their furnishing and equipm'nt:
(a)   the (sub) project should (l) comply with the principles and criteria
followed to determine allocations by State (based on enrollment
projections and classroom:class ratios, with poverty indicators used as
a complementary criterion), and subsequently by district; and (ii)
remain within said allocations (Appendix 1);
(b)   the (sub) project should comply with sound principles of school mapping
regarding: (i) deconcentration of schools over 1,200 pupils at the
primary, and 1,600 at the secondary level; (ii) consolidation of
underenrolled schools; (iII) the need to reach a utilization factor of
80%, requiring flexible design standards, notably in secondary schools;
(iv) utilization of multigrade teaching or bi-annual intake in
underenrolled primary schools; and (v) commuting distance (3 miles
under safe conditions); and
(c)   alternative design features/technical norms should have been considered
to maximize cost-effectiveness.
3.          Me  schools.
(a)   for the construction of new schools, priority would be given:  (i) to
maintaining the stock of schools prior to expanding it; (ii) to primary
over pre-school classrooms to ensure that UPE is maintained; and (iii)
to lower over upper secondary classrooms; and
(b)   in low density areas, only schools practicing multigrade or bi-annual
intake would be eligible.
4.          Rgld ita14* tion.  Priority would be given:
(a)   in reducing the incidence of double shifting, to (i) secondary ovor
primary schools to maintain a high level of achievements, especially in
secondary math/science; and to (ii) afternoon schools over double
session; and
(b)   in reducing the Incidence of oversized classes, to: (1) primary over
secondary schools; and (il) eliminating classes over 46 students prior
to reducing the number of classes over 40.



95                                ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 5
5.          Staff housing. Housing units would be provided only for schools beyond
commuting distance from a city, taking into account the development of public
transportation (3 miles by foot, 10 by bus).
6.          Boarding facilities.
(a)   boarding facilities:  (i) could be located in urban areas due to
catchment consideration, but (ii) would only admit children from rural
area or from poor urban families; and
(b)   admission would be subjoct to the comuting distance criterion defined
under para.5; and
(c)   nationwide, the proportion of boarders should be kept to a minimum at
the primary level, and around no more than 158 for the secondary level.
7.          Teacher training caDacity (TTC or Universniy-based).
(a)   as a aualifying criterion, any capacity extension in teacher training
should be based on a TTAC-approved Plan satisfactory to the Bank,
specifying teacher requirements, their locus of trair.ing (TTC vs
University) by discipline, and costs; and
(b)   all new facilities would adopt stronger programs in math, science,
ZEnglish, multigrade and use of TV/radio in the classroom.
8.          Resource Centers.   As a aualifying criterion, NOE would submit a
satisfactcry 0 & N assessment.
B. Educational Programs and 2rolects
9.          Pre-schooling and snecial education. Under the Third Project (Phase I),
funding for pre-schooling and special education would be limited to software
programs covering training, operations research, specialist services and limited
amounts of specialized equipment (no civil works).
10.         Distance educatin and 2opn-learning resources.   As a    l
crLteri, MOE would have (a) completed the inventory and technical audit of the
pool of radio, TV, VCR equipment; and (b) strengthened its M&E system to monitor
utilization and assess program quality and lmpact.
11.         Lirar endowmnts. Whenever needed, as determined by an inventory, the
library endovmerts would be supplied together with adequate filing and shelving
equipment.
C. Cotetitive Rrograms/urojects
12.         PE&.  Sub-projects under the PIER would be rated and screened at the
district and State level and selected by SPRD on the basis of the following
criteria:
(a)   link to project objectives of quality, equity or efficiency (strong: 15
points; sufficient: 10; weak: 0 point);



-96 -5
Page of 4 of 5
(b)   feasibility in institutional and technical terms (high: 15 points;
reasonable: 10 points;low: 0 point);
(c)   benefits expressed in measurable terms such as applicability to a large
number of schools, or reduction in costs (substantial: 15 polnts;
moderate: 10 points; limited: 0 points); and
(d)   cost and financing (low cost or large private contribution: 15 points;
reasonable and affordable: 10 points; costly/limited financing: 0
points).
13.         Staff Development Program (SDJV.  For SDP (sub) projects (including
specialist services):
(a)   as qualifying criteria:  (i) the twinning arrangements,  linking short
and long term, in-country and abroad training should be finalized; and
(ii) EPRD's Central SDR Unit should be formally established;
(b)   all applications for training or specialized assistance should fall
under one of the three clusters (pedagory, cost/financing, specialized
areas); vocational training would not be supported under the project;
(c)   all applications should include a draft contract between MOE and the
applicant putting the training proposal in the broader context of
project goals with a related, concrete objective; this linkage, as well
as the benefits, feasibility and costs would be rated as for the
research proposals (para. 12 above); the draft contract would include
a bonding clause, a follow-up plan, and indicators of impact;
(d)   applications for training abroad would be eligible (i) only  for those
fields not available (or not at the desired level) in Malaysia (not
available: 15 points; available at a lower level: 10 points; locally
available: 0 points); (ii) for qualified candidates with adequate
language proficiency (second degree owner: 15 points; first degree
owner: 10 points; no-degree:  0 points);  (iii) as a priority, for
promoting vertical and horizontal team and network-building, provided
no two staff from the same unit are sent abroad simultaneously; and
(e)   applications  for local training would be eligible  (i) only for
disciplines directly relevant to the present or next assignment of the
trainee (direct link: 15 points; moderate link: 10; weak link: 0
point); (ii) as a priority, for staff not qualifying for training
abroad (no degree: 15 points; first degree owner: 10 points; second
degree owner: 0 point); (iii) on the basis of at least one person per
district, with an effort to build teams by sending two staff.
14.         On the basis of the above criteria:  (a) PIER proposals would be rated
on a scale of 60 (best proposals) to 0 points; and (b) SDP applications would be
rated on a scale of 90 (best applications) to 0 points.
Fr_ EAU



TIPIE PENNAN AND u.caM*a.ICT        TUEJT
7.4or                             5 ot 
Kltedahe of4 SIt  lnsSiolCuto              r . b
Ktelntte                           6.6       5.6
klittr Ltwur (W. Pordksmn)         5.6       5.5
NeLsak                             1.6       3.1
llrl  3Sb tan                      5.4       4.1
Pdhn4                              7.2       6.9
Peak                              4.0       6.0
Pa rtis                            1.9       1.9
Pulau Pinwg                        3.7       3.6
S bh                              11.3      15.3
Serlak                            11.9       7.1
agoc                              16.6      17.3
T.re,um                            6.8       6.3
Fltnnm: ALL15.APX



- 98 -
ANNEX lfi
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECQNDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Guidelines for the Allgcation of Loan Proceeds
1.          General.  Loan funds would be used:
(a)   to support activities included in the Primary and Secondary Education
Core Investment Program of the Sixth Malaysia Plan with a view to
promoting quality, expanding access and improving managerial
efficiency; and
(b)   to finance part or all of expenditures made under the above CIP for
(a) civil works; (b) furniture; (c) equipment; (d) books and
educational materials- (e) specialist services and training; (f)
research and studies; and (g) operation and administration, globally
equivalent to about 41% of the total of said expenditures.
The programs and Projects to be supported by the Loan would be selected
and implemented on the basis of the criteria described in Annex 15.
3.          Allocation by Obiective/Comnonent. Overall respective allocations would
not exceed US$26. million (19% of total Loan funds) for improving quality, US$104.7
million (74%) for expanding access, and US$9.6 million (7%) for promoting managerial
efficiency. It should be noted that this underestimates the quality allocation and
overestimates the access allocation in that about US$28.2 million (20%) of the Loan
would rebuild existing classrooms where unacceptably low physical standards
jeopordize quality and therefore would not translate into an increase in
enrollments.
4.          Allocation by type of exRenditure. Allocations would be about: US$44.9
million (32%) for primary schools'; US$52.4 million (37%) for secondary schools';
US$14.5 million (10%) for teacher training'; US$7.4 million (5%) for boarding
facilities and staff housing; US$10.9 million (8%) for educational resources;
US$14.8 (10%) million for training and specialist services; and US$2.0 million (1%)
for research, studies, pilot operations, operation and administration.
5.          Regiomal DLstributioL .  Allocations would be about: 10% of Loan futds
for the Federal District; about 65% for the rest of Peninsular Malaysia; about 10%
and 15%, respectively, for Sabah and Sarawak.
6.          Overall balance.  In order to maintain an appropriate balance between
objectives, geographical concentration and types of investments (hardware/
software), it has been agreed that (a) the Project would not depart from the
guidelines belcw by more than 10% In financial terms by objective, State and
category of expenditure; and (b) the amounts allocated to hardware components could
only be revised downwards, and those allocated to softwnre components could only be
revised upwards.
'I including buildings, equipment and furniture



-99-                                         17YlL2
Page 1 of 3
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ZDUCATION SECTOR PROJECI
Project Manwezent and Im2lementation
A.   Project pMag,ement at the NA^ional Level
The proposed project will be implemented along a similar management structure
as in the two previous education sector loans (Ln. 2685-MA & Ln. 2987-MA):
1.   The MQE's Development Committee (MDC), chaired by the Secretary-General
of the Ministry was establlshed to oversee the implementation of all
ongoing development projects.   A Secretariat assists the MDC in its
*                   tasks.
2.   The MDC Segrt,ariat brings together the senior staff from the Development
d Supply Division (DSD), responsible for implementation together with
*aff from the Education Planning and Research Division (EPRD) to
ordin ze project activities. Its main functions are to provide expert
advics b.d vecommen4ltions to the Project Management Team (see item 3c
below) in tl. implementation of policy measures, review and cc'jment on
the anv.al ekrenditure pl.ens, oversee the progress and quality of project
implementation, raise issues needing attention and recommend solutions.
Subordinate to che Secretariat are a number of Technical Subcommittees,
which provide &iidance ard support in specialized fields. In carrying
out its tasks, '-he Secretariat works closely with the Economic Planning
Unit (EPU) of t.c Frime Ninlster's Devartment, the Ministry of Finance
and the Public Wor'a Department (PWD).  It also collaborates with the
Implementation Coordination Unit (ICU) of the Prime Minister's
Department, which is nationally responsible for overseeing the
implementation of federally funded projects.
3.   The Prolect Management Team (PMT), has the overall responsibility to
mange and implement the Project.   The EMT is headed by a full-time
Project Director (head of the Foreign Loan Unit in DSD) who reports
directly to the Secretary of the DSD and to the MDC. The PMT brings
together at the working level, the policy and technical sides of MOE via
EPRD (in turn receiving inputs from the various MOE Divisions) and via
DSD.
n-  PNT is responsible for:
a. the preparation of annual implementation plan and budget;
b. the coordination of Central and State project implementation
activities and providing guidance and support to State Education
Departments (SED) involved in project planning, implementation and
administration;
c.   the administration of the project, including preparation of periodic
reports to the EPU, HDC Secretariat and the lank;



- 100 -
~Z17
Page 2 of 3
d.   cooperating with EPRD on the pedagogical aspects of the project, in
particular the implementation of the MIS, Special Services and
Studies components;
e.   cooperating with the JKR, on the design and planning, bidding and
construction, and supervision of civil works components financed by
the Project;
f.   procurement of goods and services thru LCB and ICB procedures; this
involve preparation of bidding documents, technical specifications
(in collaboration with EPRD), evaluation of bids, contract awards,
delivery and installation;
g.   in cooperation with EPRD, administration of overseas and local
training fellowship programs and consulting services;
h.   arranging centrally organized seminars, workshops and training
sessions; and,
I.   loan administration, including liaison with the Bank and maintenance
and supply of all records and reports as required under the Loan
Agreement, including: withdrawing proceeds of the loan from the
Bank, maintaining the SOE accounts and arranging for timely audits
of project accounts.
B.   ProJect Management at the State and District Levels
1.   In each of the 13 States State Steering Committee&. (SSC) have been
established with the purpose of overseeing state level development
programs and monitoring their efficient implementation. The SSC8 are
chaired, ex officio, by the respective State Chief Ministers and members
include representatives from state and federal agencies involved with
State and District level projects, including the State Planning Unit.
At the district level similar committees are set up to supervise projects
in their localities.   They are headed by the respective District
Officers. SSC's maintain contact with and receive advice from the MDC
Secretariat.
2.   Actual management and implementation of education projects at the State
and District levels are assigned to staff at the State Education
Department (SED) on a part time basis with the assistance of staff in the
District Education Office (DEO) in concerned districts. Responsibility
for civil works, including designs and site supervision is with the State
Public Works Department (SPWD), except in the states of Sabah and
Kelantan, where the Federal Government has established since January 1991
the Federal Development Office (JPP) to plan, implement and coordinate
all federally funded projects with the assistance of private consultants.
In this respect, unlike in the ongoing education sector loans, JPP in
coordination with the SEDs, will be responsible for the implementation
of the Bank supported education projects in Sabah and Kelantan. As the
JPP is a newly established federal agency within the two states and
rather unfamiliar with the implementation of Bank projects, the Bank
stresses the need for the central PMT to provide increased assistance to
JPP in discharging its tasks, especially in Sabah, where the ongoing



- 101 -
Page 3 of 3
education projects have experienced significant implementation delays in
the past.
3. The SEDs implementation responsibilities include the following:
a.   preparation of the State annual implementation plan for approval by
DSD/PMT and coordination with the annual central implementation &
expenditure plans and District plans, If any;
b.   coordination of all project activitie.  in the State and provision
of support to Districts inmolved in project implementation;
c.   in collaboration with the State JKR (in Sabah and Kelantan, the
JPP), planning, bidding, constructing and supervising civil works
components;
d.   in coordination with DSD/PN4T, procurement of goods and materials
under LCB procedures, involving standard local bidding documents,
specifications, evaluation of bids, contracting, delivery and
possibly lnstallation;
e.   administration of local consulting services;
f.   coordination and administration of local training and fellowsiips
schemes, local meetings, seminars and workshops;
g.   State implementation of monitoring and evaluation procedures in
accordance with guidelines established by the 1IS component;
h.   preparation of periodLc reports to DSD/PMT and to the State SteorLig
Committee and State Planning Unit on the progress and quality of
implem_ntation;
i.  maintenance Lid provision of all project related records and reports
as required by the Loan Agreement; and
J.   liaison with the State Planning Unlt office in all matters relating
to project administration.
1_ rTML



_IJ->::l; '. \             J. .,         |il* l 6
(i_ :.; z ..                      ;_; ; ; ......
I  |"   . 4                                                   -                     ..... ....__..
+ ~                                                         33" J~               *   3 1auw   , 
... ... ...      ... . .  .......R .   .....
t 3 " x ~.. .. _....
t _* , V ~~~~~~~.....                                  in   vp  _   g        2 i
F _ - . 40               .  ......tX!o  w 
_* p Z > ~~~. .\ ......    ....   
_  z. t w * 5                         lNN3 _                      ;;iji4
|   "   ;   ;  ;  ;  ; ; ; ;. g _ _~~~~~~~I



- 103 -
lHRD  bTh=   ANID SECONDJORY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJEC
Superyviion Plan
1.             Under tho first two Sector Projects, Goverrment and the Bank nave put
in plaoe a solid Annual Implementation Review system. The Project would build on
this system. Introducing only minor changes designed to take into account new
element introduced In the Third Project (distance education, research, and EKIS).
raviw  |Tialng                  Focs                        Tools 'Ants
A. amL      Pw end-April      - Policy frewrk, snrollmnts,       Prepratory report      Tfoing would
Sifj      each  Wr          finarce, badge, physical          (by March 5)          enure
bqlrMalln 1h     Mparfwince, _wasmint IEIIIF,      .Action Plan          ovailaility
l1e9Sing i        E) ~fomsnce, managmarfit (EMIl    Interim an outem    of od_tional
fndicators          statistics for
the prelvui
year wn
paruwter for
preparation of
next budget
B. Jneud    By eonFeIr   - Narrow focus on on or two           - _amn sbove plus    - sminar to
3i _    each vyer,          pedagogc  es{ , such as$          a sefnea               take ple
beglnin  In       small rural schools, teac_er    - prearatory rport/    outside
1993              traininr, rerch and               pop   by mid-          Kualo Ltpr
lInowatlen, science  d           October                (e.g.  ah/
thnology, educational                                  Sarak for
dacentraligation, to be agreed                        small shools,
jointly at th previous reiew.                         USN on ST,
te.
C. Prolmt   Fwbury 19          Ob jective is for all key actors   - UN                - Participatfon
iiiiR                      to unsmtand the variou           - Irlfifg papers        of EPU, NOF,
Eii-M                       ports of the project              prepar  by             Univorsity nd
(redactionsl, physiecl,          relevant NOE           loal off1-
finencial WAd   naerial          Divisions              cliat een-
objectives) d their linkages    - Plnary seian          thaI
lterting with
smatl groep
discussons
D.           d n19nd          - To datemain. dther status of    - s   as eudc A,        Report to be
(poicy as well as pwlesl)        plus spcal rort    prepared by
I~~IiI               iq4emnfot   -tfaton requires                             IndPIePI  nt
_________    _      reorietatiot n                 _  _i_    _t_ _n_        source
_                            oAen tor_



sI au se"ao                                    -  104 -                                                 AEM
TNID Pain"MM   "lECtOMiM-EUCATIaN 8 CT   PCoJECT
Prolaet Pro   InrrPdt ull_ tation Idiajila
-t= i  ettitun nd VLORD
Project El m nt                           Project Tear                Total Pa _nt        am rk
19ng I194^ 199"M9 tg"96
gBord P-ssntation
Signingllffectivene o/Closing
CfXWl oks A/
hor Trining capacity (2)                            2.6       12.4      2.7          17.7           IC e
EFC Rehabilitation (4)                              0.8       0.9        0.4          2.1             LCS
Priery Schoolt q/                        2.1       30.9      31.5       2.9         100.3             LCU
Secondary Schools St                     19.2      27.6      28.4       20.9         96.1             LCU
Staff Houaing & Student Boarding          5.7      11.2       3.3                     20.2          Lc S/
oEoul nt & F1.Mitur n                                                      t.8         1.8
SRC end Learning leacurc s                4.1       5.2       5.5        1.2         16.0          ICh/AC
Prfiry schools                            4.6       6.9       5.6       0.5          17.6           ICM/AW
Secondary Schools                         6.4       9.2       9.6       7.1          32.1           ICR/ACB
Staff Houaing & StudEnt  oarding          0.3       0.6       0.2                     1.0       furnftur Onty
LO
Monitoring & Evaluation (NIS)             0.1                                         0.1
Int#enatioal
Shoping
-lOosk   Edctitonal Materials A/
TYC's                               |    0.9       1.0       1.1        1.2          4.3
1CW/L=
Primry Schools                            0.7       0.7       0.8        0.9          3.1
ICBACW
secondary Schoote                         1.1       1.2        1.3       1.5          5.1
ICB/LCB
Sreilist Servlees - Cmnaulttucles          0.3       0.3       0.3        0.1         0.9 dI
gStaf }y v, w m Preer
Overseas Training                         3.4       4.1       4.1        2.8        14.4 2y
Local TraIning                            1.1       1.2       1.1       0.6          4.0
TTC (7.1)
Studies. Research rnd SEl c al_Surt
TTC's                                     0.1                                         0.1
ERC's CETO Reserch)                       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1          0.4
Progrem for Imnnvatfon, Excelttwe         0.7       0.8        0.9       0.7          3.2
md Resarch (PIER)
Niscallntmous StudIes                     0.3       0.3        0.3       0.2         1.1
oeration nid adnaltration                   0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1          0.5
Totals                     76.1     112.8     107.5      43.6         342.0
(Sank Fn nc d)                 (31.4)    (46.5)    (".30    (18.8)       (141.0)
Motes Figures *sy not dd up dU  to reding.
*  Conti n_  bvond project clolno dpto uncdr a posIble Phase 11.
Contract for Tcs  aesti   d at USS5.0  lilon each.
Snctlng pVe fpoj t neta c tie a                o      t MS0 Miion.
g   lection of fllou using enisting CovnWant adeinistrativo porcedurw.



- 105 -ANNEX 2
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
I.   Macro Economic Background
A.    The Second Outline Perspective Plan (1991-2000), Government of Malaysia
B.    Sixth Malaysia Plan (1991-1995), Government of Malaysia
C.    Crowth,  Poverty Alleviation  and Improved  Income  Distribution  in
Malaysia: Changing Focus of Government Policy Intervention (January
1991). The World Bank
D.    Malaysia - Fiscal Reform for Stable Growth (Draft, January 1992), The
World Bank
II. Working Papers
A.    Preparation Document #1, Third Sector Loan, World Bank (Primary and
Secondary Educational Development Project, June 1991), Ministry of
Education, Malaysia
B.    Preparation Document #2, Third Sector Loan, World Bank (Primary and
Secondary Educational Development Project, November 1991), Ministry of
Education, Malaysia
C.    Projections for Elementary and Secondary School Teachers and the Demand
for Polytechnic Lecturers from 1990 to the Year 2000, Education Planning
and Research Division, Ministry of Education, Malaysia, July 1991
D.    Project Brief - State Education Resource Centres in 6th Malaysia Plan
(December 1991), Ministry of Education, Malaysia
E.    Studies on State Education Resource Centres (Educational Technology
Division, Ministry of Education, Malaysia), Ministry of Education,
Malaysia
F.    Educational Development in Malaysia in the Era of the Sixth Five Year
Development Plan, Working Paper #1 (Keith Hinchliffe)
C.   Distance Education Component, Working Paper #2 (John Kirk, September
1991)
H.    Development of the Management Information System within the Third
Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project, Working Paper #3 (D.
Chapman, January 28, 1992)
I.    Clarifying  the  Government's  Plan  for  teacher  training  capacity
expansion -Ministry of Education, August 1992.
jr2t



MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Structure of the Educatlon System
1992
PRIMARY                   '   LDWER SECONDARY               UPPER               POS                                                     ' UPM
,  ,                 ,      {0{+                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Degree'
,       .                  g   CerUlX~~~cauti  Lowr       Higer Diploa:a 
1     2 .             3{   i&Tehncal Teacher
Diptoma      a in Edu'ato  UM
UPM
UKM
UPSR                       SRP  Academki  SPM                  STp
LVI =LowerFormVI                                                         Vocatonal SPMV                 ercae   Dipblma        HigherDiploma         UKM
SmV = S aI  ats wn MasUIAoaloa
TA  =TMaftty           S YoU                                       . aand Cportes                                                         Porienhetr  USMs
PUV  = Pre-UNIo rs iy                                                                                   'Col
R =Re.moFe(iansyn)bs                              
UPSR = Ullan P       e       cplnSka Rendah:__:::
SC = SnIoole1s2                                                                                           AgriculArral ls
SPM = S et of1No1th Pe  ninsb lertalatey
SPMV =S  Petea aaMaybokasbna                                        ::  
SRF. =n Redhelra                               
STP = SI                                                                                SC Tlngg               Traoran  Center
TAR =T   b Abdul Rahman Odig     C,MrlnrCenter
UVI = N ratnal UnWs     U:e:y
UKM = Upper Fonn VI 
UM = UriversHy of Maloya:                                                _      _::
UPM = Urdvefsfly of AgriculAur                                     .       1_2|)So                         MARA Trainirng Irmfhtkas
WM  = Urdvw*tl> of Norh Peninsular Malaysia.                              _                                                                          :
UIA = frdenaiioinal Warnic UnhfersKy:
UrM = UWniersity of Technoloy
USM  = Unversiy Sience M=aysla                                     :                                       I         a-n Itite
.  1      2-        }             , Industral Trlning nstrws
8      7     8      9     10    11        12  12-13  13-14 14-15         15-16 16-17        17-18 18-19          19-20 20-21  21-22      22-23 23-24
I      I     I      I      I     I         I     I     I      I            I     I            I     I              I1     I         II 
Age
asds~520n



MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Ministry of Educaton
Organizadon Chart
1992
mi                                                               I
MTr I                                                IEtaft h
_  ~         Dq_o Imt
too  Gfe,,1                                                                    U
I,I r-    -T-                      To   WI
Edu*  NOW Wm*  so  S&O* Exwbw Edx& Cvbl- rm  Fffoo  lnetop  amw  Zww  EM&- 6ftW-    tha\w
amm   udm               Elf                Do  Wm&    n 8*Dv   fd&=.Mtk                        mfm            emua
d   Dywon  D"-  $00* ut  Wok Meb  Dw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bo=  DvW  DiMm DVWM  ff4  aviion %*m SK&M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1tttte5::Xt Sftm f                                                                              %va4e 
Rmead  bw                    DvW~~m Cm                                   vo s
=rHads H565d



MALAYSIA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
EDUCATIONAL PLANNING AND RESEARCH DIVISION
OrganIzatIon Chart
1992
D" DraftII
Ptf Uni        Pdbl Ui      PesudhUd     E WUrd        Etf DO Ud
19191 tXFe   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
83*~ ~~~~~b Pd   d  ^-Fa m  PW   fbEAbEWbSaf  acDt  IT w
pbyv  ld $P  Adm~6  "  m  n  n  r    of of &m* KCU)
sadsXw52656d



MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
State Education Department (SED)
Organization Chart
| StEtte DIrector 
IDepuyDrco I  |                                          euy Director 11             Dnug|             DLsctfDivislon |
Educ lionD  udries |                                          S                  Preve    Uaon          E ducatond         a
PAD           PAD           PAD            PAD           PAD            PAD           PAD           PAD            PAD           PAD            PAD
Curdculum    Eckwaica of    Evamaio &        ocurrm       IslamcSevice T               Stdent 2      P&la g        Uaison &      S               Pmay  
L     ~~~Teholog  Exmrtor                              Edua1o                        Wefr 2S  vel -                   5         q
PAD   = Pndpal Assistant Director                 Notes: 1 Includes Finance & accouts
ADIS  = Assistant DirectorSupervisor                     2 Includes hostels, healt & dsciplne
CS   = Clercal Staff
Source: Ministry of Education



MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
District Education Office
Organization Chart 1991
Dlasc EducaSon Ofie
(Assistant DisictEducation                                            Assistant District Education
Ofr - Secondary Schools                                                 Officer - Primary Schools
Supervisors                                                        Supervisors
Secondary Schools                                                   Primary Schools
Educational Clerical Officer
ZIZE~~~IZ
Suporn Staff 
'gn'eraLaborer
Source: Ministry of Educatbon.                                                           sads\w52656a
(ekw51O2SW)



MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Project Management Operational Chart
SECRETARY GENERAL
NATIONAL LEVEL                                 OF EDUCATION
I  MOE DEVIELOPMENT
COMMITTEE
(MDC)
mmSECEARIAT               ECRETARY DSM
POECT
MANAGEMENT            FOREIGN LOANS         DSD UNITS (2)
MATEAM  7Ur
STATE LEVEL               [PD                   DIFECTOR
PMTTD              SED             SElE
* Wih Inputs from CDC, TED, Schools Divsion, ETD, Examinatiors Syndicate, etc.               0BIOCOH
C%



MALAYSIA
Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
Project Management Team
Projet Manaent Tam
kwt
Proct IMtanager I     Project Manager 11                      Project Manager III  Proce Maner tV
dbly  Planningc t anotu rImemn l                                 tn tn o Projects  IrnpIernenta0-of. Prqoects
A3bbAEEI'Mi InbbI 
cwtt
Pu.    Office b-
searcherm  gel



MALAYSIA
Third Primary and SecondarY Educaton Sector Project
OrganizationaT Chart (1991)
Development and Supply Dhrlsion
Ministry of Education, Malaysia
9unge LndPoet              erE        Plmng       Pluing      ian.
KER               KER      R      R KrER  KER
l~~~~~~~~ER
PSU - Assistan to he S.Cretaiyoeft-jer
JUB  Mete NSta swvyo
PT  Te      s assis                                                                          4 Shotand
PKA OA-ft c t"era
PK  M.                                                                                   13 -
PP -Plumnrgr doffcr                                                                               bo
KER - aeI kde                                                                                I Teehn
RrAerek-pe:  _
pp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~baA00 (4 )brt3Tpi



MALAYSIA
Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
Organizatdonal Chart (1991)
Foreign Loans Unit
Development and Supply Division
Ministry of Education, Malaysia
Chidef
Projetpbnn n Fnancial and                                                     Acutn ................ Technica Maners and
....  _  AdnfmkdMion                               Project Implementation
Eecutive ~.cut          Snir      Sno        Senior    Seir       eno       Snor        eio      Snor        eio 
sor    Se            rAoe                             Tehni     T          Technical    n      T          T                            
Officer  OfficstaerAsisant Assistant Asina                Asitn      Assat Assan            ssan     Asstt 
Clark I  Clerk 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cek                                                           lrk3 Clrc   esce
I    11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
bsaO515t(4    %



ioo-                      MALAYSIA             104,           I
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
CLASSROOM:CLASS RATIOS,PRIMARY EDUCATION
CLASSROOM:CLASS RATIOS
X                           2    .~~~~~~~~~~~9B -1,07
TH A I L A N D      L     KOTA OMEI RU8   9
.58- .67
I                                                       AAa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1O~f    o    b
Selaton~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gq~h eo,~afn ie
SO UT  H
OCHINA   99



IBRD 23712
o00-                                   10                    MALAYSIA          104I
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
CLASSROOM:CLASS RATIOS,SECONDARY EDUCATION
CLASSROOM:CLASS RATIOS
t,              \                              7    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.82-.93
T         H A I L A N D   AB^HRU                  S    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70 -81
ALOR 3EICR    .           PXz -8i~~~~oin Chepa      ''  .46 - .576
 /   .                          /} \,,                               CHI'NA
a.>At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s of Th Wrl Bo
A   _E Z        g //.-'/.,'\\                            A            50UTHTA MHR
Pb ir Mool~~~~~~~~~oh~  ooiooh
@9MMaEoCN^^tMCMt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ce'E 19ii92S C
61                                                                                               6
Pubhl~~~~~~~~~COER19



110W                          11?                        1 116m                                             118
MALAYSIA
SADJ AND SARAWAK
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY
EDUCAMON SECTOR PROJECT
CLASSROOM:CLASS RAVOSSECONDAR EDUCAlON
CLASSROO.CLASS RAlOS
394-1.06                                                               mp
E  n  n                   ~~~~~~s O u t h                mm*
O  .70-.82iS
. 5-.69
.6- .57                                           BU
~~~~~ 5UU?LINWOW* 4f<eGaXm
MUCMDWaOINDONSI
41                          SM CA                                                                   N D ') N E 5F A               I NALMNTN
XV                                                                                                                                                      > 1a 1D  W   120   1   2I
1W  ii?                     lit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mh =d;



110                       12t                     114'                    11                      l1r
MALAYSIA
SAMAH AND SARAWAK
THIRD PRIMARY AND SECONDARY
EDUCAlON SECTOR PROJECT
CLASSROOM:CLASS RA1OS,PRIMARY EDUCAllON
CLASSROOM-CLss RATIOS
.98. 1.07                                                       nm
V                .88~~~~~~-.97                                                w"
.78-.87                 Southm
2 9 ~~~~~~~C h i n a 
*      UasnWaBouNU  Sea
A    soismsoswu ctEwa
aUCAON DB1WCt BOUNMN
@ SIT1ECMIAS 2jx
XS\  EINOUNDSS E                                                                           INDONESIA 
l0t                      11?                      111



