Report No. 372a-TR                                                                  FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Second Development Finance Company Project
Trinidad and Tobago
August 19, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Until Dec. 1971:                 TT$1000 - US$0.50 or US$1000 - TT$2.00
From Dec. 1971
until July 3, 1972:              TT$1.00 = US$0.54 or US$1.00 = TT$1.84
Since July 3, 1972:              The TT$ was allowed to float in line
with sterling. As of December 1973
TT$1.00 = US$0048 or US$1.00 = TT$2007
This report uses rate of:        TT$1000  US$0.50 or US$1.00 = TT$2.00
ACRONYMS
CARIFTA              Caribbean Free Trade Association
CARICOM              Caribbean Common Market
IDC                  Industrial Development Corporation
TTDFC                Trinidad and Tobago Development
Finance Corporation



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUIMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................  ........... i - iii
I. INTRODUCTION                 .....
II.   THE ECONOMIC SETTING AND TTDFC'S ROLE          1.      
Economic Envirornment.                               1
Structure of Manufacturing. .                       2
Growth of Manufacturing Output and Exports ..   3
Employment and Wages...   3
Industrial Promotion Policy.                        4
Future Prospects .        ...................       5
Financial Environment  .6
TTDFC's Role and Performance in Financing
Industry  ...............                 . .     7
TTDFC's Future Role and the Proposed Second
Bank Loan.                                        8
III.   TTDFC'S ORGANIZATION, PROCEDURES AND RESOURCES             8
Objectives and Policies               .8
Share Capital and Ownership .................   9
Board, Management and Staff .................   9
Appraisal                   ...9
Follow-up                  ...         ..   9
Procurement and Disbursement.         .             10
Audit   ...........    .......                 ..   10
Relations with the Government   .        .10
Relations with the Business Community .10
Resources ........... .....................  10
IV. OPERATIONS   ..11
TTDFC's Lending Rate                 .             11
Quality of Portfolio.                               12
Financial Performance  . .13
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Alland, K. Chraibi and G. Shepherd.



TABLE OF CONTE'NIS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   TTDFC'S PROSPECTS ................................ 13
Operations Forecast .13
Resource Requirements .13
Projected Financial Results .................. 14
VI. PROPOSED BANK LOAN .14
VII. RECOM1ENDATIONS .e.                                     15
ANNEXES
1.       Structure of the Financial System
2.       TTDFC:  Statement on Investment and Operational Policies
3.       TTDFC: Approved Loan Policy of the Company
4.       TTDFC:  List of Shareholders
5.       TTDFC:  Board of Directors
6.       TTDFC:  Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements:  Actual (1970-73)
and Projected (1974-78)
7.       TTDFC: Audited (1970-73) and Projected (1974-78) Income Statements
8.       TTDFC: Audited (1970-73) and Projected (1974-78) Balance Sheets
as of December 31
9.       TTDFC: Past (1970-73) and Projected (1974-78) Sources and Uses
of Funds
10.       TTDFC:  Past (1970-73) and Projected (1974-78) Financial Ratios
11.       TTDFC:  Characteristics of Loan Commitments from Inception to
December 31, 1973
12.       TTDFC: Equity Investment Portfolio as of December 31, 1974
13.       TTDFC:  Status of Arrears as of December 31, 1973
14.       TTDFC: Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMET FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Basic Data
1.   Year of establishment:  1970
2.   Ownership (December 31, 1973)
Number of Shares    Percentage of Total
(Par value TT$50)
Government                           80,000                    93.64
Private institutions                  5,430                     6.36
Total                       85,430                   100.00
3.   IBRD Loan                                    Status of Loan as of August 16, 1974
Rate of                            (in US$ million)
Loan No.   Date Signed    Interest                Amount       Credited        Disbursed
819-TR     May 15, 1972      7.25%                  2.0            2.0            1.5
4.   Operations  (Amounts in TT$ million)
Loans:                               1970      1971        1972       1973
Approvals                          437        450        3072       5622
Commitments                        437        280        3072       4037
Disbursements                        -        113        1555       4146
Equity Investments
Approvals                           200        85         785         322
Disbursements                        -         67         838        135
5.   Financial Performance
(in TT$ million)
(a)  Total Assets:                         4.1       4.2         6.3         8.6
Loan portfolio                       -        0.1         1.6        6.6
Equity portfolio                     -        0.1         0.9        1.0
Long-term debt                        2.0       2.0         4.0         6.2
Domestic currency                   2.0       2.0         4.0        5.0
Foreign currency                     -         -           -         1.2
Equity                                2.1       2.2         2.3         2.3
Long-term debt/equity as defined
in Bank Loan Agreement           0.1:1      0.1:1      0.2:1      03,1
(percentages)
(b) EBIT as % of average total
assets (ATA)                     0.3        1.7         0.9        2.4
Net profit after tax and provisions
as % of average equity           0.5        3.1         2.0        2.6
Reserves and provisions as % of
total portfolio                   -        14.8         3.5        2.6
Financial expenses as % of
average total assets              -          -           -         0.4
Administrative expenses as % of
average total assets             3.9        5.3        6.0         4.6






APPRAISAL OF
SECOND DEVELOPENT FINANCE CONPANY PROJECT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SUNKARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second project to assist the Trinidad and
Tobago Development Finance Coripany Ltd. (TTDFIC) in its financing of the
import component of productive projects, mair.ly afor indussry, and proposes
a US$5 million loan.  The Bank extended a US$2 million Loan to TTDFC ini
1972 after collaborating with the Government in TTD3'C's establishment in
1970.
ii.       Industry, which accounts for about one-eightl.  of GDP, and which
grew at 8% a year in real terms in the 1960s, has been one o^- the leading
growth sectors. Trinidad and Tobago has developed a broad range of
manufacturing activities largely based on import substitution of consumer
goods. Exports of manufactured goods, although growing rapidly in the 1960s,
particularly to the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA) as a result of
trade liberalization, represent still only a modest share of manufactured
output and total exports (10% for both). In an economy with an estimated
unemployment rate of 14%, the industrial sector has also played an important
role in employment generation. Manufacturing employment grew faster than
total employment, increasing its share from 16% to 18% in the second half
of the 1960s. Incentives, in the form of quantitative restrictions on
imports, import concessions on capital goods and raw materials and tax
holidays, have provided the major impetus for the rapid growth of industry
in Trinidad and Tobago. This system, however, and the limited size of
the domestic market has created in many cases high cost industries composed
of sub-optimally sized firms importing unprotected inputs and receiving
quota protection on their output.
iii.      Trinidad and Tobago's industrial promotion policy is to a large
extent determined by its membership in the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)
which in 1974 became the successor of CARIFTA. Although CARICOM is in prin-
ciple committed to introducing efficiency criteria into its incentive system
over the long run, its current incentives are not determined on this basis.
CARIFTA and CARICOM have provided the basis for intra-regional trade but there
is still little effective provision for coordination of industrial policies
and planning of new investment on a regional level. Within the context of
its economic study of the Caribbean, the Bank is studying CARICOM industrial
promotion policies and will take them up with the individual governments in
a regional context. A major objective of the proposed loan is to concentrate
on developing TTDFC's capacity for allocating resources efficiently.  To this
end, TTDFC would introduce economic return analysis into its appraisal process.



- ii -
iv.       The prospects for growth in manufacturing in Trinidad and Tobago
are mixed.  On the one hand, exports of manufactured goods are not likely to
grow as rapidly as in the past. On the other hand, the large increase in
income resulting from the expected increase in oil revenues (amounting to
US$250 per head starting in 1974), will enable the expansion of output and
increases in efficiency of products already being produced.
v.        Owing to uncertainty in the private sector following the 1970 civil
disturbances, coupled with strong competition from commercial banks' shorter
term credit in 1971-72, TTDFC had great difficulty finding borrowers in its
first two years of operations. However, lending grew rapidly starting in
late 1972 and the projections made in the appraisal of the first loan were
substantially exceeded. TTDFC has become an institution with capable board,
management and staff; it has invested in a sound loan and equity portfolio.
While appraisal is generally adequate, follow-up needs strengthening.
Procurement and disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
vi.       Despite its low commitments in absolute terms (TT$4 million in
1973), TTDFC has already become an important source of term funds for indus-
try--its portfolio is equivalent to one-fourth of commercial bank industrial
term loans--to which it is the only source of funds of appropriate term. It
is the only lender that invests its funds on the basis of thorough project
appraisal rather than exclusively on the basis of the entrepreneur's reputa-
tion and collateral. Over one-half of TTDFC's lending finances new projects
and unsophisticated and new entrepreneurs, who have particularly benefited
from TTDFC's extensive technical assistance efforts.
vii.      TTDFC is the main channel for government financing of manufacturing
industries. With the likely increase in oil revenues it can be expected to
play an even larger role. Moreover, although TTDFC still needs to seek
further acceptance by the business community, it is likely to become an
increasingly important source of term funds and will be in a position to
choose the type of project it wishes to finance. In this context, its
resource allocation decisions would become still more important, making
desirable the Bank's continued participation in building up TTDFC as a
sound development institution.
viii.     TTDFC's projections, which are based on reasonable growth assump-
tions, indicate the loan would be committed by mid-1976. Return on equity
would reach only 4%, mainly as a result of TTDFC's policy of building up its
provisions for losses. The low profitability also results from the level of
operations which would still be relatively low, despite a doubling of commit-
ments and a tripling in assets in 1974-78. As under the first loan, a 3:1
debt to equity and quasi-equity ratio is again proposed.
ix.       The limit for projects not requiring the Bank's prior approval
(the "free-limit") would be raised from US$100,000 to US$150,000 and the
aggregate free limit would be US$1.75 million, which would imply that about
65% of the loan would require prior approval by the Bank. Since the first
Bank loan was committed earlier than expected, TTDFC would require additional
foreign exchange before Loan Agreement signing. As requested by TTDFC, the



- iii -
proposed loan would be available to reimburse it for disbursements up to
US800,000 equivalent for 13 subprojects starting March 31, 1974 through the
signing date.
x.        TTDFC's loans are in local currency with the Government taking the
foreign exchange risk. Although the current inflation rate is running about
50% higher than the 1973 rate of 15%, Trinidad and Tobago is expected to reduce
its 1975-79 inflation rate to 8% (the Bank's projection of the world level).
If this estimate materializes, a 10% lending rate would be appropriate for
TTDFC in that it would result in a positive real rate to the final borrower
and would be in line with the cost of alternative credit in Trinidad and
Tobago. TTDFC agreed to a 10% minimum relending rate for the Bank loan to be
reviewed, in the light of inflationary trends and the interest rate level in
Trinidad and Tobago, one year after signing the loan agreement or when 50% of
the loan amount has been committed, whichever is earlier.
xi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$5 million to TTDFC
with the guarantee of the Government, on terms and conditions customary for
Bank loans to development finance companies.






APPRAISAL OF
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank actively collaborated with the Government of Trinidad and
Tobago in the preparatory work which culminated in May 1970 in the establish-
ment of the Trinidad and Tobago Development Finance Company Ltd. (TTDFC) as
a government controlled financial institution engaged in the provision of
term loans, equity funds and technical assistance to productive enterprises.
TTDFC began operations in October 1970 and received a US$2 million loan from
the Bank in mid-1972 which was fully committed by March 1974. The primary
objective of the first TTDFC loan, to establish it as an effective long-term
finance institution with the ability to appraise projects and extend technical
assistance to clients, has been accomplished. TTDFC and the Government have
requested a second loan of US$5 million. The objectives of the proposed
loan to TTDFC are to make available term funds to sound development projects,
mainly in the industrial sector, and to build up TTDFC's function as an
allocator of resources by extending economic analysis of projects to its
lending.
1.02      This report focuses on TTDFC's overall performance and its role in
Trinidad and Tobago's industrial development. It is based on the findings
of missions to Trinidad and Tobago in November 1973 by Messrs. M. Alland,
K. Chraibi and G. Shepherd. Mr. R. Mungra of the Caribbean Development Bank
participated in the appraisal mission.
II. THE ECONOMIC SETTING AND TTDFC'S ROLE
Economic Environment
2.01      A detailed description of the problems and prospects of the
economy of Trinidad and Tobago is given in the most recent economic report
(435a-TR of July 31, 1974). Trinidad and Tobago achieved a 3.6% annual rate
of growth in real GDP per capita over the period 1966-72. This is a good
overall performance in view of the fact that the important mining sector
declined from 25% to 15% of GDP during this period when known reserves of
petroleum were running out. The difficulties of the mining sector were more
than offset, however, by the strong growth of other sectors, notably con-
struction and manufacturing 1/ which grew at 10% and 8% a year, respectively,
1/ Petroleum and sugar-related industrial activities are not included in
the statistics and the discussion unless referred to explicitly.



over the same period. The manufacturing sector's share of GDP, which amounted
to 9% in 1966 rose to 12% in 1972.
2.02      The economy in 1973 was characterized by faltering growth, balance
of payments and budgetary deficits and an unprecedented 15% inflation. The
main factors that triggered inflation were a serious drought in 1973
resulting in a sharp drop in the supply of domestic agricultural products and
the high price of imports (especially foodstuffs) which comprise two-fifths
of GDP. Central government receipts are expected to double in 1974 as a
result of increased revenues from the petroleum sector, and this will result
in an overall budget surplus of approximately US$105 million. Government's
attempts to moderate inflation, together with an expected recovery of agri-
cultural production, should result in a reduction of inflation to 8% in
1975. Increasing petroleum production from newly discovered offshore fields
coupled with high petroleum prices should help to furnish a rapid solution
to the balance-of-payments, fiscal and inflationary problems that have steadily
mounted in recent years.
2.03      The World Bank Atlas figure of per capita GNP stood at US$940 in
1971, but this will be significantly affected by the petroleum situation.
Additional government revenues from the petroleum sector 1974 onwards are
expected to amount to US$250 per head of population.
Structure of Manufacturing
2.04      Apart from natural gas energv, Trinidad and Tobago's industry
derives few natural resource-based benefits. Trinidad and Tobago has
developed a broad array of manufacturing activities, largely based on import
substitution, although there has been a recent substantial growth of manu-
factured exports to other Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA) 1/
countries. The small size of the domestic market, as measured by a 1972
GDP of US$1 billion, comparable in size to that of Senegal, Nicaragua or
Luxembourg, continues to represent a major obstacle to continued import
substitution. The CARIFTA market, with a 1972 GNP just over US$3 billion,
approximating that of Ghana or Uruguay, provides only a partial answer to
the size problem.
2.05      Manufacturing is dominated by light consumer goods industries,
including food processing, apparel, furniture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals,
and the more recently introduced activities involving assembly of durable
consumer goods (motor vehicles, electrical appliances, etc).  These more
recent activities increased their share in manufacturing output from 13%
to 22% during the 1966-73 period. There is, however, little intermediate
or engineering goods production outside the petroleum related industries:
only cement, small amounts of textiles, bottles and cans are produced.
Given this pattern of output and the few industrial raw materials possessed
by Trinidad and Tobago outside the petroleum sector, it is not surprising
1/   CARIFTA was created in the period 1967-73 between four "more developed"
Commonwealth Caribbean countries, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, Guyana,
and Jamaica, and various smaller "less developed" Commonwealth territories
in the East Caribbean and British Honduras.



- 3 -
that manufacturing is highly dependent on imported inputs and exhibits
few linkages within the sector or with other sectors.
Growth of Manufacturing Output and Exports
2.06      The major source of high manufacturing growth in the 1960s was
import substitution in consumer items. However, there has been no discern-
ible reduction in the import dependence of many industries, 1/ and backward
integrating import substitution has not been a source of growth. The
relatively modest share of exports in output (about 10%) and the modest
change in this over time (para. 2.07), suggest that exports in general--
and CARIFTA exports in particular--though they have grown significantly,
have not been a leading factor. The growth of the manufacturing sector
dec]ined in 1973 as a result of anti-inflationary credit restrictions and,
more generally, Trinidad and Tobago's limited market size and the economies
of scale necessary for many intermediate and capital goods industries make
it increasingly difficult to uncover viable new areas for import substitution.
However, the large increase in income resulting from expected increases in
petroleum revenues will enable the expansion of production and increased
efficiency of products already being produced.
2.07      Exports of manufactured goods, which grew roughly in line with
output through the mid-1960s, accelerated as a result of the establishment
of CARIFTA in 1968. However, the pattern of exports, consisting largely of
processed foods and light manufactures, remained the same. In the period
1966-72 they grew from TT$26 million to an estimated TT$73 million in
current prices, increasing from 5% to 10% of total exports (with over 80%
of this increase accounted for by CARIFTA countries) and from an estimated
7% to 10% of total manufactured output. The share of manufactured exports
destined for CARIFTA countries rose from three-fifths in 1966 to three-
quarters by 1972. However, in 1970-73, export growth appears to have
decelerated and the share of exports in manufactured output has probably
declined. This important development appears to reflect a slowing-down
in the benefits that Trinidad and Tobago can expect to gain from CARIFTA
trade liberalization in some of its more important product lines (e.g.
garments) since the other CARIFTA members have been increasing their
production capacity in these areas.
Employment and Wages
2.08      Employment in manufacturing industry grew at 2-3% a year in the
second half of the 1960s, substantially faster than the total employment
growth of less than half a percent a year. Thus, manufacturing's share of
total employment grew slightly in this period, from around 16% to 18%
(including petroleum and sugar-related industries which account for about
one-half). Moreover, it is probable that employment in the organized
manufacturing sector (establishments employing more than ten people) grew
1/   Input-output data for a sample of industries suggest that the share of
imported inputs in gross output stayed around 34-35% in the 1966-70
period.



- 4 -
by at least 5% a year. In an economy with an estimated unemployment rate
of 14%, the industrial sector has played an important role in employment
generation.
2.09      The relatively high wage rates--reflecting currency overvaluation
(i.e., in the non-petroleum sector), strong labor union activity and the
demonstration effect of the hiigh-wage petroleum sector--place Trinidad and
Tobago at some disadvantage on the world market in attracting labor-intensive
industries. Wage rates are high compared with those of some exporting
developing countries of East Asia, but lower than those of some of the semi-
industrialized countries of Southern Europe. In terms of its neighbors,
wages are above those of Colombia, comparable to those of Brazil and well
below those of Puerto Rico. Although it is among the higher wage CARIFTA
countries, its wage level has not proved to be a disadvantage in CARIFTA,
in the face of superior Trinidadian management and industrial experience.
Industrial Promotion Policy
2.10      Discretionary measures on tariffs and fiscal incentives which
form the core of Trinidad and Tobago's industrial promotion policy have been
increasingly limited by CARIFTA and CARICOM. 1/ CARICOM's common external
tariff, which is somewhat higher than Trinidad and Tobago's former tariff,
but moderate by developing country standards, is already in effect on most
products. Since the CARICOM treaty does not require harmonization of
quantitative restrictions (QRs) on imports from non-members before 1981, QRs
continue to provide the effective means of industrial protection. These
restrictions, which protect most of Trinidad and Tobago's manufacturing
output, have usually been applied as a new industry becomes established and
have been continued in force, on the basis of administrative discretion,
as long as local supplies are deemed adequate. In addition, most firms have
been given continuing exemption from tariffs on imported inputs, which is
also for the time being permitted by CARICOM.
2.11      Fiscal incentives are defined by the CARICOM Agreement on Harmoni-
zation of Fiscal Incentives to Industry which provides for: (a) duty-free
import of plant, machinery, spare parts, raw materials or components, by
approved enterprises, (b) income tax holidays of 5-10 years, depending on
local value added, (c) exemption of dividends from shareholders' personal
income tax when paid during the tax holiday period, and (d) offsetting of
losses incurred during the tax holiday period against profits earned in the
five years after the end of the tax holiday period. Since the criterion of
length of tax holidays is based on the degree of domestic value added
measured in domestic instead of international prices, the CARICOM system
does not put a premium on efficiency. In principle, CARICOM is committed to
introducing efficiency criteria into its incentive system over the long run.
The fiscal incentives provided for exports to non-CARICOM countries, which
1/   In 1973 the four "more developed" CARIFTA countries (footnote page 2)
undertook the formation of a common market (CARICOM); the "less devel-
oped" countries, with the exception of St. Kitts, Nevis, and Anguilla,
joined in May 1974 at which time CARICOM became CARIFTA's successor.



- 5 -
will probably not constitute more than 5% of export sales value, are likely
to be ineffective since they are inadequate to overcome the combined effects
of currency overvaluation (as far as the non-petroleum sectors of the
economy are concerned) and the existence of relatively more lucrative
sheltered domestic and regional markets. Moreover, as in the past, this
incentive offers nothing to firms that are already benefitting from income
tax holidays.
2.12      The system of protection and incentives, together with an over-
valued exchange rate which has reduced the relative price of imported
capital goods, clearly provides a major explanation for the rapid growth of
industry in Trinidad and Tobago. While they may by their nature have
provided a bias in favor of use of capital rather than labor, it is fair to
say that the limited market size may have exercised a bias in the opposite
direction. This incentive system, however, and the limited size of the
market have created, in many cases, high cost industries composed of sub-
optimally sized firms importing unprotected inputs and receiving quota
protection on their output. It has favored final processing while discourag-
ing intermediate goods production. However, an across-the-board increase
in protection of intermediate goods could adversely affect Trinidad and
Tobago's ability to export since it would encourage, in many cases,
inefficient industries. Nevertheless, local potential for food, leather,
and packaging inputs, for example, have not yet been fully realized.
2.13      CARIFTA has provided the basis for free intra-regional trade but
there is little effective provision for coordination of industrial policies
and planning of new industries on a regional basis. Thus, although exporting
to CARIFTA (now to its successor, CARICOM, footnote page 4) is considered
important, Government's industrial planning and promotion are still based on
the national rather than the CARICOM framework. The Bank's recent regional
Caribbean economic mission is examining CARICOM industrial promotion policies
and the problems and prospects of closer regional coordination in industrial
planning.  The Bank will take up these subjects with the individual governments
in a regional context.
Future Prospects
2.14      Import substitution is likely to proceed more on the basis of
growth in the market for products already being produced, rather than
through the introduction of new product lines at a fast rate, as in the
past. Moreover, import substitution in intermediate goods will face problems
of scale and of the structure of protection (para. 2.12). Exports of manufac-
tured goods to CARICOM countries should continue to grow at a healthy pace,
although not at the rate of the late 1960s, as industrial production of similar
goods develops in other member countries; exports outside CARICOM cannot be
expected to grow as strongly, particularly since Trinidad and Tobago may, as
the result of recent wage rises, be becoming less competitive.
2.15      Because of the limitations imposed even on regional import substi-
tution, the promotion of exports outside the region will require increasing
attention. Successful exporting may well be on the basis, initially at



- 6 -
least, of import-dependent light consumer goods industries which do not
contribute much value added and which Government has been reluctant to
encourage. One method of strengthening export incentives without affecting
the fiscal incentives specified in the CARICOM harmonization agreement
would be to revise import duty concessions on imported inputs so as to make
them available primarily to firms exporting outside the region.  In
addition, a stronger export promotion and intelligence orgainization,
possibly at the regional level, would also be useful.
Financial Environment
2.16      Annex 1 shows the structure of Trinidad and Tobago's financial
system. Eight commercial banks operating a network of 85 branches are the
main source of external finance for the manufacturing sector. in mid-1973
about one-fifth of the commercial banks' portfolio, or TT$100 million, was
lent to industry (including sugar but excluding petro'leum). Coinmercial
bank lending to industry takes the form of overdraft lines, tne bulk of
which are used to finance seasonal working capital.  However, an estimated
fifth of the credit to industry is in term loans, with an average Cerm of
three years. An additional estimated fifth is in overdrafts permanently
outstanding and appears to be used to finance the term needs of borrowers.
The banking system does not constitute an adequate source of term funds for
industry. In general, companies rely excessively on the roll-over of short-
term loans to finance fixed assets as indicated by the financial structure of
a sample of 12 out of 20 companies whose shares are quoted on the stock
exchange. These companies, which are in a better position than lesser-known
companies to raise term debt had term loans equivalent to only 9% of total
liabilities, short-term loans to 47% and the remainder in equity. Smaller
companies typically have a smaller proportion of term debt and equity.
TTDFC and the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) provide the only
sources of term funds, particularly for lesser-known and smaller companies.
2.17      Industrial Development Corporation (IDC).  The IDC is the goverriment
agency responsible for the promotion of new industrial projects, the
administration of fiscal and other incentives to eligible industries and the
provision of financial and technical assistance to small business enterprises
(loans below TT$50,000). From the inception of its Small Business Division
in May 1970 through October 1973, it authorized 347 loans totalling TT$3.1
million to enterprises that provided an estimated 1,300 new jobs. Average
loan size amounted to TT$9,000 with about 53% of loans falling below the
level of TT$5,OOO and over 79% below TT$15,000. Lending is about equally
divided between manufacturing and non-manufacturing. Interest rates are
subsidized, ranging from 6-8%, with maturities ranging from four to eight
years and grace periods of up to five years. In its wider functions of indus-
trial promotion and administration of fiscal incentives, IDC has not paid
sufficient attention to measuring the economic efficiency of projects. It is
expected that TTDFC's experience in evaluating the economic rates of return
on projects and the resulting knowledge of particular industrial sub-sectors
would place it in a position to contribute to Government's industrial promo-
tion policy (para. 2.22).



- 7 -
2.18      Capital Market.  Although experiencing rapid growth in the last
few years, the securities market is still insignificant in industrial
financing. Trading in the 20 listed corporate shares increased from less
than TT$1 million in 1970 to about TT$4 million in 1973, with the three
most actively traded stocks accounting for about two-thirds. Development
of the capital market would require comprehensive measures that are now
under study by the government including measures designed to increase (a)
public confidence, such as regulation of dlsclosure requirements and broker
operations, and (b) the supply of securities, such as fiscal incentives to
encourage companies to widen share ownership. TTDFC can play a role by
selling securities out of its portfolio.  It would, however, still be a
few years before TTDFC's equiLy portfolio has sufficiently seasoned to
allow public sales.
TTDFC's Role and Performance in Financing Industry
2.19      Although TTDFC's 1973 commitments of TT$4 million (Annex 6),
still represents a low level of operations in absolute terms, TTDFC has
already become a relatively important source of term funds for industry.
Its TT$6 million portfolio of term loans and investments at year-end 1973
was equivalent to one-fourth of an estimated TT$25 million of commercial
bank term loans to industry outstanding. Estimating that another TT$25
million of the total TT$100 million commercial bank credit outstanding to
the manufacturing sector at mid-year 1973 was in overdrafts that were being
rolled over continuously to finance fixed assets, TTDFC's financing is
equivalent to one-eighth of the financing of term borrowing needs by the com-
mercial banking system.
2.20      TTDFC is the only financial institution in Trinidad and Tobago, the
tenrs of whose loans are designed to meet the cash flow needs of projects; it
is also the only lender that invests its funds on the basis of thorough
appraisal of the prospects of projects, rather than on exclusive reliance on
the entrepreneur's reputation and collateral. For these reasons TTDFC is
even more important to its clients than indicated by its share of industrial
term financing, a fact reflected in the characteristics of TTDFC's operations
(Annex 11). Thus, 52% of TTDFC's loan commitments since inception through
September 1973 were to new and unsophisticated entrepreneurs, who would have
had particular difficulties in raising financing from other sources and who
particularly benefited from TTDFC's technical assistance efforts (para. 3.06).
Similarly, the relative concentration of lending to smaller, lesser known
borrowers is also reflected in the relatively small average loan size
(TT$226,000) and in the fact that three-fourths of loans were to companies
whose assets were below TT$1 million. All of TTDFC's borrowers benefited
from loan terms designed to match the cash generation of their projects: while
70% of TTDFC's loan commitments have been for 8-10 year terms, in contrast
the term loans of commercial banks are usually for only three years. Although
TTDFC has not itself initiated any projects, its promotional orientation is
further reflected in the fact that as much as 60% of its lending volume fi-
nanced new projects.



- 8 -
2.21      There are no data on the economic returns of TTDFC projects.  The
14 subprojects financed under Loan 819-TR were predominantly either in
resource-based activities or light consumer goods production, representative
of TTDFC's overall operations. With a few exceptions, projects financed
by TTDFC produce products for which the domestic market is large enough to
allow economic production.
TTDFC's Future Role and the Prcoposed Second Bank Loan
2.22      As TTDFC gains further acceptance by the business community
(para. 3.10), and as it displaces some commercial bank financing of in-
appropriate term, it is likely to become an increasingly important source
of term funds and will be in a position to choose the type of project it
wishes to finance. In view of the possibility that the incentive and
promotion system could create some inefficient industries, an appropriate
objective of the proposed second Bank loan would be to concentrate on
developing TTDFC's capacity to allocate resources efficiently. Accordingly,
TTDFC has agreed to calculate the economic rate of return on its projects.
Consideration of the economic returns of projects would enable TTDFC to
(a) ensure that its lending is limited to economically justifiable projects,
(b) lay the base for identifying particularly desirable sectors for future
TTDFC project identification and promotion, and (c) build up valuable
expertise in the economics of particular sectors which would put it in a
position to contribute to Government's industrial promotion policy. In
view of Trinidad and Tobago's unemployment problem, TTDFC intends to use con-
sultants to identify whether there are technology choices in its projects and,
where possible, to influence sponsors to choose more labor-intensive processes.
2.23      The Bank's emphasis on continuing to build up TTDFC as an efficient
allocator of resources would be carried out through the sub-project appraisal
review process. The proposed loan and, in particular, the experience gained
from TTDFC's economic rate of return calculations, would provide the Bank
with a vehicle for discussion of industrial sector policies. Bank support
would help TTDFC to continue strengthening its image as an independent
and sound institution with regard to both potential borrowers and the
Government.
III. TTDFC'S ORGANIZATION, PROCEDURES AND RESOURCES
Objectives and Policies
3.01      TTDFC's main objective is to assist in establishing and expanding
productive enterprises by participating in share capital, granting loans,
and providing other forms of financing and technical assistance. TTDFC also
has as objectives the development of the capital market and the enhancement
of ownership and control of enterprises by nationals. TTDFC has adopted a
Statement on Investment and Operational Policies (Annex 2) and a Statement
of Loan Policy (Annex 3) which are similar to the policy statements of other
development finance companies associated with the Bank Group. TTDFC has
operated within the limits prescribed by its policy statements.



-9-
Share Capital and Ownership
3.02      TTDFC's subscribed share capital, of which one-half is paid-in
(TT$2.1 million), is held almost entirely by Government (94%), with 14
private shareholders holding only 6% (Annex 4). The small participation of
the private sector reflects the private sector's continuing lack of con-
fidence regarding investment as well as TTDFC's low profitability. TTDFC
expects to call the remaining subscribed capital in 1974 (para. 5.02).
Board, Management and Staff
3.03      TTDFC's Board is composed of eight directors, seven of whom, includ-
ing four representatives of the private sector, are appointed by the Government
and one by the Central Bank (Annex 5). The Board is chaired by Mr. M.J. de
Souza, a widely respected and experienced businessman who maintains close
contact with the General Manager, Mr. J.E.N. Scoon. Mr. Scoon, who has
occupied his position since TTDFC's establishment, has demonstrated his
ability to lead TTDFC, particularly with regard to the crucial aspects of
investment decisions and relations with Government.
3.04      TTDFC's staff now consists of five young, capable, and well-trained
staff members: one is in charge of legal and secretarial work, another of
finance, accounting and follow-up, and a third of project appraisal; two
Junior staff members work on appraisal and follow-up. An experienced
expatriate adviser has helped TTDFC staff with appraisal work since June 1972.
TTDFC has extended his contract for one year, through June 1975; further ex-
tension will be unnecessary in view of the progress TTDFC staff has made in
appraisal work.
Appraisal
3.05      Although TTDFC's appraisal reports are still thin, the appraisal
process generally covers adequately the financial, market and technical
aspects of projects. Evaluation of technical aspects of projects has improved
as TTDFC, with no in-house engineering expertise, has made increasing use of
engineering consultants. As TTDFC's operations grow, it may become desirable
to hire an engineer with wide industrial experience, if a suitable candidate
could be found, whose primary function would be to determine when it is
necessary to use engineering consultants and to evaluate their work. In
addition, TTDFC's evaluation of the economic aspects of subprojects needs
improvement (para. 2.22).
Follow-Up
3.06      TTDFC's follow-up of problem borrowers has been intensive and has
provided less sophisticated borrowers with valuable technical assistance in
production, management, financial planning and marketing. At times, TTDFC
has convinced borrowers to contract specific consulting services from the
Management Development Centre 1/ and from auditing firms, to help improve
1/   An efficient government organization which has been successful in helping
to develop managerial capacity in the business community.



- 10 -
efficiency of operations. On the other hand, follow-up of borrowers not
undergoing serious problems has been superficial. TTDFC intends to follow up
all borrowers at least once a year and to improve its follow-up by (a) system-
atic advance programming and control by management, (b) definition of scope
of follow-up, including comparison of projected and actual performance, and
(c) standardization of follow-up reports which in each case will include
recommendations for action.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.07      Procurement procedures are generally satisfactory: borrowers are
required to furnish three different price quotations from suppliers of
machinery and equipment. Moreover, whenever engineering consultants are used
they are asked to consider the suitability and price of equipment. For civil
construction financing TTDFC requires estimates of building costs from a
quantity surveyor of its choice. Disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
Audit
3.08      TTDFC's accounts are audited annually by John Hunt and Co., a
reputable Trinidad and Tobago firm. None of its reports on TTDFC's accounts
has had qualifications.
Relations with the Government
3.09      While maintaining a close working relationship with the Ministry
of Finance, TTDFC has been careful to preserve its autonomy to carry on its
day-to-day operations and make its own business decisions. TTDFC also works
closely with other government agencies whose activities are related, such as
the Industrial Development Corporation (with whom it works closely on IDC-
promoted industries), the Caribbean Industrial Research Institute whiclh pro-
vides research and consulting- services to both public entities and private
business, and the Management Development Centre.
Relations with the Business Community
3.10      As a government controlled company, TTDFC has had a difficult task
in convincing the industrial and financial community that it is an autonomous
financial institution, to which its prospective clients should trust disclosing
their financial affairs, and which is capable of taking expeditious action on
financing proposals. Although TTDFC has made significant progress in this
regard, particularly among its clients, who are generally satisfied with their
relationship with TTDFC, management considers that further active promotional
work is needed to communicate to industrialists TTDFC's modes of operation and
the desirability of obtaining TTDFC financing.
Resources
3.11      In addition to its share capital, in 1970 TTDFC obtained a sub-
ordinated government loan of TT$2 million with a 40 year term, including
10 years of grace, and interest of 4% p.a. payable starting the sixth year.



- 11 -
This was followed by a government loan of TT$2 million in 1972 and another
government loan of TT$1 million in 1973, both under the same conditions as
the first loan. Together with the 1972 Bank loan of US$2 million, these
loans represent the total of TTDFC's external resources. At year-end 1973,
TT$1.6 million in domestic currency resources were still available for commit-
ment. The Bank loan was fully committed in March 1974.
IV. OPERATIONS
4.01      Owing to uncertainty in the private sector following the 1970 civil
disturbances, coupled with strong competition from commercial banks, which
were extremely liquid in 1971 and in the first three quarters of 1972, and
also because it was a new government controlled institution of which prospec-
tive borrowers were suspicious, TTDFC had great difficulty finding borrowers
in its first two years of operation. However, when commercial banks faced
a liquidity squeeze in late 1972, TTDFC's lending accelerated substantially.
As a result in the 1971-73 period TTDFC's term loan commitments and disburse-
ments were substantially larger than forecast at the time of appraisal for
the first Bank loan as shown in the following table (in thousands of TT$):
Year             Loan Commitments              Loan Disbursements
Forecast        Actual        Forecast          Actual
1971             685           280            570               113
1972           1,650         2,472          1,160             1,440
1973           2,800         4,037          2,225             4,146
Total          5,135         6,789          3,955             5,699
Equity investment commitments since inception through year-end 1973 amounted
to TT$1.4 million, the amount forecast in the appraisal of the first Bank
loan. Other operations included a TT$0.8 million guarantee extended in 1971
and two short-term export credits of TT$0.6 million granted in 1972. TTDFC
is likely to have continued involvement in export financing if Government's
plans for an export credit insurance scheme materialize. In its present form
the scheme involves the establishment of a subordinated company which would
have its own staff but would be managed by TTDFC for a fee. TTDFC is the
logical institution to manage the proposed company; through its exposure to
the field of export financing TTDFC may improve its ability to stimulate ex-
port production.
TTDFC's Lending Rate
4.02      In April 1972 TTDFC reduced its lending rate from 9-1/2% to 8-1/2%
to enable it to compete with commercial banks which were then enjoying a
period of exceptionally high liquidity and were actively searching for lending
opportunities. After a liquidity squeeze and resultant rise in commercial
bank interest rates in late 1972, and after TTDFC had established itself as
a term lender, it raised its interest rate to 9-1/2% in 1973. All of TTDFC's



- 12 -
loans are denominated in TT$, with the Government taking the exchange risk
on the first Bank loan. In view of the expected strength of the TT$ which,
because of the petroleum price situation, could rise in value, denomination
of sub-loans in foreign exchange would be inappropriate. This could result
in a rate to sub-borrowers below the cost of alternative domestic borrowing
which could lead to inappropriate substitution by Bank funds for other re-
sources and could bias factor proportions in favor of capital.
4.03      Although the 1974 inflation rate is running about 50% higher than
the 1973 rate of 15%, Trinidad and Tobago is expected to reduce its average
1975-79 inflation rate to 8% (the Bank's projection of the world level). If
this estimate materializes, a 10% lending rate would be appropriate for TTDFC
in that it would result in a positive real rate to the final borrower and would
be in line with the cost of alternative credit in Trinidad and Tobago. 1/
TTDFC agreed to a minimum relending rate of 10% for the Bank loan 2/ (loans
in local currency with the Government taking the foreign exchange risk, as
it has offered to do), to be reviewed with TTDFC and the Government in the
light of inflationary trends and interest rate levels in Trinidad and Tobago,
one year after the signing of the Loan Agreement or when 50% of the loan amount
has been committed, whichever is earlier; in the absence of agreement on the
interest rate, there would be no further commitments. The resulting 2% spread
for TTDFC would be adequate to allow it to improve its profitability which would,
however, remain modest owing particularly to TTDFC's low level of oparations,
the cost of technical assistance extended to unsophisticated borrowers and the
need to build up provisions (para. 5.03). The intention expressed by TTDFC's
management to vary its lending rate, within a narrow band of about one percent-
age point, according to the risk category and ability to pay of the project, is
appropriate. The somewhat higher spread TTDFC would gain on riskier loans
would help to compensate it for the greater risk and likely greater cost of
administration.
Quality of Portfolio
4.04      TTDFC's loan portfolio, which reached TT$6.6 million at year-end
1973, is of good quality. Although three-fourths of the portfolio was still
in the grace period (Annex 13), an evaluation of the portfolio was possible be-
cause 18 of the 26 projects for which TTDFC had lent had operated sufficiently
long to permit a judgment of their prospects. Despite the fact that there
were arrears of over three months on 11% of the term loan portfolio, a review
1/   Commercial bank lending represents the alternative source of credit for
TTDFC borrowers. Although the prime rate is 9-1/2%, most commercial bank
lending for industry is at 10-13%; for the type of company that repre-
sents the bulk of TTDFC's borrowers, the higher range of interest rates
would apply (11-13%). Since the inflation rate is expected to decline,
it is reasonable for TTDFC, all of whose loans are for terms over five
years, to charge an interest rate below that of short-term credit.
2/   TTDFC intends to charge the same interest rate on its other loans as it
does on Bank sub-loans.



- 13 -
of all of TTDFC loans, including undisbursed commitments, showed all but four
loans had good prospects. Of the four, two loans were in liquidation, one loan
had uncertain prospects (a 50% chance of eventual liquidation) and another had
poor prospects (a 75% chance of liquidation). However, since TTDFC secu:rity
on these four loans was particularly good, no loss is expected. TTDFC has not
rescheduled any loans.
4.05      The equity investment portfolio of eight investments amounted to
TT$1,040,000 at December 31, 1973 (Annex 12). Except for Doneon Sign Company,
which was in liquidation and on which TTDFC wrote off TT$35,000 in 1973 the
other seven companies, of which five were already in operation, all have good
prospects. While none had yet paid dividends, of the five in operation, only
one was incurring losses.
Financial Perfornance
4.06      Annexes 7-10 show TTDFC's financial statements and ratios from
inception through December 31, 1973. Net profit rose from TT$44 thousand in
1972 to TT$60 thousand in 1973, after provisions for losses of TT$77 thousand.
Despite the fact that TTDFC had only minimal financial expenses through 1973,
its return on equity has been low, in the 2-3% range in 1972 and 1973. This
reflects TTDFC's low level of operations (which results in high administrative
expenses in relative terms, equivalent to 6% of average total assets in 1972
and 4% in 1973). The debt/equity ratio as defined in the Bank Loan Agreement 1/
reached only 0.3:1 at year-end 1973, well below the 3:1 limit under the Bank
loan.
V. TTDFC'S PROSPECTS
Operations Forecast
5.01      A forecast of approvals, commitments and disbursements for 1974-78
is given in Annex 6. The annual 15% growth rate for loan commitments and
14% rate for equity investments appears attainable in the light of TTDFC's
current project pipeline, the expected growth of industrial investment as
well as continued improvement in the business community's regard of TTDFC,
which should permit TTDFC increasingly to displace inappropriate short-term
commercial bank financing.
Resource Requirements
5.02      Based on its projected level of loan and equity commitments through
mid-1976, TTDFC would have a resource need of TT$17.8 million of which TT$10.0
million would be for foreign exchange financing. The remaining TT$7.8 million
of domestic currency needs would be covered by (a) internal cash generation,
1/   Excluding as debt and including as equity that portion of the Government's
subordinated loans which will still be outstanding after the repayment to
the Bank of the last installment on its loan. The ratio of total debt to
net worth was 4.1:1 at year-end 1973.



- 14 -
including loan collections (TT$2.3 million), (b) calling the remaining sub-
scribed capital (TT$2.1 million), (c) using uncommitted domestic currency
funds (TT$1.6 million) and (d) raising additional domestic resources. TTDFC
should have no difficulty in obtaining the domestic currency resources it
needs throughout the forecast period. The proposed Bank loan of US$5 million
would cover all of TTDFC's foreign resource needs through mid-1976.
Projected Financia'l Results
5.03      Despite the sizeable growth projected, involving in 1973-78 a doubl-
ing in yearly commitments, from TT$4 million to TT$9 million, and more than a
tripling in assets, from TT$9 million to TT$37 million, TTDFC's operations
would still be relatively small (Annexes 7-10). Although administrative ex-
penses as a percentage of average total assets would be halved during the
forecast period, from 4% in 1973 to 2% in 1978, the latter figure is still
somewhat high, reflecting the small size of operations and the extent of
TTDFC's assistance to unsophisticated borrowers. TTDFC's profitability would
still be low: 1978 profits of TT$329,000 would represent only a 4% return on
equity. In addition to the relatively low level of operations, the projected
return on equity reflects TTDFC's policy of building up its provisions for
portfolio losses. By setting aside provisions equivalent to 1% of its port-
folio each year, TTDFC would increase its provisions from 0.5% of its port-
folio in 1973 to 3.5% in 1978, a suitable level. Since TTDFC does not expect
to pay dividends through 1978, reserves and provisions would increase Lrom 3%
at year-end 1973 to 7% in 1978, which is satisfactory.
5.04      The debt/equity ratio (as defined in the Bank Loan Agreement, page
13, footnote 1) would rise from 0.9:1 in 1974 to 2.2:1 in 1978. 1/ TTDFC
agreed to the same 3:1 debt/equity limit as under the first Bank loan. Tnis
limit is reasonable considering the risk of industrial lending in Trinidad
and Tobago and the fact that TTDFC's portfolio has a large proportion of loans
for new and unsophisticated enterprises; the limit will encourage the build-
up of an equity base for increased leverage in future years. TTDFC's debt
service coverage, with profits and loan collections covering debt service
payments a minimum of 1.5 times throughout the forecast period, would be
adequate. Afterwards, debt service coverage is likely to increase as opera-
tions continue to grow and profitability improves.
VI. PROPOSED BANK LOAN
6.01      The proposed US$5 million loan would be on terms and conditions
usual for Bank loans to development finance companies including the standard
commitment charge. The loan would assist in covering TTDFC's capital require-
ments; it would finance TTDFC's lending to productive enterprises for imports,
including (a) goods purchased "off-the-shelf" from domestic distributors, only
1/   The ratio of total debt to net worth would rise from 2.7:1 in 1974 to
4.0:1 in 1978.



- 15 -
if cif prices can be established, and (b) an estimated 35% foreign exchange
component of civil works. The terminal date for submission of subprojects
under the loan would be June 30, 1976; the closing date for disbursements,
June 30, 1978. As under the first Bank loan, the Government of Trinidad and
Tobago would assume the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan, the proceeds
of which would be relent by TTDFC. The minimum relending rate would be 10%
to be reviewed with TTDFC and the Government in the light of inflationary
trends and interest rate levels within Trinidad and Tobago, one year after
signing of the Loan Agreement or when 50% of the loan amount has been com-
mitted, whichever is earlier. In view of the progress in TTDFC's appraisal,
the free limit would be increased from US$100,000 to US$150,000 and there
would be an aggregate limit of US$1.75 million, which would imply that about
65% of the loan amount would require prior approval by the Bank.
6.02      As requested by TTDFC, the proposed loan would include provision for
reimbursing TTDFC for disbursements up to US$800,000 equivalent for 13 sub-
projects starting March 31, 1974 through the signing date of the Loan Agree-
ment. This would meet its need for additional foreign exchange, which arose
because the first Bank loan was committed earlier than expected.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from TTDFC on:
(a)  economic rate of return calculation for projects (para 2.22);
(b)  onlending terms (para 4.02); and
(c)  debt to equity limit (para 5.03).
7.02      In addition, TTDFC's plans on the following subjects were discussed
during negotiations:
(a)  identifying technology choice on projects (para 2.22);
(b)  strengthening follow-up (para 3.06);
(c)  improving relations with business community (para 3.10); and
(d)  varying lending rate according to risk category of
borrower (para 4.02).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$5 million to TTDFC, with the guarantee of the Government, as outlined
in Chapter VI, to be used for sub-loans with a term up to fifteen years, in-
cluding a grace period up to three years.
August 19, 1974






ANNEX 1
Page 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMET FINANCE COWANY PROJECT
Structure of the Financial System
Total Assets as of
December 31, 1972
Name of Entity             (millions TT$)              Functions and Structure
1. Central Bank of Trinidad          221.1          Established in 1964; sections of the
and Tobago                                     Central Bank Act dealing with monetary
management came into effect only in
1966; legislation revised by the
Jentral Bank (Amendment) Act, 1967.
2. Commercial Banks                  653.2          Together commercial banks operate a
network of about 85 branches through-
out the country.
National Commercial Bank                       A government-owned commercial bank
established in 1970 by the purchase
of a branch of the Bank of London
and Montreal.
Workers' Bank                                   A privately owned commercial bank
established in 1971 under government
sponsorship.
Barclay's Bank                                 A privately owned commercial bank;
originally incorporated in the
United Kingdom, but incorporated in
Trinidad and Tobago in 1972a
Royal Bank of Trinidad                         A privately owned commercial bank;
and Tobago                                   originally incorporated in Canada,
but incorporated in Trinidad and
Tobago in 1972.
Bank of Nova Scotia                            A privately owned commercial bank;
originally incorporated in Canada,
but incorporated in Trinidad and
Tobago in 1972.
Canadian Imperial Bank                         A privately owned commercial bank
of Commerce                                  incorporated in Canada.
First National City Bank                 )     Privately owned commercial banks
Chase Manhattan Bank                     )    incorporated in the United States.
3. Savings Banks                       17.7
Post Office Savings Bank                       A government-oTned savings bank.
Trinidad Co-Operative Bank Ltd.                A privately owned savings bank.



ANNEX I
Page 2
Total Assets as of
December 31, 1972
Name of Entity             (millions TT$)              Functions and Structure
4. Building Societies                 15.9
The General Building and                  )   Privately owned building societies,
Loan Association                        )   which derive their funds from shares
The Trinidad Building and                 )   or deposits and undertake mortgage
Loan Association                        )   lending.
5. Trust Companies                    ----          There are four trust companies which
are independent affiliates of com-
mercial banks and a fifth bank operates
a trustee department. In addition to
their trust business these companies
accept time deposits and extend
mortgage and other long-term credit
on their own account. Deposits are
believed to be in excess of TT$30 mil-
lion, but no other information is
available on their operations.
6. Finance Companies                  25.4          Four private concerns engaged mainly
in extending installment credit. In
addition to their oirn capital the
companies finance their operations
by borrowing from banks and suppliers
and accepting time deposits from
the private sector.
7. Credit Unions                      19.6          A network of small institutiorns
mobilizing savings for relending in
the form of personal loans.
8. Trinidad and Tobago Mortgage       13.8          Jointly o-wned by the Caribbean
Finance Company Ltd.                           Development Corporation (80 per cent)
and the Government (20 per cent) to
provide mortgage financing for
government approved housing schemes.
Some debentures have been issued to
the private sector.
9. Agricultural Development Bank     22.1           An official agency established in 1968
as successor to the Agricultural Credit
Bank. Lends both on long- and short-
term to farmers, cooperatives, and
credit societies. Resources are ob-
tained from government capital contribu-
tions, the proceeds of loans from
external development agencies, and
share purchases by borrowers equivalent
to 5 per cent of the amount of the loans,



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Total Assets as of
December 31, 1972
Name of Entity             (millions TT$)               Functions and Structure
10. Trinidad and Tobago                  6.3          An official agency established in 1970
Development Finance                             to assume the lending functions of
Company Ltd.                                    the Industrial Development Corporation
except for small business loans of
under TT$50,000. Lends at commercial
rates mainly to large-scale fishing,
forestry, and agricultural enterprises
and to tourist and other service
concerns. Resources are obtained from
government contributions, the proceeds
of loans from external development
agencies and share purchases by the
private sector.
11. Life Insurance Companies           248.1          Approximately 24 companies are
active in Trinidad and Tobago. Their
operations are regulated by the Insur-
ance Act of 1966 which requires then
to maintain deposits with the
Mlinistry of Finance in cash or govern-
ment securities equivalent to
TT$250,000 and to invest 60 per cent
of their insurance liabilities and
contingency reserve liabilities in
respect of local policy holders in
local assets in the form of trustee
securities and fixed term deposits
with commercial banks and other
institutions.
12. Pension Funds                       69.61/         At the end of 1970 there were 152
pension funds, of which 17 (including
several of the largest schemes) were
self-administered and the remainder
-were managed by insurance and trust
companies. Pension funds are required
to register under the Insurance Act
and to invest at least 60 per cent
of their holdings in local assets.
1/ As of December 31, 1970.
Source: IDF, Trinidad and Tobago - Recent Economic Developments, September 28, 1972
and August 28, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVEWOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Statement on Investment and Operational Policies
(Approved by Board of Directors, September 1$, 1970)
The ourpose of this statement is to outline the policies that shall apply
to the activities of the Development Finance Company of Trinidad and Tobago,
hereinafter referred to as the Company.
I  -  OBJECTIVES AND OPEiATIONAL CITEUIA
1.     The Company shall as:,ist in the economic development of Trinidad and
Tobago by helping to finance and develop soundly-managed, expansion-
minded and profited-oriented enterprises which will make direct
contribution to national economic growth of the country. The Development
Finance Company shall give due regard in its activities to the general
economic plans and priorities of the Government in promoting the economic
growth of the country. While its primary field of activity will be in
financing manufacturing and processing industries and projects to
expand tourism, it shall also be allowed to make commitments to
fishing, large scale commercially oriented agriculture or forestry
and trade (inoluding export credits) and service enternrises e.g.
transport. However, general trade and consumer financing, house
mortgages and providing finance for the buying and selling of lands
will be excluded.
2.     The Company will assist in establishing and developing non-foreign
controlled private enterprises. This does not preclude making loans
to foreign controlled firms. The Company will not provide financial
assistance to enterprises which are Government owned and operated, but
a Government holding of not more than 50% of the voting stock of a
private enterprise shall not make such enterprise ineligible for
financial assistance from the Cwipany.  The Company will finance new
enterprises and the improvement or expansion of existing ones.
3.     The Company will operate mainly in the following ways:-
(a) by making short, medium and long-term loans to finance and
refinance capital goods and prcvide working capital the
latter only in special circumstances;
(b) by participating in share or loan capital and convertible
loan stock, as well as debenture loan;
(c) by guaranteeing and underwriting corporate securities;
(d)  by providing technical and managerial corporate services to
the clients and to projects under consideration;
(e)  by guaranteeing payment for machinery and equipment;
(f) by providing export credits.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.    The Company's financial assistance will be essentially for exnenditures
for fixed assets. The Company will, however, consider requests for
nroviding working capital requirements in conjunction with its financial
assistance for such capital expenditures.
5.     The Company will pay particular attention to the trend of overall
industrial development and investment opportunities in the private
sector and to this end will liaise with specialized organizations such
as Industrial Development Corporation and industrial research institutes
as well as other financial institutions for the promotion of new
enterprises or expansion of the existing ones.
II  -  BASIS FOR INVESTMENT DECISIONS
6.     The Company will make investment decisions only on the basis of sound
investment criteria and standards, and will provide financial assistance
only to those projects which are financially and economically sound and
technically feasible.
III  -  DIVERiSIFICATION OF PORTFOLIO
7.     The Company will diversify its investment portfolio in order to
maintain a reasonable spread of risk.
8.     The Company will not encourage applications for small loans because
of the administrative costs involved. However, each application will
be considered on its merit. The financial commitment in whatever
form, including loans, share capital, guarantee, or any combination
thereof, that the Company may make to any single enterprise will not
normally exceed 15% of its paid-up share capital, the unimDaired
reserves and the outstanding amount of the subordinated GoTvernment
loan. (The subordinated Government loan will rank pari passu with
share capital in liquidation).
9.     The Company shall join with and encourage other financing
institutions, whether local, foreign or international, in financing
large size projects whose financial requirements exceed its capacity.
10.    The Company will not commit to any single enterprise in the form of
share capital more than 10% of the Company's paid-in c:apital and
unimpaired reserves.
11.    The Company's total investments in the form of equity participations
at any time will not exceed the total of its paid-in share capital
and the unimpaired reserves.
IV  -  TURN-OVER OF PORTFOLIO
12.    In order to recover its resources for new commitments and to encourage
widespread ownership of shares the Company will revolve its portfolio.
whenever it can do so on satisfactory terms. In selling an
investment it will pay due regard not only to its own interests but
also to the interest of other participants in such investment, and
the lnterest of the concern whose shares are involved.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
V  -   ELIATIONSHIP WITH ENTERPRISES FINANCED
13.    Generally, the Company shall not assume managerial responsibilities in
the enterprises it assists and shall limit its share participations to
25% of the share capital of any given enterprise. It may, however,
by decision of the Board, exceed this percentage and/or assume managerial
responsibility for an initial period to enterprises promoted by it, or if
this is justified to protect its investments.
1h.    When deciding upon the amount and form of financial assistance it
shall provide, the Company shall take into account all the financial
requirements of the project and the financial situation of the
enterprise in question. In principle, the financial assistance the
Company grants shall not exceed 50% of the total cost of the
project subject to the principle laid down in para. 9. It may,
however, exceed this limit if there is special justification.
15.    In accordance with accepted practice, the Company will require its
borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate security, to keep
records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices,
and to furnish whatever information on their operations and accounts
the Company deems desirable. The Company will have the right to
inspect the enterprises it finances as well as their operations
and accounts.
16.    Business information furnished by applicants or clients will be
treated on a confidential basis.
VI  -  FINANCiAL GUIDE-LINES
17.    The Company will lend and invest its resources in such a way as to
maintain the value of its own capital. The Company will pass to its
client any foreign exchange risk it assumes or will find other
suitable means to cover it.
18.    As a general rule, the Company will not borrow funds (other than the
subordinated Loan referred to hereafter) with an original maturity
exceeding one (1) year, that exceeds three times its paid-in share
capital, unimpaired reserves and the balance of the Government
Subordinated Loan provided to the Company. Debt shall be considered
to include guarantee and borrowed funds to the extent they are
drawn-down and outstanding .
19.    The Company will maintain accounting records adequate to reflect its
business operations in accordance with sound and generally accepted
accounting practices and standards. The Company will employ qualified
and independent Dublic accountants to audit its books and certify
the accounts annually.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
20.    The Company may undertake the management of special funds only on
condition that such management does not, in the view of the Board of
Directors, interfere with the Company's capacity to fulfill its main
objective of promoting and financing productive investments. Such funds
shall only be managed by the Company on condition that it receives
adequate remuneration.
VII - PROFITS AND THEIR DISTdIBUTION
21.    The Company will aim to earn sufficient to cover its expenses, provide
reserves adequate to the size and risks of its portfolio, protect its
equity against erosion, and pay a satisfactory dividend; it will seek
dividends on its equity investments and will fix interest rates, fees
and other charges for its loans and services which will permit it to
achieve that level of profitability. It will build and maintain
reserves consistent with sound financial management.
VIII  -  STAFF
22.    The Company shall strive to develop and maintain a solid well-
balanced organization and a management team capable of appraising the
financing pronosals put before it; assisting enterprises in the
formulation of their projects and supervising their execution. Snecial
and continuing efforts will be made to train national personnel at all
levels required by the Company.
IX - REVISION OF POLICIES
23.    Any proposal to revise this Statement on Investment and Operational
Policies shall be considered by the Board of Directors only after each
member has been given an adequate opportunity to study and comment
on the proposal. It shall be approved by at least five (5) Directors
at a meeting of the Board of Directors.
X - ELECTION OF DIxECTORS
24.    The Board of Directors will consist of eight (8) persons.  Government
will appoint four (4) Directors and the Central Bank one (1). The other
three (3) Directors will be drawn from the private sector and will be
appointed for one (1) year in the first instance.  Thereafter, when
the orivate sector holds up to 15% of the share capital, they will
elect one (1) Director. Every other 15% of shareholding will aualify
the private sector to elect another Director up to three (3).
LCPDF
November 27, 1973



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
Approved Loan Policy of the Company
(approved by Board of Directors, December 17, 1970)
1.     GENERAL POLICY
In the Statement on Investment and Operational Policies,
it is stated that the primary objective of the Development
Finance Company (DFC) would be to help to finance and
develop soundly-managed expansion-minded and profit-oriented
enterprises which would in turn make some direct contribution
to the national economic growth of Trinidad and Tobago.
The D.F.C. intends to make its services known and available
to the private sector and consequently encourage proposals
to be made to the Company where it can appropriately provide
the necessary financing. The Company's policy would be to
make its services available to businesses anywhere in
Trinidad and Tobago.
The D.F.C.'s financing activities would involve:-
(i)   making short, medium and long-term loans to
finance and refinance capital goods and provide
working capital the latter only in special
circumstances;
(ii)  participating in share or loan capital and
convertible loan stock, as well as debenture
loan;
(iii) guaranteeing payment for machinery and equipment;
(iv) guaranteeing and underwriting corporate
securities;
(v)   providing export credits.
2.     TYPES OF BUSINESS
Projects to be Financed
While the Memorandum of Association permits the D.F.C. a
fairly wide area of operation insofar as the object for
which it was established, it is proposed to concentrate
on certain projects which would be eligible for loans and
guarantees. These are as follows:-



ANNEX 3
Page 2
la. Industrial
(i)   Manufacturing
(ii)  Processing
(iii) Assembling
(iv)  Quarrying
(v)   Construction and Engineering
(vi) Commercial Transportation
lb.Tourism
(i)   Construction of Hotel and Guest Houses
(ii) Service Facilities
3.     LOAN PURPOSES
The purposes for which the Company will provide financing
can be classified as follows:-
(i)   Fixed Assets
(ii) Working Capital
(iii) Refinancing
Fixed Assets
The Company will provide medium or long-term financing
to help finance the acquisition of fixed assets including
the purchase of land and buildings, constrctltion and
alteration of buildings and purchase of machinery and
equipment.
Working Capital
The D.F.C. may consider the provision of a loan to be
used either in whole or part for Working Capital where:-
(i)   after evaluation of the proposal it is
determined that an increase in Working
Capital is necessary to permit expansion
of the business;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(ii)  it is necessary to correct a weakness in
the financial position of a business;
(iii) the business has a loan from the D.F.C.
and has as large an operating credit as
its Commercial Bank is willing to permit;
(iv)  there is a need for the acquisition of
managerial and/or financial skill.
iefinancing
One of the main reasons for the establishment of a D.F.C.
is that by granting medium and long-term loans to companies,
it would result in increasing the productive capacity of
the economy.
Refinancing cannot be considered in this context as it runs
contrary to the true lending function of a D.F.C. However,
there are times when the D.F.C. will be Laced with loan
proposals that require refinancing.
The D.F.C. would Drovide financing to be used wholly or in
part to refinance existing obligations not merely to increase
the profitability to the owners of the business but to take
account of the following circumstances:-
(i)   where the refinancing would result in the
expansion of the existing business;
(ii)  where the remaining balance of an existing
mortgage debt has to be removed to provide
the D.F.C. with satisfactory security for
a new loan;
(iii) where the project is of special importance
to the economy and is viable.
CREDIT CRITERIA
If any application conforms to the requirements set out
before, i.e. if the company is engaged in a business of
a type to which the D.F.C. may lend and if the funds are
required for an appropriate purpose, then it becomes a
matter of credit judgment to decide what amount, if any,
the D.F.C. should lend. The major criteria in determining
these are:-
(i)   Management
(ii) Earning Prospects
(iii) Security



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Further, it is implicit in the Statement on Investment
and Operational Policies that the D.F.C. has to consider
financing in a wide variety of situations which involve
higher degrees of risk which other lenders may not be
willing to take. This would require the exercise of
seasoned well-balanced judgement based upon full and
accurate information and a careful weighing of relevant
factors.
5.     LOAN TEMS AND CONDITIONS
The terms and conditions of loans would depend on whether
it is a new project to be financed, an existing project
which has to be expanded or any existing viable project.
The relevant variables to be considered are as follows:-
(i)   Percentage of project to be financed
(ii)  The Rate of Interest
(iii) The repayment period
(iv) Commitment Fee
Percentage of the Project to be Financed
Where the application is in connection with an existing
viable project or a new one, the D.F.C. should finance up
to 60% of the total cost of the project. Assuming that
30% of the total cost is represented by equity and 10%
for short-term financing, this would give a debt equity
ratio of roughly 2 to 1. Consequently, it is recommended
that the operating ratio of 2 to 1 for projects which
are considered viable should be the general rule.
Given certain conditions, allowances should be made for
providing loan finance of up to 70% of the project
provided that:-
(i)   the company is owned by nationals;
(ii) proper security is given to cover the loan;
(iii) it creates new employment opportunities;
(iv) maximm use of local materials is made.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Where it is proposed to finance the expansion of an existing
business, the Company should finance,up to 100% of the total
cost involved on condition that this amount does not exceed
60% of the total cost of the entire project and the debt
equity rati does not exceed 2 to 1.
The size of the loan will be subject to the limits stated
in para. 8 of the Statement on Investment and Operational
Policies.
Interest
Interest rates will be fixed from time to time at levels
which will vary with the cost of money to the Company
from its sources. The current rate will vary between
8% - 11%.
Repayment Period
As a result of the variety of circumstances, it is extremely
difficult to recommend any fixed formula on which the
length of loan repayment periods should be based. However,
it should be clearly understood that companies require
ample time for repayment of a loan and the period would
be based on prospective earnings, depreciation of assets
and security of the D.F.C.'s loans.
Commitment Fee
The D.F.C. may charge a commitment fee, not exceeding 1%
for all loans. This type of fee is more or less standard
with all lending financial institutions which have to
earmark funds for borrowers.
The commitment should become effective thirty (30) days
after the signing of the Letter of Commitment by the
borrowing company, which should be done before sixty (60)
days.
Project Evaluation
When consideration is being given to an application which
contains cost estimates, it is sometimes necessary to have
these estimates checked by qualified personnel. The D.F.C.
should reserve the right to appoint at clients expense,
qualified personnel to evaluate projects where thought
necessary.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
6.     SECURITY FOR LOAN
The more satisfactory situation from a security point of
view would be whether the debt is adequately covered by
assets that can be realized to cover the loan. However,
this is not always the case as there should be some
distinction between the value of equipment for the purpose
of the loan, and the value for the purpose of security.
In the case of equipment value for the purpose of the loan,
this raises no problem but when it is proposed to use the
value of equipment for the purpose of security, no more than
60% should be used in normal circumstances, bearing in mind,
the expected life of the equipment and its marketable
resale value. In any event where there is no doubt as to
the borrowing company being in a position to provide
adequate security from either a traditional view point
or from a more liberal interpretation, it is recommended
that the credit standing of all companies should be
investigated. Where personal guarantees are involved, it
should be the general policy that guarantors complete
a standard form showing their net worth.
7.     EQUITY PARTICIPATION
As a Development Financial Institution, the D.F.C. should
seek to encourage venture capital in the non-traditional
areas. It could demonstrate confidence to potentia.l
investors by participating in the equity of existing or
new companies. Where necessary, the D.F.C. should use
the technique of convertible loan stock. These investments
would have to conform with the criteria set out in the
Statement on Investment and Operational Policies.
8.     EXPORT CREDITS
According to the Statement on Investment and Operational
Policies, the Company will engage in the provision of
export credits. Before a meaningful policy is formulated
in this regard, it is proposed to carefully examine the
mechanics of this type of operation in collaboration
with enterprises both in the private sector and in the
Export Promotion Division of the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce. When this task is completed a supplementary
note on this aspect will be submitted for the apnroval
of the Board.
LCPDF
November 27, 1973



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIY P1DJEGCT
TTDFC: List of Shareholders
(as of December 31, 1973)
No. of Shares    Value of Shares      Amount
Subscribed       Subscribed         Paid-In
1.   Government of Trinidad and Tobago                             80,000          4,000,000         2,000,000
2.   Barclays Bank of Trinidad and Tobago                           2,000            100,000            50,000
3.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce                                500             25,000            12,500
4.  Bank of Nova Scotia, Trinidad and Tobago                          500             25,000            12,500
5.   Texaco (Trinidad) Incorporated                                   500             25,000            12,500
6.  Neal and Massy Holdings, Ltd.                                     500             25,000            12,500
7.  Alstons, Ltd.                                                     400             20,000            10,000
8.   The Royal Bank of Canada                                         200             10,000             5,000
9.   Esso Standard Oil, S. A., Ltd.                                   200             10,000             5,000
10.  N. E. M. (W. I.), Ltd.                                            200             10,000             5,000
11.   Canning and Company, Ltd.                                        100               5,000            2,500
12.  Angostura Bitters, Ltd.                                           100               5,000            2,500
13.   Guyana and Trinidad Mutual Fire Insurance Company, Ltd.          100               5,000            2,500
14-   Trinidad and Tobago Insurance, Ltd.                              100               5,000            2,500
15.  Catelli-Primo, Ltd.                                                30               1,500              750
TOTAL                   85,430           4,271,500        2,135,750
LCPDF
May 1974






ANNEX5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC:  Board of Directors i/
Mr. M. de Souza           Regional Manager
(Chaimuan)              Maritime Life (Caribbean) Ltd.
Mr. K. Gittens            Secretary/Director
Neal & Massy Holdings Ltd.
Mr. L. Farrell            Manager - Bank Operations
Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago
Mr. M. Prevatt            Chief Accountant/Director
Lever Bros. (W I) Ltd.
Mr. N. Raphael            Senior Economist
Ministry of Finance
Mr. F. Barsotti           permanent Secretary
Ministry of Planning & Development
Mr. N. Crichlow           President
National Union of Government and
Federated Workers
Mr. I. Bertrand           Principal
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company
J All members of the Board were elected for a term of one year
at the June 1974 General Meeting of the Company.
LCPDF
August 1974



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC:  Approvals, Commitments, and Disbursements:  Actual (1970-73) and Projected (1974-78)-'
(in thousands of TT$)
AqTUAL                                                 PROJECTED
1970      1971      1972      1973            1974       1975        1976       1977         1978
Approvals
Domestic currency equity investments            200       85         785      322               740        900       1,000      1,020      1,080
Domestic currency loans                         437      450       1,156    1,145             1,920      2,000      2,190       2,244      2,376
Foreign currency loans                           -        -        1_,455    3.783            3,940      4.300      5.010       5a236      5,544
TOTAL APPROVALS                          637      535       3,396    5,250            6,600       7,200      8.200       8,500      9s000
Commitments
Domestic currency
100% of current year's equity
investment approvals                    200       85         750      322              775         900      1,000       1,020      1,080
80% of current year's loan approvals        437      450         995    1,063             1,536      1,600       1,752      1,795      1,900
20% of previous year's loan approvals        -                    -                         243        384         400        438        448
Total domestic currency commitments       637      535       1,745    1,385             2,554      2,884      3,152       3,253      3,428
Foreign currency
80% of current year's loan approvals          -        -        1,312    2,831             3,152      3,440      4,008       4,188      4,436
20% of previous year's loan approvals         -        -           -       143               952        788         860      1,002      1,047
Total foreign currency commitments2       -         -        1.312    2Z974             4,104      4.228       4,868      5,190      5,483
TOTAL COMMITMENTS                        637       535      3,057    4j359             6,658      7 112       8,020      8.443     8_9_1
Disbursements
Domestic currency
100% of current year's equity
investment approvals                     -        67         838      135             1,092        900      1,000       1,020      1,080
50% of current year's loan commitments        -        64       1,028      835               889        992       1,076      1,117      1,174
50% of previous year's loan commitments       -        49         413       _              1,097        647         992      1,076      1 115
Total disbursements in domestic currency  -         180      2,279       970            3,078      2,539       3,068      3,213      3,369
Foreign currency
50% of current year's commitments             -         -          -      1,856            2,052      2,114       2,434      2,595      2,741
50% of previous year's commitments                     -          _       1,455            1 118      2,052       2,114      2.434       2  95
Total disbursements in foreign curre   2/ -                   -       3,311             3,170      4,166       4,548      5 029      5t336
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                       -       180       2,279    4.281             6.248      6.705       7.616      8,242      8 705
1/ Long-term loans only; percentages apply to projections only.
2/ Of which IBRD funds:
commitments                                 -         -        1,312    2,974            4,104       4,228      4,868       5,190      5,483
disbursements                               -         -          -      1,217             5,264      4,166       4,548      5,029      5,336
LCPDF
May 1974



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Audited (1970-73) and Projected (197;-78) IncomeSt^at      F LJt
(in thousarns 01 i r%)
Audited                                       Projected
1970     1971      1972     1973        1974      1975      1976     1977      1978
Income
Interest on loans                                -         3        70       282        700      1,203    1,713    2,167    2,578
Commitment fees and other charges                -         2         7        17         24         24        27        28       29
Guarantee charges                                -         -        -         -           2          4         6         8       10
Dividend income                                  -          -       -         -           -         96       155       227      307
Income on deposits, bills & bonds                86      287       285       219          71        84        87      149       186
Other income (short-term loans)                  -         -      _           -         116        166        41       -          -
TOTAL INCOME                             86       292       362      518         913      1,577    2,029    2,579    3,110
Expenses
Interest on borrowings                           -          -       -         25         270       693    1,054    1,525    1,789
Commitment fees and other charges
on borrowings                                -          -        -          6          8          8         9        10       10
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                                      31      115       153      182         204        226       248       273      300
Other administrative and general
expenses                                     50       1o6       163      163         201        223       248       27L,     302
TOTAL EXPENSES                           81       221       316      376         683      1,150    1,559    2,082    2,401
Operating profit before tax                      -         71n      46       142         230       427       470       497       709
Provision for tax (5%)                           -         4         2         5          11         21       24        25        35
NET PROFIT (before provisions for          5       67        44      137         219        406       446      472       674
doubtful loans)
Provision for doubtful loans                     -                  -         77         125        188      244       297       345
NET PROFIT (after provisions)              5       67        44        60         94        218       202       175      329
Appropriations
Dividends                              .                    -                              ,
Retained earmings                                 5        67       44        60          94        218      202       175       329
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS                       5       67        44        60          94       218       202       175       329
LCPDF
May 1974



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC:  Audited (1970-73) and Pro ected (1974-78) Balance Sheets as of December 31
(In taousands or TT*)
Audited                                 Projected
Assets                                             1970    1971    1972    1973         1974    1975    1976    1977    1970
Cash                                               4~5    -       -75         0       -          2     --       --5    -
Deposits & Govt. marketable securities           3950    3788    3200       730       1638    1216    1787    3371    3057
Current maturities of term loans                   -       -       115     660        1318    2030    2930    3918    5239
Short-term loans                                   -        -      115    106        1750      650     250       -        -
Accts. receivable & other current assets           87     201      111      106        207      316      396     508      617
Total Current Assets                      1082      01      3834      2 2         33    1432    5383    7817    8933
Term loans                                         -      113    1554    5588        10115   15502   20088   24380   28087
Less current maturities                            -        -      115      660       1318    2030    2930    3918    5239
-      113    TE1 39     928      9797   13472   1715    205462   28
Equity investments at cost                         -        67     905    1005        2092    2992    399?    5012    6092
-      180    2344    5933        10889   16464   21150   25474   28940
Less provisions for losses on portfolio            -        -       -       ho         162        0      .9L     891    127376
-      180    23-414   5893       10727   16114   20556         3   27704
Property & equipment (net)                         42      45      110      159        152      146      137     129      117
TOTAL ASSETS                         4124    4240    6288    8604         15812   20492   26076   32529   36754
Liabilities
Current liabilities                                18       32      36       75          50      55       55      60       60
Current maturities of term debt                    -       -        -      259         709    1166    1756    2440    3180
Total Current Liabilities                __71        32       36     3314        759    1221        1             32140
Term Debt
Govt. of Trinidad & Tobago                       2000    2000    4000    5000         5000    5000    5000    5000    5000
Other domestic                                     -        -       -        -           -     1000    3000    5000    5000
IBRD                                               -        -       -      1217       6222    9679   13061   16334   19230
Total Term Debt                           2000 2000    2000   1U6-    6217     11222   15679   21061   263314   29230
Less current maturities of term debt               -        -       _       259         709    1166    1756    2440    3180
20      2     00 00                -10513   11413   19305   238914   260
Paid-in share capital                            2101    2136    2136    2136         4270    4270    4270    5270    6270
Retained earnings                                   5       72     116      176         270     488      690     865    1194
Shareholders' equity                      7T_      7=B    275z    2312         I4Zi   b75g    490   b715    7;24
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    4124    4240    6288    8604         15812   20492   26076   32529   36754
Contingent liabilities: Guarantees                 -      307      815      815         900     900      900      900     900
LCPDF
May 1974



ANNEX 9
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Past (1970-73) and Pro,jected (1974-78) Sources and Uses of Funds
(hn thousands ofTT$)
Past                                 Projected
Sources                                           1 970    1971    I7   T973          1974    1975    1Wo    1977    1977i
Net profit after tax                              7     _7    L               4              -7T g    77  3     2 9
Depreciation                                       3       7       8       10         11       12      13       14      16
Provisions                                        -       -        -       77        125      188     244      297     345
Cash Generation                             8       74      52      147        230      418     459     486      690
Loan collections
domestic currency                               -       -       -       1131/     2463      609     864    1174    1478
foreign currency                                -       -       -        -         259      709    1166    1756    2440
Decrease in deposits & Govt. marketable
securities                                   (3951)    163     587    2470         (907)    422    (571)  (1584)    314
Increase in current liabilities                   19      13        5      39         (25)      5      -         5      -
Draw-down of domestic currency borrowing        2000      -      2000    1000          -     1000    2000    2000        -
Draw-down of foreign currency borrowing           -       -        -     1217       5264    4166    4548    5029    5336
Increase in share capital                       2101      35       -       -        2134       -       -      1000    1000
TOTAL SOJRCES                        177      285    2644    4986        9418    7329    8466    9866   11258
Uses
Increase in receivables & other current
assets                                          87     114      (90)     (4)        100     109       80     112     109
Loan disbursements
domestic currency                               -      113    1441    2929        1986    2539    2068    2193    2289
foreign currency                                -       -        -     1217       5264    4166    4548    5029    5336
Equity investments                                -       67      838     135        1092     900    1000    1020    1080
Repayments of borrowings
domestic currency                               -       -        -       -           -       -        -
foreign currency                                -       -        -       -          259     709    1166    1756    2440
Increase in fixed assets                          45      10       73      60           4       6        4       6        4
Short-term loans (net increase)                   -       -       115     922         713   (1100)   (400)   (250)       -
TOTAL USES                           132      304    2377    5259        9418    7329    8466    9866   11258
Cash, beginning of year                           -       45       26     293          20      20       20      20       20
Change in cash during year                        45     (19)    267    (273)          -       -        -       -        -
Cash, end of year                                 45      26      293      20          20      20       20      20       20
1/ Long-term loan recoveries only
LCPIF
May 1974



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPNE NT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTLFC:  Past (1970-73) and ProJected (1974-78) Financial Ratios
Past           ps!c_
170   1971   1972   1973          19-   1         19 7 7  UL
Total income as % of average total assets (ATA)                   4.2    7.0    6.9    7.0          7.5   8.7   8.7   8.8   9.0
Financial expenses as % of ATA                                     -       -      -      0.         2.3   3.9   f.6   5.2   J
Gross spread as % of ATA                                          17     7.      7 9    B           v     v      1i   3.6   3.8
Administrative expenses as % of ATA                               3.9    5.3    6.0    h.6           3.3   2.5   2.1   1.9   1.7
Operating profit before tax as % of ATA                           0.3    1.7    0.9          E7X    .3   2.0   1.7   2.1
Provisions as % ATA                                                -       -      -      1.0         1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Income on loans as % of average loan portfolio                     -     8.9    9.2    8.4          9.2   9.6   9.8   9.9   9.9
Financial expenses as % of average borrowings                      -       -      -     0.6         3.2   5.2   5.8   6.5   6.5
Equity income (including net capital gains before tax)
as % of average equity portfolio                                       -       -      -           - _  4.1  4.7   5.4   5.9
Net profit after tax and provisions as % of average:
share capital                                                  0.5    3.2    2.1    2.8          2.9   5.1   4.7   3.7   5.7
equity                                                         0.5    3.1    2.0    2.6          2.7   4.7   4.2   3.2   4.8
Dividend as % of average paid-in capital                           -       -      -      -           -      -     -      -     -
Dividend as % of net profit (pay-out ratio)                        -       -      _      -           -      -     -      -     -
Total debt (incl. guarantees)/Equity                              1.0    1.1    2.1-.  3.1          2.7   3.5   4.3   4.4  4-0
Term debt (including gnarantees)/Equity & Quasi Equityg           0.1    0.1    0.2.   0.3          0.9   1.3   1.8   2.2   2.2
Reserves (including retained earnings) plus provisions
as % year-end portfolio (loans guarantees & equity              -    14.8    3.5    2.6          2.9   4.3   5.2   6.0   6.9
investments)
Equity portfolio as % of net worth                                 -     3.0   40.2   43.5         46.1  62.9  80.5  81.7  81.6
Percentage increase in total assets                                -      2.8   48.3   36.8        83.8  29.6  27.2  24.7  13.0
Debt service coverage                                                      -       -2.2    .8   1.6   1.5   15
g  As per loan agreement, excluding as debt and including as equity that portion of the Government's subordinated
loans which will still be outstanding after the repayment to the Bank of the last installment on its loan.
LCPDF
Nay 1974



ANNEX 11
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Characteristics of Loan ComGmitments fromx Inception to December 31. 1973
(in thovsands of TT$)
Total
1970                    1971                     1972                     1973               Since Inception
No,4  TT$      7        No..  TT$       7,        No.   T$       %I        No.   T        7%        No.   TT$    7,
I      By Sizec
B   ptoTTSize                        2     13     31.5        2    145    32.2         3    128    5.5         3      179    4.4        10    589       8.2
TT$100,000 to 249,999                    -     -        -        3    305    67.8         4    559   24.2         2      675   16.7        11    589    21.3
TT$250,000 to 499,999                   1    300    68.5         -      -        -        4   1620   70.3         2      628   22.3            2548    35.2
TT$500,000 to 749,999             2            -        -                        -                                2      900   22.9
TT$750,000 and above                                                                      -.0                                               32   165    22.9
TOTAL                           3    437   100.0         5    450   100.0        11   2307  100.0        13    4037  1000          32   7231   100.0
II     By Purpose
New Enterprise                       1    300    68,5         2    170    37.8         3   1020   44.2         9    2873   71.2         15   4363    60.3
Expansion                            2    137    31.5         3    280    62.2         8   1287   55.8         4    1164   28.8          17   2868    39.7
TOTAL                           3    437   100.0         5    450   100.0        11   2307  100.0        13    4037  1O0,0         32   7231   lO0.0
TII    By Industrial Category
Food and Beverages                   1    300    68.5         1      70    15.6         1    109    4.7        3    1245   30.8           5   1654    22.9
Furniture & Wood Products            2    137    31.5         1      75    16.7        3    508   22.0          1     250    6.2          7    970    13.4
Texitiles  &Wod  rodcts-                                                      -        1    200    8.7         -       -       -          1    200      2.8
Paint Products                       -      -        -        -      -        -        I    100    4.3          1      52    1.3          2    152      2.1
Metal Products                       -      -        _         -     -        _         1    300   13.0         -      -       -          1    300      4.1
Electrical Machinery & Equip.                                 I -  -  1    100    22.2  1    400   17.3         -      -       -          2    500      6.9
Plastic Products                            -        -        1    105    23.3          2    540   23.5         1     200    5.0          4    845    11.7
Other Manufacturing                   -     -        -         1    100    22.2         -     -      -          1     165    4.1          2    265      3.7
Fishing                                              -        -      -        -         -     -      -          3     400    9.9          4    470      6.5
Mining & Quarrying                                                                            -                 1     500   12.4          1    500      6.9
Restaurant                           -      -        _        _      _        -         1    150    6.5         1     400    9.9          2    550      7.6
Comoercial Dredging                  _      __                                                                 1      825   20.4          1    825    11.4
TOTAL                           3    437   100.0         5    450   100,0        11   2307  100.0        13    4037  100.0          32   7231   100.0
IV     By Location
St. George                           3    437   100.0         3    275    61.1          9   1728   74.9        11    3175   78.6         26   5615    77.6
Caroni                               -      -        -        1      75    16.7         2    579   25.1         1      37    0.q          4    691      9.6
Victoria                                                              O 100    22.2    -      -    -            1     825   20.5          2    925    12.8
TOTAL                           3    437   100.0         5    450   100.0        11   2307  100.0         13    4037  100.(         32   7231   100.0
V      BY Type of Loan
Local Currency                       3    437   100.0         5    450   100l 0         8   1017   44.1        11    1063   26.3         27   2967    41.0~1
Foreign Currency                      -     _ -               -      -       _          7   1290   55.9        11 3/ 2974   73.7          18   4264    59.0
TOTAL                           3    437   100.0         5    450   100.0         15   2307  100.0        22    4037  100.0         45 - 7231   100.0
VI     By Maturity  (Yesrs)
S                                  -      -        -        -      -        -              -      -           3     400    9.9          3    400       5.5
6-7                                                            -     -        -         6   1349   58.5         3      452   11.2          8   1801    24.9
8-9                                   -     -        -         5    450   100.0         6    958   41.5         5    1855   46.0         16   3263    45.2
10                                   3    437   100.0          -     -        -         _     _     -           2    1330   32.9           5   1767    24.4
TOTAL                           3    437   100.0         5    450   100.0         11   2307  100.0        13    4037  100.0         32   7231   100.0
VII    By End Use
Fixed Assets                          3    422    96,6         5    399    88.7        11   2307  100.0        13    3987   98.8          32   7115    98.4
Working Capital                       1     15      3,4        2     51    11.3                       -          1      50    1.2          4    116      1.6
TOTAL                           4-   437   100,0         7-   450   100.0         11   2307  100.0        14    4037  100.0         36 -/7231   100.0
VIII   By Asset Size of Subborrower
Up to  TT$199,999                2    137    31.4          1     70    15.6          2    113    4.9         6     654   16.2         11    974    13.5
*                      200,000 to    499,999                 -      -       -         3    275    61.1          3    224    9.7         4    1228   30.4          10   1727    23.9
500,000 to    999,999                 -     -        -         1    105    23.3          2    650   28.2         3    2155   53.4          6   2910    40.2
1,000,000 to  1,999,999                 -     -        -         -     -        -          1    150    6.5         -       -     -           1    150       2.1
2,000,000 to  2,999,999                 _     _        -         _     _        _          2    700   30.3         _       _     _           2    700       9.7
over 3,000,000                          1    300    68.6         -     -       -           1    470   20.4             -      -              2    770    10.6
TOTAL                          3    437   100.0         5    450    100.0         11   2307  100.0        13    4037  100.0         32   7231   100.0
1/ Long-term loans only.
2/  Four companies received both local and foreign currency.
3/ Nine companies received both lceal and foreign currency.
4/ One company received loans for both fixed assets and working capital.
5/ Two companies received loans for both fixed assets and working capital,
6/ Includes local currency disbursed in lieu of foreign currency before the World Bank loan became available
(import content of projects equal to about 70% based on analysis of project costs)
7/ Includes double-counting of some enterprises as explained in previous footnotes.
LCPDF
May 1974



TRINIDAD AND IOBAGO
SECOND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Equity Investment Portfolio as of December 31. 1974
(in thousands of TT$)
Market
Cost        Value                                                                                                  TTDFC
% of       Value of    of Shares                                   Company's                                                  Loans and
Company's    Capital        Shares       Held by                    Company's        Total       Company's    Company's                     Guarantees
Date of        Paid-in       Held by    Held by          TTDFC                     Return on   Debt/Equity    Current            Total       Dividend      Outstanding
Company               Activity         Investment       Capital       TTDFC       TTDFC        (if any)       Status        Equity          Ratio         Patio         Assets        Received         to Co.
Industrial Manu-    Manufacture          9.20.71           267         19            50        Unquoted       In oper-    (38%)12/73        0.74:1        0.33:1            289          -               92
facturers Ltd.        of wiring                                                                               ation
boxes, wall
outlets
Doneon Sign           Manufacture of   9.29.71             175         20            35        Unquoted       In liqui-          -          3.37:1         0.96:1           694           -              43
Co. Ltd.              neon signs                                                                              dation 1/
Electrical            Manufacture of   4. 1.72             910          22          200        Unquoted       In oper-    (142)12/73        3.19:1         1.03:1         3,264           -             340
Industries Ltd.       cables and                                                                              ation
transformers
National              Shrimping          7.31.72         2,480          151         220        Unquoted       In oper-    (11)12/73        0.91:1         1.19:1         5,463           -               -
Fisheries Ltd.                                                                                                ation
Unic Industries       Galvanizing       11. 1.72           862           23         200        Unquoted       In oper-      (7%)12/73       4.72:1         0.79:1         5,742           -             200
Ltd.                  of metal                                                                                ation
National Brewing    Brewery              2.29.72         2,199            9         200        Unquoted       In oper-    (28/)3/73         2.84:1         0.73:1         6,097           -             300
Co. Ltd.                                                                                                      ation
Luciano               Restaurant        10. 1.73           390           26         100        Unquoted       In oper-    (82)1/74          2.42:1         0.17:1         1,229           -              400
Restaurants Ltd.                                                                                              ation
Malabar Ind. Ltd.   Cosmetic            12. 7.73           200           17.5        35        Unquoted       Under con-        -            1.34:1          -              386           -              165
Manufacturers                                                                           struction
1/ TTDFC wrote off the full amount of this investment in 1973.
LCPDF
May 1974



TRINIDAD AND TOBA.GO
SECCND DEVEIOPMENT FINANCE CCOPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Status of Arrears as of December 31. 1973
(in thousands of TT$)
No. of     No. of         Principal Outstanding
Loans     Companies       Amount              %
A. Status of Loans as of  December 31. 1973
Repaying regularly 1                           8          7            1,020              15
In grace period                               14         14            4,899              74
In arrears over three months                   5          5              706              11
Total                                      27         26            6.625             100
B. Loans in Arrears as of December 31, 1973
Total
No. of       Outstandin
Companies   Amount       L  Principal   %   Interest   L  Total   %
Long Term Loans
3-6 months                                   3          425      60       51      25      2      25    53    25
6-12 months                                  1           47       7       47      23      3      38    50    24
12-24 months                                 1          234      33     104       52      3      37   107    51
over 24 months                                     -         -            -       -       -      - _  _
Total                                                  706     100      202     100      8     100   210   100
/ This category includes loans in arrears for less than three months: six companies
with loans outstanding of TT$429,000.
LCPDF
May 1974



ANNEX 14
TRINIDAD A1ND TOBAGO
SECOND DE;VEIPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
TTDFC: Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Prgoaosd Loan
Amount       Cliiulative Disbursements
(US$1, 000)          End of Quarter
Third Quarter                     620                     620
Fourth Quarter                    6?o                  1,240
3975
First Quarter                     520                   1,760
Second Quarter                    521                   2,281
Third Quarter                     521                   2,802'
Fourth Quarter                    521                   3,323
1976
First Quarter                     569                   3,892
Second Quarter                   569                    ,461
Third Quarter                     569                  5,000
LCPDF
May 1974



