CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1056 TR
Loan Agreement
(Second TTDFC Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
DATED DECEMBER 5, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1056 TR
Loan Agreement
(Second TTDFC Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
DATED DECEMPER 5, 1974


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter called the Borrower) a company established and operating under the
laws of Trinidad and Tobago.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project and "free limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b)
of this Agreement;
(b)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan in an
Investn1ent Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(c)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment;
(d)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;


﻿4
(e) "TT dollars" and "TT$" mean the currency of the Guarantor;
(f)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Guarantor;
(g)   "Memorandum and Articles of Association' means the Memorandum
and Articles of Association of the Borrower dated May 11, 1970, as amended
to the date of this Agreement;
(h)   "Statements of Policy" means the Statement on Investment and
Operational Policies approved by the Borrower's Board of Directors on
September 15, 1970 and the Statement of Approved Loan Policy of the Borrower
approved by the said Board on December 17, 1970, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
(i)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means any loan agreement executed and
delivered between the Bank and the Borrower before the date of this Agreement
and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for therein;
(j)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower
or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries; and
(k)   "Government Loans" means the loans made by the Guarantor to the
Borrower in 1970, 1972 and 1973 amounting in the aggregate to TT$5,000,000
and any other subordinated loans which the Guarantor may make to the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for amounts expended (or if the Bank shall so agree, for expenditures
required to be made) by the Borrower under a sub-loan or investment to finance
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment un-kss (i) the sub-loan or


﻿5
investment shall have been agreed to by the Bank; or (ii) the sub-loan shall be
a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account; and provided further that withdrawals from the Loan Account
may be made on account of expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor with
respect to (A) the c.i.f. (Trinidad and Tobago port of entry) value of goods
produced outside Trinidad and Tobago and purchased from suppliers in Trinidad
and Tobago and invoiced and paid for in the currency of the Guarantor, and/or
(B) the equivalent of thirty five per cent (35%) or such other percentage as the
Bank and the Borrower may establish of expenditures made in respect of
construction works.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of: (i) $150,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any
Prior Loan for any project which, in the opinion of the Bank, is directly and
materially related to such Investment Project; and (ii) $1,750,000 equivalent, when
added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from
time to time as determined by the Bank and the Borrower.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree and subject
to the limitation contained in paragraph (d) of this Section, no withdrawals shall
be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment Enterprise in respect
of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's agreement, or in respect of an investment,
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and information required
by Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03(b).
(d)   No withdrawal shall be made in respect of (i) expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals may be made on account of
disbursements made by the Borrower under the Project after March 30, 1974 in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $800,000 or (ii) any sub-loans
bearing a rate of interest which is less than the rate specified in, or a rate determined
in accordance with, Section 2.08(c) of this Agreement, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree.
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan)
or an investment to the Bank for its agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a


﻿6
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project
(including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan
or investment, including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of
repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)  Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)  Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before June 30, 1976.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be determined by the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section  2.06. The   Borrower shall pay   interest at the   rate  of
eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which have been approved or
authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of
the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made


﻿7
on April 1 and October 1 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1
shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayments if necessary.
(b)  The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date on which the Bank
agreed to such sub-loai, 3r invesiment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of
authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c)  The interest which the Borrower shall charge on sub-loans made during
the earlier of the following periods, namely, (A) the period ending twelve months
after the date of this Agreement or (B) the period during which the Bank shall
have authorized the Borrower to withdraw from the Loan Account sums amounting
in the aggregate to not less than $2,500,000, shall be not less than ten per cent
(10%). The interest to be charged by the Borrower on sub-loans made thereafter
shall be determined by the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)  If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower,
the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08(a)
of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b)  Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid
on account of such investment.
(c)   Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions shall not apply to any
repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿8
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and resources in Trinidad and Tobago as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists in the financing of specific development projects through loans to and
investments in productive enterprises in Trinidad and Tobago, in furtherance of
the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with its Memorandum and Articles
of Association and Statements of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any such sub-loan and to the extent
that it shall be appropriate in the case of any such investment, the right of the
Borrower to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also
of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable


﻿9
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with
the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
(c)   Any substantial changes proposed to be made by the Borrower in
respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan, shall be agreed by the Borrower
and the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and
the sub-loans and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal
of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies or others for relending, investment
or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any
material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any subsidiary, the
Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿10
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as otherwise
stated in writing.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or any subsidiary
as security for any debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank, and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower or of any subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limits provided in Section
4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limits.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgment
of the Bank, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.


﻿11
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after
the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times the
consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of TT dollars debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be
made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of the Borrower and subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt
owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower
or to any other subsidiary, and (ii) the amounts of the Government Loans referred
to in paragraph (e)(ii) of this Section.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of the Borrower and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary
in the Borrower or any other subsidiary, and (ii) such amounts of the Government
Loans as shall be repayable after the latest of the dates of all outstanding maturities
of the sub-loans, of the schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of the
investments and of any sub-loans or investments made by the Borrower out of
the proceeds of any Prior Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between any currencies used in its operations.


﻿12
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank. at its option, may by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor
declare the principal of the Loan then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon, and upon any
such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and Articles of
Association or in the Statements of Policy which will in the judgment of the Bank
materially and adversely affect the objectives, the financial condition or operations
of the Borrower;
(c)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of the Borrower; and
(d)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
materially and adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the
Borrower's management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Sectio,. 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.02 shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and


﻿13
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 5.02 shall
occIur.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of February 7, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cablk address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Trinidad and Tobago Development
Finance Company Limited
76 Independence Square
Port of Spain
Trinidad
Cable address:
DEVFINCO
Trinidad


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO DEVELOPMENT
FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED
By /s / Indrani A. Sinanan
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE I
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)**
April 1, 1977                                          130,000
October 1, 1977                                        135,000
April 1, 1978                                          140,000
October 1, 1978                                        145,000
April 1, 1979                                          150,000
October 1, 1979                                        155,000
April 1, 1980                                          160,000
October 1, 1980                                        170,000
April 1, 1981                                          175,000
October 1, 1981                                        180,000
April 1, 1982                                          190,000
October 1, 1982                                        195,000
April 1, 1983                                          205,000
October 1, 1983                                        215,000
April 1, 1984                                          220,000
October 1, 1984                                        230,000
April 1, 1985                                          240,000
October 1, 1985                                        250,000
April 1, 1986                                          260,000
October 1, 1986                                        270,000
April 1, 1987                                         280,000
October 1, 1987                                        290,000
April 1, 1988                                          305,000
October 1, 1988                                        310,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿16
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three                                 1-1/4%
years before
maturity
More than three                                     2-1/2%
years but not
more than six
years before
maturity
More than six years                                 4-1/4%
but not more than
eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven                                    6-1/2%
years but not more
than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen                                   8%
years before
maturity


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(2)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower and the Guarantor terminate the right of the Borrower to
submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the
Loan shall be cancelled."


