Document of
FILE    )p y          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2345-Co
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
June 2, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1977       April 30, 1978
Currency Unit   m                Peso - Col$                  Col$
US$1            -                Col$36.985                   38.58
Col$1           -                US$0.027                     0.02592
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AID            -  Agency for International Development
DDC            -   Department of Development Credit of Banco de la Republica
DFC            -   Development Finance Company
GDP            -   Gross Domestic Product
IDB            -   Inter-American Development Bank
IFC            -   International Finance Corporation
OED            -   Operations Evaluation Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Bianco de la Republica
Guarantor:                  Republic of Colombia
Beneficiaries:              P'rivate Development Finance Companies
Amount:                    IJS$100 million equivalent
Terms:                     I'nterest at 7.5% per annum.  Repayment in 17
years, including 4 years of grace. According
ito a fixed amortization schedule based on the
Bank's projection of the expected aggregate of
the amortization schedules of the individual
subloans to be made.
Relending Terms:
I----  nterest (Z) ---------   Maximum Terms (Years) 1/
Purpose:                Dollar Funds       Peso Funds        Maturity    Grace 2/
To Sub-           To Sub-
To DFC borrower To DFC borrower
Sub-loans                8      10.75    21-22       25        15           3
Equity Investments       -          -    20-22   not appl.    15           5
Technology Improvements  -          -      16        20         5           2
Pollution Control        -          -      16        20        10           2
Banco de la Republica would assume the peso/dollar exchange risk on peso
funds and the cross foreign exchange risk on all funds.
ProJect Description:       Development of private industry through contri-
bution of foreign exchange for loan and equity
financing by Development Finance Companies of
investment projects, including technological
improvements, and pollution control, in manufac-
turing, agro-industry, mining and tourism.
1/   Repayment terms are identical for sub-borrowers and DFCs, except in
case of equity investments.
2/   Included in maturity.,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Estimated Disbursements:
---------------- US$ millions -----------------
FY79       FY80        FY81       FY82        FY83
Annual             10          28          38         22            2
Cumulative         10          38          76         98          100
Staff
Appraisal Report:           No. 2013b-CO of May 26, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Banco de la Republica for the equivalent of US$100 million, the
proceeds of which would be relent to development finance companies (DFCs)
for the development of private industry. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum. It
would be repaid according to a fixed amortization schedule based on the
Bank's projection of the expected aggregate of the amortization schedules
of the individual subloans to be made.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments and
provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. An updating
report is being prepared and is scheduled for distribution to the Executive
Directors in August 1978. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural
economy made up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban
industrial economy oriented increasingly toward international trade. This
broadening of the country's productive base has been accompanied by rapid
growth of nontraditional exports and development of a modern sector which
relies to a considerable extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1974 GDP
rose by an average of 6.5% per annum in real terms, well above the historical
average of less than 5% (1950-67). Accelerated economic growth coupled with
a decline in population growth brought about a rapid increase in per capita
incomes. Increased investment and relaxation of the foreign exchange con-
straint were the major factors responsible for this acceleration in growth.
Merchandise exports expanded more than four-fold during this period, and,
most significantly, nontraditional exports became an increasingly important
source of foreign exchange earnings, in large part compensating the slow
1/   Substantially unchanged from President's Report, San Carlos I Hydro
Power Project (Report No. P-2239-CO).



- 2 -
growth of receipts from coffee exports. Much of this increase in non-
traditional exports was the result of both product and market diversifica-
tion attributable to the Government's export promotion program. Substantial
medium- and long-term capital inflows to the public and private sectors for
development projects helped sustain investment levels and enabled Colombia
to maintain the favorable structure of its external debt. However, despite
the substantial progress made during the past two decades, Colombia still
has a long way to go on the road toward modernization; it still is essentially
an underdeveloped country with a limited modern sector superimposed on a
broad, traditional and poor base.
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974. the country
was faced with a generally deteriorating economic situation--weakening balance
of payments, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, accelerating
inflation, deterioration of the public finances, and reduced public invest-
ment. GDP growth showed signs of slowing and unemployment was increasing,
especially in the urban areas, reaching a peak of 13% in 1974. As a con-
sequence, the new administration moved rapidly to introduce an economic
stabilization program along with a set of reforms aimed at restoring the basis
for long-term economic growth. In line with these goals, it initiated basic
reforms of the fiscal, monetary and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen the public finances, the new Government undertook
a comprehensive tax reform designed to achieve a substantial improvement in
the progressivity and elasticity of the tax system. Steps were also taken to
correct major distortions which existed in the price system. Price controls
on a number of important agricultural products were removed, thereby providing
greater stimulus for increasing farm production. Far-reaching modifications
in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining self-sufficiency in production
of crude petroleum by improving incentives for exploration and exploitation
were introduced. Concurrently, measures were taken to reduce the subsidy on
local consumption of petroleum products, with the dollar equivalent price of
gasoline being raised in successive steps by 150% between August 1975 to
January 1977.
6.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 and 1976, withi real GDP increasing
by less than 5% in both years. This was the result of the stabilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974, the effects of the world recession,
reduced private investment, and, in 1976, a poor harvest stemming from adverse
weather conditions. The stabilization program succeeded in reducing inflation
from 27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975, but the expansionary impact of rising inter-
national reserves caused by higher coffee prices and shortages of basic food
items produced an acceleration of inflation to 26% in 1976. Private invest-
ment declined in real terms during this period as a consequence of attempts
to stabilize the economy through tighter fiscal and monetary measures.
Public sector revenues and savings were strengthened as a result of the tax
reform and of increased revenue from coffee export taxes. The balance of
payments improved substantially in 1976, mainly as a result of an increasing
trade surplus caused by higher world coffee prices. Consequently Colombia's
net international reserves rose by nearly threefold, from US$437 million
in 1974 to US$1,166 million in 1976.



-3-
Recent Economic Performance
7.        Growth and employmient picked up significantly in 1977, largely
as a result of increased internal demand generated by the income effects of
exceptionally high export receipts from coffee. GDP is estimated to have
increased by 5.4%. This higher level of growth was distributed evenly over
all sectors of the economy except non-coffee agriculture which was affected
by the continuation of the severe drought which began in the second half of
1976. High world coffee prices during 1977 produced a record trade surplus
and the balance of payments registered an overall surplus for the year of
US$686 million. By year end, Colombia's net international reserves stood at
US$1,852 million, equivalent to seven months' imports, the highest level in
the country's history. Increased export receipts from coffee contributed to
a further strengthening of public finances over that which had occurred in
1975-76. Increased receipts from taxes on coffee exports caused a substantial
increase in the current surplus of the Central Government, more than off-
setting unexpected slower growth in some of the country's other major taxes.
8.        Expansion of coffee earnings combined with the shortages of basic
food items led to an unprecedented acceleration of inflation during the
first half of 1977. For the twelve month period ending in June 1977 infla-
tion reached 45%. In an attempt to reduce inflationary pressure the Govern-
ment introduced a number of fiscal and monetary measures aimed at curbing
growth of coffee producers' disposable income, at further strengthening public
finances and at slowing the growth of the monetary aggregates. Legal reserve
requirements were increased, limits were placed on external borrowing, and
Central Bank rediscounts were reduced. The coffee retention tax rate was
doubled from 23% to 46%, and the system of delayed payments to coffee pro-
ducers was used to further limit growth of coffee producers' disposable in-
come.  In order to increase aggregate supply and stem the rapid accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves, import duties were reduced and the import
licensing system was liberalized. In an effort to curb upward pressure on
prices, the authorities temporarily discontinued their policy of periodic
adjustments in the foreign exchange rate and in prices of petroleum products.
The last two measures were only a temporary expedient to break the infla-
tionary spiral. From July 1977, the Government has resumed periodic ex-
change rate adjustments and in January 1978 increased the price of gasoline
by 20%. The Government intends to continue to pursue policies that maintain
Colombia's international competitiveness and that help regain petroleum
self-sufficiency.
9.        Another conflict between short-term and long-term objectives exists
in the Government's interest rate policies. To avoid cost push effects,
nominal interest rates were frozen during the period of accelerating inflation
and real interest rates declined rapidly and became sharply negative. As a
consequence there was a growing unwillingness on the part of the public to
hold medium- and long-term financial assets, and investment funds had to be
increasingly allocated by cumbersome administrative controls. The problem
has become less serious as inflation has abated, but will require further
attention by the Government.



- 4 -
10.       The stabilization measures taken earlier in the year, the gradual
decline of world coffee prices from June 1977 on, and the availability of more
ample agricultural supplies on the domestic market resulting from both improved
weather and increased imports, produced a dramatic slowdown in inflation in
the second half of 1977. For the full year 1977, inflation was reduced to
29%. The Government's contractionary fiscal and monetary policies are
contributing to further declines in the rate of inflation (through end-
April 1978 the annual rate of inflation has declined to 16.5%). Lower inter-
national coffee prices and rapid increases in imports are expected to lessen
inflationary pressures from the external sector. Prospects for this year's
agricultural output appear good; it is expected that in the coming months
the rate of inflation will continue to slow down.
Development Strategy and Prospects
11.       The Government's development strategy, embodied in the 1975-78
development plan, aims at creating the conditions necessary for substantially
increasing employment opportunities, particularly for the poorest segments of
the population. It provides incentives for private sector investment in the
least developed areas of the country and for the use of more labor intensive
production techniques. Public sector investment specified in the Plan concen-
trates on expanding and improving infrastructure and on socially oriented
projects designed to alleviate rural and urban poverty. This includes compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition programs which directly
benefit the lowest income groups of the population. Because of the importance
of commercial agriculture in generating employment and expanding exports,
Colombia's development plan assigns a high priority to providing farmers
with credit and technical services required to increase output. In order
to alleviate urban poverty, the Plan places emphasis on reducing migration
to the cities by increasing employment in agriculture and through provision
of improved services in slums of Colombia's major cities. These efforts
are being complemented by policies and programs to encourage the development
of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry away
from the three largest cities. Special priority is given to the development
of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's growing dependence on
imported oil.
12.       In the past three years substantial progress has been made in
carrying out this strategy despite the economic dislocations occasioned by the
world recession and the need to concentrate on short-term economic mar.agement.
Most of the Government's development efforts during this period have focussed
on improving the standard of living of the poorest 50% of the population, with
a substantial share of the benefits of public sector expenditures accruing to
this segment of the population. Provision of improved social services has
been a major objective of the current administration. This is reflected in
the increase in expenditures on education, health, water and sewerage, which
rose from 33% of total expenditures in 1974 to 37% in 1976. Preliminary
estimates show an even higher share spent on such programs in 1977.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding
deficit which could reach significant proportions by the early 1980s. To
avoid the constraint on growth that shortages of energy would entail, the



- 5 -
Government is giving high priority to the development of alternative energy
sources.  Major projects arie being developed to exlpaJl hLyd-oelectric power
generation and incentives are being provided to pr-'ate companies for accele-
rated exploration and exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon potential.
Coal and natural gas are expected to provide an increasing contribution to
the country's energy needs in the future. An energy development program,
which would nearly triple power generation by 1986, has been drawn up by
the Government, with estimated investment requirem-te.Ls of between US$6.0 and
US$8.0 billion in constant 1976 prices. Given the long gestation periods
of power projects, their execution must be initiated without delay if energy
constraints on future growth are to be avoided.
14.       The Government is making a major effort to accelerate growth of the
agricultural and industrial sectors. In the past, Colombia has been largely
self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs. However, an increasing food deficit is
projected for the years ahead in the absence of major advances in food pro-
duction. The Government is attempting to meet these needs through integrated
rural development programs directed towards small farmers, through expanded
farm credit, research, extension and marketing facilities and through improved
farm management practices, including farm investment planning. Industry has
been singled out as the leading growth sector for the future and the Government
has adopted exchange rate, fiscal incentive, credit aLlocation, and locational
policies intended to assure that the sector fulfills its role as a major con-
tributor to employment growth and exports.
15.       Given its strong resource base and its high level of international
reserves, Colombia should be able to sustain annual real growth of no less than
6% over the period 1978-82. Private sector investment is expected to recover
as inflation subsides and fiscal and monetary policies are eased. Public
sector investment is expected to increase as restraints on such spending are
lifted and major energy projects enter the executio-a stage. Non-inflationary
increases in public sector investment spending depend Lo a large degree on
continuing Government efforts to maintain high levels of public sector savings.
In this regard, timely and adequate adjustment of tariffs on public services
is especially important, and the Government has already gone a long way in
the adoption of such policiLes.
16.       Less buoyant terms of trade as world coffee prices decline from
the high 1977 level and rapidly increasing imports to meet the requirements
of expanding investment are expected to lead to a rencwed widening of the
resource balance beginning in 1978. Assuming that economic growth accele-
rates in the industrialized countries and that appropriate incentives--
particularly continuation of periodic exchange rate adjustments--are provided,
nontraditional exports should resume the high rate of growth achieved in
the early 1970s. Colombia is projected to require gross capital inflows of
about US$3.7 billion during the five year period 1978-82.  This inflow would
enable Colombia to maintain an adequate level of foreign exchange reserves
during the period. A significant increase in capital requirements is expected
in the early 1980s when major additional projects in the energy sector will
have to be initiated. To iachieve these Itargets, aLnnual gross capital inflow
will have to increase from US$600 million io 1976 to over US$1.0 billion in



- 6 -
1982. While about half of Colombia's capital inflow is expected to be
provided by official multilateral and bilateral sources, financing from
commercial sources is expected to become increasingly important during the
period as Colombia gains greater access to international capital markets.
17.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.4 billion exclud-
ing undisbursed commitments. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was
28.5% and is expected to decline to about 25% by 1982. Although the public
debt service ratio fell during the past two years as export growth accelerated,
this ratio is projected to increase from 9.5% in 1976 to about 11% by 1982.
Balance of payments prospects beyond 1980 will depend among other factors on
the timely development of domestic energy sources and on progress made in
executing several natural resource-based export oriented projects currently
under preparation. As a developing country, it is normal to expect Colombia
to be a net capital importer, i.e. to have a deficit in its balance of payments
on current account. However, to avoid an excessive growth in this deficit over
the next few years, careful management of internal demand will be required.
Given such management, it should be possible to prevent the external sector
from again becoming a constraint on economic growth, and to maintain Colombia's
present creditworthiness for external borrowing of substantial amounts on
conventional terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
18.       The proposed loan, the 75th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,878.2 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,165.5 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made effective
investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises
and now holds US$19.0 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1978. The
Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 23 on-going projects.
19.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
carried social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricultural
loans have been made since then, eight of the eleven loans for industry, all
three loans in the education sector, all seven loans for water supply and
sewerage, one loan for a nutrition project and one loan for an urban develop-
ment project. This compares with only nine loans since FY68 in the power and
transport sectors.
20.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY77 consisted of loans for rural devel-
opment, agricultural credit, telecommunications, highways and small-scale
industry, totalling US$281 million equivalent. In addition to the proposed
seventh DFC project, the FY78 program includes the recently approved loans
for nutrition improvement, water supply and sewerage, urban development,



- 7 -
power generation and transmission, and the Cartagena export processing zone.
Work is also underway on prcjects for further urban development, water supply
and sewerage, power, transportation, mining, small farm development and
agricultural credit for land reform beneficiaries for possible consideration
by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
21.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy,
a substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
would also attempt to assist: the development of coal mines, which hold poten-
tial in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in divers-
ifying its exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help mobilize
additional external financing as some of the projects would require co-financing.
Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to assist the
Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment,
and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives
would be the proposed Bank Lending for transport infrastructure which aims at
integrating more backward areas of the country into the modern economy. In
this context, work is underway on a project to improve domestic airports.
Finally, a relatively large number of loans in support of the Government's
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population are under prepara-
tion. The recently approved urban development, and water supply and sewerage
projects, as well as the proposed urban, water supply and agriculture projects,
are principally designed to improve the poor's standard of living.
22.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education,
water supply, and land erosion; in the future IDB proposes to assist Colombia
in its plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity
of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID has
supported programs in educaition, urban development and small farm development.
More recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly at improving
the distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid program in
Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition loan.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN COLOMBIA
Industrial Growth
23.       In Colombia, industry contributes about one-fifth to the gross
domestic product, employs about the same proportion of the labor force, and
produces about one-fourth of merchandise exports. Industry is a growth
sector that has been largely responsible for the country's transition from
a self-contained agricultural economy to an urban society intertwined with



- 8 -
the outside world. Adequate natural resources, human skills available at
a reasonable cost, entrepreneurial initiative and Government policies have
all contributed to industrial progress.
24.       Industrialization started after World War II with the aim of import
substitution. By 1967, domestic production supplied the local market with
most consumer goods, about two-thirds of intermediate products and well over
one-half of capital goods. From then on, the Government adopted a set of more
consistent policy measures to promote exports of industrial products, with a
view to lessening the country's dependence on external earnings from coffee.
Some of these measures refined the incentives existing previously, like tax
rebates and duty exemption for inputs imported for use in export products;
but the most important and successful policy measure was the introduction of
frequent adjustments of the exchange rate, by virtue of which the pace of
peso depreciation fully reflected differences between domestic and foreign
price increases.
25.       The results were spectacular.  Investment in industry rose rapidly.
Between 1968 and 1974, value added in the industrial sector grew at 8.6%
per annum. Manufactured exports expanded from US$40 million to nearly US$390
million and, in 1974, earned the country more foreign exchange than coffee.
The relative importance of the main subsectors - consumer goods, intermediate
products and capital goods - did not change much; consumer goods continued to
make up over one-half of the output. However, shifts occurred within the sub-
sectors. Textiles and garments increased at the expense of food and beverages;
chemicals and non-metallic minerals, both important exports, expanded rapidly;
and mechanical machinery developed strongly from a relatively low base. The
export promotion policy was accompanied by a gradual reduction in protective
tariffs. During the 1968-74 period, effective protection averaged about 30%
and at that level the manufacturing sector demonstrated reasonable capacity to
compete. The exceptions were some older industries, like passenger car assembly
and certain electrical and household appliances, which remained highly protected,
continued to produce on a small scale and were not internationally competitive.
26.       In 1975 and 1976, industrial exports suffered from the world recession.
They were also affected by a substantial reduction in the tax rebates for
exporters prompted by budgetary considerations. The Government tried to
offset the effect of the latter measure by providing exporters with credit on
more generous terms. The Government also moved the exchange rate more rapidly
in 1975 but made lesser adjustments in 1976 to counteract the monetary effects
of further accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, arising from the coffee
boom, and encouraged imports by reducing tariffs and other obstacles to trade.
The sharp drop in exports in 1975 and the consequent slowing down of the rate
of industrial investment did not unduly affect manufacturing output. Some of
the dynamism was lost but domestic demand fired by the high price of coffee
replaced the sluggish export sales; and the lull in investment led to a rapid
utilization of spare capacity.



-9-
Decentralization Policy
27.       Because of the country's difficult topography, several regional
markets have evolved in Colombia. Consequently, industrial activities are
more decentralized than elsewhere in Latin America. Nevertheless, the three
largest urban agglomerations, Bogota, Medellin, and Cali account for 60% of
value added in manufacturing and 64% of industrial employment. The rapid
growth of these major cities has raised problems of congestion and strained
the capacity of public utilities and urban infrastructure.
28.       Faced with these problems, in 1975 the Government launched a decen-
tralization policy aiming at promoting industrial growth in the secondary
urban centers. Direct foreign investment in new enterprises was prohibited
in Bogota, Medellin and Cali; access to credit was facilitated for firms
established outside these cities; and steps were taken to upgrade the infra-
structure in the secondary centers. The Bank has supported this policy
by helping to finance telecommunications, water supply systems and other
municipal services. In addition, under the sixth DFC loan and again under
the proposed loan, several features have been included to support industrial
decentralization projects.
Employment in Industry
29.       Between 1968 and 1974, employment in manufacturing expanded from
about 700,000 to about I million. The rapid growth was largely the result
of increased employment in labor intensive subsectors, such as textiles,
garments, footwear and mechanical engineering, all leading components of the
export drive. In 1975-76, manufacturing employment increased more slowly;
however, the ratio between output and employment growth remained approxi-
mately the same, indicating that the employment generating capacity of the
sector has not deteriorated.
30.       Compared to many other Latin American countries, industrial wages
in Colombia are fairly low. Some comparative advantage in labor costs may
have been lost recently because of the slower adjustments in the exchange rate
but Colombia still remains highly competitive in the Latin American context.
While non-wage benefits have increased over time and practically caught up
with wages proper, total labor costs per unit of output in manufacturing have
not risen in real terms in the past few years.
Industrial Finance
31.       Colombia has a relatively well developed financial system, charac-
terized by institutional specialization. It consists of a variety of financial
entities, including commercial banks, public development banks, DFCs, agri-
cultural and mortgage banks, savings and loan corporations, and mutual funds.
In June 1977, commercial banks accounted for about 45% of total credit, and
savings and loan corporations, together with public development banks and the
DFCs, for another 35% irn roughly equal parts. In lending to industry, the



- 10 -
commercial banks and the DFCs may supplement their funds by rediscounting
loans to medium-size and small enterprises with the Industrial Finance Fund
and loans to the larger enterprises with the Private Investment Fund. Both
these rediscounting facilities are operated by Banco de la Republica.
32.       Until 1974, the Government exercised a high degree of control over
the financial system, influencing the amount of credit accruing to its various
specialized segments. Agriculture, housing and the public sector were generally
favored to the disadvantage of industry and commerce. Different interest rate
ceilings were imposed on different transactions and the right to issue tax
exempt or indexed debt instruments granted to one or another category of
institutions.  This distorted the distribution of funds within the system
and led to the development of an active extra-bank market. The Government
which assumed office in August 1974 took steps to reduce the extent of controls.
Interest rates were gradually raised and rate differentials reduced. Tax
exemption and monetary correction features were restricted, to bring yields
into better balance with competing instruments and thus encourage trading in
private corporate securities. Subsequently, in 1975, the DFCs were authorized
to engage in short-term operations, issuing 90-day certificates of deposit
and relending the funds to meet working capital needs of industry. These
reforms stimulated the growth of financial savings, largely removed discrimina-
tion among various categories of institutions and instruments, and - with
inflation declining - brought about positive interest rates in real terms.
33.       In the past 10-15 years, Colombian industry had to rely increasingly
on borrowed funds to finance fixed assets and working capital. Equity finan-
cing declined steadily. Depreciation allowances continued to be based on
historical costs and have not reflected replacement values, which have risen
rapidly with inflation; the tax system did not fully distinguish between real
and inflation related profits; and retained earnings have shrunk owing to
the tendency of many companies to pay out a high proportion of profits as
dividends, to compensate shareholders for the effects of inflation. Moreover,
the behavior of industrial stocks on the Bogota and Medellin stock exchanges
provided no inducement to finance investment through new share issues. By
1975, industrial investment was financed to the extent of 65% by borrowing,
to the extent of 30% by depreciation reserves and retained earnings, and to
the extent of about 5% by increases in share capital.
34.       Between 1974 and 1977, the proportion of credit made available to
industry by the financial system expanded from 20% to 26% of the total.
Commercial banks presently account for about 62% of credit outstanding to
industry but the bulk of their lending is short term. Public development
banks and the DFCs supply about 36% of industrial credit, four-fifths of
it in medium- and long-term loans; they are the leading lenders for invest-
ment in plant and equipment. The three public development banks, the
Industrial Development Institute, the Corporacion Financiera Popular and
the Corporacion Financiera de Fomento Agropecuario, are responsible for
about 40% of lending to industry by all development banks. The 18 private
DFCs handle about 60% of the total. Other sources of investment funds are
foreign suppliers' credits and the extra-bank market, where short-term
money may cost 3-4% per month.



- 11 -
The Outlook for Industrial Investment
35.       With strong internal demand and the recovery of Colombia's export
markets, prospects for industrial expansion appear promising. The recent
decline in manufacturing investment, and the consequent utilization of spare
capacity, call for new investment to support additional production. To ensure
the rate of growth, regarded as necessary, capital expenditure on fixed
assets in the order of US$] billion equivalent per annum would be required in
1978-80. The DFCs participating in the Bank's loans for industrial develop-
ment are likely to be called upon to finance approximately the same 10% to
12% of fixed investment in manufacturing as in the recent past. This would
imply borrowing an amount of US$100-120 million equivalent per annum during
1978-80, or about US$300 million over the next two and a half years. The
proposed loan of US$100 miLlion would represent one-third of this amount.
Bank Role in the IndustriaL Sector
36.       The Bank has extended financial assistance to Colombian industry
for 15 years now. In 1963, it made a loan to Acerias Paz del Rio for a
steel mill project. In the same year, it cooperated in the setting up
within Banco de la Republica of the Private Investment Fund, which attracted
financial support for industrial development from several members of the
Consultative Group for Colombia. In the 10 years from May 1966 to March
1976, the Bank made six loans, totalling US$242.5 million, to Banco de la
Republica for industrial investment by the DFCs. These loans were charac-
terized by rapid commitment and smooth disbursement, evidencing both strong
demand and efficient utilization. Meanwhile, in June 1972, the Bank granted
to Colombia a US$60 million development program and export expansion loan, of
which US$20 million was allocated to a large number of financial institutions
(including the DFCs) for on-lending to agricultural and industrial enterprises
engaged in producing minor exports. In January 1975 and September 1977, the
Bank lent US$5.5 million and US$15 million, respectively, to Banco de la
Republica for CF Popular to finance the establishment, expansion, renovation
and relocation of small privately-owned industries. Finally, a loan of
US$15 million for the Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone project
was recently approved by the Executive Directors. Its purpose is to expand
and diversify exports, as well as foster employment in one of the very poor
regions of the country.
37.       Through these operations, the Bank has made a contribution to the
expansion of the industrial sector of the Colombian economy. However, indus-
trial growth was not the only objective of Bank lending. The Bank has given
support to the Government"s efforts to promote and diversify Colombia's
manufacturing exports, and to spread the benefits of industrialization to the
secondary urban centers throughout the country. In doing so, it aims increas-
ingly at stimulating the establishment of medium-size and small privately-
owned enterprises in the depressed regions of Colombia and at creating new
employment opportunities iEor the poorer segments of the population.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       The proposed loan would be the seventh made for industrial develop-
ment in Colombia, with private development finance companies (DFCs) as inter-
mediaries. It would raise the Bank's total lending for this purpose to US$342.5
million and would further stress certain features gradually introduced with
the last three loans.
39.       The first of the DFC loans dates back to 1966.  It was made to
Banco de la Republica, the central bank, for the use of the five original
DFCs established in five major urban agglomerations between 1959 and 1964,
with the aim of providing long-term capital to private industry. While Banco
de la Republica was the Borrower, the Bank reserved for itself the approval
and supervision of subloans made to the industrial enterprises and maintained
a close working relationship with the DFCs.
40.       In 1971, on the occasion of the fourth DFC loan, the Government
proposed that the number of beneficiaries be expanded, so as to promote
industrial growth in regions other than those where the original DFCs were
operating. The Bank was receptive to the proposal, which coincided with the
recommendation of the first operations evaluation mission to Colombia that
the Bank should encourage a wider distribution of the loan proceeds, 1/ but
decided that it would only be feasible if the Borrower would assume at least
a part of the administrative burden: reviewing project appraisals, approving
the subloans, and supervising the operations of the newly participating DFCs.
This change in the role of Banco de la Republica took effect when the fifth
loan was made in 1973, with the proceeds being available to seven DFCs.
41.       Further changes followed in 1976 and shaped the nature of the sixth
loan. Economic issues, like export performance and employment opportunities,
were emphasized. The institution building efforts shifted from the DFCs to
Banco de la Republica. Export and decentralization projects and projects
sponsored by medium-size enterprises, were designated for preferential treat-
ment. Incentives were also introduced for technological improvement of produc-
tion processes. The number of participating DFCs was raised to eight.
42.       In September 1977, Banco de la Republica approached the Bank for a
further loan to assist the DFCs in the private sector in meeting the foreign
exchange costs of productive industrial projects. An appraisal was carried
out in Colombia in November/December 1977 and negotiations took place in
Washington in May 1978 with a delegation headed by His Excellency Virgilio
Barco Vargas, Ambassador of Colombia to the United States. The delegation
comprised Mr. Antonio Gutierrez, representing Banco de la Republica, and the
Presidents of the five original DFCs. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
1/   OED report entitled "Bank Operations in Colombia, An Evaluation" (Report
No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972.



- 13 -
43.       The present approach to lending for industrial credit programs
reflects the suggestions made in OED performance audit reports of October 1974
and October 1977 on the first four DFC loans. Broader industrial and financial
sector issues are being emphasized. The Bank is supporting Government policies
of expanding industrial exports to lessen Colombia's dependence on coffee and
relax further the foreign exchange constraint; and Government endeavors to
raise employment in the smaller urban centers by assisting in the establishment
and expansion of private medium-size and small industries. The Bank is further
striving to ensure that the DFCs are provided with adequate domestic resources
for medium- and long-term lending for industrial plant and equipment, and is
beginning to engage in a dialogue with the Government on possible capital
market reforms that might favor investment in industry. The institutional
aspects of DFC projects, which deeply concerned the Bank in making its early
loans, are presently of somewhat lesser relative importance; and the institution-
building efforts now focus on the Department of Development Credit of Banco de
la Republica, rather than on the original five DFCs directly. At the same time,
more DFCs may be brought into the system.
Objectives
44.       Building on the results of the sixth DFC loan, the proposed loan
is designed to: first, help finance projects fitting into the framework
of the Government's export: promotion and regional decentralization policies,
and with respect to other projects give preference to those put forward
by medium-size and small enterprises; second, strengthen the capacity of Banco
de la Republica to review projects and exercise supervision over the activities
of the newly participating DFCs; and, third, support the DFCs as sound long-
and medium-term lending institutions, capable of securing additional share
capital and debt resources to finance industrial investment. The proposed
loan would assist the Government's efforts of promoting labor intensive
projects (the Government defines as "labor intensive," projects with an
investment cost per job not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent) and projects
sponsored by "open companies" (i.e. companies in which 30% of share capital
is in the hands of shareholders holding each no more than 2% of the shares).
The objective of employment creation is implicit in the preference given to
projects put forward by medium-size and small enterprises; and many export-
oriented enterprises borrowing the proceeds of the proposed loan would be
"open companies." At least 200 industrial projects are expected to receive
financing under the proposed loan.
Project Components and Relending Terms
45.       About US$85 million of the proposed loan would be used by the
participating DFCs for providing privately-owned industrial enterprises with
long-term loans to meet the foreign exchange cost of productive projects in
the subsectors of manufacturing, agro-industry, mining and tourism. As under
the sixth loan, and in accordance with the objectives of the proposed loan,
special attention would be given to export 1/ and decentralization 2/ projects,
1/   Export projects are defined as generating net foreign exchange earnings
within five years of starting operations.
2/   Decentralization projects are those located outside of Bogota, Medellin
and Cali, and their zones of influence.



- 14 -
and preferential treatment would be extended to medium-size and small enter-
prises, whose total assets did not, as of December 31, 1977, exceed Col$150
million. 1/ Enterprises presenting export or decentralization projects for
financing would qualify for peso denominated loans at 25% interest, irrespec-
tive of the amount of their total assets. The peso loan option would also be
available for other productive projects sponsored by the smaller enterprises.
On the other hand, the larger companies would have to borrow with a dollar
clause at 10-3/4% interest, and assume the peso/dollar exchange risk, in order
to finance projects outside the export and decentralization categories.
46.       The proposed loan would seek to improve the distribution of indus-
trial credit through a set of ceilings on the use of Bank funds, namely:
US$4 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan for any group of related
enterprises; and US$4 million in the aggregate of the proceeds of the proposed
loan and the previous loans for any group of related enterprises, with the
exception of companies presenting export or decentralization projects where
the ceiling would be US$8 million.
47.       Up to US$10 million of the proposed loan would be used by the DFCs
to make minority equity investments in industrial enterprises undertaking
export or decentralization projects, and in medium-size enterprises carrying
out all types of investment projects. This use of Bank funds would go some
way towards strengthening the capital structure of selected industrial firms.
For 10-15 years now, Colombian industry has found it very difficult to attract
share capital because real profits were declining in an inflationary environ-
ment. (An equity financing component of US$5 million has already been included
in the sixth DFC loan; about one half of it has been used by two companies
sponsoring important projects in the depressed northern coastal region.) Funds
for minority e'quity investments would be relent to the DFCs in pesos with
grace periods longer than those for subloans and at interest rates varying
from 20% to 22% 2/, taking into account economic merit and project risks as
assessed by Banco de la Republica. Equity investments in any single enterprise,
or group of related enterprises, would not exceed US$2 million equivalent in
the aggregate of the proceeds of the proposed loan and the sixth DFC loan.
48.       The use of Bank funds for equity investments would be in line with
the recent resolution of Colombia's Monetary Board requiring the DFCs to hold
at least 10% of their assets in the shares of new or reorganized companies.
In this context, the Bank has been informed by the Monetary Board that it
would consider extending beyond October 31, 1978 the present time limit for
compliance with the resolution for those DFCs participating in the proposed
loan which have not yet met the 10% target. A longer period for compliance
1/   Approximately equivalent as of December 1977 to Col$100 million under
the sixth loan.
2/   Additional loan amounts used for equity investments would carry standard
subloan terms.



- 15 -
with the resolution would ensure a more complete appraisal of the companies,
in which the equity funds would be invested, and a better assessment of their
earning prospects.
49.       Up to US$5 million of the proposed loan would be used to finance tech-
nology improvement and pollution control projects. (Technology improvement was
introduced in the sixth loan as an experimental component; by the end of 1977,
US$1.4 million had been used for industrial quality control and laboratory test
equipment, and for transfers of relatively advanced technology, for 15 projects
producing mainly chemicals and basic metals.) A promotional effort will be made
to encourage investment in technological improvements, which would contribute
to making Colombian exports more competitive in foreign markets. Subloans would
be in pesos, at 20% interest, for a maximum term of five years. They would be
subject to a limit of US$250,000 per project. Pollution control equipment was
included in the technology component of the sixth loan during the commitment
period. Under the proposed loan, the preferential interest rate of 20% would
be applied to subloans for control of pollution caused by machinery and equip-
ment installed before the end of 1977; these subloans would have a maximum term
of 10 years. In new projects, pollution control equipment would be financed as
part of the investment and at an interest rate of 25%. No more than US$500,000
per enterprise would be used for pollution control at preferential rates.
50.       Under the proposed loan, the limit for subloans not requiring the
Bank's prior approval (the "'free limit") would be as follows: (i) US$1.5 million
equivalent for projects submLitted by the five original DFCs, which participated
in the Bank's loans since 1966; (ii) US$500,000 for projects appraised by the
two DFCs which were added under the fifth and sixth loans; (iii) US$250,000 for
projects presented by the DFC, which participated for the first time in the
sixth loan on a limited basiLs, and by any new beneficiary; and, (iv) US$500,000
for all projects involving equity investment. However, Banco de la Republica
would ask for the Bank's prior approval for the first two projects presented
by each newly participating DFC. Technology improvement and pollution control
projects would not call for prior approval by the Bank which, however, would
monitor the use of funds.
51.                       Summary of Re-lending Terms
---------- Interest (%) ---------   Maximum Terms (Years) 1/
Purpose:                  Dollar Funds       Peso Funds        Maturity    Grace 2/
To Sub-            To Sub-
To DFC borrower To DFC borrower
Sub-loans                 8       10.75    21-22 3/   25          15          3
Equity Investments        -           -    20-22   not appl.    15            5
Technology Improvements  -            -       16       20          5          2
Pollution Control         -           -      16        20         10          2
1/   Repayment terms are idLentical for sub-borrowers and DFCs, except in
case of equity investments.
2/   Included in maturity.
3/   21% for decentralization projects and 22% for projects located in
Bogota, Medellin and Cali, and their zones of influence.



- 16 -
The interest rate spread accruing to the DFCs on peso subloans would be
4% for decentralization projects and 3% for projects located in Bogota,
Medellin and Cali, and their zones of influence. As about 40% of the
amount of the loan is expected to be applied to decentralization projects,
these spreads should favorably influence the profitability of the DFCs,
which has declined in the inflation climate of the past few years. Under
the sixth DFC loan, about 80% of the proceeds were committed with a spread
of 3%.
52.       Present estimates of the rate of inflation in Colombia in the
next 2-3 years (i.e. during the commitment period of the proposed loan)
point to a gradual decline. The end of the boom in coffee prices, strict
control over the money supply and plentiful food supplies resulted in checking
price increases in the latter part of 1977. In the first four months of
1978, prices rose at an annual rate of 16.5%, and although the price rise for
the full year will probably exceed this rate due to seasonal factors, infla-
tion is likely to remain below 23%. Subsequently, inflation is expected to
decline gradually to about 18% in 1980. Based on these estimates, the real
interest rate would amount to about 2% on subloans for which funds were
committed in 1978 and would be higher on subsequent commitments. Neverthe-
less, as such estimates are inevitably conjectural, to ensure the maintenance
of positive real rates of interest during the commitment period of the loan,
the draft Loan Agreement provides for a review of the interest rates on
subloans denominated in pesos. This review would be carried out with the
Guarantor, the Borrower and the beneficiaries twelve months after the signing
of the proposed loan or upon the commitment of 40% of the loan amount for peso
subloans, whichever occurs earlier (Section 3.04(b)(xiii) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Moreover, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Banco de la
Republica and the participating DFCs would require that, in the event of
inflation accelerating beyond 23% per annum, measured on the basis of a six-
month moving average, the DFCs refrain from making further commitments out
of the proceeds of the loan until an appropriate interest rate has been agreed
to between the Government, the Bank and Banco de la Republica (Section 3.04(b)
(xii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Procurement would conform with standard practice under DFC loans.
The DFCs require their clients to obtain quotations from a reasonable sample
of qualified suppliers for major items of equipment. Banco de la Republica
monitors closely the purchases made under its loans, in order to ensure that
the items are reasonably priced and appropriate for their intended purpose.
54.       The loan proceeds would be disbursed for:  (i) the total foreign
exchange cost of imported goods; (ii) the c.i.f. cost of imported goods
purchased off-the-shelf, or 60% of expenditures for such goods whenever the
c.i.f. cost cannot be ascertained; (iii) 35% of ex-factory price of locally
produced equipment and of construction costs; and, (iv) 75% of expenditure on
technology improvement. The above percentages reflect average foreign exchange
costs determined mainly by a review of past DFC loans to Colombia and are in
line with comparable figures elsewhere. The proposed loan is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982.



- 17 -
The Role of the Borrower
55.       The proposed loan calls for consistent strengthening of Banco de la
Republica supervision over the DFCs participating in the Bank's loans. The
functions of Banco de la Republica in the context of Bank lending for the DFCs
have become much more substantial during the past five years. In the first
four loans, Banco de la Republica played a rather limited role: it channeled
the loan proceeds to the five participating DFCs and screened the projects to
make sure that they conformed to the Government's development priorities. The
original five Corporaciones Financieras: Colombiana, Nacional, de Caldas,
del Valle and del Norte, all counting the IFC among their shareholders, had
conducted their operations under close Bank Group supervision and have gradually
achieved satisfactory standards of project appraisal and follow-up, and of
operational decision making.
56.       As additional DFCs joined the program in the fifth loan, the func-
tion of guiding and assisting them became the responsibility of Banco de
la Republica. Furthermore, Banco de la Republica assumed responsibility for
the review and approval of all projects appraised by the new DFCs and of the
large projects submitted by the original five DFCs. In future, Banco de la
Republica is expected to be even more intimately associated with the affairs
of the participating DFCs, helping the new DFCs that join the program to up-
grade their appraisal and supervision capabilities as well as their disburse-
ment procedures.
57.       Development banking activities of Banco de la Republica are
entrusted to its Department of Development Credit (DDC). DDC administers
the official lines of medium- and long-term credit available primarily to
agriculture and industry, including Bank DFC loans. In the past five years,
DDC has achieved satisfactory proficiency in reviewing industrial projects
appraised by the DFCs, owing in part to a Bank-supported training program,
and has assigned to this task competent staff in adequate numbers. However,
the rapid transfer and promotion of high-ranking personnel in charge of
supervision of the DFCs has affected the performance. During the negotia-
tions, the Bank was informed that Banco de la Republica had set up a unit
within DDC, exclusively concerned with the supervision of DFC activities
(Section 4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank has also agreed
with Banco de la Republica on a revised statement of operating policies and
procedures to be followed by DDC in discharging the responsibilities of
Banco de la Republica in the context of the proposed loan. A draft of that
statement is annexed to the Staff Appraisal Report.
The Participating DFCs
58.       Eight DFCs wouldl be the beneficiaries of the proposed loan from
the start and additional ones may join during the commitment period. Of the
eight, the five in which 1FC is a shareholder have participated in the Colombian
DFC loans from the beginniLng of the program in 1966; two, CF de Occidente and
CF de Santander, were full participants under the fifth and sixth loans; and
the eighth, CF Aliadas, became an intermediary under the sixth loan on a
limited basis. The seven DFCs are located in seven regions of Colombia, marked
by differences in natural resources, human skills, and business tradition.
The eighth, CF Aliadas, was established three years ago in Medellin, where CF
Nacional has been in existence since 1960.



- 18 -
59.       The eight DFCs, which would participate from the start in the
proposed loan, are predominantly Colombian-owned. The shares of the five
original participants are relatively widely held, with the exception of
one in which the National Coffee Federation holds the majority of stock;
the three more recent participants are more closely held. To check any
tendency of some majority shareholders to channel resources of some new DFCs
primarily to other companies which they control, total financial exposure
in any group of related companies would be limited under the proposed loan
to 50% of the equity of each DFC.  This would complement the 25% exposure
limit per enterprise, contained in the policy statements of all DFCs.
60.       The DFCs have capable and experienced management and staff.  Some
recent changes in top positions are not expected to affect significantly
the effectiveness of operation, with the exception of CF de Occidente, where
changes in senior management have been frequent and may have affected the
quality of operational decisions. Banco de la Republica has reviewed the
situation and its conclusions have been embodied in a "plan of action".
Sufficient progress in carrying out the plan of action would be a condition
of loan effectiveness for CF de Occidente (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
61.       In order to contribute to the most efficient use of scarce resources,
the Bank has consistently encouraged the DFCs to improve their project appraisal.
In appraising projects, the DFCs aim at ensuring technical, financial and
economic viability. Under the sixth loan, economic rate of return calculations
based on "border prices" were required for all projects calling for subloans in
excess of US$250,000; this requirement would be continued under the proposed
loan. Project appraisals prepared by the original five DFCs are soundly based
and thorough. Technical and economic evaluation has been strengthened;
marketing analysis has improved but remains relatively weaker. Project execu-
tion is being supervised effectively, particularly in the case of projects
financed by the Bank and Banco de la Republica. The quality of appraisals
and supervision carried out by the three newer DFCs is not yet fully satis-
factory and calls for close review and upgrading by Banco de la Republica.
62.       At the end of September 1977, the seven full participants in the
Bank's sixth loan held loan portfolios totalling about US$300 million equiva-
lent. This amount represented about 25% of credit outstanding to industry
by the financial system (excluding extra-bank lending).  About 80% of the
total had benefitted manufacturing, and the rest mining, agro-industry and
service industries; and distributed by region, about 75% had gone to enter-
prises located in and around Bogota, Medellin and Cali.  Short-term loans
accounted for 27% of the total, a three-fold increase in less than three
years. Investment in equity has proceeded slowly and cautiously because of
the risks involved, the difficulty of selling shares in Colombia's thin stock
market and the long gestation period for new enterprises.
63.       Between December 1974 and September 1977, the composite debt/equity
ratio of the seven DFCs rose from 4.3:1 to 5.6:1. This trend is likely to
continue because of the difficulties experienced by the DFCs in securing
additional share capital. Nevertheless, with the exception of CF de Occi-
dente, the DFCs still have the capacity to assume additional debt while



- 19 -
maintaining adequate debt service ratios and have stayed within their debt/
equity limits set under the sixth loan, which also provided for a second
limit for short-term operations authorized in 1975. The two debt/equity
limits would be consolidated into a single limit under the proposed loan and
supplemented by a current assets/equity ratio which focuses on operations
rather than resources. This would facilitate the efforts of the DFCs to
mobilize short-term resources that might be used for medium-term lending,
provided an appropriate terms transformation mechanism is devised (paras
67-69). The consolidated debt/equity ratios would be set at 9:1 for the
original five DFCs, at 7:1 for CF de Santander and del Occidente, and at up to
6:1 (depending on the recommendation of Banco de la Republica) for CF Aliadas
and any new participants. The current assets/equity ratio would be a uniform
4.5:1 for all DFCs; it would ensure that the DFCs remain principally term
lending institutions.
64.       On the whole, the loan and equity portfolios of the eight DFCs are
sound. Overall arrears have remained at acceptable levels and only small
write-offs are foreseen.
65.       In addition to the eight previous participants, there are ten
privately controlled DFCs in Colombia. Some of them have the potential to
become effective development banks and may qualify for participation on a
limited basis, i.e. with access to US$2 million each of the proceeds of the
proposed loan, if they are financially sound and are prepared to engage in
an institution-building process designed to develop their capabilities as
project financing institutions. Some might later join as full participants,
if they are willing and able to comply with the Bank's normal institutional
standards as regards project appraisal and supervision. The Bank is interested
in encouraging participation of additional DFCs to maximize the diversifica-
tion of beneficiaries among regions and enterprises. While eight of the ten
recently established DFCs operate in Bogota, Cali and the Medellin area, two
were set up in parts of the country where there are no other DFCs and where
economic activities could be diversified through their intervention.
66.       The fact that only three additional DFCs became participants in
the past five years can be ascribed to several reasons. Not all DFCs have
achieved the financial strength necessary to qualify even on a limited
basis. The 4:1 debt/equity limit was considered to be low by potential
participants. The relatively small allocation of US$750,000 for each DFC
joining on a limited basis was not very attractive. Moreover, Banco de la
Republica needed time to itrain and assign adequate staff to provide
assistance and supervision to the new DFCs. It would seem, however, that
the most important deterrient to participation was the authority given to
the DFCs in 1975 to engage in short-term borrowing and lending to help
industry meet its working capital requirements. The new DFCs found that
they could expand rapidly on the basis of these short-term transactions,
which were also quite profitable. Consequently, they had little incentive
to develop the staff and expertise needed to satisfy the criteria of Banco
de la Republica and the Bank for participation in longer term credit lines.
Nevertheless, the proposed substantial increase in the allocation of the
loan proceeds and the much higher debt/equity limit allowed, may provide a
meaningful inducement to participate in the proposed loan.



- 20 -
Mobilization of Local Funds
67.       As was the case in the context of the sixth DFC loan, each DFC
participating in the proposed loan would commit itself in a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with Banco de la Republica to make all reasonable efforts to secure
locally, through debt instruments, share capital and retained earnings, on
an annual basis, resources equivalent to the part of the net loan proceeds
disbursed by it (Section 3.04(b)(ix)A of the draft Loan Agreement). An
interim target for the mobilization of local funds by all participating DFCs
between June 30, 1978 and December 31, 1979 has been set at Col$1.5 billion
(Section 3.04(b)(ix)B of the draft Loan Agreement). These provisions of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements would be supported by a commitment of the
Government to make all reasonable efforts to enable the DFCs to raise in the
domestic capital markets, and in foreign capital markets, funds appropriate
for medium- and long-term industrial financing.
68.       While the DFCs were successful in meeting resource mobilization
targets under the sixth loan, it will not be easy in the near future to raise
significant amounts of local funds with maturities long enough to finance
fixed assets. The proportion of total resources of the seven participating
DFCs (excluding CF Aliadas) mobilized locally through debt instruments
increased from 10% in December 1974 to 21% in September 1977, but this was
mainly due to the rapid expansion of short-term borrowing since 1975. The
supply of medium- and long-term funds to the DFCs did not expand in real
terms. The main obstacles were the uncertainty created by a flare-up of
inflation in 1976/77 and a structure of interest rates insufficient to cover
the risk of holding medium- and long-term debt obligations. During the same
period, total equity of the seven DFCs increased in nominal terms, principally
through retained earnings and reinvestment of dividends by shareholders, but
declined as a percentage of total resources. While the DFCs had to maintain
high dividend pay-out ratios in order to qualify for tax exemption on their
own dividend earnings, they were unable to attract significant amounts of
fresh share capital due to low real profits. The measures being undertaken
under the proposed loan to increase their profitability and the projected
decline in the rate of inflation over the next few years should improve the
DFCs prospects for mobilizing more substantial share capital resources in
the future.
69.       In view of the limited prospects for raising adequate medium- and
long-term funds in the domestic capital market, the Bank has assisted the
DFCs in carrying out a study exploring various possibilities of securing
medium- and long-term resources. The study centered on liquidity mechanisms
to enable the DFCs to use a proportion of their short-term funds in medium-
term lending to industry, on methods of raising long-term funds from the
public, and on related reforms encouraging the development of a more effec-
tive capital market. Its findings and recommendations will shortly be
presented to Banco de la Republica for consideration. The progress made by
the DFCs in raising domestic resources, and the mechanism for use of these
resources in medium- and long-term lending to industrial enterprises, would
be reviewed and analyzed by the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower at the
time (specified in para. 52) of the review of the interest rates on subloans
denominated in pesos (Section 3.04(b)(ix) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
Simultaneously, the parties would analyze the progress made in resolving
any remaining problems asscociated with the 1972/73 issue by the five original
DFCs of medium-term bonds, of which a part is presently held by a support
fund administered by Banco de la Republica.
Co-financing
70.       The proposed loan could serve as a catalyst to help the DFCs borrow
additional external long-term resources required for industrial investment
(see para 35) from foreign commercial banks on better terms than might be
possible otherwise. It would also provide a good opportunity for introducing
the DFCs, particularly the more mature ones, to the international capital
market; the five original D)FCS are currently exploring possible co-financing
arrangements for a private loan of about US$20 million. Should a co-financing
materialize, we would return to the Executive Directors with full details
regarding the proposed private loan and appropriate recommendations for
amendments to the Bank's Loan Agreement.
Benefits and Risks of the Project
71.       The proposed loan is expected to help finance some 200 industrial
projects, thereby increasing employment and output, particularly of exports.
Based on the experience with past DFC operations in Colombia, these projects
should result in about 13,000 additional direct jobs, 1/ with an indirect
employment impact in the order of 50% of the direct one; and they are ex-
pected to generate exports in the order of US$150 million annually. It is
probable that about 40% of the loan proceeds would be applied to decentrali-
zation projects and about 30% would benefit medium-size and smaller enterprises.
The economic rate of return on most projects is expected to be in the range of
15-40%. The proposed loan would also help up-grade the competitiveness of
Colombian exports through technological improvements and help reduce pollution
caused by existing industrial plant and equipment. In addition, the loan
should bring about institutional improvements in the work of the Department
of Development Credit of Banco de la Republica and should help the DFCs to
increase their resources and profitability.
72.       The proposed project, as designed, does not involve unusual risks in
achieving its major objectives. If - contrary to expectations - the rate of
inflation were to accelerate again, the arrangements for a review of interest
rates on peso subloans should act as a safeguard for maintaining the real
interest rate and in this way reduce the possibility of resource misallocation.
The experience of the participating DFCs in meeting resource mobilization
targets under the sixth loan, and the efforts now being made in this respect,
make a short-fall in local funds less probable and, therefore, the proceeds of
the loan should be committed/disbursed as expected.
1/  At an estimated cost per job of about US$27,000.  The cost per job created
under the first four DFC loans had been estimated at the time of project
appraisal by the DFCs to average US$25,000. Figures computed after project
completion and start of operations indicated a higher direct employment
impact, with the cost per job averaging about US$14,000 under these loans.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco de la Republica,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
74.       The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for DFC
projects. Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. After the normal conditions of effectiveness regarding the Borrower and
the Guarantor are fulfilled, the Loan Agreement would become effective with
respect to each DFC upon fulfillment of the conditions affecting such DFC,
independently of the status of the conditions affecting the participation of
the remaining DFCs. The Loan Agreement would, however, become effective in
respect of CF de Occidente only after it has demonstrated that it has made
sufficient progress in the execution of its "plan of action" (see para 60).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 2, 1978



- 23 -                                                              AE 
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   -----------------------------------------------
TOTAL      1138.9---                             COLOMBIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1238.9                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      224.8                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE            TURKEY          BRAZIL         MEXICOt*
_- -- -_- -- -- -- -_- -- - ---    -_- -- - --_  -- - -- _- ----  -- - ___-_- ----- -_-_- _-- -- -- ---
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      210.0      350.0      640.0                500.0       5S0.0       690.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             15.4       20.6       24.2                35.6         92.8        50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         14.0       18a0       21.0                46.0         11.0        26.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          71.o.      93.0      108.0                65.0        49.0         52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           46.1       44.3       40.6                40.6         38.4        43.8
CRUDE nEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            14.7       11.0        8.S                14.4          9.9        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         100.0 /a    70.0/a        .               15320/a    110.0          66.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         54.' -    58.5 -    60.9                  54.4        59.4         62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2        3.2        3.1                  2.6/b,C    2.6          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   2.9        2.9        2,8                 2.5          2.9         3.5
URBAN                                   6.0/b      5.5/b      4.9                 4.9/d        5.0         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            53.0/c    60.3        70.0/a               38.7        56.0        56.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         46.15/c    46.6       44.1                41.7        42.0         46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                         so.4/      50.4       52.7                54.0        55.0         50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                       3.0/t      3.0        3.2                 4.3          3.0         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1 ./c       1.0        0.9                 0.9         0.8         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 l .13 /E    1.S/c      1.6//b              1,1/e       1.5         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            0.5      306.9      955.1                           250.0         55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               .V ..               31,0                 S.2          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           5100.0/c  6200.0    6800.0              14000.0/f  29400.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRIC:LTURE (%)           47.0/-7   39.0           ,,               63.4         40.4        45.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             B.O/d e   7.0        10.2/c               11.5 /       7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_ _ -----  -          --_ -- _ _
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              41.2/c f 31.9/d    27.2                   32.8 /h    35.0/a        27.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              67.7 c    60.1/i   54.4                   So.6 /h    62.0/a        58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               2.1        3.5/i      5.2                 2.9 /jh      3           3
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               6.8/      10S  /.     14.3                9 4         100,       10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_ _   _    _   _    _   _    _   _   ---_ _ ---_ - _--
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                ..         ,       80.0,                39.0 /i    45.0         37.1
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS              .0. ,,                .2                 0.7 /i      1.5          0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               2400.0    2110.0    2100.0/d              2250.0       1910.0      1480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          3520.0/j       ..    1450.0/i             1770.0 /i  3220.0/b   1620.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             560.0      430.0      470.0                500.0       260.0       960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -                               2          4.0                                        105.0
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)           94.0       920        94.                 112.0       109.
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                50,,0      51.0       47.0                78.0         64.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           28 0/h    29.0/e    24.0                  22.0 /k    39.0          28.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              16.3        8.4          ..                14.7 /1       *           9.B
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         77.0       98.0      105.0                109.0        87.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       12.0       23.0       36.0                 28.0          ,         22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               11.0       13.0       11.0                 11.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                       31,0/i   21.0         17.0 d4.0                        17.0        24.D
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                     ..      73.0        74,/d.              ss,0 /Tn    64.0         76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    ..         ,,         .,                 1.9          1.0         2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED                                                                             66.0        73.0/C      61.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I  OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  47.0/C       ,,          ..               40.0         48.0        59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                      13.0//c                                   18.0         8.0        28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          139.0      105.0       117.0                89.0        60.0        276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             7.0       11.0        15.0                 4.0        25.0         24.0
ELECTRICITY  (KWH/YR PER CAP)           244.0/e   414.0        599.0               247.0       491.0        567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 2.4         2.7        2.1                 0.7          2.7         3.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITtINS ON REVERSE



-24- ~~~~~~~~NEX I
Page 2 of 4
Onions otherwise ..t.d. dAte for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 betwee 1969 end 1971. and for most Recent zstiAts bet-a
1973 edI 176.
*   ffcaletinete  booed onh-seatos   be  crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0. a-erage crude birth rate for 1961-70 on 36.0 end for 1971-76
0531.1O.
00Meic- h.. beeo selected asa  objective country because. Colombia i- now in the stage of economic development that Mexico  -s  is ten years ago.
Both uacria ai   t GNa 09?  rcth rate ef about 7 percent and at a substantial reduction of -nemployment.
COL~OMBIA     1960    Ia  Registered only;    /b  1951-64;           /e  1964;    Id  Bogota only;    1.  1963;    /f   csmcay  ctive population;
/g  1965;    /h  19617-63;    /i  Total secondary, 1iclud.e tec..her tr.i.ing at the third level1;    /.j  water piped maid..
1970    /a  fate based Os burial permits;    lb  19 4- 70;    Ic  Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 end ovr to total labor force;
/d  Eccnialyative population;    I.  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE,    Ia  1977;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total 1obor force;                  /c  March 1977, .r.ecge
unemployment rate in seven largest cities;    /d  1972.
n'iy   1970    Is  1967;    /b  Exclude 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    1.  Ratio of population under 1  end 65 and
over to labor iS years and over;    If  15 years and -ovr, excluides employed;    /IL RegiStered only:    /b  Di.po...hle
incom       Ii  Agricultural land, ignoring lsndless households;    /jt  Including ...sistent nurses and sidvir-.;
/bS  1964-66;    /I  1967-68;    I.  Perso.a si. years and over who tell tbe census takers that they can read and writ..
IRZIL         197      /s  Eccosoically active population;    lb  Hospit.1 p.reonos1;    Ic  Inside only.
~TfXliO       1970    /a  Including assistant nurses;    /b  1964-66:    /c  Inside only.
R13. May 9. 1978
DUDs!TOU OF 9007.6L mpICA7,M
[a-d   2r7tbuI1                                                                                 Potpul:tion  net oornis  pr0s   - Popolatice  divided by .-abor ofp-    ccc
Tnocal -        _oalocfuctacacO-prsinf.  land ares end iland .testrs.                             nil  and femal  graduste nuse,t-risd' or "cr-tified"  -oes.ad
A4ic. - Must c.eet esticoste of agricsuluthl ores u-ad tampor-ily or Pen---                      usili.ry peronnel with tr.iniog or esperiasco.
-ctly for crops, Pastures, nrket & bitches gardens ot to lie fellow.                          Ppseltion vr h-seital bed - Popoletiou divided by n,b.r of htoeplol beds
-avilsbls is public and private e...r-1 and specie1isd hospital cod
iNP_per capita  U7719   - iNS' pot capita estiates at currant earkat prices,                      rahabilitstion centers; exclde   orsing hon-  and etabltshe--t  for
c-iculatd by cane c_vrolo  nethod as Wforld Rank Atias (1974-76 besis);                         c.stodial end preventive tars.
1960; 1930 sod 1976 data.                                                                    Per c.pita supely ofc       Cria(. of  egirenet.  - tompstsd moo  -nrcy
eqiaetof est fodspla          vilebl. in country Per cepita Per day;
pouubo    ital statistics                                                                 eveilable supplies tempriss domes.tic production, inports les. esporte. .od
pyltc    id-year nillm )- As of July first:  if not av.ilabl., ev.rag.                     changesi  stock; nt supplies sacludssia  feed, seeds, q-atities  -oed
of two ed-year o tints  1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                          in food processing end lasses in distribution; requtreses.ts wore etinutd
by FAO based on phyiologice1 seeds for norml ectiviry and healtb c-ond-
P.culation  deonit  -oreueho- Mid-yea  population per squses kilost.r                             sting sn-irooita1 temperature, body weights, age end sen dietttb,,tto-  of
(iibctru   f total ares.                                                                population,  Ad allowing 107. for sant  eat houshold 1e-1.
popultiondeostv  -per  uwar  hotof ar10.land- Computed as above for               Ie aiaspl   f protei                     etdr    Prteto contest of pox c.pit.
arioclrcrsl land only.                                                 ~~~~~set sppyofodara; ly of fy offoo  isdefIned on obov; require-
.gri.,dmr.   A.   on Y.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ metsfor all countrlas established by 1110 Etunomir R-ssrth Services
'fits1  niuttetlte                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~Provide for a  iaimi  allo anc  of 60 Sreas of itotl protein per day, ond
Crude   irth  rte  pertbowad.  -veru   - Aonul live births par thousand of                  20 gras  of a.sixl and ple protein, of which 10 gras  should ha -ci-I
nidync poplatio t ceny..r ritiintic  overegs. endIng in 1960 sad 1970,                    protaia.; these standard. are lowe  thee those of 75 grass of total pr-tin
aod ftoc-er oy-trsg ending in 1973 for met recan.t estimate,                                    and 23 grass of animal protein .. an evorag. for the nwrld, prop-ud by PAO
Cruds  doth  rateper thouand.  o,rse  - Aenuel death. per thousand of aid-yest           in ths Third World Food Survey.
popoutin;  oo-eararilnstic averag.s ending in 1960 end 1970 and fin-                  Per ..Pit. Protein  supply from  sninal sod  culen - Pr-teic supply of f-ud
post uerags  cding  n 1975for nost recent entisats.                                     derived from  animals and pulses is grass per day.
lofct   ortlit  roe  jthou)  A- dul deaths of infants under one year of age               Death rats  f/thou)  age  1-4 - SAsnual deaths Per thousand in age group 1-4
pec  housnd lve  irths.                                                                   years, to children in this age grou.P; saggetadasn indicator of
Lifo   xpectncy_t_birth__yre)  A-Avregs n,uer. of yaors of life renaming at                   maln-trition.
birth; u-uoly f iv0-year evrf neding in 1960, 1979 end 1973 for develp-
ici co-trist.                                                                                EducAtion
boos  reroductio   ruSe -  veroOs    .,no  of lice daughters a w-  il  oa              Ajutd  en..olment  ratio  -Fenr    col     nolsto  eIes   np
inba  nralreroutio   ero   i  se  set-enesprset  gs-specific                              ctgeoprmnschoo-geppulaUtio; iocludes children aged 6-11 years
f rtility ratms; u-usly five-yea  vonragee ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1975                        hut adjonted for diffmeret lengths of primary eduction; for  -oetrins wtth
for dev-loping conre,uiversal ed..atim, esoLlfot may exceed 100  siocssom  poplin axe be.ow
poplto    rwhrt   7)-ttl-  opudsoe   rwhttso   i-year                                             or shove the official school age.
pupolatloc for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adjusted  soroll-at ratio  - oncondaty  school - Cunputed a. oh ev; ocx odar
popuatio   croth  rte  7.)-ubn-  Computed liko growth rate of  .tota                       education requires at least four ye.ar  of approvd primary inst-utio-;
poplatioc; different definitions of urban areas may affect .tpaprahilityofpviegnsa,oatnlorechrriigisruinsoruis
du t. o - onoooutcle.                                                                           of 12 to 17 ysers of age; correspondence cour-s a-  generally  -nclded.
Iiha    opltion  (7 of total    Ra tio af urban to total population ; different           leerO of school ing provided  (first and second  level s) - Total years of
deficiti-t  of urban areas may affect  omparability of data among countries,                    schooling; at as ..andry Lamol, voca-----tioa  intrution may ho porcia1ly o
uAM s1t-uctur 1srsnt   Children (0-14 years), wnehia-ag  (13-4 years),                          Va= =ima   e      =elmet  (K of  secemirri - Veesgioml institution   lerle
and rcirsd(65 yars  od evr) as percsstagaa af mid-year pi4otioa.                          technical, industrial or ahris p-raeses  +I.hn operate indpepad-tlyora
ifo  deetleoy  rstu    gtfo of population under 15 end 65 and evr ta those                 departaent  of secondary i-stitutions.
of agea 15 through 64.                                               ~~~~~~~~Adultt1literacy  r.te  M  - literats edult  (able to reed sod wria) 55 p-r
Econcsi. d.pende-oY  ratio - gRtl  of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to                       cna gs of totel adult population aged 15 years and ove..
cho labor force in age group of 13-64 years.
Pacly   iutg - acceptors  1csultive  th.uI - cuasalTi  nueher of acce ptors                Rusn
oFil birt-conrol dvcsudrupieofntioa  fas ily planning program                                  Pesnpet roo  (urban) - Average  -bshr of pnrnons per room is ocupied
since boception.                                                                   conven~i ft"tiona  dwellings in urban areas; dwelligs  xld  non-per-atec
Coolly .. doning-  usrs  P7 fmrie    o)- aPrcet.ges of married women of                          strucue   nduocpidprs
chil-boaiog  ge  15-44 yer)wh     bsirth-nt-1ra  devices to .ll  maried                 OouldAeelnawthot  pie    ae   75-Occupied  --tnnc-Is dwslllogs
coo   nun   ge group.                                                                  is urban and -rura  .-as without inside or autaid. piped wat-r f-cliti..
en per-stage of all oc;pi*d  Iwelling.
loplopooct                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access  to  electri ciy   fto   I  duelies  -~ Convectional  dwnllix4s with
Lr2cal lih-x force  (thousad   Economically active persos, including aend                         electricity in ljivig qustars  as percent of total dvsllin io            erbacend
fo_c_  urd  _oniplyad hut . xlding heuasel-vs, students, ste.; definitions                     oualaras
in vaiou  contis .r nut casp-beri.                                                           Rural dwelling   connected  to .1wxricity  (7. - tonput.d aso sho    for r.rs1
Labor forc_in agriculture (._     - Agricultural labor force (In famning, forestry,               dwellings only.
h-cti.g acd fishing) as percentage of tot.1 labor force.
" oclopd_(7 of_leor_for)   U- opIoyed.ers usualy defined as perso-  who                       Consonption
aroabl  and  ilng tokab  a Job, ont of s b on a given day, resaised out                      Radio  receivers  (per thou pop)     l   ye   froiesfrrdobodsr
of I )ob. and aekn  wobforasecfe              saon     perlod not exceeding one                 to gene re1 public per thousand of population; ...udes unlicensedreivs
wea; ayout becoparable hsrws    cunries dus to different definitions                            in -utri.. and in years when r-gistration of radio ..ts wa  in effect;
of -coployed and source o  data, e.., ploymet office statistics, snaP1.dt   o   eetyasma   o   ecmaal   icees   onrp    bia
ou-cy,  opulaury uneeploynent insurance.                                                   icass log.
P,see:ngr cars (per thou pop) - Passenger oar conprise notor cars seating
l,,-nedistribution - Per ...tage ef private incom   fbotb is cash and kind)                       lasLha  eight persons  socludes -bul...... hostess  cd nilitary
received by richest 57., riChest 207., poorest 207., and poorest 497. of housse-               ve-hicles.
boIdc.                                                                                        :lctric.it dbkh/yr per .api - Aosual consoptius of idene,cmri
pubIc  n  private elocricity in kilowait hours per capita, geo.. -l1y
ObotrbutiO    uf  and  onershp -  erceoagesof lend owned by weathiest 107.            base.d un production. data, without alwcefor louses in gride but allo-
Nsiewerint  (ho/or per c.p) -ProPi ta anua            ,-neuPtbo  in kiogr.
icul c, -cd Nlutritb                                                                              .atinstad from domestic productios pie _cot ixport  of  -cprint.
puplo~i00cr   hyaois  -Populanion divided by n..hr of praticing
pbyiceoequlifedfrm a medical school at univrsity level.



*25-
AonKR I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECOtD980C DRVU.P1M3  DATA
(I. millions of USO dollar.)
Actual                       Estiated            rrs doa.                   AvAs ulGothRtsh  Perceot of GOP
1967-69198                                                                   1             ak:                     77   9882         17          197         92
Averge      1974         1975        1976         19??         17772                       (97-9-4          174          96-2        17           97         18
NATIONAL AGCCOTTS                                            1976 Prica. aad hEhanee Rata.
Gros  DoeticProdut                          9,785      14,262      14.893       15,565       16,406        17,406       22.079              6.5            5.0         6.1      100.0       100.0      100.0
Cains ftr   Terms of Tr-ds  +                -751        -405         -455        -             608            264        .105                                                    2.8         3.7        0.5
Gross Domestic Iuc-.t                       T,7U       1-3,959    1r4,436       15.,565      MMD          -17.670      2-2.181              7.-4          -Th          .0       97.2       1U37        TW-5
Imtport  (In-l. SF5)                       1,491        2,506       2,152        2,319        2,939         5.365        4,496              7.5           16.9         7.5       16.2        17.9       20.4
Exprts          (Import Capacity)         149         266          g2297       2.892        3 3071         3,199       4236.2.5                                      73        15          2.3         92
ReouceIp                                 72          240        -145         -574                        166          259               --                        -          1.7       -3.4         1.2
Consumption Esp-nditcre                    7,445       10,977      11,663       11,012      12,955         15,816       17,223              6.5            5.4         5.7       76.3        79.0       78.0
Gun-etm.ct       '    (tuck  Stocks)       1,661        3,222       2,630        3.179        3.497         4,020        5,21?             11.7           15.3         6.7       22.6        21.3       23.6
Dometic Savings                            1,509        2,902        2,775       3,753       4,059          5,854       .4,958             11.1           20.9         6.5       20.9        24.7       32.5
N.stisnolI Sovisge                         1,665        2,934        2,544       3,531       3.969          3.742        4,776              7.2           24.9         6.3       19.9        24.2       21.6
OlflGAMDIOE TRAD                                             An.Mo! Date at Curret Price                                                                                             A. Percen.t of Total
CepitO1 Goods                              290          525          510         575          724           895       1,455             10.4           19.1        12.9        34.7       30.5       27.5
Int.ermdiate Goods (lotS. Poets            254          815         705          803       1,193          1,475       2.481             21.4           30.0        13.8       53.8        50.3       46.9
Fuels sod Roloted Meterials                   3           6           14          73          153           109          766            12.3              -        41.9         0.4        6.4       14.5
of tlick:  FPut-1.(-..-                                           (14)         (73)       (153)         (189)        (766)              -              -       (41.8)        &-)       (6.4)      (14.5)
CnupinGoods                           61         167          166         214       ...2Q            376       _.591              18.3           35.3       12.0        11.1       12.8        11.2
Total M-brlondias Imports (FOB)            608        1,511       1,393        1,665       2,37935~    5293                             16.4           30.5        13.9      100.0       100.0      100. 0
Primar  Products (Fad1. Poels              418        1.001       1,203        1,776        2,484        2,490        3,971             15.7           43.0        12.4       67.0        80.2       74.9
of which:  Coffee                       (541)        (662)       (672)    (1,516)        (1,753)      (1,360)      (1,431)           (11.7)         (615)   ,(1.3)            -        (56.6)  
Posit oud Reisted Mst-risl                   71          95           f7          87           93            910        173               S.D            3,4       17.7         6.4       -3.0         3.3
of uhith:  Petroleu                      (56)          (4)         (-H-                      -             -           -                 -             -           -        (0.3)        (-)        (-)
Mon-fact-rd G.odo                          117          396         426          515          520           458       116               22.5           10.2        2.         266         16.8       21.8
Totsl M-rhsodi- Enpocts (FOB)              606        1,494       1,717        2,370        3.097         3,030       5.304             16.2          3r4.3        TT        100.0       100.0      108.0
M-hcisdiuc Tr-de Icdi-o
Enport Frito Codes                        21 .3        72.i        74.5        100.0        136.6        120.0        160.0
Import Price ledes                        54.0         90.0        93.0        100.0        107.7        116.5        154.9
Term  of Truds Itdnu                      42.5         004         00.1I       100.0        126.8         111.6       103.3
VALUE ADDED DY SECTOR(aco   Cs)                   Auo Data at ~1974 - Prices end Esthense Rates                                          A-srgm  Annua  Groth Rates                  As Per.tes  of Total
Agricultur                               2,951        3,939       4,161        4,244       4,328         4,450        5.017              4.9             1.7        3.0       29.7        28.4       24.7
Industr.c aed FA.inig                    2,444       4,013        4,007        4,214       4,505         4,023        6,299              8.6            3.0         6.9       30.3        29.5       31.0
Service                                  4,439!       5305        564L         6.028       6.425         6.064        0.990              3.0            6.7         7.0       40.0       42,1        44.3
Tot.1                                    9,834      13,257       13,909       14,482      15,258        16,145       20,313              5.1            4.7         5.9      100.0      100.0       100.0
PUBLIC   PINANCE                                            AnnualI Dot.eto C-rret prices                                                                                             As Percent of COP
(Ceetre1 loc--oect
Correo.t Recipts                         413       1,194        1,402       1,569        2.018        2,220        3,306              19.4          50.0        10.5         9.5      10.0         9.3
Correct Enp-uditur-                      262          640         702          821         919           999       1.633              16.0          14j4        03.1         5.1        4.5        4.6
Dodoctery Escicgs             ~~~~~151     554          700         7    ~     1            iI            .712.                            5-.3       IT          47         C
Otbst Public Socto  S-ciuge              434          1Sf         594          334         410           401         921             -16.2           3.0        17.8         1.2        2.1        2.6
P blIcSector I-cetnet                    412       1,109        1,502       1.496        1,550         1,975       3,453              11.7           5.9        15.0         9.4        7.7        9.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                               1965-7g.   1974-77       1978-82                          ORTAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                    -As % of Total
CIIVETKENT PROGRAM AND0 FINANCING          Ata            lne
(A-erge for Forlud lSo)                                                                                                                                              197546        1977-83
A-eZg  lTifR (Bused cc Fimed Svetm-t)                           3.17        5.77         3.36
Goport El-otfoily                                               1.14        1.83        1.Z5                           Bociol Sectors                               33.5          38.2
M-sginal Domestic Salugs R.tc                                   0.2G        0.54         0.24                          AgrIcultur                                   10.3          12.0
Ss-riu_1 N-tiocu  S-vigs sate                                   0.10c       0.35         0.23                          Industry and MiSsing                          9.5           9.7
______________________________________________________________________________________       Power66.5                                                   99.
Trauspoct aod Coscuiuati...                  20.2         14.8
LASSOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                                  Total Labor Forc                                        Ohe                                          20.1         01.0
Iu mfilli.u.             I% of Totel           Groth Rolatta  Empeudituree                                               100.0         500.0
1964        1973          1964        1973          1964-75
Agri-1ltuc                             2.427       2.057          47.3         30.2          -1.9                        tNC
Ic......y                              0.9Sf       1.212          if. 7        17.0            2.7
Serice                                 1.749       3.542          34.0         520.2                                   Public Sector Soiuge                         42.7          40.5
Total                                  5.134       4.612         100.        100.              3.2                     Oster-l OS-res                               15.1          24.4
Other                                       22.2           6.9
VIsSu  Added  net Worker  (1976  Prices and Enobessne Rates)                   Ture  Piuc..ciJLg                           100.0         100.0
Iu  GO Dollas             C of Averase           lrovlh Rale
1944        1973          1964        1973          1673
Africclcore  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1903             1,5111        '64.4         88,4            5.9
Indoetry                               1,37        2,552         135.2       1486             3.7
Serie1.730                                         1,544         127.3        90,0           -1.2
Tots!                                  1,359       1,717         100.0       IOB.0            2.6



- 26 -
AnNEX 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
SALAnCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(A-ounts In elilon  of US dot1lac-   t turret, pce)
Ac-ual                                           e,it-ated                       Protected
1971         1972          1973         1974          1975           1976           1977         1975          1979         1980          1981          1982
S1WARY 8A1ANCE OF PAYMENTS
oporte  (Intl. NFS)                           972        1.205         1.544         1,861        2,137          2.892          3,711        3,720         4.301        4.903         5 ,687        6,563
Itme     (It ni. NP9                        1.285        1.232         1.422        2.077         2.002          2.316          3_165        3.913         4.551         5.262        6.056         6.964
Reoctc  glelanre (X-K)                       -313          -27           122          -216          135            574            546         -193          -250          -359         -369          -401
Factor Ser-nie                               -169         -191          -203         -173          -243           -293           -209         -256          -331          -386         -426          -468
ProfIt.                                    (-71)        (-70)         (570)         (-55)        (-6B)          (-73)         (-100)       (117)        (-137)       (-164)        (-172)        (-181)
Other                                      (-98)       (-121)        (-133)        (-118)       (-175)         (-220)         (-109)       (-139)        (-194)        (-222)       (-254)        (-287)
Curret Tragef-r  (Net)                         28            28           26            39            28            71            112           125          138           152           167          184
643iiiDC  D4 l AtC -    AI0-nte                           -190           -55          -350          -80            352             f          5R            -443          -593         -628          -685
Prva -e Street Inneetent                       40            17           23            35            35            49             32            39            57           65            74           83
Obblic M&LT Lo.n.
Dleb.ra--et                                 222          354           412           380          383            250            277         4A0            601           783          849           941
-Rgaea tt                                    -92          -96          -132          -211         -134           -150           -181         z195          -215          -255         -295          -339
N., Diebure.nt-                             130          258           2R0           169          249                                        28      5     386           528           554          602
Ohter MLT L. n.
ni.bttreeot 165                                         139            60            5B           76            125                          -            -             -             -            -
-Renoeaate                        48~~~~~~~~-7  -84          -58           -58          -87           -168                                                                          
Rat Ditbore-tte                              66            55            2            -8          -1                            -            -
CapItal Traneatitone no.1.                    216            39          -78            63           -98           176            109
Change in i.t N  eIernee                         2         -179         -172            91           -95          -634           -616
(- . Itcrese.)
GRA1   AND LUXOAN OD#IIT4EllS                                                                                                                                                                   Attl
off0612l oraY     4 greet-like                 -            -             -            -             -              -          DTET AnD M1   T SERVICE                1971         1972        1973         1974        1975          1876
Public 16LT lon                                                                                                                  Outeteodig 6& DLibureed             1,385.6     1,650.0    1,936.0    2,117.4    2,351.2           2 489.2
LBRD                                        153            74          162             a           80             80           Intereet on PublIc DebY                49.2        57.9         78.5       103.7        113.5        125.4
INg-                                                      -                -                                     -             RIPsyment  on                          92.1        959         131.9       211.4        134.7        1340.8
Other Ib.ttlstereI                           42            41            29           64           -              62           Tota l PubNli  Dbt SevI-e             141.2       153.8        210.4       3I5.1        248.2         275.4
lo-rten-e115                                              114           67            55            65           1 32          Other Debt Berries (Net)              133.1       155.1        126.6       118.6        ION .0W60.
SupplIer.                                    35            37           31            45            74            44           Tot 7ebt Servic  (Not)                274.3       308.9        337.0       433.7        356. 2       4635.
Pr,u.et  eatk                                385           84          190            58           163           177
Bde                                         -              6            45           -                           -            urde  on Erpo Epr  E-rning  (%)
Publi L...n -e.i.                           -               8             1            4             1
Coral Ptblit  716LT l.oa.                     378           358           525        '234            391            4             Publi  Debt 4ec8lto                   14.5         12.7        13.6         16.9        11.6           9.5
ToYal Debt Serolce                    28.2         25.6        21.8         23.3        16.7          15.1
Total Debt ServicePt
EoreIgn . Invt  Income              35.3         31.6        26. 5        26.6        19.9          17.6
E7TIT14L PUBLIC DEBT                         Ootat-dioo ot 12/31/76
(Raytbl In Pere-go Ct.rrncy)              Diebure-d only             Percent                                                     A-etge Tore. of P,blIc Dob,
World tank                                   671.6                   27.4
ISA                                           22e3                    0.9                                                          teorae            - 7  ro Yt-e   DO4D  3.9         4.2         4.8          5.3          5.4          5.3
Oche  1tN  aes                                 50.6                   6.5                                                         A-,orieaioo.  7.  Prior teat
Ijovnau n ctme                               935.6                   38.2                                                           DO4D                                  7.14        6.9          0.D        10.9          6.4           6.4
Supp'iter                                    153.4                     7.5
Private R oke                                395.2                   16.1                                                      I6R0  Debt Out. 6& DiSbe -ed            390.0        453.4       504.5        561.7       633.5         671.6
bond-                                         350.4                   2.2                                                      13D ae /. Public Debt 04D                28.2         27.5        26.1         26.5         26.9         27.4
Ptbl1o Dable 5.1.                             32.3                    1.3                                                      ISIDe 7,                 Sonic-          29.4         30.9        28.9         23.6         32.3         25.8
Total Poblic 86LT L.one                    2,449.2                  100.0                                                      IDA  Debt Out. b  Steuteed               19.4         20.9         13.0        22.6         22 .         22.3
IDA as % Public Debt 04D                  1.4         1.3          1.2         1.1          1.0          0.8
1DA Os                 ServIce           7.2          0.3          0.2                      0.2          0 1



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                718.8      23.5 /1   --
680    /1970  Colombia                         Roads              32.0               3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply        2.0                .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillaclo de Bogota     Water Supply       88.0              16.1
849     1972  Instituto Colomibiano de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation          2.2               1.5
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               3.5
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0              16.5
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial
Credit          60.0               2.2
920     1973  Colombia                         Education          21.2              12.3
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales         Railways           25.0                .8
971     1974  Colombia                         Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               4.7
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Credit 5.5                  .4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomeato
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              21.0
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications   15.0                 2.3
1118    1975  Colombia                         Rural Settlement 19.5                13.2
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              19.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica            Industrial
Credit          80.0              47.9
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              50.8
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr. 64.0                64.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de              Communications   60.0                60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica            Industrial
Credit          15.0              15.0
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0     _        25.0
TOTAL                                           1,548.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          354.1       1.5
Total now outstanding                           1,194.5      22.0
Amount sold                         48.8
Of which has been repaid            19.8           29.0     _
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,165.5     22.2
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                   471.4
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
-ear              Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board       0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans       0.70       -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles          1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging        -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing       1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles         5.00   2.60        7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism              -   0.01      0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism          0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism          0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing             -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement           3.60       -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining           6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                          40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           26.56   8.14      34.70
Total commitments now held by IFC                13.75   5.21       18.96
Total undisbursed                                   -     0.03       0.03



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays.  As of this writing, six
sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about 190 km
of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1979. The other compon-
ents of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works is seeking ways of hastening project execution and strengthening the
performance of contractors.
2.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - June 30, 1978
The project was completed and commercially operational in mid-1977,
two years behind schedule, with a cost overrun of about US$86 million (65%).
The delay is mainly attributable to geological problems encountered during
construction of the dam aLnd tunnel. The cost overruns resulted from these
geological problems, from higher than anticipated bids, and local and foreign
inflation.
3.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of June 30, 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Adequate tariff measures recently adopted will enable the utility to utilize
the remainder of the loan proceeds in further works, as originally contemplated.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
4.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
Disbursements up to February 28, 1978, amounted to nearly 80% of this
loan. Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel
is the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily.
5.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. A second
contractor has defaulted and work on the main drainage canal has temporarily
stopped, though a new contract is expected to be signed soon.  Settlement of
farmers within the project areas and the provision of technical assistance
and farm credit have been making inadequate progress. The Government is
carrying out a detailed review of the project in order to find a solution
to these problems.
6.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of February 28, 1978, about 60% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved.
7.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir will be started by mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost of the works at El Penol
and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious financial problems but recently
adopted tariff increases should allow it to overcome them.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
8.   Ln No. 903 Development. Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are expected to
be completed within the next few months.
9. Ln No. 920 Education I[II; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered delays as a result of inadequate budgetary resources of
the Government. The Goverinment is preparing a proposal to cancel a large
portion of the Loan.
10. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1976
current - June 30, 1978
Declines in freight traffic in 1975 and the first six months of
1976 (because of an economic slowdown and lower imports), combined with steep
cost increases, resulted in a deterioration of the railway's financial situa-
tion. Since then, the financial position of the railway has been improving as
a consequence of sharp increases of ton-km of freight traffic, and freight
tariff hikes of about 19% in 1976 and 50% in 1977. Improvements have been
registered in other areas although locomotive availability is severely con-
strained largely because of manufacturer defects in over 40% of 88 relatively
new locomotives. Efforts are underway to resolve this problem but early
resolution is not anticipated. Project works are progressing and a substantial
portion has been completed.
11. Ln No. 971 PreinvestmLent Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Commitments are proceeding at a satisfactory rate. The Bank has
approved 26 sub-projects.
12. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
The loan is ful]Ly committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
13. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities.
14. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily.
15. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Projection execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows.
16. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule.
17. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually fully committed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
18. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Works are now proceeding as scheduled.
19. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
The loan is being committed faster than anticipated. Withdrawal
applications for US$3.1 million equivalent have recently been received.
20. Ln. No. 1450 Telecomnunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
Works are proceeding as scheduled.
21. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
Start up has been delayed as a result of recent changes in
management.
22. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Rehabilitation Program is underway, about three months behind
schedule. Stabilization works are being carried out, with work totalling
US$35.4 million completed; conditions for disbursement of loan funds for
this program are expected to be fulfilled shortly. Implementation of the
maintenance program is in process, about six months behind schedule. Prepara-
tion of studies is proceeding satisfactorily.
23. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Works are proceeding rapidly and coordination among institutions
is effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             Three months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:             Banco de la Republica
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                September 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:           November 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:            November 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                May 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             September 1978
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Special assurances were obtained:
(a) On the terms, on which the proceeds of the loan will be relent
to, and by, the participating DFCs, and on the interest spreads
(Loan and Project Summary and para 51);
(b)  That a review of interest rates on peso subloans will be carried
out on a specified date (para 52);
(c)  That Banco de la Republica had set up and will maintain a special
adequately staffed unit within its Department of Development Credit
to supervise the activities of the DFCs (para 57);
(d) That revised debt/equity limits and a current assets/equity limit
for the participating DFCs will be introduced (para 63);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  That some conditions for the participation of additional DFCs
will be revised (para 63 and 65);
(f)  On a resource mobilization target for each participating DFC
and on a revised interim resource mobilization target for all
participating DFCs (para 67); and
(g) That review of the progress made by the DFCs in raising domestic
resources and of the mechanisms for use of these resources in
medium- and long-term lending to industry would be carried out
on a specified date (para 69).
2.        An additional condition of effectiveness, affecting only the access
of CF de Occidente to the proceeds of the proposed loan, would be that CF de
Occidente demonstrate that it has made sufficient progress in carrying out its
"plan of action" (paras 60 and 74).






____________________________________________                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD-3638R    i
78'                     6                       74                                             7$'>r'K                       OCTOBERI19Yb
IC'                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH AMERICA
8orran4oiUR7&Q~~~~~>fl>
ATLA?9ICC                }            
IC'                                   ~~~~~~~~~MAGDALEN A1LP
-k                                        V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"y  acCet -pts ,, b,  h
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~OT
44
I  'j    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RN      /  CORDOBA                         -'~~~~~ AN   ADRAU 
Q4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4o
~~~~~~j                                                                             jt~~~~~~~~~(BcoooC 
O)                            RISA-RAAE.S IA4             '"      SOYCASANAR2
CUNDINARRA 
Q,                          ly~~~~~~~~rnf  0bgo~  -  ~         t      sA~m'4
V A LLE       J OLIMA
U                                           K~~~~~~~~~~~~~cI
.2              ~~ ~~~M    E    T    A                                      -a
\  C A U C A          HUILA,                                                                     U uA I NIA
N A R I N ~~~~~~~~0                                       V  A  U PEEC
P U T U M A Y 0 "                                                                   .r
N~~
$    -    ~~~~A M A ZON A S                                     L
COLOMBIA                                                                                                       n
tRw**fltt.                                        ~~~~~~~         ~~~P   E   R   U
78'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~4



