RESTRICTED
Roport No. P-413
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report moy
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INIERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONI
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
AND EQUIPMENT PROJECT
December 21, 1964



REPORT AiD REC0;EI'2lEDATION  OF TI2 PRESIDEsNT
TO TI-El EXLECUTIVE D`RRECTCRS ON A PROPOSED
DET'V`BLOP1-1M1T CREDIT TO TIE FEDERML REPUBLIC
OF AIGERIA FOR A SCHOOL CONSTRUCTIONT AND
EQUIP1,P1-IT PROJECT
1.            I subm'it the following report and recommendation  on a proposed
developm,ent credit of $20 million to the Federal Republ-c of Nigeria for school
construction and equipment in Northern, Elastern, I.;estern and Mid-llestern Ni-
geria and the Federal Territory.
PART I - KISTORICAL
2.            Nigeria has not yet received an International Development Associ-
ation (IDA) credit. The Bank has made four loans to \N:geria totalling $153.5
million. The first, made in 1958 before Nigeria became independent, has the
guarantee of the United Kingdom.  The status of these loans at November 30,
1964 ias as follows:
rAmount
equivalent in
Io.               BorrowTer              Purpose        $ million
193 UNI (1958)    Federation of iNigeria      Railways         28.0
326 UNrI (1962)  Nigerian Ports Authorlty  Port extension
and improvements      13.5
372 U1'II (l164)  Electricity Corporation   Electricity
of ;igeria            transmission
lines            30.0
383 UNI (1964)  NIiger Dams Authority       Kainji hydro-
electric project      82.0
153.5
of which has been repaid         3.0
Total now! outstanding         150.5
Amount sold or agreed to be sold    12.5
of which has been repaid           3.0     9.5
A;mount now held by Bank                   141.0
As at November 30, 1964 $117.4 million iwas undisbursed, including $26.6 mil-
lion of loan 372 UTI and the whole of loan 383 UWiI which has not yet become
effective.   The latter loan is expected to become effective shortly when
arrangements are completed for on-lending by the Federal Goverrment to the
Niger Dams Authority of certain external loans already contracted by the
Government for the Kainji project.



- 2 -
3.             There have been in recent years several studies of education in
Nigeria beginning w,ith the Ashby Report or' 1960 which was concerned mainly
with the future needs for high-level manpower.  In Nigeria's National Economic
Development Plan 1962-68 some £70 million ($196 million) was given as the ex-
pecbed capital expenditure on education during the plan period.  In 1962 a
UNESCO Education Investment Programming Nission visited Nigeria, after dis-
cussions with the Association, and prepared a study of education projects and
their state of readiness for financing by external sources. Following the
UNESCO mission, Bank/IDA staff members made two visits to Nigeria in 1963 to
ider,tify and appraise items for a project which could be financed by IDP.
Close cooperation with UNESCO has continued.  A project embracing construc-
tion of secondary, technical and teacher-training schools and equipment in
all Regions and the Federal Territory emerged from the discussions of the
Bank/IDA missions writh the Nigerian Governments.
4.             Under the constitution the Federal Republic alone can borrow
externally, whereas responsibility for education in the Regions rests with each
Region. Accordingly, the following agreements had to be negotiated: (a) a
Development Credit Agreement between the Federal Republic and the Association;
(b)  a Project Agreement betwveen each Region and the Association; and (c) a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic and each Region.
To negotiate these agreements the Federal Government invited IDA and each
Region to send representatives to the Federal capital, Lagos, w,rhere negotia-
tions were held in October 1964. Negotiations have now been completed.
PART II - DESCRIPTIONI OF THE CREDIT
5. Borrower:                        Federal Republic of  ig-eria.
,Amount:                        The equivalent in various currencies of
$20 million.
Purpose:                        To rmeet part of the cost of construction
of seconcary, tecniical and teacher-train-
ing schools and equipment in Northern,
Eastern, Western and HiCd-Wstern Nigeria
and the Federal Territory.
Term and Pmortization:          50 years with no amortization for the
first 10 years. Beginning February 15,
1975 1/2 of 1'% of the principal amount
would be repayable semi-annually for 10
years, and beginnirgFebruary 15, 1985
1-1/2% of the principal amount would be
repayable semi-annually for 30 years.
Service Charge:                 3/4 of 1% on the principal amount of the
credit disbursed and outstanding.
Subsidiary Loan:                Under Subsidiary Loan Agreements the Bor-
rower is to relend to Northern, Eastern,
Western and Niid-W stern Nigeria, on the
same terms as it borrows, the appropriate
parts of the credit for the items of the
project in each of those Regions.



PART III - APP.RISAL OF THE CREDIT
The Project
6.             A report on the project "Appraisal of Educational Project Ni-
geria" (TO-434b) is attached.
7.             The project consists of 192 items of construction:   87 in North-
ern Nigeria, 60 in Eastern, 25 in lWestern, 17 in idd-lWestern and 3 in the Fed-
eral Territory. The number of items of expansion or new construction in each
field is as follows:
Expansion     New Construction
Secondary                        125                 2
Craft and trade                   31                 9
Teacher training                  21                 2
Science center (secondary)                           1
Technical and commercial
examinations center                                1
The project includes also equipment for th-ese schools and institutions.   The
estimated total cost, including consultants fees and allowance for contingen-
cies, is $30 million.   The credit of $20 million is thus expected to meet two-
thirds of the total cost and the rest will be met by the Nigerian Governments.
New construction will accoun-t for about one-third of the total cost; thus
about two-thirds will be for exDansion of existing facilities.
8.             W4ithin the total cost, 60% is for secondary education, 32%
for technical education and 6% for teacher training.   The expansion of second-
ary school facilities includes in many cases science laboratories and tnetal
and wood workshops, so that the rrmain emphasis of the whole project is on
science and technical training. On present estimates the proceeds of the
credit will go to the various Governments in approximately the following
proportions:
Northern            65%
Eastern            13%
Western             10%
Mid-Western          5%
Federal              7%
This distribution reflects the urgency for these educational facilities in
each area as determined by the UHESCO mission and the Bank/IDA appraisal mis-
sion. The large proportion for the NJorth is due to its size (54% of total
population), poverty and lack of schools.
9.             Each Government is responsible for carrying out that part of
the project falling wiithin its jurisdiction. The Governments have undertaken
to use qualified and experienced architects and engineers to assist in car-
rying out the project, and to use contractors acceptable to the Association



for project construction. The Federal Government will employ a firm of con-
sultants acceptable to the Association and to the Regional Governments to
propose criteria and goals for economical school construction, to coordinate
planning and design, to advise on the employment of architects, engineers
and contractors, to supervise bidding and contract procedures and awards,
and to supervise construction and disbursement. The Regional Governments
have agreed to use the services of the firm of consultants for their parts
of the project. Construction of some items of the project will begin shortly
and all items are expected to be completed by the end of 1968.
10.            The project will help to meet the country's growing needs for
secondary school training and to introduce into the system a more practical
bias which is necessary to prepare secondary level children for the employ-
ment channels where they will be most needed. By increasing technical and
craft training facilities it will help to meet the need for skilled manpower.
There is no fear that insufficient pupils will be forthcoming for the ex-
panded schools. Nigerians generally are very eager for education and families
make great efforts and sacrifices to educate their children. Nor need there
be anxiety that teachers will be lacking for the expanded facilities. The
Governrments are agreeing to take al1 necessary steps to maintain a competent
and efficient teaching and administrative staff. However, there is still
considerable dependence on expatriate teachers; the project will help provide
more Nigerian teachers.
The Fconomy
11.            A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Nigeria" (UF-31a) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors
(IDA/R64-41).
12.            Although the average income is low, probably no more than $85
per capita, the Nigerian econory is soundly based and growing in strength.
Resources are good, exports are reasonably diversified and dependence on agri-
culture is diminishing. YNanufacturing industry, although still small, con-
tinues to expand rapidly, and the increase in petroleum production has exceeded
expectations. In the past year or so both output and prices of the major ex-
port crops have improved and there has been an improvement in the rate of
growth of incomes. The country's performance has fallen short of what was
possible because of the continuing decline in government recurrent surpluses
and some failure to adhere to priorities in public capital expenditures.
Additional strains have been imposed by a recent rapid increase in short-term
debt and in the level of wages. The economic prospects, however, have been
enhanced by the probability of a fairly rapid rise in petroleum exports which
should eventually give substantial support to the balance of payments and to
government revenues.
13.            Progress with the six-year National Development Plan has been
slow in the first two years, with expenditures totalling less than 70 per cent
of the planned average rate. There are indications of improved progress in
1964/5. Although the Plan assumed that 50 per cent of public capital programs



would be financed from overseas sources, almost 90 per cent of the finance
for the Plan in 1962/3-1963/4 was provided from domestic sources including
foreign exchange reserves, which have now been seriously depleted, being
equivalent to about four months imports. This large use of domestic resources
was due to the carry-over of projects from the previous plan period, the large
proportion of social, defense and security investment undertaken and the slow
processes necessary to secure external finance. A much larger inflow of ex-
ternal capital is evident in 1964/5 and is expected to continue. Nigeria has
the capacity for greater progress in the next three years than in the first
half of the plan period, but this will require better project preparation,
concentration on priority investment and more determination in the mobiliza-
tion of domestic resources.
14.            Studies of Nigeria's economic prospects have indicated that if
all the external capital that the country could put to fruitful use were made
available on strictly conventional terms, the burden of debt service would be
Greater than the economy could bear.  It would therefore seem appropriate,
after a period of heavy Bank lending in Nigeria, to introduce some blend of
IDA financing. If the proposed credits for education and for roads in North-
ern Nigeria are approved, IDA funds would account for about 19 per cent
in the total Bank/IDA financing provided up to this time.
15.            A further examination of Nigeria's economic policies and
prospects is needed to provide the basis for a judgment regarding future
Bank/IDA operations. In particular, public policies with respect to medium
term borrowings, recurrent expenditure and investment priorities need to be
reviewed. Equally important, further information is needed on the extent
to which petroleum exports are likely to increase and their probable impact
on government revenues and the external accounts. It seems possible that the
increase will be sufficient to permit Nigeria to undertake substantial further
foreign borrowing over the next five years on conventional terms without
creating an undue burden on its economy. Many of these factors should soon
come more clearly into focus, and we are planning to undertake within a few
months a further and deeper study of the Nigerian economy in order to help
determine the magnitude and composition of lending to Nigeria which would
seem justified by the country's prospects and performance.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.            The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Federal
Republic of Nigeria and the Association, copies of which are being circulated
to the Eaecutive Directors separately, provides, in addition to the usual pro-
visions, that no withdrawals may be made from the Credit Account for that part
of the project in a Region until the Borrower and the Region have entered
into an agreement satisfactory to the Association for relending the appropriate
portion of the credit (Sections 2.02, 2.04(a), and 4.02(a)(i)). In addition,
the Credit Agreement provides that, if a Region is in default under its Proj-
ect Agreement with the Association, the Association has the right to premature
that part of the credit wihich has been relent to, and not repaid by, that
Region (Sections 6.01 and 6.02). As an additional condition of effectiveness



-6-
of the Credit Agreement the Borrower must employ a firm of qualified con-
sultants acceptable to the Association and the Regions and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association and the Regions (Sections 7.01
and 4.03).
17.            The draft Project Agreement between each Region and the Associa-
tion; copies of which are being circulated separately, is substantially in the
form used by the Association for projects of this type.
PART V - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.            I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
19.            I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development
credit to the Federal Republic of Nigeria in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000), to mature on and
prior to August 15, 2014, to bear a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per ar.ium, and to be upon other terms and
conditions substantially in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Development Credit Agreemr,ent (Education Project)
between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the
Association which has been presented to this meet-
ing.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment
.Washington, D.C.
December 21, 1964



