CREDIT NUMBER 72 UNI
Project Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
EASTERN NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 1, 1965


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 72 UNI
Project Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
EASTERN NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 1, 1965


﻿AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1965, between
EASTERN NIGERIA and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, which agreement and the
Schedule and the Development Credit Regulations therein
referred to are hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement, the Association has agreed to make to the
Borrower a credit in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, part of
which or the equivalent thereof is to be relent to the region
of Eastern Nigeria, but only on condition that Eastern
Nigeria agrees to undertake certain obligations to the
Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS Eastern Nigeria, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake obligations as herein-
after provided;
Now THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the Regulations
(as so defined) shall have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of Eastern Nigeria
SECTION 2.01.  (a) Eastern Nigeria shall carry out, or
cause to be carried out, Part B of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, administrative and financial practices and shall cause
the schools included in Part B to be operated so as to pro-
mote the educational objectives of Eastern Nigeria.
(b) Eastern Nigeria shall cause the physical plant and
equipment of the said schools to be adequately maintained
and shall cause from time to time all necessary renewals
and repairs to be made thereto.
(c) In connection with Part B of the Project, Eastern
Nigeria shall use the services of the firm of consultants
employed by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement. The terms of reference
of the firm of consultants with respect to Part B of the
Project shall be agreed between the Borrower, Eastern
Nigeria and the Association.
(d) To assist it in carrying out Part B of the Project,
Eastern Nigeria shall employ or cause to be employed
qualified and experienced architects and engineers (in
addition to the firm of consultants referred to in Section
2.01 (c) of this Agreement).
(e) Eastern Nigeria shall furnish, or cause to be fur-
nished, to the Association for its approval promptly upon
their preparation the designs, specifications, contracts and
work schedules for the construction of Part B of the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(f) Except as Eastern Nigeria and the Association shall
otherwise agree, Eastern Nigeria shall cause construction
of Part B of the Project to be carried out by contractors


﻿5
acceptable to the Association and employed under contracts
satisfactory to the Association.
(g) Eastern Nigeria shall: (i) cause to be maintained
records adequate to identify the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in Part
B of the Project, to record the progress of Part B of the
Project (including the cost thereof) ; (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to inspect Part B of the
Project, the goods and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning (in respect of Part B of the Project)
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project,
the goods and the operations, administration and financial
condition of the schools included in Part B of the Project.
SECTION 2.02. Eastern Nigeria shall at all times make,
or cause to be made, available promptly as needed all funds
and other resources required for the carrying out of Part
B of the Project and for the operation of the schools in-
cluded therein.
SECTION 2.03.  (a) Eastern Nigeria and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
(b) Eastern Nigeria and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. Eastern Nigeria
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the per-
formance by Eastern Nigeria of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿6
SECTION 2.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween Eastern Nigeria and the Association, Eastern
Nigeria shall insure or cause to be insured with responsible
insurers the imported goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit in respect of Part B of the Project against
risks incident to their purchase, their delivery into its
territory, where appropriate, and their transportation to
the appropriate site in the Project. Such insurance shall
be consistent with sound business practices and shall be
payable in the currency in which the cost of the goods
insured thereunder shall be payable or in a currency freely
convertible into such currency.
SECTION 2.05. Except as Eastern Nigeria and the
Association shall otherwise agree: (a) Eastern Nigeria
shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in respect of Part B of the Project to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
and (b) the methods and procedures for procuring all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of
Part B of the Project shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. (a) This Project Agreement shall come
into force and effect on the Effective Date.
(b) If, pursuant to Section 8.04 of the Regulations, the
Association shall terminate the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Association shall promptly notify Eastern
Nigeria thereof and upon the giving of such notice, this
Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties here-
under shall forthwith cease and determine.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all


﻿7
the obligations of Eastern Nigeria and of the Association
shall terminate if and when:
(a) the entire principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid or caused to be repaid by the Borrower (or
shall have been cancelled) together with service charges
which shall have accrued on the Credit; or
(b) Eastern Nigeria shall have repaid to the Borrower
the entire amount owed by Eastern Nigeria to the Borrower
in accordance with the agreement referred to under Section
4.02 (a) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous
SECTION 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power, or remedy accruing to either
party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair
any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a
waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall
the action of such party in respect of any default, or any
acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other
or subsequent default.
SECTION 4.02. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For Eastern Nigeria:
Honourable Minister of Education
Ministry of Education
Enugu, Eastern Nigeria
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Permeducation
Enugu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Eastern
Nigeria may be taken or executed by the Minister of
Finance of Eastern Nigeria or such person or persons as
he shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Project Agreement to be signed in their


﻿9
respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
EASTERN NIGERIA
By /s/ S. 0. ADEBO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ G. M. WILSON
Vice President


