CREDIT NUMBER 72 UNI
Project Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
WESTERN NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 1, 1965


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 72 UNI
Project Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
WESTERN NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 1, 1965


﻿Projert Agire~rntu
AGREEMENT, dated Mlarch 1, 1965, between
WESTERN NIGERIA and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT Asso-
CIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, which agreement and the
Schedule and the Development Credit Regulations therein
referred to are hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement, the Association has agreed to make to the
Borrower a credit in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
part of which or the equivalent thereof is to be relent to
the region of Western Nigeria, but only on condition that
Western Nigeria agrees to undertake certain obligations
to the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS Western Nigeria, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake obligations as herein-
after provided;
Now THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Regu-
lations (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of Western Nigeria
SECTION 2.01. (a) Western Nigeria shall carry out, or
cause to be carried out, Part C of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
administrative and financial practices and shall cause the
schools included in Part C to be operated so as to promote
the educational objectives of Western Nigeria.
(b) Western Nigeria shall cause the physical plant and
equipment of the said schools to be adequately maintained
and shall cause from time to time all necessary renewals
and repairs to be made thereto.
(c) In connection with Part C of the Project, Western
Nigeria shall use the services of the firm of consultants
employed by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement. The terms of reference
of the firm of consultants with respect to Part C of the
Project shall be agreed between the Borrower, Western
Nigeria and the Association.
(d) To assist it in carrying out Part C of the Project,
Western Nigeria shall employ or cause to be employed
qualified and experienced architects and engineers (in
addition to the firm of consultants referred to in Section
2.01 (c) of this Agreement).
(e) Western Nigeria shall furnish, or cause to be fur-
nished, to the Association for its approval promptly upon
their preparation the designs, specifications, contracts and
work schedules for the construction of Part C of the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(f) Except as Western Nigeria and the Association shall
otherwise agree, Western Nigeria shall cause construction
of Part C of the Project to be carried out by contractors


﻿5
acceptable to the Association and employed under con-
tracts satisfactory to the Association.
(g) Western Nigeria shall: (i) cause to be maintained
records adequate to identify the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in Part
C of the Project, to record the progress of Part C of the
Project (including the cost thereof); (ii) enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to inspect Part C of the Project,
the goods and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning (in respect of Part C of the Project)
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project,
the goods and the operations, administration and financial
condition of the schools included in Part C of the Project.
SECTION 2.02. Western Nigeria shall at all times make,
or cause to be made, available promptly as needed all
funds and other resources required for the carrying out
of Part C of the Project and for the operation of the
schools included therein.
SECTION 2.03. (a) Western Nigeria and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit.
(b) Western Nigeria and the Association shall from
time to time exchange views through their representatives
with regard to matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof. Western
Nigeria shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the


﻿6
performance by We stern Nigeria of its obligations under
this AgreemerAl:-
SECTION 2.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween Western Nigeria and the Association, Western
Nigeria shall insure or cause to be insured with respon-
sible insurers the imported goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit in respect of Part C of the Project
against risks incident to their purchase, their delivery into
its territory, where appropriate, and their transportation
to the appropriate site in the Project. Such insurance shall
be consistent with sound business practices and shall be
payable in the currency in which the cost of the goods
insured thereunder shall be payable or in a currency freely
convertible into such currency.
SECTION 2.05. Except as Western Nigeria and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree: (a) Western Nigeria shall
cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in respect of Part C of the Project to be used exclusively
in the carrying out of Part C of the Project; and (b) the
methods and procedures for procuring all goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of Part C of
the Project shall be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. (a) This Project Agreement shall come
into force and effect on the Effective Date.
(b) If, pursuant to Section 8.04 of the Regulations, the
Association shall terminate the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Association shall promptly notify Western
Nigeria thereof and upon the giving of such notice, this
Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties here-
under shall forthwith cease and determine.


﻿7
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all
the obligations of Western Nigeria and of the Association
shall terminate if and when:
(a) the entire principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid or caused to be repaid by the Borrower (or
shall have been cancelled) together with service charges
which shall have accrued on the Credit; or
(b) Western Nigeria shall have repaid to the Borrower
the entire amount owed by Western Nigeria to the Bor-
rower in accordance with the agreement referred to under
Section 4.02 (a) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous
SECTION 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power, or remedy accruing to either
party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair
any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a
waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor
shall the action of such party in respect of any default, or
any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or
subsequent default.
SECTION 4.02. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given
or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request.


﻿8
The addresses so specified are:
For Western Nigeria:
Secretary
The Treasury
Ibadan, Nigeria
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Permfin
Ibadan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement on behalf of Western Nigeria
may be taken or executed by the Minister of Finance of
Western Nigeria or such person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Project Agreement to be signed in their respec-


﻿9
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
WESTERN NIGERIA
By /s/ S. 0. ADEBO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ G. M. WILSON
Vice President


