 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14758

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




      1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/27/2015

              Country: Lao People's Democratic Republic
            Project ID: P114609                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Catalytic Fund Efa/fti  Project Costs (US$M):                          49.6                 42.5

  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      30.0                28.26
      Sector Board:      Education                   Cofinancing (US$M):                      19.6                14.26

          Cofinanciers: AusAID                       Board Approval Date :                                  07/20/2010
                                                              Closing Date:              08/31/2013         08/31/2014
          Sector(s):     Primary education (60%); Sub-national government administration (10%); General public
                         administration sector (10%); General education sector (10%); Pre-primary education (10%)
         Theme(s):       Education for all (50%); Administrative and civil service reform (25%); Decentralization (25%)


Prepared by:             Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Judith Hahn Gaubatz      Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 5) and the Grant Agreement (page 5), the project
    objective was follows:

        To support the Recipient to increase the coverage and improve the quality of pre -primary and primary
         education with a focus on the most educationally disadvantaged children .

    The project objectives and components remained the same throughout the project period; however, the results
    framework was modified in May 2013 to ensure more realistic target figures and more consistency in wording
    with the government's monitoring system.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    A. Access and Quality for Pre -Primary and Primary Education (Appraisal: US$ 41.3 million; Actual: US$ 35.9
    million): This component aimed to increase access to primary education among the most disadvantaged
    populations, as well as to ensure minimum quality standards along six dimensions (inclusiveness, effective
    teaching and learning, healthy and safe environment, gender, local participation, and effective school
    management). The five sub-components were as follows:

    A1: Community-based Contracting for School Construction: This sub-component was to provide grants for
    community-based contracts (CBC) for the construction or rehabilitation of primary schools (including one
    pre-primary classroom) within the 56 targeted districts. The local Village Education Development Committee was
   to oversee the construction, with the local community providing labor and the accompanying community grant
   (see sub-component A2) financing basic materials. The project appraisal planned for 1,500 schools to be
   constructed or rehabilitated.

   A2: Community Grants: This sub-component was to provide a lump-sum grant on an annual basis to the Village
   Education Development Committee to fund basic needs such as school supplies and facility operating costs.

   A3: Quality Inputs: This sub- component was to provide several types of inputs to both pre-primary and primary
   classrooms, including textbooks, pedagogical materials, training to community members and local education
   officials on school quality standards, training to teachers and principals on school quality standards, and training
   for teachers to upgrade qualifications (including scholarships for girls from ethnic populations to qualify as
   pre-primary teachers).

   A4: School Feeding: This sub-component was to provide supplemental food to approximately 150,000 primary
   school children and 8,000 pre-primary school children, with the aim of encouraging school attendance and
   providing better nutrition. The design was adapted from a World Food Program project currently being
   implemented in the 30 poorest districts in the country. The component was also to include provision of training to
   support implementation of the program.

   A5: Non-formal Education: This sub- component was to provide education services for unreached populations:
   approximately 6% of the children in the country who had never attended school, most of whom were located in
   communities too remote and small to rationalize setting up a formal school infrastructure. Innovative
   interventions were to include the deployment of mobile teachers and a community-based school readiness
   program (for pre-primary school children).


   B. Stewardship of Education Sector at Local , Provincial and Central Levels (Appraisal: US$ 8.3 million; Actual:
   US$ 6.6 million): This component aimed to strengthen the Ministry of Education's (MOE's) capacity at all levels of
   government. The five sub-components were as follows:

   B1: Strengthening Policy Planning and Implementation Capacities at Central and Local Levels: This
   sub-component was to provide training to MOE officials in policy planning and budgeting.

   B2: Strengthening Functioning of the Education Management Information System: This sub-component was to
   support development of timely and reliable data about the education sector, through statistical capacity
   development, improved data quality, training on the production and use of data, and provision of computer
   networking equipment.

   B3: Student Assessment: This sub-component was to finance the implementation of the Assessment of Student
   Learning Outcomes (ASLO) and the Lao language Early Grade Reading Assessment (EGRA) to monitor learning
   outcomes.

   B4: Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity: This sub- component was to provide training and
   technical assistance in monitoring and evaluation of the education sector (including this project). The M&E
   framework for the sector, the Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), was agreed upon by government and
   donors to measure progress on the overarching education sector development plan.

   B5: Program Management: This sub-component was to finance operations of the project management unit (the
   Education Sector Development Framework [ESDF] Coordinating Unit, or ECU), which would coordinate and
   oversee all donor activities in the sector.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost
     The actual project cost was US$ 42.5 million, compared to the appraised cost of US$ 49.6 million. The
        shortfall was due to lower than expected outputs in school construction and non-formal education services.

   Financing
      The project was financed by a US$ 30.0 million grant from the Education for All/ Fast Track Initiative Trust
       Fund, and an AusAID grant of US$ 19.6 million.
      The co-financing grant was earmarked for school construction, quality inputs, and non-formal education.
       Due to weakening of the Australian dollar, the appraised amount was subsequently reduced from US$ 19.6
       million to US$ 15.8 million. Further into the project period, the timing of the availability of the funds was
         uncertain, and therefore the number of outputs (schools constructed) earmarked for this funding was
         reduced. When the availability of the remaining balance was confirmed, there was insufficient time in the
         project period to initiate (and ensure completion of) additional construction activities. As a result, US$ 14.26
         million of the co-financed amount was disbursed, while the remaining US$ 1.5 million was cancelled.

   Borrower contribution
     There was no planned or actual borrower contribution.

   Dates
        December 2011: The project was restructured as follows: (i) the school feeding activities were moved from
         the "goods" category to the "community grants disbursement" category, due to difficulties in disbursing funds
         to schools in a timely manner (this resulted in a reallocation of US$ 2.7 million between the categories); and
         (ii) six highly disadvantaged districts were added to the school feeding program.
        May 2013: The project was restructured again as follows: (i) the results framework was modified to update
         targets and fine-tune wording of indicators; (ii) the number of schools to be constructed or rehabilitated was
         changed from 1,500 rehabilitated schools to 412 newly constructed schools; and (iii) the closing date was
         extended from August 2013 to August 2014 to allow completion of activities, particularly the school feeding
         and non-formal education programs.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of the project's objectives is rated High. The primary education enrollment rate has improved over the
   last decade to 94% (2010/2011), but the remaining out-of-school populations are difficult to reach in remote areas
   without adequate school infrastructure (poor condition of schools; "incomplete" schools, i.e. not offering
   education up to grade 5; inadequate sanitation facilities). The primary education completion rate remains low at
   64% (2010/2011) and is strongly associated with the high poverty rates in rural and remote areas. The country's
   education strategy (Education Sector Development Framework, 2009-2015) identifies three priorities, including
   equitable access to education, improved quality and efficiency, and improved governance and performance
   management. The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for FY 2012-16 includes expanded access to and
   improved quality of primary education as a key outcome.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of the project's design is rated Substantial. The project design addressed both supply and demand
   factors that would likely contribute to increased coverage and improved quality of pre-primary and primary
   education. The project supported the construction of schools (both pre-primary and primary classrooms), with
   attention to appropriate water/sanitation facilities to ensure access for girls. It also addressed the significant food
   insecurity and malnutrition challenges faced by remote populations, through school feeding interventions. The
   project design supported interventions to improve quality, such as principal and teacher training, the provision of
   learning materials and textbooks, and capacity development in sector management and learning assessments.
   The project targeted the 56 most "educationally disadvantaged" districts in the country, selected according to low
   net enrollment rates among girls (these 56 districts accounted for 75% of children in the country not enrolled in
   school). Within the 56 targeted districts, approximately 1,500 communities were to be selected according to the
   following classifications: school is "incomplete" (i.e. school does not have classrooms for all grades 1-5); school
   facility is in precarious condition; school needs pre-school classroom; and/or school requires sanitation facilities.
   However, the original design to rehabilitate 1,500 schools was subsequently revised to construct 332 new
   schools. It is not clear how this affected project coverage, such as the number of out-of-school students who
   could still be reached.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To increase the coverage of pre -primary and primary education
   In 2008/09, there were estimated to be 258,034 children aged 6-10 in the 56 targeted districts, of which 46,420
   (18%) were not in school (PAD, page 23).

   Both the pre-primary and primary education sectors likely benefited from the following capacity-building outputs
   for Ministry of Education staff:
      Installation of school mapping software.
      Development of five-year school construction plans.
      Training on use of the education management information system (EMIS).
Pre-primary education

Outputs
  Construction of 307 pre-primary classrooms. This fell short of the target of 343.

Outcomes
There are no data provided on enrollment in pre-primary programs.

Achievement of the objective to increase coverage of pre-primary education is rated Modest. Although
pre-primary classrooms were constructed mostly as planned, there are no data provided on total enrollment or
net enrollment rates.

Primary education

Outputs
  Construction of 380 new schools and rehabilitation of 13 schools. This achieved the original target of 332
    (as reported in the ICR, page 6), but fell short of the revised target of 412. This included 1,636 primary
    classrooms. A safety and quality audit of project schools determined that the overall quality was good and
    that lessons related to maintaining quality have now been incorporated into the daily work of district
    engineers (ICR, page 32).
  Construction of water supply and latrine facilities for 253 of the above-reported newly constructed schools.
    The ICR (page 32) reports that the remaining 140 schools have water and sanitation facilities that will be
    upgraded to current quality standards by the end of 2015.
  Provision of community grants to 332 villages containing the newly constructed schools. Grants were
    provided in three rounds of US$ 350 each and covered the cost of basic school supplies. Approximately
    27,000 children benefited from the grants.
  Recruitment of 1,498 primary school teachers. This achieved the target of 1,500.
  Recruitment of 150 mobile teachers, benefitting 5,824 children in remote villages.
  Piloting of a school meals program in 316 schools in 9 targeted districts. 181,445 students (primary and
    pre-primary) benefited from the program, surpassing the target of 158,000. 5,943 community members and
    MOE staff received training on nutrition and operational aspects of the program.
  Conducting of an impact evaluation of two different delivery methods for the school community grants. The
    evaluation included 320 project schools and 200 non-project schools. Baseline data were collected in 2012,
    and end-line data were collected in 2014. The ICR (Annex 3) reports that the analysis of the data is still
    ongoing, although preliminary evidence suggests that provision of school grants led to a reduction in the cost
    of attending school, thereby contributing to increased enrollment.


Outcomes
  The net enrollment rate for grades 1-5 in project districts increased from 78.7% in 2008/09 to 96.2% in
    2013/14. This surpassed the target of 94.0%. In the 9 districts targeted for the school feeding program, the
    net enrollment rate increased from 90.4% to 97.6%.
  The gross enrollment rate for grades 1-5 in project districts increased from 121.8% in 2008/09 to 127.6% in
    2013/14. This achieved the target of 126.1%. Nationwide, the gross enrollment rate decreased from
    123.4% to 119.9%. The ICR suggests that the nationwide decrease in gross enrollment reflects the
    increased access to education (for right-aged children) in project areas.
  Total enrollment in grades 1-5 in project districts increased from 306,626 in 2009 to 324,740 in 2013, an
    increase of 18,114, or 5.9%. This fell short of the original target of 332,590 (70% of target met) and the
    revised target of 339,081 (56% of target met). Grade 1 enrollment in project areas decreased from 112,937
    to 91,020. The ICR (page 19) refers to "evidence that suggests that the decline in grade 1 enrollments is
    due to reduced fertility rates, declining repetition rates, or a combination of both, which is being further
    analyzed within the MOE to better understand the policy implication." However, no specific evidence is
    provided.
  The gender parity index for primary education in project districts increased from 0.88 in 2008/09 to 0.97 in
    2013/14. This achieved both the original target of 0.96 and the revised target of 0.97.
  The number of "complete" primary schools (offering grades 1-5) in project districts increased from 1,391 to
    2,862. The proportion of primary schools that are complete increased from 38.6% in 2008/09 to 72.6% in
    2013/14. This surpassed the target of 62.0%.

Achievement of the objective to increase coverage of primary education is rated Substantial under the original
targets, and Substantial under the revised targets. Although increases in total enrollment fell short of targets, net
enrollment rates increased substantially and achieved targets.


To improve the quality of pre -primary and primary education

Both pre-primary and primary education sectors likely benefited from the following outputs:
  Adoption of the Education Quality Standards (EQS) framework by local government departments in all 56
    project districts.
  Establishment of 1,518 Village Education Development Committees (VEDCs), including training on
    education development and planning, fund management, and the education quality standards framework.
    This achieved the target of 1,500. A 2014 quality evaluation showed that the VEDCs were "working to
    encourage families to send their children to school, preparing maps that show families who have enrolled
    their children and those that have not, and using these maps to track absentees and follow up with families
    when children did not attend for long periods, and approximately 83 percent of the sample VEDCs were
    involved in school management, and almost all had prepared their development plans" (as reported in the
    ICR, page 34).
  Training of 2,623 school principals on the education quality standards framework. This achieved the target
    of 2,500. A 2014 quality evaluation showed that approximately 70 percent of principals were making
    annuals plans, and 60 percent were making classroom observations with feedback to teachers. However,
    the evaluation also noted that "the frequency and quality of classroom observations could be improved and
    should be a focus for future principal training" (as reported in the ICR, page 34).
  Piloting of a school meals program in 316 schools. 181,445 students (primary and pre-primary) benefited
    from the program, surpassing the target of 158,000. 5,943 community members and MOE staff received
    training on nutrition and operational aspects of the program.

Pre-primary education

Outputs
  Provision of 1,000 teaching kits to pre-primary classrooms.
  Training of 749 pre-primary teachers to upgrade teaching qualifications. This achieved the target of 750.
  Training of 398 pre-primary teachers (female ethnic minorities) to reach specific disadvantaged populations.
    This achieved the target of 400.
  Establishment of 23 playgroups with trained caregiver and teaching materials, as part of a community-based
    school readiness intervention. This fell far short of the target of 210. The ICR reports that this intervention
    was piloted and then assessed, at which point the quality of the activity was unclear and therefore a decision
    was made not to scale up the activity.

Outcomes
  The 2014 quality evaluation of this intervention showed that all teachers had lesson plans, classrooms were
    decorated with posters and student work and had learning corners, and that some teachers used special
    teaching methods for slow learners. The evaluation reported that this contrasted with pre-primary
    classrooms where teachers had not received the training, and considered this intervention to be satisfactory
    in terms of implementation and quality (as reported in ICR, page 36).
  However, an evaluation of the community-based school readiness program (pilot activity on non-formal
    education to reach remote populations) deemed the quality of the program to be inadequate, and therefore
    planned scale-up of the activity was dropped.

Achievement of the objective to improve quality of pre-primary education is rated Substantial, due to effective
implementation of planned activities, and some evidence of satisfactory quality.

Primary education

Outputs
  Provision of 4,540 teaching kits to primary schools.
  Training of 1,498 primary school teachers to upgrade teaching qualifications. This achieved the target of
    1,500.
  Establishment of a learning assessment system, including completion of the following assessments: two
    grade 5 assessments; grade 3 Assessment of Student Learning Outcomes (ASLO); and Early Grade
    Reading Assessment (EGRA) baseline. Results from the ASLO and EGRA have been published and are
    being used for curriculum revisions (although no details are provided on the latter). According to the Bank's
    rating scale for a learning assessment system, the system began with a rating of 1 but improved by project
    closing to a rating of 3.
    Outcomes
      The primary "survival" (i.e. completion) rate from grade 1 to grade 5 in project districts increased from 54.2%
        in 2008/09 to 69.3% in 2013/14. This surpassed both the original target of 60.0% and the revised target of
        62.0%. The primary survival rate also increased among girls, from 52.0% to 70.0%. These data are
        consistent with the annual increases in grade 5 enrollment in the project districts, from 37,423 in 2008/09, to
        43,366 in 2010/11, to 49,395 in 2012/13.
      The primary survival rate for girls in two of the mostly ethnic minority districts (Nong and Phin) increased
        from less than 20% in 2008/09 to over 55% in 2013/14. It also increased in another mostly ethnic minority
        district (Long) from 28% to 76%.
      The total number of non-repeating enrollments in project districts increased from 282,953 in 2012/13 to
        300,803 in 2013/14, or an increase of 6.0%. In non-project districts, this number increased by only 0.1%
        during the same period.
      The drop-out rate for grades 1-5 in project districts decreased from 10.1% in 2008/09 to 8.9% in 2013/14.
        This fell significantly short of the original target of 3% and the revised target of 2%. In the 9 districts targeted
        for the school feeding program, the drop-out rates decreased from 9.35% to 3.35%.

    Achievement of the objective to improve quality of primary education is rated Substantial under the original
    targets, and Substantial under the revised targets. The primary "survival" (i.e. completion) rate, including among
    girls, increased substantially and surpassed targets.

5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated Modest due to lack of clear data in the ICR to verify efficient use of project resources. In
    particular, Table 7 (ICR, page 48) presents a comparison of school construction costs for different donor projects
    in the country. Although the ICR states that the community-based construction approach used by this project
    "contributed to reducing the cost of construction substantially," the cost data in the table appear to reflect higher
    costs for this project compared to other donor projects. However, according to the Borrower, the alternative
    approach of using contractors would likely have led to higher costs due to the difficulties of working in such
    remote areas.

    There was no formal economic analysis prepared for project preparation, although the economic rationale for the
    project design is discussed in detail. However, the project design included elements that likely contributed to
    efficiency. These included targeting districts with lowest coverage of primary education, and pilot testing
    innovative activities before scaling up.

    The ICR (page 52) refers to a cost-benefit analysis conducted for the project. Benefits were calculated according
    to increased income associated with higher educational attainment. Costs were calculated according to project
    cost per student (total project cost divided by number of project beneficiaries). The ICR reports that the
    cost-benefit analysis shows US$ 1.30 return for every US$ 1.00 invested in the project. More details of the
    analysis, however, are not provided in the ICR to verify the results of the analysis.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:


    Project under original targets: Moderately Satisfactory
    Relevance of the objectives is High, and relevance of the design is Substantial. Achievement of the objective to
    increase coverage is rated Modest for pre-primary education, due to lack of data on enrollment, and Substantial
    for primary education. Achievement of the objective to improve quality is rated Substantial for pre-primary
    education and Substantial for primary education. Efficiency is rated Modest due to lack of clear evidence.

    Project under revised targets: Moderately Satisfactory
    Ratings are the same as above, under the revised targets for primary education.
   According to OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines, the overall outcome rating of a restructured project is
   determined by weighting the proportion of the grant that disbursed before and after the project restructuring. As
   the overall outcome rating is the same for before and after restructuring, the final outcome rating is also
   Moderately Satisfactory .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The policies supported by this project - use of community-based contracting for school construction, channeling
   of funds through village education committees, and adoption of standards for education quality - are likely to be
   sustained, as government and donor support to the education sector remains coordinated through the 2009-2015
   Education Sector Development Framework. Specific interventions have also been institutionalized within the
   Ministry of Education, including the school feeding program and the community-based contracting approach.
   Other project interventions have been incorporated into follow-up Bank projects, including community grants,
   student assessment, and support to monitoring systems. However, there continue to be significant capacity
   building needs at the local level due to increasing decentralization of financial management.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project design drew heavily from implementation experience with prior Bank education projects in the
   country, including the Second Education Development Project (P078113, 2004-2013). This included the use
   of community-based contracting for school construction, provision of community grants to offset school costs
   for poor families, and the strong emphasis on monitoring and student assessments. The project design also
   introduced innovative activities - mobile teachers, school feeding, nonformal education - in response to the
   challenge of reaching the most remote and disadvantaged populations. However, inadequate EMIS data and
   misinterpretation of criteria led to a significant decrease in the number of schools targeted for construction
   and/or rehabilitation. The risk assessment appropriately considered the overall risk as Moderate, with limited
   country macroeconomic risks anticipated but higher risk associated with weak implementation and fiduciary
   management capacity. Institutional arrangements were complex (involving multiple levels of government)
   and contributed to the slow start of some project activities. The M&E framework, including the emphasis on
   evaluative activities, was overall satisfactory.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The original project design (PAD, page 43) contained a target to construct or rehabilitate 1,500 schools;
   however, subsequent analysis revealed that the project areas needed 332 newly constructed schools rather
   than 1,500 upgraded facilities. The Bank team was responsive to implementation challenges that arose
   during the project period, including: increasing the Designated Account ceiling due to faster than anticipated
   pace of disbursements; re-categorizing school feeding from "goods" to "community grants" to enable faster
   disbursement; and shifting responsibility for water and sanitation activities to UNICEF due to capacity issues.
   The Bank team, including the task team leader who was based in-country, was proactive in mobilizing
   technical support to resolve issues, including fiduciary challenges. The co-financing arrangement was well
   utilized to support achievement of objectives.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

    The government has demonstrated strong commitment to the project and provided a supportive policy
    environment, including for relatively new approaches such as community-based contracting, use of mobile
    teachers, and school feeding. Results from evaluations of larger-scale and pilot activities have been taken
    into consideration to inform future government programs. There was no planned borrower contribution.


  Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The ESDF Coordinating Unit (ECU) was the primary implementing agency, responsible for overseeing
    implementation of all Bank and donor projects in the education sector. The ECU resolved implementation
    challenges that arose, particularly in the initial project period, in a timely manner. All planned activities were
    implemented, including those that required coordination with multiple departments within the Ministry of
    Education, and with the co-financier. M&E implementation was satisfactory, including utilization of M&E data
    to inform decision-making. Fiduciary performance was rated overall satisfactory.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The original M&E framework was based on the sector-wide Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), which
   had been developed to monitor and evaluate implementation of the Education Sector Development Framework
   2009-2015. Although some of the indicators and targets needed modification (formalized in the 2013 project
   restructuring), the framework was overall relevant and measurable for both sector-wide and project-specific
   monitoring. The M&E design also included evaluative activities, including student assessments as well as impact
   evaluations of the pilot activities.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The monitoring system was initially intended to monitor outcomes in the entire education sector; however, it was
   subsequently scaled down to focus on the primary education sector first. The project supported the development
   of tools to collect data at the various central and decentralized levels. Student assessments (ASLO and EGRA)
   were completed, with results analyzed and published. The mobile teacher and non-formal preschool programs
   were evaluated, although due to poor quality, these programs were not scaled up. An impact evaluation of the
   different modalities of community grant transfers was also carried out.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR (page 11) reports that the student assessment results were analyzed and "used by the government to
   inform future ASLO and EGRA interventions," and that the evaluations of the pilot activities provided "valuable
   information to MOES as they continue to search for ways to provide non-formal education services." The impact
   evaluation of the community grants transfers is also "being used by the government in deciding the modality to be
   chosen going forward" (ICR, page 13).

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project was classified as an Environmental Category "C" project, and therefore no environmental
    assessment was required. However, the environmental screening checklist and measures developed under the
    prior Second Education Development Project continued to be used under this project. Compliance was
    considered satisfactory through the project period, although there were some initial concerns about adequate use
    of the checklists and documentation of compliance. The project management unit initiated the practice of
    performing quality checks prior to the completion of each school. A final review of a sample of schools found that
    schools were in general compliance with environmental requirements, relevant checklists had been applied, and
    overall construction quality and school safety was satisfactory.

    The safeguard policy on Indigenous peoples (OP/BP 4.10) was triggered, and therefore the Ethnic Group
    Development Plan prepared under the previous education project was applied to this project. According to the
    ICR (page 16), a final review confirmed compliance with the Plan.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial management: Financial management was rated moderately satisfactory throughout the project period
    due to the following: delays in liquidating outstanding advances; initial delays in submitting unaudited interim
    financial reports; record keeping challenges; and delays in flow of funds to the decentralized Ministry levels.
    Concrete actions were taken to address these challenges, and reporting and disbursement levels improved by
    the latter part of the project period. Audit reports were unqualified.

    Procurement: Procurement was rated satisfactory, although there were initial procurement delays due to
    inadequate quality of bidding documents.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
    Lessons drawn from the ICR, adapted by IEG:

         Decentralization of school construction to the community level can build greater commitment to education
          and increase enrollment of out-of-school children. In the case of this project, the use of community-based
          contracting, alongside provision of grants for supplies and training in school management, led to
          increased efforts of village education committees to ensure enrollment of students.
         Effective use of M&E can impact government policies. In the case of this project, pilot activities - such as
          the school feeding and community-based school readiness programs - were carefully evaluated, and the
          results informed decisions of the government to either end programs or continue them, even with its own
          funding.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is consistent with guidelines and has a clear focus on results. The importance of M&E is well
    highlighted in this ICR. The quality of the data and evidence on achievements is overall satisfactory, although
    some gaps are noted in Section 4. Data on efficiency (Section 5) are not clearly presented, contributing to a
    Modest rating on efficiency.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
