Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-4416-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 40 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPG RECOVERY AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
November 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed withoul World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in reLation
to a basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On February 12, 1986 the official exchange rate was set at Tk 30.27
buying and 30.33 selling per US doLlar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                         =  0.159 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot (CF)                      =  0.028 m3
I British Thermal Unit (Btu)           =  0.252 kilocalories (Kc)
1 metric ton (mT) of oil 0.85 sp.gr.  =  7.4 bbl
1 kilometer (km)                       =  0.621 miles
MCF                                    =  thousand standard cubic feet
MMCFD                                   =  million standard cubic feet per day
BCF                                    =  bilLion cubic feet
TCF                                     =  trillion (1,000 billian) cubic feet
toe                                    =  tons of oil equivalent in heating value
kgoe                                    =  kilogram of oil equivalent in heating value
KW                                      =  megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
MMtoe                                   =  milLion tons of oil equivalent
mTpa                                    =  metric tons per annum
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOGMC           Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation
BPC             Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB            Bangladesh Power Development Board
ERL             Eastern Refinery Limited
!CB             International Competitive Bidding
LNG             Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG             Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LP Gas          LP Gas Limited
LRMC            Long-run Marginal Cost
NCL             Natural Gas Liquid
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PMAT            Project Management Assistance Team
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPG RECOVERY AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:   Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) and LP Gas Limited (LP Gas),
which are subsidiaries c' Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
(BPC), and Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation
(BOGMC).
Amount:          SDR 40.0 million (US$47.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
On-Lending       The Government would onlend at an interest rate of 11.5Z
Terms:         p.a. for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of
four years, US$35.5 million equivalent of the proceeds of
the credit to ERL for the refinery modification component,
US$4.6 million equivalent to BOGMC for the LPG recovery
component, and US$5.8 million equivalent to LP Gas for the
LPG storage and distribution component. ERL, BOGMC and LP
Gas would bear the foreign exchange risk. US$1.1 million
equivalent would be applied to finance GOB's equity share in
a privately operated LPG distribution company which is
intended to be established under the project.
Proiect          The main objective of the project would be to help minimize
Description:   the cost of petroleum imports and rationalize the supply of
petroleum products. To achieve this objective, the project
would include: (i) a Refiner' Modification Comuonent to
enhance the flexibility of the Eastern Refinery Limited
facility at Chittagong by bringing about a better match
between refinery output and domestic demand for petroleum
products, thereby reducing the cost of meeting petroleum
product requirements; and (ii) a first phase LPG Recovery.
Storage and Distribution Component designed to establish the
institutional framework and facilities to promote the
consumption of about 11,000 mTpa of LPG with a view to
developing the capability for eventually marketing up to
120,000 mTpa expected to be recovered from natural gas
fields iu the future.
lllis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Risks:           The technical, financial and commercial risks involved in
each component would be minimal. The expected economic rate
of return from the refinery modification component is 21%,
based on a margin of US$35 increasing to US$40 per mT
between diesel and fuel oil, a margin well below the
historical and prevailing US$45 to US$50 per mT. With
regard to the LPG component, expanding LPG consumption from
its current low level would displace mainly imported
kerosene and firewood, taking advantage of a potentially
sizeable domestic market for LPG. The risks of the benefits
being eroded to a level that would nake the project
uneconomic are small, as the benefits are significant when
LPG displaces kerosene. In addition the non-quantifiable
benefits of reduced deforestation when LPG substitutes for
firewood would also be important.



-iii-
Estimated Project
Costs:                                            FrOein    Local Ia  Total
*S$  illionl -----
I.     Refinery Ifodification
(1) Refinery Modification and
Operations Assistance                        21.7       6.4       28.1
(2) Project Management Assistance                   1.0       0.l        1.1
(3) Training and Technical Assistance               0.5       0.1        0.6
(4) Spare Parts                                     3.2       0.8        4.0
Sub-total                                26.4        7.4       33.8
II.    LPC Recovery Facilities
LPG Recovery Facilities at
Kailashtila                                   3.5       0.7        4.2
Sub-total                                 3.5        0.7        4.2
III.   LPG Storage and Distribution
(1) LPC Bottling Plants                             0.6       0.2        0.8
(2) LPG Bottles                                     3.0       0.6        3.6
(3) LPG Transport (Trucks and Barges)               3.0       0.8        3.8
(4) LPG Retail Filling Units                        0.2       0.2        0.4
(5) Implementation Assistance/Training              0.5       0.2        0.7
(6) Infrastructure Facilities/Port/Land             1.3        1.3       2.6
Sub-total                                 8.6        3.3       11.9
Base Cost Estimate (Total of I, II & III)             38.5       11.4      49.9
Physical Contingencies                                 3.9        1.1       5.0
Price Contingencies                                   10.1        3.8      13.9
Total Cost                                            52.5       16.3      68.8
Interest During Construction                           -         12.5      12.5
Total Financing Required                              52.5       28.8      81.3
/a Local costs include US$8.2 million of customs duties.



Financing Plan:                                     Foreign      Local      Total
------- (US$ million) -----
IDA                                           45.9         1.1       47.0
Government of Bangladesh                       -          19.5       19.5
Internal Cash Generation                       -           7.3        7.3
Private Investors                              6.6         0.9        7.5
Total                                    52.5        28.8      81.3
Estimated Disbursements:
(IDA Fiscal Year)         1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
…-- -- -US$ MilLion…--------------…--
Annual                    5.5      7.6    17.2    11.0       3.6      1.8     0.3
Cumulative                5.5    13.1    30.3    41.3    44.9    46.7    47.0
Economic Rate of Return:
(i)  Refinery Modification Project Component                   21X
(ii)  LPG Recovery Project Component (Kailashtila)              17%
(iii)  LPG Distribution Project Component (Western Zone)         15%
Appraisal Report:   Bangladesh:  Report No. 6059-BD dated November 11, 1986
Lap: IBRD No. 1949DR



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPC RECOVERY AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 40.0 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$47.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to help
finance a Refinery Modification and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Recovery
and Distribution Project. The Government would onlend at an interest rate of
11.5% p.a. for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of four years,
US$35.5 million equivalent of the proceeds of the credit to the Eastern
Refinery Limited (ERL) for the refinery modification component, US$4.6 mil-
lion equivalent to Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation (BOGMC) for
the LPG recovery component, and US$5.8 million equivalent to LP Gas for the
LPC storage and distribution component. ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas would bear
the foreign exchange risk. US$1.1 equivalent would be applied to finance
GOB's share in a privately operated LPG distribution company wbich would be
established under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic
Developments and Medium Term Prospects," (Report No. 6049 dated March 17,
1986) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 after a devastating war,
is a country with a very high population density and widespread poverty.
Annual per capita income was only about US$130 in 1985. The high rate of
population growth (2.6% per year), a very low literacy level (about 25%),
poor health and nutrition, and weaknesses in public administration and in the
financial system act as major constraints to economic and social development.
Domestic savings finance less than a quarter of gross investment which has
averaged about 16% of gross domestic product (GDP) in recent years.
Bangladesh has very few natural resources other than natural gas and is,
therefore, highly dependent on imported raw materials and intermediates.
Export earnings cover less than 30% of the import bill; the resource gap of
about 15% of GDP is financed primarily by workers' remittances and foreign
assistance equivalent to about 5% and 10% of CDP per year, respectively. The
capacity to finance imports can be sharply affected by external factors (such
as the terms and volumes of trade) beyond Government control, and their
effect on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary



-2-
revenues on import-related duties and taxes, which account for almost 60% of
tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
4.      FoLlowing the severe disruptions of the independence struggle and
devastating floods in the early 1970s, output in agriculture and industry
recovered only slowly to reach pre-independence levels by the late 19709.
Large budget defic5 ts, inflation, rapid population growth, and political
instability during the first few years of independence added to the country's
plight. However, during the late 1970s and early 1980s, political and
economic stabilization helped the Government to focus more on longer-term
development objectives. As a result, despite the country's structural con-
straints and repeated disruptions caused by natural disasters, Bangladesh has
recently made significant progress. In particular, agricultural, industrial,
and export policies have been strengthened, and average CDP growth of about
4% per year has been achieved during the past five years.
5.      Foodgrain production, which has always been a high priority for the
Government, has grown on average by 3.5% per year during the 19809, up from
2.9Z in the second half of the 1970s and well above the 2.6% annual popula-
tion growth rate. This encouraging growth has occurred despite major natural
calamities and substantial reductions in agricultural subsidies. Industrial
outputp which stagnated in the early 1980s, has more recently shown solid
growth - 9% per year in 1984-86 - although the base remains small. The
introduction of the New Industrial Policy in June 1982 and the increased
availability of foreign exchange resulting from import substitution in energy
and growth in non-traditional exports have contributed significantly to this
trend.
6.      Macroeconomic policy has sought to maintain a balance between promot-
ing growth and maintaining stability; performance has been mixed. In order
to stimulate growth following the 1982-83 recession and the 1984 floods,
private credit was expanded very rapidly during FY84 and the first half of
FY85, creating serious pressures on the balance of payments and domestic
prices. However, since 1985, the Government has taken a series of measures
to curb the growth in credit, including increases in interest rates, the
imposition of credit ceilings, and controls on refinancing by the Bangladesh
Bank. In addition, the exchange rate has been depreciated by over 15% in
terms of US dollars since February 1985 in order to ease the pressure on the
balance of payments. These stabilization measures are being supported by a
Stand-By Arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the amount
of SDR 180 million covering the December 1985 - June 1987 period. Overall,
domestic inflation has remained moderate (10-12% per year) over the last
three years, aided by a combination of record foodgrain production and the
stabilization measures. Fiscal policy has for the most part been cautious;
the major problem has not been excessive expenditure but rather the inability
to mobilize domestic resources. Much of the additional revenue mobilized
through tax and pricing measures has been utilized to pay for necessary



-3-
increases in public sector salaries. The Covernment's poor performance in
raising public savings has contributed to the decline in real public invest-
ment since 1980. Part of this decline can be attributed to significantly
lower public investment in line with the Government's privatization policies.
7.      Bangladesh suffers from a persistent shortage of foreign exchange,
but in the past two years the balance of payments position has been espe-
cially difficult. In FY85, workers' remittances declined and imports rose
rapidly due to strong industrial growth stimulated by the rapid growth in
credit and the need for substantial foodgrain imports following the 1984
floods. The depreciation of the Taka and other associated stabilization
measures have resulted in some improvement in the current account deficit,
from 8X of CDP in FY85 to 7% in FY86. Real GDP growth in 1986 is expected to
be about 5%, aided by a record agricultural output and a strong growth in
manufactured exports. Despite this improvement, the balance of payments will
continue to constrain growth prospects in FY87 and FY88.
8.      Bangladesh's public long-term debt (excluding obligations to the IMF)
has risen from US$3.55 billion (25Z of GDP) at the end of 1980 to US$5.97
billion (40% of CDP) at the beginning of 1986. IDA accounts for US$1.99
billion or 33% of this total. The bulk of Bangladesh's debt (96%) is on
concessional terms. However, in 1984 and 1985 domestic food shortages neces-
sitated borrowing at commercial rates for food imports. Servicing of these
loans has been partly responsible for a sharp rise in the ratio of debt
service to total export earnings (including workers' remittances) from 11.2%
in 1983 to an estimated 18.4% in 1986 and 1987. The inclusion of repurchase
obligations to the IMF would bring the debt service ratio to an estimated
26% and 30%, respectively, in 1986 and 1987. As commercial loans and IMF
obligations are repaid, however, this ratio is expected to fall to about 17%
by 1990.
Medium-Term Prospects and Development Issues
9.      The Third Five Year Plan (1986-90) emphasizes the alleviation of mass
poverty and includes as its main medium-term targets: (a) 5.4% per year GDP
growth; (b) a reduction in the population growth rate from 2.6Z to 1.8% per
year by 1990; (c) the attainment of foodgrain self-sufficiency by FY90;
(d) an enlarged role of the private sector in the economy; (e) rapid employ-
ment generation through the development of modern medium- and small-scale
industries and the promotion of export/import-substitution enterprises; and
(f) major efforts to raise literacy levels. These are desirable and
appropriate goals. Unemployment and poverty must remain a source of major
concern. Increasing landlessness and an associated increase in poverty
coupled with the need to absorb 1.3 million new entrants to the labor force
each year underscore the need for sustained and strong overall economic
growth and continued emphasis on human resource development and population
policies. Agriculture, which still accounts for 50% of GDP, will remain the
backbone of the economy and the major source of employment and income gener-
ation but increasingly the private industrial sector will be required to play



-4-
a critical role in the creation of output and employment and in the gener-
ation of foreign exchange earnings.
10.     Achieving these goals will not be easy.  It will require increased
efficiency in the ure of resources and higher levels of investment by the
public secCor in basic infrastructure (power, transportation, education, and
health) and by the private sector in industry and agriculture. However, the
foreign and domestic resources needed for investment and for subsequent
operations and maintenance remain in short supply.
11.     Poreiga exchange availability is expected to remain very constrained
over the next five years during which the need for imported good. for
industrial growth will be rising. While oil imports will be substantially
reduced (by about $100 million per year) by the decline in oil prices, this
reduction is expected to be more than offset by Lower remittances from the
Middle East, which are unlikely to rise agair. even over the medium term.
Bangladesh's terms of trade, which fell by 17% in FY86 due principally to
lower jute prices, are not expected to recover rapidly, and even under fairly
optimistic projections, export earnings from jute and juCe products (which
account for 55X of euport earnings) are expected to show no real growth over
the next decade. Finally, over a quarter of total export earnings, including
workers' remittances, will be required to service external debt over the next
two years as obligations to the IMF and commercial debts are repaid
(paragraph 8). On the more Dositive side, non-traditional exports, if sup-
ported by appropriate policies and substantial private investment, can con-
tinue to grow at about the 20% annual real growth rate of the 1980-85 period.
Total export growth should rise, albeit slowly, due to expanding non-
traditional exports which will account for an increasing proportion (from
less than 20Z in FY85 to about half by the early 1990.) of total export
earnings. During this transition period, however, the economy will remain
vuLnerable to external and internal shocks and will require substantial
inflows of balance-of-payments assistance in the form of fast-disbursing
commodity anid program aid to finance the imports required to maintain
reasonable levels of output and empioyment.
12.     A major effort is required in mobilizing domestic resources.  The
growth of public revenues is seriously limited by the narrow revenue base,
the heavy dependence on import-related taxes, and the subsistence nature of
the economy. The tax-to-GDP ratio remains among the lowest in the world and,
despite very low taxable incomes, could be significantly raised through
reform of the tax structure and improvements in administration. Economic
pricing of publicly provided goods and services (natural gas, power,
transportation, irrigation), the elimination of subsidies on food, and
improved profit generation in public enterprises could also provide addi-
tional resources.



-5-
13.     The mobilization and efficient ure of savings within the private
sector is hampered by the undeveloped and inefficient financial sector. The
financiaL system faces a serious loan recovery problem with large accumulated
debts in both agriculture and industry. The legal framework is ineffective
and the Bangladosh Bank has inadequate supervision of the rapidly expanding
system. Key public financial institutions lack autonomy in their oporations,
resulting in minimal accountability, weak internal management, and opera-
tional inefficiencies. Major reforms will have to be undertaken to improve
financial discipline if the financial system is to deliver sufficient resour-
ces for productive investments in an efficient manner.
14.     efficient raeource use will require improvements in project implemen-
tation. Although some progress has been made, as reflected in an improvement
in the ratio of project aid disbursement to the pipeline from 15.21 in FY83
to 16.21 in PY851 this ratio should be raised appreciably to accelerate
utilization of the present large pipeline of external assistance.l/ The
project approval process also needs to be improved and greater operationdl
autonomy should be'gratited to implementing agencies.
15.     Returns on public investment could also be raised if more attention
were given to operation and maintenance (O&M) expenditures. Neglect of 0&M
has led to a serious deterioration of public assets over the past decade.
Returns to C&M expenditures are likely to be significantly higher than those
from new investments. Since these expenditures should not be borne entirely
by Government, increased cost recovery efforts are justified on both
efficiency and equity grounds. Budgetary management would benefit from
increased attention to planning and allocating adequate resources to O&M for
ongoing and completed projects, as well as from a change to multi-year roll-
ing budgetary plans.
16.     Finally, without renewed efforts in the medium term to reduce popula-
tion growth, the problems of longer-term development may well be
insurmountable. In this context, the family panning performance appears to
have deteriorated recently, as reflected in a significant downturn in 1985 in
the rate of increase in acceptance. Even a partial achievement of the Plan's
population growth rate target - e.g., from 2.6% to 2.2% per year by 1990 -
would require a sustained effort to strengthen the delivery system for health
and family planning services.
1/  Disbursements under IDA-financed projects have improved markedly over
the last two years. The ratio of disbursements to pipeline rose from
16.1Z in FY85 to 23.2% in FY86 and is well above the average for all
aid-financed projects in Bangladesh.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
17.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,670.11
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 as well as a consolidation loan
(US$54.90 million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in
1975 to cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to
independence. The Bank has approved 95 new credits since Bangladesh became a
member in 1972. Of the total IDA commitments, approximately 21% have been
for agriculture, irrigation, and rural development; 9% for industry; 15% for
power and energy; 61 for transportation and teleconmunications; 82 for educa-
tion and technical assistance; 4% for population control; 3% for urban
infrastructure; and 34% for imports program support. IDA lending over the
next several years is expected to reflect increased emphasis on the develop-
ment of the energy and industrial sectors. Since Bangladesh became a member
of rFC in 1976, five investments have been approved. IDA chairs the annual
Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a forum for donor consultation,
and IDA's Resident Representative chairs regularly scheduled donor meetings
in Dhaka to exchange views on policy issues, project implementation, and aid
coordination.
18.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the Third
Plan's priority development objectives (paragraph 9). IDA lending has
emphasized agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing
food production by augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irriga-
tion equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, developing extension services,
research programs and rural cooperatives, providing agricultural credit, and
pronoting input and output pricing policies that allow adequate incentives to
farmers to increase production. IDA has also supported the Covernment's
efforts to encourage greater private sector pcrticipation in the supply and
distribution of agricultural inputs. Finally, IDA's ending program has
promoted agricultural diversification through increased production of fish
and forestry products.
19.     IDA assistance to Bangladesh's industrial sector is intended to
support the broadening of the country's development strategy by enhancing the
sector's capacity to contribute to a higher, sustained level of growth,
provide productive employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve
the country's external trade and parnents position on a sustained basis. IDA
has assisted Bangladesh's industrial sector through program credits as well
as projects to increase fcrrilizer production, rehabilitate the jute and
textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
20.     IDA's lending in energy has been designed to expand the use of
natural gas in substitution for imported oil, promote conservation measures
arnd more efficient energy use, and encourage further gas and oil exploracion.
IDA is also financing projects to expand the country's power generation and



-7-
transmission capabilities and rural electrification system. Recognizing the
critical shortages in traditional fuels, IDA is financing investments in
forestry to increase the supply of fuelwood.
21.     IDA has supported projects to improve the inland water transport
system as well as the road network. Bangladesh's road network is extensive,
but the roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's
future transport lending will concentrate mainly on supporting the
Covernment's programs to rehabilitate deteriorated roads and to improve
mvintenance standards, techniques, and expenditure levels.
22.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on primary
education and skills development. Lending for primary education supports the
national goals of achieving universal primary education and reducing
illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading quality. Projects
for vocational and technical education promote the training of craftsmen,
technicians, ad engineers.
23.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA and other donors are assisting the Government in
implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's urban
population expected to increase from about 16-18 million in 1985 to between
35-40 million by the year 2000, IDA activities will also help the Government
address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services
to the urban poor. IDA is already financing water supply and sanitation
improvements in Dhaka and Chittagong and an urban development project in both
cities will be submitted to the Board sbortly.
24.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, a significant proportion of IDA's annual lending to
Bangladesh has been in the form of fast-disbursing program credits. In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic policy issues.
Bangladesh will continue to need substantial fast-disbursing foreign exchange
resources on highly concessional terms because of the large structural
imbalances between the country's export earnings and its import requirements
and its domestic savings rate and in-estment needs. To assist Bangladesh in
addressing these structural problems, IDA plans to focus its future policy
dialogue with the Government on measures designed to improve the efficiency
and international competitiveness of the industrial sector, improve credit
discipline and strengthen the financial system, encourage development of the
country's domest c energy resources through a well-formulated investment
program, economically eSficient pricing policies, and sound energy sector
institutions aid to address policy and institutional issues ir education.
IDA will support appropriate policy and institutional reform in these areas
through fast-disbursing sectoral adjustment credits. IDA will also continue
to provide support for adjustment policies designed to mobilize more domestic



-8-
financial resources in the public and private sectors and more efficient
resource utilization, through measures to increase public sector revenues,
enhance the efficiency of the public sector enterprises, and improve the
planning of public expenditures and investment.
25.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institut.onal reform, IDA is providing technicaL assistance for project
preparation and implementation, financing projects to train civil servants
and other managerial and technical personnel, and encouraging the Government
to introduce administrative reforms and improve the structure and management
of the civil service. Although progress is being made in implementing
reforms, which include administrative reorganization and improvements in
financial planning and budgetary procedures, adequate institutional
capabilities can be achieved only over the long term.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
26.     Per capita energy consumption in Bangladesh is among the lowest in
the world. It is estimated at about 90 kilograms oE oil equivalent (kgoe)
per year, of which about 40% is accounted for by commercial energy production
and the rest by non-commercial sources such as fuelwood, crop residues and
animal wastes. Per capita commercial energy consumption, estimated at only
36 kgoe, is about one-sixteenth of the corresponding world average and one-
tenth of the average for low-income councries. Although traditional biomass
energy forms are expected to remain the predominant energy sources, par-
ticularly in rural areas, Bangladesh has an abundant potential supply of
natural gas. The Government has accordingly focused its energy policy on
accelerating the development of domestic gas resources and increasing the
economy's absorptive capacity for gas, thereby reducing the economy's depend-
ence on oil imports which annualLy claim a disproportionate share
(approximately 60%) of the country's export earnings. Sizable imports of
petroleum products, however, are expected to continue for the foreseeable
future.
27.     While the accelerated development of the gas sector has led to a
rapid growth in commercial energy utilization and a resulting progressive
decline in the share of commercial energy derived from liquid hydrocarbons,
there remains a large potential for expanded commercial energy use to support
economic development. Natural gas is the obvious resource to filJ this gap.
Subject to confirmation of potential reserves and well productivity, natural
gas offers an opportunity to establish a reliable, comparatively low cost



-9-
energy base for the country's economic development. Natural gas now accounts
for 52% of total commercial primary energy consumption. The bulk of gas
consumption is in power generation and fertilizer production, while other
industrial, commercial, and domestic uses are expanding steadily.
Resource Endowment
28.     Natural gas, and a very limited hydropower potential, are the only
two domestically-available, commercial, primary energy sources. Mining of
coal and peat deposits is presently not considered economic. More
critically, Bangladesh has no known oil reserves and has to meet all its
liquid hydrocarbon requirements through imports. Exploration efforts have
led to the discovery of substantial reserves of natural gas; thirteen gas
fields (twelve onshore and one offshore) have been discovered, all located
east of the Jamuna River which divides the country from north to south into
eastern and western zones. Total gas reserves are currently estimated at
about 11 trillion standard cubic feet (TCF), of which 75% are expected to be
recoverable. Gas output has increased steadily over the last decade, growing
at an average of 14% p.a. from 29 billion cubic feet (BCF) in 1975/76 to 81
BCF in 1983/84 (2.0 MNtoe).
Consumption and Supply of Petroleum Products
29.     Despite the increased utilization of natural gas in almost all the
sectors of the economy, petroleum products still account for 36% of total
commercial energy consumption. About 37% of the total consumption of
petroleum products is in the transport sector, followed by domestic usage
(20%), power generation (19%), and the industrial sector (14%). The pattern
of consumption of petroleum products in Bangladesh has changed noticeably
since the mid-seventies. Increased use of natural gas has dampened demand
for lighter petroleum products (naphtha) as well as for heavier residual fuel
oil. Consumption of petroleum products increased at an average annual rate
of 5.4% from 1975 to 1980, diesel oil registering a growth of 9.9% and fuel
oil 4.2% per annum. However, between 1980 and 1984 while diesel oil consump-
tion continued to increase at 8.3% per annum, fuel oil demand declined by
6.5% per annum, due to its displacement by natural gas. During this same
period, the share of middle distillates (jet fuel, kerosene, and diesel oil)
increased from 62% to 71% while the share of fuel oil declined from 33% to
25% of petroleum products consumption. Demand for middle distillates is
projected to grow at annual rates ranging from 2% to 9% p.a. This is
expected to reinforce the domination of middle distillates whose share would
grow to between 75% and 85% of total product demand by 1995.
Refinery Investment Strategy
30.     Petroleum products are obtained from three different sources:
(i) domestic refining of imported crude oil; (ii) purchases of petroleum
products, mostly under short-term contracts; and (iii) product imports under
barter arrangements with the Soviet Union. Responsibility for importing and



-10-
refining crude oil, marketing refined products, and importing deficit
petroleum products is assigned to the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC)
which has been managing the country's petroleum supply competently. The
country's only refinery, the Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) at Chittagong, is
a fully owned subsidiary of BPC. The refinery facilities consist of a 1.5
miLlion mTpa crude oil distillation unit, a platformer to convert low octane
value naphtha to high octane gasoline, a gas oil hydro-desulfurizer to remove
sulfur, and a recently added asphalt plant.
31.     In 1982, the Government sought IDA assistance to examine the various
options available to minimize the cost of meeting the country's petroleum
product requirements. Several options were evaluated including the pos-
sibility of mothballing the refinery and importing all products. This
evaluation identified modification of the refinery as the most economically
feasible approach. With this proposed investment, surplus fuel oil wilL be
converted to premium value diesel oil, while eliminating the need to use
diesel oil as a dilutent to satisfy market specifications for residual fuel
oil. The additional production of diesel, even if demand were to remain at
the FY85 level, can easily be absorbed within the country. While fuel oil
will remain in surplus, it will be at a substantially lower level than
without the refinery modification having been undertaken.
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Consumption and Supply
32.     Even after refinery modification, Bangladesh will still need to
import about 150,000 mTpa of kerosene, of which about 50% is estimated to be
for cooking, for whict. LPC could be substituted. In addition, firewood is
used extensively for cooking in the western zone of the country causing acute
deforestation. In the medium term, with the completion of the proposed
refinery modification, ERL's LPG production could reach 13,000 mTpa; a fur-
ther 5,000 mTpa could be recovered by modifying the existing Kailashtila gas
treating unit. In the long term, it is estimated that up to an additional
120,000 mTpa could be recovered from the Bakhrabad, Beani Bazar, Kailashtila
and Titas natural gas fields.
33.     Currently, the Level of LPG consumption is small and is mostly in the
eastern zone. However, with the increased availability of natural gas in the
east, demand for LPG will in fact decline. It is, therefore, likely that the
entire additional supply of LPG from the refinery, about 6,000 mTpa, as well
as some of the 6,000 mTpa of LPG currently consumed in the east, would be
available for marketing in the west. In keeping with the Government's objec-
tive of promoting a greater balance between the western and eastern zones of
the country in terms of access to energy sources, the increased LPG produc-
tion would be marketed primarily in the west where natural gas is not
available. Presently, neither the institutional arrangements nor the
facilities exist for distribution and marketing of LPG. The development of
transportation, storage and marketing networks for the smaller quantities of
LPG from ERL and Kailashtila under the proposed project (paragraph 45) would



-11-
in effect constitute the first stage of a major initiative to promote the use
of LPG in Bangtadesh.
Pricing
34.     Pricing of biomass-derived fuels in Bangladesh is determined in the
market place. Prices of petroleum products, natural gas, coal and elec-
tricity on the other hand, are set by the Government at various points in
the delivery system and at the consumer level. The prices of petroleum
products are uniform for all classes of consumers throughout the country,
except for natural gas for which the Government sets differential prices for
various classes of consumers. Natural gas pricing has been one of the prin-
cipal ingredients of IDA's economic dialogue with the Government. As agreed
to under the Second Gas DeveLopment Project (Cr. 1586-BD), the Government
increased natural gas prices by 20X on July 1, 1985 and again by 20% on
July 1, 1986. Under the same project, Government undertook to adjust gas
prices, in accordance with a program to be agreed with IDA, based on the
long-run marginal cost of extraction, transmission and distribution plus an
appropriate depletion allowance, beginning July 1987.
35.     Consistent with the Government's policy of maintaining stable
petroleum product retail prices, BPC has absorbed international crude and
product price fluctuations through its transfer prices to the marketing
companies. Losses incurred during the early 1980s when international prices
were higher than BPC's transfer prices are now being translated into profits
due to the decline in international prices, which are currently lower than
transfer prices. Retail prices are well above border (c.i.f.) prices
although the relative pricing structure differs significantly from that of
c.i.f. import prices. Even though in relative terms gasoline is priced much
higher than diesel in the domestic market, there is little uneconomic sub-
stitution of diesel for gasoline. For road transport, this apparently hap-
pens because the taxation system and restrictions on the import of dieseL
vehicles offset the price differential.
36.     LPG is a direct substitute for kerosene in cooking and its substitu-
tion value is thus related to the border price of kerosene. Both LPG and
kerosene prices are above corresponding economic costs. Taking into account
the higher calorific value and combustion efficiency of LPG versus kerosene
on a weight basis, the price of LPG could in effect be up to 150Z that of
kerosene, but is in fact 5-10% lower. While the relatively low price of LPG
provides conditions conducive to a rapid penetration of LPG in the domestic
market, there will be scope to increase the price of LPG as the market
develops, while maintaining its competitiveness with kerosene. The
Government has agreed that it will, not later than July 30, 1989, remove all
price controLs over the distribution and sale of LPG.



- 12 -
Sector Institutions
37.     Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC).  BPC is a fully State-owned
holding company established in 1976 to optimize crude oit and products
procurement and implement Covernment policy with respect to distribution and
retail pricing of petroleum products. BPC management is vested in a
Covernment-appointed Board of Directors. BPC operates as a trading company
and supervises ERL, LP Gas and three petroleum marketing companies. A review
of BPC's operations and management during the appraisal of the Energy
Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1357-BD) identified areas
of weaknesses which are being addressed under that ongoing project. An area
of continuing concern, however, has been the status of BPC's accounts
receivables. These stood at 75 days of sales as of June 30, 1985. Some
customers, like the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), were in default
for about ten months to the marketing subsidiaries. The Government has agreed
that it would, not later than January 1, 1987, cause BPC to operate a system
satisfactory to the Association, which shall inter alia: (i) limit credit to a
period not exceeding 45 days to subsidiaries and other direct customers of BPC
as well as customers of BPC's subsidiaries; and (ii) levy interest at the
prevailing commercial bank rate together with an appropriate administrative
charge on amounts outstanding beyond 30 days from the billing date. The
Government has also agreed that it would cause BPDB to reduce amounts owed by
it to BPC's subsidiaries on sales prior to June 30, 1986 by not less than
Tk 50 million per month until such amounts have been fully paid.
38.     Eastern Refinery Limited.  ERL was established in 1966 as a fully
integrated refinery. EEL operations are headed by a General Manager who sits
on its Board, and is assisted by several senior managers. Although the
senior staff as well as the junior engineers are technically well qualified,
the loss of many top-levcil managers to foreign employment has resulted in
lack of adequately experienced staff in the company. More recently, however,
ERL has managed to retain its senior staff. In order to strengthen skills
at all levels, the ongoing Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation
Project made provision for a comprehensive training program. The existing
relationship between BPC and ERL is not consistent with autonomous operations
and restricts EEL management initiatives and performance. ERL has no respon-
sibility for production optimization, which is a function of BPC. BPC also
exercises close control and supervision of ERL's operating budget, capital
investments, appointment of senior staff and day-to-day operations. Although
ERL has its own Board of Directors, with the BPC Chairman acting as ERL
Chairman, ERL Board decisions are subject to final approval by the BPC
Board. Although some form of control by BPC, being the sole owner of ERL, is
justified, such control could best be achieved by having one of BPC's full-
time directors sit on both BPC and ERL Boards and assume responsibility for
policy and investment decisions. Therefore, the Government has decided that
BPC's Director of Planning and Operations will also function as Managing
Director of ERL and be given this responsibility. The financial authority of
ERL's Managing Director has been increased to Tk 5 million and that of ERL's



-13-
Board of Directors to Tk 20 million. These limits would be reviewed with IDA
annually, taking into account domestic infla;ion, and adjusted as necessary.
39.     LP Gas.  LP Gas was incorporated in 1983 as a fully-owned subsidiary
of BPC. Bottled LPG is sold by LP Gas to BPC marketing subsidiaries which
handle retail marketing either directly in gasoline stations or through
private dealers. The organization and staffing of LP Gas is scaled to its
present operation of handling about 7,000 mTpa only, and consists of a
manager, foreman, and skilled labor. Under the proposed project, LP Gas
would appoint a General Manager with qualifications, experience and terms
satisfactory to IDA. The activities of LP Gas would be expanded under the
proposed project (paragraph 45) to include additional bottling plants. LP
Gas would also supply retail filling stations and supervise the operations of
these stations. To carry out these tasks, LP Gas would require appropriate
technical assistance support, preferably from an experienced LPC operating
company. Technical assistance is particularly needed in the implementation
of the pilot retail filling station scheme and in drafting a set of operating
codes and safety standards. The proposed project would provide for such
technical assistance (paragraph 47).
40.     Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation.  BOGMC (previously
Petrobangla) is the sector corporation responsible for oil, gas and minerals
exploration and production. BOGMC is managed by a Government-nominated Board
of Directors and is organized in four directorates (planning, finance,
exploration, and administration) and a Secretariat. While BOGMC coordinates
the activities of operating gas production and distribution companies, it is
not a hoLding company as such. A major reorganization of the gas sector will
take pLace with technical assistance provided by ODA under the Second Gas
Development Project (Cr. 1586-BD) to address the fragmentation that has
resulted in management difficulties. In lieu of the existing operating
companies, new companies will be created with responsibilities assigned on a
functional rather than regional basis, i.e., for petroleum exploration and
drilling, gas field development, and gas transmission and distribution.
BOGMC assumes direct responsibility for the impLementation of a large share
of gas development projects. BOGMC was aLso responsible for the construction
of the existing surface facilities at Kailashtila and, under the proposed
project, would implement the LPG Recovery Component.
41.     IDA's Role and Lending Strategy in the Petroleum Sector.  IDA's
primary objective in the energy sector has been to foster the development of
indigenous resources supported by an appropriate policy framework based on an
economically efficient pricing structure. In order to achieve this
objective, IDA Lending in the oil and gas sector has proceeded along three
main lines: natural gas development, efficiency improvements, and explora-
tion promotion. In the natural gas subsector IDA has, in parallel with ADB,
supported the development of the transmission and distribution infrastructure
required to bring natural gas to the markets. It has also assisted in estab-
lishing a reliable reserve base from which Bangladesh's foreseeable require-
ments for the next 10 to 20 years can be met. One gas infrastructure project



-14-
(the Bakhrabad GCs Development Project, Cr. 1091-BD) has been satisfactorily
completed and a Second Gas Development Project (Cr. 1586-BD) is currently
under implementation. These projects have formed the basis for institutional
improvements which in turn have led to the reorganization of the gas industry
and the introduction of an integrated gas system. In terms of policies, IDA
has supported the introduction of rational gas pricing policies
(paragraph 34), and the development of new markets including the piloting of
the use of compressed natural gas in the transport sector. One of the issues
identified by the Energy Assessment Mission of October 1982 was the inef-
ficiency of the energy processing and utilization industries, including the
ERL refinery and a number of industrial plants. The Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1357-3D), as well as the proposed
project, address these issues and provide support for the rehabilitation of
existing facilities and the introduction of energy conservation measures to
reduce the overall cost of supply. The rehabilitation of the ERL refinery
under Cr. 1357-BD is progressing satisfactorily; all major procurement con-
tracts have been finalized and the rehabilitation program is approximately
80% completed. FinalLy, IDA is financing a Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (Cr. 1402-BD) aimed at attracting foreign capital for exploration in
areas which are are believed to have oiL production potential.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The proposed project was appraised by an IDA mission that visited
Bangladesh in October 1985. A timetable of key events relating to the
project and special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington in July 1986. The Government of
Bangladesh was represented by a delegation led by Mr. Shafiul Alam,
Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources.
Project Objectives and Description
43.     The main objectives of the project would be to help minimize the cost
of petroleum imports and rationalize the supply of petroleum products. To
achieve these objectives, the project would include: Ci) a Refinery
Modification Component to enhance the flexibility of the Eastern Refinery
Limited facility at Chittagong by bringing about a better match between
refinery output and domestic demand for petroleum products, thereby reducing
the cost of meeting petroleum product requirements; and (ii) an LPC Recovery,
Storage and Distribution Component designed: (a) to establish the institu-
tional framework and facilities to promote the consumption of about ll,Q00
mTpa of LPC with a view to establishing the capability for eventually market-
ing up to 120,000 mTpa expected to be recovered from natural gas fields in
the future; and (b) to promote private sector involvement in the distribution
of LPG.



-15-
44.     Refinery Modification Component.  This component would consist
essentially of the installation of secondary conversion facilities in the
refinery, resulting in improved yields of middle distillates and reduced
yields of fuel oil. Specifically, this component would include revamping the
refinery's hydro-desulfurizer to a mild hydrocracker, installation of a
long-residue visbreaker and associated facilities, and upgrading of existing
facilities as required. The project would provide for detailed engineering,
bulk materials procurement, construction, start-up, training, and management
and technical assistance. In addition to the process units and ancillary
equipment, the project would also provide for operations assistance,
training, and spares for preventive maintenance for a period of five years.
45.     LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribktion Component.  The 11,000 mTpa
of LPG to be marketed under the project riuld be relatively small compared to
the potential production expected from the Bakhrabad, Beani Bazar,
Kailashtila and Titas natural gas fields. However, the proposed component
which would be implemented by LP Gas and a privately operated entity to be
established under the project (paragraph 47) would provide the vehicle to
develop the institutional arrangements as well as the management and opera-
tional skills and distribution and marketing network to market larger quan-
tities in the future. The component would include: the modification of
existing ,as treating facilities at Kailashtila to recover about 5,000 mTpa
of LPG and 2,000 mTpa of condensate; installation of bulk LPC loading
facilities at Chittagong to facilitate the loading of LPG tankers; construc-
tion of bulk storage and distribution terminals at Khulna and Baghabari;
acquisition of LPG tankers and trucks and LPG cylinders; installation of
bottling plants at Khulna, Baghabari and Kailashtila; equipment for eight
retail filling outlets; related infrastructure faciLities; and training and
operational assistance to LP Cas.
Project Implementation
46.     The implementation of the refinery modification component would be
the responsibility of ERL. The engineering consultants which carried out the
original feasibility study have prepared the invitation-to-bid documents,
including basic and project design specifications, and required project
details to enable the award of the contract on a lump-sum turnkey basis.
Project implementation is expected to take 36 months. A General Contractor
would be selected to implement the project and provide operations assistance
on the basis of a single turnkey contract. A project impLementation unit,
headed by the Project Implementution Coordinator, would be estabLished within
ERL to coordinate and monitor project implementation. A Project Management
Assistance Team (PMAT) would be recruited by ERL to assist with the execution
of the project, including evaluation of bids received, selection of the
General Contractor, supervision of works and establishment of operating
norms. The PMAT would answer directly to the Project Implementation
Coordinator. The appointment of the PMAT with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credir effectiveness.



- 16 -
47.     The LPG Recovery Component would be implemented by BOGMC.  Engagement
of consultants for the design and detailed engineering of the LPG recovery
plant would be a condition of credit effectiveness. No other project
implementation assistance is required as BOGMC has adequately competent
project management staff. The LPG Storage and Distribution Component would be
implemented by LP Gas and a privately operated entity which would be
established with the possible assistance of IFC and in which the Government
may take a minority participation. Both entities would share responsibility
for the transportation and distribution of LPG in the western zone, LP Gas
from a terminal located at Baghabari, the private entity from a terminal
located at Khulna or any other suitable location in the western zone.  LP Gas
would be responsible for the construction of loading facilities at Chittagong
and bottling plants and associated facilities at Baghabari and Kailashtila;
the private company for construction and operation of the Khulna bottling
terminal and distribution of LPG in the western zone. The Government has
invited proposals from private investors for participation in the project. A
marketing and distribution agreement between the Government and one or more
privately owned LPG Storage and Distribution companies, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of
disbursement under the LPC Storage and Distribution Component (except for the
Kailashtila facilities). This private company (or companies) would transport
LPG to the western zone, construct and operate the bottling plant, bulk
storage, and distribution facilities at Khulna and undertake the distribution
of LPC in the western zone. Selected consultants, preferably from an
operating LPG distribution company, would be engaged to assist LP Gas in
implementing the different project sub-components for which it is responsible,
and in establishing safety and inspection standards. Recruitment of LPG
Distribution and Marketing Consultants, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of disbursement under the LPG Storage and Distribution Component, as
would be the appointment of a General Manager for LP Gas (paragraph 39).
Project Costs and Financing
48.     The total financing requirements of the project, including physical
contingencies, price escalation and interest during construction, are
estimated at US$81.3 million equivalent, of which $52.5 million is in foreign
exchange. Physical contingencies were calculated at lt of the base cost.
Price contingencies are based on projected price increases of 7% in 1986, 7%
in 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.6% in 1989, and 4.5% in 1990 for foreign costs; and
10% each year from 1985 to 1990 for local costs. The proposed IDA Credit
(US$47.0 million) would cover about 90% of the project cost, net of taxes and
duties and of the contribution of private investors. The proceeds of the
credit used for the Refinery Modification Component, the LPG Recovery
Component and the publicly managed LPG Storage and Disi.ribution Component
wouLd be onlent to ERL, BOCMC and LP Gas, respectively, at a rate of 11.5% for
a period of 15 years, including a grace period of four years. ERL, BOGMC and
LP Cas would bear the foreign exchange risk. Based on projected rates of
international inflation, onlending rates would be positive in real terms. The
execution and Government ratification of Subsidiary Lean Agreements between
the Government and ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas, respectively, and the approval of
project proformas would be a condition of credit effectiveness.



-17-
Procurement
49.     All contracts, equipment and materials to be financed by IDA would be
procured in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. International com-
petitive bidding (IcB) would be used for the procurement of individual items
costing over $200,000. For purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods procured under ICB, qualified domestic suppliers wouLd be
allowed a margin of preference equal to 15Z of the c.i.f. bid price of
imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
less. Small items costing less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate of US$4.0
million, would be procured through limited international bidding after
solicitation of quotations from qualified suppliers from at least three
IDA-eligible countries. To the maximum extent possible, identical or similar
items would be grouped together for the purpose of bidding and procurement.
Consulting services would be awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines for
the use of consultants.



-18-
Methods of Procurement
(US$ Million)
Project Element                           Procurement Method
ICB    Other      N.A. /a    Total Cost
a) Equipment and Materials
Including Installation and
Start-up (Lup Sum Turnkey)
(l) Refinery Modification           30.6       -        5.4 /b        36.0
(27.0)              (-)           (27.0)
(2) LPG Recovery Plant               6.1       -        0.4 /b         6.5
(4.6)              (-)            (4.6)
b) Equipment Supply
(1) LPG Handling Equipment
and LPG Cylinders                4.2       2.0 /c   0.9 /b         7.1
(2.9)    (1.0)    (-)             (3.9)
(2) LPG Trucks and Tankers           4.8       -        0.9 lb         5.7
(2.0)              (-'            (2.0)
(3) Spare Parts for ERL              4.2       2.0 /c   1.0 lb         7.2
(4.2)    (2.0)    (-)             (6.2)
c) Civil Works                           -        -         3.0            3.0
=                                    s _ ~~~~~~~~()  (-)
d) Project Implementation
Assistance/Training                  -         3.3 /d   -               3.3
(3.3)                   (3.3)
49.9      7.3       11.6          68.8 /e
(40.7)    (6.3)      (-)          (47.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed
by IDA.
/a Not applicable.
7E Customs duties.
7E Limited International Bidding.
71 Following Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
Th Net of interest during construction.
Disbursements
50.     The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of six years.
The rate of disbursement for the LPC component follows the historic disburse-
ment profile for industrial projects in the South Asia Region. There is no
relevant, comparable profile on which to base disbursement projections for
the refinery modification component. The disbursement projections for this
component, therefore, reflect the relatively advanced stage of project



-19-
preparation (paragraph 46) and the fact that approximately 90% of this com-
ponent would be executed under a lump sum turnkey contract which would allow
for comparatively speedy diabursement of credit funds. Disbursements from
the proposed Credit would cover lo0u of both foreign and local expenditure.
(ex-factory) and 802 of local costs under turnkey contracts.   All disburse-
ments would be fully documented. In order to facilitate disbursements, a
special account, with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million equivalent, would
be established in a Bangladesh Bank for the project.
Accounts and Audits
51.     BOCMC, ERL and LP Gas are required by law to prepare full accounts of
their financial position and the results of their operation. Their account-
ing systems are reasonably good. The companies also follow adequate internal
control procedures and are subject to both external audit by a firm of
chartered accountants and Government audits which are submitted to the con-
cerned Ministry. The three companies would furnish IDA with copies of their
unaudited financial statements, including the project accounts, not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year and, not later than nine
months after the end of the fiscal year, furnish copies of the audited state-
ments together with a copy of the report and comments of the Comptroller and
Auditor General.
Manitoring and Reporting
52.     ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas will be required to submit to the Association
quarterly project progress and procurement status reports within 30 days of
the end of each quarter. In addition, within six months after closing date
of the project, each company will prepare and furnish to the Association a
completion report on the project.
Finances
53.     Financial analyses were carried out for each project component
separately. The separate projections for ERL are discussed below. The
financial outlook of BOGCC's gas operating companies was discussed under the
Second Gas Development Project (Cr. 1586-BD), for which an IDA Credit was
approved in April 1985, and financial covenants were agreed at that time Lo
safeguard their financial viability. The small LPG recovery component
included in the proposed project is not expected to modify significantly
BOCMC's operations.
54.     ERL.  The current arrangement between ERL and BPC (which in respon-
sible for crude oil procurement aid marketing of refined products) provides
for ERL to be reimbursed by BPC for all its processing costs and be given, in
addition, a 15Z return on its paid-up capital, net of taxes. This has
provided ERL with an assured minimum, albeit limited, level of profitability.
This arrangement between BPC and ERL for the remuneration of ERL refinery
operations, however, is not satisfactory in that it does not provide ERL



-20-
management with adequate incentives to improve cost efficiency. As a result
of the investment under the proposed project, the refinery would generate
revenues sufficient to cover all the production costs as well au provide an
adequate recurn on capital employed. Refineries similar to ERL generally
operate on the basis of a processing fee per barrel of crude feed that
reflects the complexity of their configuration, in addition to an allowance
for refinery fuel and losses. Under the proposed project, ERL's mode of
remuneration would be changed, beginning January 31, 1987, to a system under
which ERL would be paid a processing fee per barrel (in dollar equivalent)
fixed at a level that woull provide ERL with a reasonable rate of return
(about 101) on revalued assets employed in the refinery operation. In
addition, a system of rewards and penaLties designed to maximize the output
of middle distillates based on a set of operating and production norms would
be instituted. The details of the system of norms, rewards and penalties
would be prepared by BPC/ERL, with the assistance of consultants, for the
refinery as it will operate following the completion of the rehabilitation
program being implemented under Cr. 1357-BD (paragraph 41). Rehabilitation
works under the ongoing project are adequately advanced to allow a valid
assessment of the refinery's potential production output. The establishment
of operating norms, rewards and penalties, based on this assessment and
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit. Following modification of the refinery under the proposed credit, it
would be necessary to review the system of norms to accommodate the resulting
change in the composition of the refinery's output. Modification of the
refinery is expected to be completed within approximately three years. The
PHAT would be responsible for preparing a revised set of nonms, rewards and
penalties for the refinery as modified under the proposed project. ERL would
submit to the Association an optimized production program every six months
during the project implementation period, together with a review of the
extent to which agreed targets and norms have been met over the preceding six
months.
55.     Projections indicate that ERL's financial position would remain
satisfactory. The financial internal rate of return for the refinery as a
whole for the 16 years operating life of the project (1987-2003) is estimated
at 11%. The debt service coverage ratio, initially down to 1.2 in FY91 when
repayment on the proposed loan wouLd begin, improves to 1.3 or higher
thereafter. The operating return on revalued net fixed assets in operation
would also be satisfactory, starting at 11% in FY91 and improving to 23% in
FY95. ERL's current debt/equity ratio is 47:53. The financial covenants
agreed under Credit 1357-BD (Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation
Project) would be maintained under the project but for one change indicated
below. The covenants require that: (i) ERL's long-term debt/equity ratio
would not exceed 65:35 from FY87. To this end as a condition of disbursement
the Government would convert Tk 120 million of ERL's debt to the Government
to equity; (ii) ERL's current ratio would be at least 1.5:1 from FY87;
(iii) no dividend would be declared by ERL if this would cause its current
ratio to fall beLow 1.5:1; (iv) ERL would not incur any additional debt if
this would cause ERL's debt service coverage in any fiscal year to fall below



-21-
1.3 (it is 1.5 for each fiscal year under Credit 1357-BD); and, (v) until
completion of the refinery modification portion of the project, ERL would not
incur capital expenditures for fixed or other non-current assets (other than
those required for the proposed project) in excess of an aggregate amount of
US$5.0 million equivalent without prior IDA approval. The reduction from 1.5
to 1.3 in the minimum debt service ratio would not adversely affect the
financial viability of ERL considering the combined impact of the other
covenants.
56.     LPG SoraeandQistribution.  This project component, to be imple-
mented by a combination of public sector (LP Gas) and private sector
entiLies, is of a pilot nature and carries costs that would benefit the
larger LPG Distribution Operations that will be needed in the future. Even
though the current retail price could be increased (paragraph 36), in order
to encourage consumption of LPG, it is not proposed to effect any immediate
change.  BPC currently transfers about 6,000 tons of LPG from ERL to LP Gas
at a price of Tk 5,200 (US$168) per ton. LP Gas in turn transfers bottled
LPG to the markecing companies at its battery limits at Tk 7,600
(US$245)/ton. The marketing companies then sell the bottled LPG to consumers
at Tk 8,400 (US$270)/ton ex-depot. While the existing pricing arrangement,
which allows for a margin of approximately Tk 2,400 (US$77) per ton to LP
Gas, is adequate for the disposal of LPG in the east, it would be necessary
to raise this margin substantially to cover the cost of transport to the
western zone. Financial projections assume a margin of Tk 7,100 (US$230) per
ton for the LPG produced at the refinery and Tk 5,550 (US$180) for the LPC to
be produced at Kailashtila. Pending de-regulation of LPG prices (para. 36)
the transfer prices of LPG from ERL and BOGHC to LP Gas, and bulk and bottled
LPG from LP Gas to the marketing companies would be reviewed at least every
twelve months beginning June 30, 1987, and set at such levels as would ensure
that LP Gas has sufficient internal cash to meet, as a minimum, all its
operating costs and debt service payments. Cylinders procured under the
project by LP Gas would be sold to the marketing companies and/or private
dealers except for a small inventory to be retained by LP Gas. The current
price of Tk 1,000 (US$33) is adequate in relation to the import price of
cylinders but will requice monitoring. Under the project, LP Gas would
review at least once a year the price of cyLinders to ensure that all
applicable costs including procurement, taxes and duties are covered.
Ecology and Safety
57.     The refinery does not discharge any liquid or solid wastes harmful to
the environment.  However, oil sludge, some of which could contain lead from
the gasoline tanks, is either dumped in ponds or has been left in non-usable
tanks in the past. With the repair and rehabilitation of tanks, sludge can
no longer be accumulated but would be treated in the separators and disposed
of either as fuel oil, blended into asphalt, or burnt. With the rehabilita-
tion of the process heaters, sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions would be
reduced substantially. Recovery of LPG from refinery gas or natural gas is a
clean, non-polluting process and creates no harmful by-products. Process



-22-
facilities both at the refinery and at the Kailashtila gas treating plant
would be designed in accordance with international standards for the
industry. The marketing of bulk or bottled LPG is aLso a clean and safe
process. The loading and unloading of bulk LPG cause the discharge cf minute
quantities of non-toxic gas into the atmosphere. However, compared to the
discharges associated with the transfer of other petroleum products, the
contamination caused by LPG is negligible. Unlike other petroleum products,
LPG is delivered and stored under pressure. All equipment and storage ves-
sels including cylinders would be designed in conformity with standards
applicable to pressure vessels as stipulated by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers (ASME) or comparable safety codes, and procured from
suppliers with experience of not less than ten years in the fabrication of
such equipment/facilities. In addition, to ensure proper maintenance of
facilities, the project would provide for technical assistance in LPG market-
ing and distribution to :ielp establish adequate safety and inspection
procedures, provide training of staff, and supervise operations during the
initial period.
Project Benefits and Justification
58.     Refinery Modification Component.  The economic benefits to be derived
from the modification of the refinery would come mainLy from increased yields
of premium value middle distillate products, namely, kerosene and diesel oil.
The economic evaluation for the refinery modification component is based on a
comparison of the net costs of meeting the country's petroleum product
requirements with and rithout the project, taking into account the incremen-
tal capital and operating costs of the new facilities, the loss in revenue
from reduced output of fuel oil and the benefits to be derived from the
increased yield of middle distillates. The base case for the economic
evaluation is based on Bank projections for crude oil prices made in early
1986. The projected corresponding petroleum products prices are based on
the lower margins between crude oil and products that have prevailed over the
past several years. Based on these assumptions, this component of the
project would have an ERR of 21Z.
59.     LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribution.  For the purpose of economic
analysis, the recovery and distribution of LPG at Kailashtila, and the
storage and distribution of LPC in the western zone are considered as two
independent operations. The Kailashtila Comoonent comprises recovery of LPG
(5,000 tons) by BOGMC and its storage, bottling and sale by LP Cas. The
Western Zone Component comprises storage, bottling, transportation and dis-
tribution of the additional LPC (6,000 tons) to be produced by ERL, to be
handled by LP Gas and the privately operated company. 5,000 mTpa of LPG are
expected to be recovered and distributed under the Kailashtila LPG operation.
The input cost of all 5,000 mTpa is the aggregate of its value as natural gas
(at the wellhead), plus the fixed and operating costs in recovering, bottling
and distributing the LPG. For deriving the benefits, the economic evaluation
assumes that one mT of LPC replaces 1.50 mT of kerosene. Condensate,
produced when recovering LPG from natural gas, yields additional benefits



-23-
(taken at value of crude oil). The ERR for this component of the project
would be 17%. This return is satisfactory for a pilot project. The economic
analysis for the Western Zone LPG operation assumes that LPG would substitute
largely for kerosene and that 1 ton of LPG would displace 1.5 tons of
kerosene. This component is sensitive, among other factors, to bulk tran-
sportation costs. While the facilities provided under the project are
capable of handling larger quantities of LPG, the economic evaluation is
based on the distribution and marketing of the additional 6,000 mTpa only.
The ERR for this component would be 15%, but would improve rapidly as larger
quantities of LPG become available.
Project Risks
60.     For the Refinery Modification component, the main risks are those
resulting from changes in the international price of crude oil and petroleum
products. However, the anticipated economic return for this component would
be satisfactory even at price margins between diesel and fuel oil well below
past levels. There is little risk of the margin between petroleum products
and crude oil deteriorating to such an extent that refinery operations, with
the proposed modification, could become temporarily uneconomic. With regard
to the LPG components, the LPG market is virtually untapped and LPG would
displace mainly kerosene and firewood, both high value fuels. The risks of
the benefits being eroded to a level that would make the project components
uneconomic is slim, as savings are significant when LPG displaces kerosene,
and the additional benefits of reduced deforestation when substituting for
firewood are substantial. The risk of not having a market to sell the addi-
tional LPG is low, since there is a very large unsatisfied demand.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
61.     I am satisfied that the proposed project would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
November 11, 1986



- 24-                                                          Annex I
Page 1
Iconhi  iior
topUtLtinum 100.0 millim (191S)
GlUP VPr C pita:  UIS$1 30 (19541
Ams,
(milli:,                 Ave 4srage Annual lncrser. (2)                        Shire of CU at Nmraet Prices (17
in currsat price)   _  _   (i couMt Drc.(in currupt arJ                                                 1
xloiennr                    _n5__.... n                            f1bh-60                 .nO 4I 70                 .nn-               xu n mIM  LBL Y
Ceese domestic preduct a            i5.9Yb              4.0       -0.e        i.5      1.4         100.0   100.0   100.0   I00.0   100.0  100.0  IOU.0  100.0
Agriculture LI                    71,35               3.3       -1.3        1.3      2.B          59.9    54.9    02.3 5    3.4    4  T.  44.9   48.1   408.
ladustry a L                                          1.9      -3.1        *.4       3.b           7.1     9.6    33.3    12.7    13.8   31.3   32.0   33.9
Services La                       L'St                4.9        3.3       8.3       4.1          iC.3    30.0    20.2    34.0    39.b   43.0   19.9  36.1
Caseptiios                          153275              4.4       -0.7        6.0      2.2          92.4    92.8    99.2   9S.0   103.b  9W.1   98.0   91.2
Crema  domestic invsutmtnt           2,37R             10.9      -10.9        2.0      0.l           b.9    11.3      8.3    16.7    13.7   3b.4   38.2   14.9
xport. of goodt   4 nil              1.173              0.8      -11.7        3.4     17.           10.0     8.3      1.0      7.a     7.1    0.5    3.7    4.0
Imports of goend 4 nt.               2,843              0.5      -12.0       4.1      131            9.3    12.5    10.3    22.5    25.2   23.2   20.1   21.0
Gross national savings               1.043             24.5    -17.7         22.1     19.7           0.9      b.1     1.0      4.0    -1.0    b.80    N.      5.5
-~t
(Willion tlS                                Comp-.ition of Nercba-dis  Trsds (11
in current prices)                      ______s_                                ____-
IU!ICPANDI016  TM^D
H.rchandls  sxports                    933                          100.0    100.0   100.0    300.0    100.0    300.0    300.0
Primary AL                           2b                            41.8     31 .5    29.7      31.9     33.3      31.9     11.8
Nmnufacturs                          437                           58.2      68.5    70.3    4bS1       668.      b9.1      b5.2
Merchandise imports                  2.b47                          300.0    300.0   100.0    300.0    100.0    300.0    100.0
Food                                 438                           4716     44.4    33.6       14.0     19.5      21.0     23.5
Petroleum,                           367                            3.9      11 .1    16.2    21.3      19.7     13.3       11.9
Machiinry 4  quipment                "10                           12.5      13.S    23.0      23.9     29.5      2R.1     23.4
Other                              1,04b                           35.7      31.0    27.4      440.     11.3      35.4     19.2
m&    nn    nin   FIZZ   tin    nn]][ um                           2 i      uF        a        tni 'L  Ermn
1j3r. 4D  TWOs OF TR4A0  IKDICs (1972173-1003
COP Deflator                                      180.4    240.7    183.1    177.2    203.4    211.8    252.1         247.3    295.9    331.4    Ih..1    411.1
Exchange r.t. (tIiSI                                2.9bb3   8.01S9  14.R521  15.1664  15.1715  35.222a  15.4177   36.34t7  2D.0400  23.7bDO  24.9417  25.0h70
Export pricq into.                                104.3    319.0    103.4    100.9    12B.1    160.9    193.9         175.7    141.1    154.5   1 7..8    708.5
tmport price Liodeo                               144.9    387.8    180.2    176.2    Ib8.1    208.9    224.9    276.9    259.9    231.4    223.4    213.7
Terms of trade Lnds.                               72.1     63.4      57.4      41.1     75.0      71.0      56.7      064.      58.8     65.1      78.h      91.6
As 1 of COP
unam..nntnnnnfi r cW
(at current prices) 
FT5      FY7)    -YLL_TDQ    -M2 rro3 -- _ FY05
717SLIC NNAN0CE
Correct revenue                                         5.4       9.5      10.5        31.8      10.1      9.b      30.0
Corre.t expenditure                                     4.5       1.8        7.7        8.4       8.5      8.0       8.1
Curre-t surplus (.3 or deficIt  -)                     .0.9      .1.7     * . 3          1.2     .2.2     *Ilb      .1.1
Capital eapenditur.                                     3.1       9.5       13.3       17.4      13.8      9.8       9.3
Forrign financain                                       2.4       6.0       3.2         0.0      11.4      0.1       b.0
n760-70      nW70-75       FT5-B0       n8O-1
GNP Sreotb rate I   k)                                 4.2          -0.4            5.1         3.7
GrP per capita grouth rate (2) f                       1.5          -3.0            0.1         1.3
- Dot available
- not applicable
a At market prices.
jbi Ran jute. lea. snd fisheriws.
L Covernoent dats umed is calculations.
August 18, 1986



- 25 -                                          Annex I
Page 2
_ S _ HQUA
CatU   or PAYlUNYS  UThmmNA     nAPTLW  JI
(Cillio io 55, in nuiran  price.)
Act ual_
WA  EZ 112 n    fl   ni  zn     nu   nit  nu   .&   f
Nost  mport. of god.                              -1,055    -903    -470    -559    -16"  -I,b50  -1.522  -1,94   -1,v23   -1.542   -1.71*
bporLs of good.                                    344      372      403      490     010      722      711      626      856       521       93
laport. of good                                 -1,403  -1.275    -873  41,349  -1,55   -2,372  -2.533  -,572  -2,309   -2,353   -2,647
lNst  sports of serviem.                               21     - 7      -29      -32      -28        4       15     -70    -112        -33       -74
Vorbere' r.ittancee                                    35       29      60      113      14)      210     379      424      62D       621       477
Curretm~uu nta     U1U1                           -1003      =H,    =W         =ZLM    :L   -1 i35  -14211  -1 5f92  -I le7    -9U    -1 .311
Direct private inveetuent                              ..               .        .         .
llLT loan. (net)                                      4S5     497      238      395      420      550      513     505      476       503       443
Crant. &  rent-lilke tlowe                            352     245      265      394      551      592      564     697      720       708       701
Other capital fleow  (net)                            274       57      17      -39      -26      144      307     255      164       -U         23
Change in rvearves (- - incrmsael                    -151       53     -i1       25    -124       119       24     127    -236       -181       144
International reaerwea (end of perLodl               2b6      213      294      269      393      271     249      122      358       539       395
lemerve. a. entbe of import. of next year             2.5     2.9      2.6      2.1      2.0      1.3     1.2      0.6      1.8       2.5       1.8
an   mt  an  an  mXa  urn   s                                      ann16
CRO9S. DISUtSM
Total greas diaburammta                         519       563      268      402     476      655      627      6e0      604      562        537
Conceeaional                                  458       533     244      382      400      665      610     604      541      543        501
Bilateral                                   343       390     144      243      216      337      350     369      272    I18          140
IDA                                         112       128      56       5-      153      152      170     15B      190      251        226
Other mltilaterel                             3        15      14       51       91      176       84      77       79       74        141
Non-eoceenioael                                60        30       24       20      16       20       17       76      63       19         30
Bilateral                                    45        16       6        3        4       16        3        7      28        4          4
1330                                          -         -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -          -
Other multilateral                            -         I       -        -        -        -        1      31       17        6         12
Private                                      15        13      25       17       12        4       13      38       23        9          8
NET DISIISPJ2UTS                                    495       497      238      365      420     635       577     640      530      423        339
DENT OU2TSTAUIN
Total outatmeding and disbured                1.355    1,797   2,053    2,473  2,853   3,113   3,637   4,133   4.D78   5,133             5,433
Official                                    1,233    1,659   1,940    2,394  2,775   3,099   3.572   4,045   4,578   4,870             5,371
IRD                                         55        55      55         5      55       55       55      55       55       55         55
122                                         255      380      466       554    707       859   1,027   1,518   1,366   1.633         1,841
Other                                      923    1,254   1.419    1,785  2,013   2.185   2,490   2.509   3,157   3,352              3,469
Private                                       122       105      113        79     75       74       65       88     IO       92         52
Undiabursed debt                              2,019       94e   1,016    1,309  1,525   1,830   2,150   2,666   2,617   3,263            3,170
DEBT 98RVUZ
Total debt aervice                               31        BB       59        69     93       92      202       98      135     139         195
Amortization                                   21        66       30        37     56       50       50       40       74      65        121
Interert                                       ID        22      28        32      37       42       51       5B      61       74         77
lBSD debt service                                 0         2        3         3      A        4        4        4        3        5          3
IDA debt sersice                                  1         2        3         4      4        6        7        8        a      13          19
Average interest rate
Official                                      2.8       1.2      1.3       1.2    1.3      1.2      1.6      1.8     1.0      1.3        1.3
Private                                       2.3       5.9      7.2      6.2    6.1       6.9    10.8      3.       5.6      5.3        6.4
Average mturity
Official                                     35.1      42.9    38.6      36.5   36.2    34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5    40.5            40.4
Private                                      25.3      11.3    11.0       9.5   16.8    19.2        7.;    11.7    12.9       7.3       14.3
U121 GROUP DM 0S3RE (21
IfRD lODtotsLDODl                                 4         3        3         2      2        2        2        1        1        1          1
IBRD dimbhraememts/total disbursementa            0         0        0         0      0        0        0        0        a       0          0
IPD  debt aervice/total debt servlce              0         2        6         5      4        4        4        4        2       2          2
IDA  WOD/total DOD                               19        21       23        22     25       27       28       29       29      32         34
TDA disburesuenta/totel disburenante             22        23       32        20     33       23       28       26       35      50         42
IDA debt service/total debt mervice               3         3        5         5      4        6        7        8        6        9         10
TERX  STRUCTURE                                          At June  1935         lSUIDA LDING (At Jupe 1951            J IJl    if
Maturity atrueture of debt                                                   Outs tading 6 Diaburmed               54.9    18.47
Maturitiea due within S years                             12.8            Indiaburaed                              -      1.127
Iaturitiea due vithin 10  areer                           31.8            Outstanding, iel. Oandianured          54.9    2,974
Intereat atructure of debt
Interest due within I yeirn                                1.6
- not veailable
August 18, I966



- 26 -                             ANNE I
Page 1 of 4
TRE STATUS OF DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGIADESH l
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1986)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million lb
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 46 credits fully disbursed                        54.90 1,638.09         -
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00        2.13
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00        0.70
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00        9.53
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater thulna Power
Distribution                    -       28.00       2.07
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage A
Flood Control                   -       25.00       6.28
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00        1.11
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II          -      20.00        3.80
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rebabilitation                  -       29.00       5.88
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation        -      20.00        6.39
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation              -      11.00        4.55
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -         40.00        9.12
1065a);    1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III            -      35.00        7.43
1096fc     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                -      25.00       10.33
1117Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II           -      26.37        2.59
ll4OLc     1981  Bangladesh  Haud Tubevells                      -      18.00        8.61
1147/c     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -      40.00        6.98
1184ft     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II         -      27.00       20.43
12041c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer          -      15.00        2.82
_205/c     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -         30.00       25.37
1215Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Researeb II             -      27.00       16.30
1247/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                     -      60.00       57.68
1254Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power              -      92.00       71.78
1262/Lc    1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -      40.00       14.57
1287/c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubevells II                   -      44 17       30.06
1301lc     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                  -       6.00        0.53



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1318/c     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training            -        7.80        5.88
1321/c     1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III              -      35.00       22.91
1349Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
management)                     -       12.00       8.21
1357/c     1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -       28.50      24.15
13841c     1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00       92.27
13961c     1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II            -       8.10        6.56
13991c     1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                 -        20 00     16.81
14021c     1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -          23.00      12.48
1440/c     1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance          -       25.00      28.34
14551c     1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research        -       24.50      27.17
1467/c     1984  Bangladesh  Water Development Board             -       41.50      44.04
1477/c     1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II          -       23.00      26.21
F022/c     1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II          -       22.00      25.12
149014     1984  Bangladesh  Technical Education                 -       36.00      35.34
1504-0 Ic  1984  Bangladesh  SAP  725 BD                         -       10.00       7.32
1504-1 Lc  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                         -        5.00       2.41
1504-2 /c  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                         -        7.00       1.52
1504-3 /c  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                         -        8.00       3.20
1574/c     1985  Bangladesh  Second Primary Education            -       78.00      87.75
1586Lc     1985  Bangladesh  Second Gas Development              -      110.00    130.69
1587Lc     1985  Bangladesh  Flood Rehabilitation                -       30.00      18.04
159Lc      1985  Bangladesh  Third Flood Control & Drainage   -          48.00      56.70
1633/c     1986  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification II            -       79.00      89.07
1634lc     1986  Bangladesh  Second Forestry Project             -       28.00      30.46
1648/c /d  1986  Bangladesh  Power Trans & Distribution          -       56.00      63.46



- 28 -
ARnnXII
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1649lc  e  1986  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health III   -          78.00      91.49
1651Lc le  1986  Bangladesh  Shrimp Culture                      -       22.00      25.00
1655fc     1986  Bangladesh  Imports Program XIII                -      200.00    125.23
1734Tc 1e                                                                30.00      32.03
Total                                                      54.90  3,552.03  1,466.90
of which has been repaid                                 3.00      14.54     -
Total now outstanding                                      51,90  3.537.49
Amount sold                                              0.00       0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             51.90  3.537.49
Total undisbursed                                                           1.4466. 90
la  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
j.c  IDA Sixth and Seventh Replenishments Credits denominated in SDRs.  The principal
amounts are shown in U.S. dollars equivalent at negotiations as shown in the
President's Reports. The undisbursed amounts are calculated at the rate of exchange
on September 30, 1986.
jd  Effective October 14, 1986.
/e  Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Seutember 30. 1986)
Fiscal                                                               Amounts in US$ Million
Year            Obliaor                Type of Business             Loan   Equity    Total
1969    Karnaphuli Paper Hills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products          5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highupeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company                -       1.05      1.05
1985/86  Bata Shoe Co.                  Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.             and 'annery                   4.46     0.51      4.97
1985     Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                        Capital Market                2.59      0.17    2.76
Total gross commitments                                             13.85      2.72    16.57
less cancellation., terminations, repayments and sales             7.21     0.63      7.84
Total now held bv IFC                                                6.64      2.09     8.73
Total undisbursed                                                    3.34      0.08     3.42



- 30 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPC RECOVERY AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:
14 months
(b)   Agencies preparing the project:
ERL, BOGMC, and LP Gas
(c)   Date of first preparation mission by IDA:
March 1985
Cd)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 1985
ge)   Date of completion of negotiations:
August 1, 1986
(f)   PLanned date of effectiveness:
90 days following signature.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
Section III:   Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a)   Appointment of the Project Management Assistance Team by
ERL (paragraph 46);
(b)   Engagement by BOCGC of consultants for the design and
detailed engineering of the LPC recovery plant
(paragraph 47);
(c)   Execution and Government ratification of Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between Government and ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas,
respectively, and the Government approval of project
proformas (paragraph 48); and
Cd)   Establishment, with the assistance of consultants, of a
set of operating norms, rewards and penalties,
satisfactory to IDA, for the ERL refinery as
rehabilitated under Credit 1357-BD (paragraph 54).



- 31 -                       ANNEx III
Page 2
Conditions of Disbursement are:
(a)  In respect to the LPG Storage and Distribution component,
(i) recruitment of consultants for design and implementa-
tion of LPG distribution and marketing consultant for
component; (ii) appointment of a General Manager for LP
Gas, and (iii) execution of a marketing and distribution
agreement between the Government and one or more private
LPG storage and distribution companies (paragraph 47); and
(b)  Conversion of Tk 120 million of ERL's debt owed to the
Government into equity (paragraph 55).
Other Conditions are:
(a)  Not later than July 30, 1989 the Government will remove
all price controls over the distribution and sale of LPG
(paragraph 36);
(b)  Not later than January 1, 1987, the Government will cause
BPC to stipulate, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, credit periods, interest and administrative
charges on accounts receivable by BPC from subsidiaries of
BPC as well as by the subsidiaries from their customers;
the Government will further cause BPDB to reduce its
arrears by Tk 50 million per month until these arrears are
fully cleared (paragraph 37);
[c)  Not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, BOGMC, ERL and LP Gas will furnish to IDA copies of
their unaudited financial statements, and, not later than
nine months after the end of the fiscal year, furnish
copies of the audited statements (paragraph 51);
(d)  Beginning no later than January 31, 1987 BPC will compen-
sate ERL according to a tolling fee for each barrel of oil
processed with such fees to be based on a set of operating
norms, bonuses and penalties, satisfactory to IDA, which
would produce a return of not less than 10Z of ERL's
revalued assets employed in the refinery operation
(paragraph 54);
(e)  ERI would submit to the Association every six months
optimized production programs during the project implemen-
tation period, together with a review of the extent to
which production targets and norms have been met
(paragraph 54);



-32 -                        ANNEX III
Page 3
(f) Beginning in FY87, ERL will ensure that (i) its long-term
debt/equity ratio will not exceed 65:35; (ii) its current
ratio will be at least 1.5:1; (iii) no dividend will be
declared by ERL if this would cause its current ratio to
fall below 1.5:1; (iv) it will incur no additional debt
which would cause its debt service coverage in any fiscal
year to fall below 1.3; and, (O) until completion of
refinery modification, it will incur no capital expendi-
tures for fixed or non-current assets (other than those
required for the project) in excess of an aggregate amount
of US$5.0 million equivalent without prior IDA approval
(paragraph 55);
(g) Beginning June 30, 1987, and at least every twelve months
thereafter the Government will review transfer prices of
LPG from ERL and BOGMC to LP Gas and of bulk and bottled
LPG from LP Gas to marketing companies and set such prices
at levels which will provide LP Gas with internal cash
resources sufficient to cover, as a minimum its operating
and debt service costs (paragraph 56); and
(h) LP Gas will review at least once a year the price of LPG
cylinders to reflect import cost, including taxes and
duties imposed by the Government (paragraph 56).



IBRD 19490R
A    'v 1     9\r                                                                                        2
89.                   96~~q~                                                       912
B A N G L A D E S H
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPG RECOVERY
./  "l >45AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              PrptD l~c,i Gn Ptoncl ,          2A^
126' *         ,                                                                                     2.-Ir6nur  Scn,  u   fO;wi   h
{ C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rlsurnl \,[\.. slu
-.S_W - _ -_7 j ___  Uniulo Irupinilnnin ntiorl
rotFeo- L                                                                                                \2 k 9 { Nnutrns Gui DiucoWuFleui
Dln ur                                                                          -         Primary Romtr
t                                     z z l     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rnilroncls
Rlveni
~:> 1- -Z-   InternnhatinIl tRntindIinr
251                                                                                                                 SVII un *  L  IiI),t i,, I,V   K  y  SdcAu
DIi,eb,Od  TrinI                                                                                              INDIA
Distribution Ternminpl
iguiwi~~~~~~~~~~~ * ~~~~~~                 oPats.akhali ~ ~ SodL 'C  wllp,"
hi.                                                                 I(IunQ." 
s ti\_ Ja.  lglod LP'G   b lJnl ml  i                                        Ash,.v 
z,Sog n  w-24                          luiydobpour                                                                                           ,J24-_
*IN 191.,.T                                                                                          I N  D  I A
~S- ku AhAIA r...fl
~~~~~~~~~~~~rdp                      D                   0 nl lu a'- I
I N  D I  A u.   -.       (
Sm   ~, inS ml u  V,ws.al                                                                        \.
\/Prsoed LPG   \ ug 55k
-  or.g- ornd                         A n  l
Distibution Termkl                                                                               RW p"nilmmS 
s,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    at                      r e   1   .                       E R t\ 
dS W  - k    . lS, S
0 Kutubd,e
BANGLADESHI 
o                                                     25                      75 MILES                               BURMA
2r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
a  ,.,,flntSA .
_ ~ ~ ~ A,b,, /            5k                            a 0                     1W                di
-   31 LAIJIA     7,1                                                                                              9 w
rL<r,^yg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGS 1986\






