DocDmnt Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A. C   /> 
Report No. 6059-lD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPG RECOVERY AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
November 11, 1986
Energy Department
Petroleum Projects, Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Taka (Tk)
US$1.00           =    Tk 31.00
Tk 1.00            =    US$0.0323
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                               0.159 cubic meters (03)
l cubic foot (CF)                       =    0.028 m
I British Thermal Unit (Btu)            -    0.252 kilocalories (Kc)
I metric ton (mT) of oil 0.85 sp.gr.  =    7.4 bbl
I kilometer (km)                        -    0.621 miles
MCF                                     -    thousand standard cubic feet
MMCFD                                   =    million standard cubic feet per day
BCF                                     =    billion cubic feet
TCF                                     -    trillion (1,000 billion) cubic feet
toe                                     -    tons of oil equivalent in heating value
kgoe                                    =    kilogram of oil equivalent in heating value
mw                                           megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
MMtoe                                   =    million tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC                 Burmah Oil Company
BOGMC               Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation
BPC                 Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB                Bangladesh Power Development Board
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
CNG                 Compressed Natural Gas
ERL                 Eastern Refinery Limited
GOB                 Government of Bangladesh
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Associacion
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
IoC                 International Oil Company
LNG                 Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG                 Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LP Gas              LP Gas Limited
LRMC                Long-run Marginal Cost
MHC                 Mild Hydrocracker
NGL                 Natural Gas Liquid
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
p.a.                per annum
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Bangladesh
Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution Prr ^ct
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:      Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) and LP Gas Limited (LP Gas),
which are subsidiaries of Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
(BPC), and Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation
(BOGMC),
Amount:             US$47.00 million
Terms:              Standard
On-Lending
Terms:              The Government would onlend at an interest rate of 11*5%
per annum and on repayment terms of 15 years including 4
years grace, US$35.5 million of the proceeds of the Credit
to ERL for the refinery modification component; US$4.6
million to BOGMC for the LPG recovery component; and US$5.8
million to LP Gas Limited for the LPG storage and
distribution component.  ERL, 9OGMC and LP Gas Limited
would bear the foreign exchange risk. US$1.1 million will
be applied to finance GOB'equity share in a privately-
operated LPG distribution company to be establisbed.
Projiect
Description:        The project provides assistance to minimize the cost of
petroleum imports to the country by rationalizing the
supply of petroleum products and promoting the substitute
use of LPG for kerosene. To achieve these objectives, the
project includes: (i) a modification of the refinery to
enhance its flexibility to better match its production to
the domestic demand for petroleum products, thereby
reducing the cost of meeting these requirements; and (ii)
LPG recovery, storage, distribution and marketing
facilities for some 11,000 mTpa of LPG.
Risks:              The technical, financial and commercial risks involved in
each component are minimal. The expected economic rate of
return from the refinery modification project is 21%, based
on a margin of $35 increasing to $40 per mT between diesel
and fuel oil, a margin below the historical and prevailing
$45 to $50 per mT. At prevailing margins, the ERR is about
40%. With regard to the LPG component, the LPG market is
large and will displace mainly imported kerosene and
firewood. The risks of the benefits being eroded to a
level to make the project uneconomic are small, as foreign
exchange savings are significant when LPG displaces
kerosene. The non-quantifiable benefits of reduced
deforestation when LPG substitutes for firewood would also
be important.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii -
Estimated Project Cost
Povei      Local a/   Total
----- US$ ilo -
I.      Refinery Modification
(1) Refinery Moc.ification and
Operations Assistance                      21.1         6.4        28.1
(2) Project Management Assistance                 1.0         0.1         1.1
(3) Training and Technical Assistance             0.5         0.1         0.6
(4) Spare Parts                                   3.2         0.8         4.0
Sub-total                        26.4         7.4        33.8
II.     LPG Recovery FaCiliLies
LPG Recovery Facilities at
Kailashtila                                 3.5         0.7        4.2
Sub-total                         305         0.7         4.2
III     LPG Storage and Distribution
(1) LPG Bottling Plants                           0.6         0.2         0.8
(2) LPG Bottles                                   3.0         0.6         3.6
(3) LPG Transport (Trucks and Barges)             3.0         0.8         3.8
(4) LPG Retail Filling Units                      0.2         0.2         0.4
(5) Implementation Assistance/Training            0.5         0.2         0.7
(6) Infrastructure Facilities/Port/Land           103         1.3         2.6
Sub-total                         8.6         3.3        11.9
Base Cost Estimate (Total. of I, II & III)            38.5       11.4        49.9
Physical Contingencies                                 3.9        1.1         5.0
Price Contingencies                                   10.1        3.8        13.9
Total Cost                                           52.5        16.3        68.8
Iaterest during Construction                           -         12.5        12.5
Total Financing Required                             52.5        28.8        81.3
a/ Local costs include USS8.2 million of customs duties.



- Lii -
Fincin  Plan
Foreigl      Local        Totel
(lS$ million)…--
IDA                                          4 59          1G1        47.0
Government of 8anggadeslh                                 19.5        19.5
Internal Cash Cene^atioin-                                 7.3         7.3
Private Investors                             6.6          0.9         7.5
52.5        28.8        81.3
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
(IDA Fiscal Year)    1987         1988      [989      1990       1991      1992      1993
Annual            5.5         ?.6      I         il~o       3.6       1.8       0.3
Cumulative        5.5       13.1      30.3       41e3      44.9      46.7      47.0
Economic Rate of Return
(i)  Refinery Modification PLuject Component                          21%
(ii)  LPG Early Recovery Priject Component (Kailashtila)               17%
(iii)  LPG Distribution Project Cowponeat (Westecn Zone)                15%



BANGLADESH
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPC RECOVERY AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
IIs   ITHE DENE ION SECTO... ..... ....... ...    .0 *00000.000*OO          S   .
II. THEEB. CROmmErCTI O .......... ..E.e...... . ......   * ....  ...............
A. Betkgroundm Produts.Sbseco............... ..... , .2
B. Commercial Energy Asalanceoo ................    
C.'Resource Edwet.......... ¢&*o**X^v**¢*****
D. Sector Planning**. ......... Oe6z5
E. Petroleum Products Subsector *.......... o..       .      .........#.9*. 5
1. Consumption and Supply of Petroleum Products        ..............5
2. Petroleum Products Demand Forecast and Balance.o ......,....6
3. Refinery Investment Strategy ................                 .6
F. LPG Consumption and Supply ...........        .*....  ...a7.0
G. Pricing.** ...0...... 8
1. Natural Gas .........                          ......... . ...... .8
2. Petroleum Products.*. ..       .    ....... . . . .. to ..........9
3. LPG9... ........ .                                        ... 10
H. IDA's Role and Lending Strategy in the Petroleum Sector ...... lO
III.  THE BENEFICIARIES ............. **so** ..........      ...... ......... ll
A. Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) ........................ ll
B. Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) ........................*.12
C. LP Gas Limited ........0........ . 12
D.OGM .........    o                        .** *...............................I
E. Accounts and Audits ................. ...... 13
IV.   THE PROJECT              ..................................14
AL. Project Objectives and Scope ..................................14
B. Project Rationale*.........&s. ..........so.......... 14
C. Project Description and Implementation..* ........oo ........   15
1. Refinery Modification Component..........................15
2. Early LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribution..*..........l7
D. Project Preparation Status ......... 000000000 000 0000000000000.18
E. Capital Cost Estimates............... 0 l9
F. Financing Plan        ..........      * e
Go Procurement ..e..**.***.o*... ......2
H. Disbursements    .......         0000000000000000000000000002
I. Monitoring and Reporting.** ..o009.              .............    23
J. Ecology and Safety.......*........ ......... .....23
K. Insurance..         . .............
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited Bangladesh in
October 1985 and was prepared by Messrs. L. Wijetilleke, J.P. Pinard,
F. Manibog, P.T. Venugopal and A.C.W. Vonck.



Page No.
V,    FINANCIAL ANALYSTS.        ......................... .o... f.     .... 4   0  .... 0 44 0.9.24
A. Refinery Modificationi Component:..... ................. o4o,..24
14 ERL's Past F'inancial Perfornmaice ....    9 o .   . ... e *-...e 24
2, Remuneration of FRRL.OO..        - ..............
3. Financiat P.o..t..i.. ...*.....0*    * e .25
B. Early LPG Recovery Comipoutentt (BoaCtr4C..t.................o..27
C. LPC Storage and  i.sLributiOil Corioip*nt- (I'P Gas Limited) .....27
VI.   ECONOMIC E.VAL.UATION             e   *        0e0   4 .e**c* * *00 0 -.....  28
A. Introduction - Past Trt'nds. Dr4*...... o                      . .o .............. 9   .......28
B. Crude Oil and  rdndtuit Price Asscumptions ....v....04........,*29
C. Refinery Operations ................... .......
1. Refinery ModificaLion Contponent..4....... .............*30
2. Retiilery As hk                 .......OO^.e  ....... *.ee     #.Dev    eo .. 4*e30
D. LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribution e.e 4. .............3
1. Kailashtila LPG Component-         - ..... ........ ....... 31
2. WesLern Zofie LPC Campon2ent-- ...... , ............... o*#32
E. Project Risks0. .......... .9. .  .     00.  4  0...... 0..........o.....32
1. Refinery Modification.....0.......      .. ..  o    32
2. LPC Recovery, Stor.-ge and nistribution .......... 0...  ...32
VII.    AGREEMENTS0...... 4.......      40.....0.400 .04.40........0.......0 0   33
ANNEXES
2-1    Sectoral Shares in Petroleum Products Consumption
2-2    Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1976-1984
2-3    Petroleum Products Demand Projections
2-4    Sector-wise Consumption of Kerosene,  9iesel and Fuel Oil, 1984/85
2-5    Review of BPC PetroleLum ProdueLs Supply Strategy
2-6    Summary of Consultanris Study anfi an Assessment of Future Crude Oil
and Product Pricic!g
3-1    BPC Subsidiaries
4-1    Estimated Sched.ule of Dishturrpment
5-1    Eastern Refinery Limited - 'inqnrcal Projections
5-2    BOGMC LPG Recovery Component - Finaiicial Evaluation
5-3    LPG Storage and Distribution Coumponent   Financial Evaluation
6-1    Economic Analysis - ERL Refinery Modification Component
6-2    Economic Analysis - ERL Refinery As A WShole
6-3    Graph - Crude and Product Price Variations at Singapore (1976-1984)
6-4    Graph - Crude and Product Price Variations at Singapore (1987-2000) -
Base Case
6-5    Graph - Crude and Product Price Vari2tiors at Singapore (1987-2000) -
Lower Crtude Oil Price Scenario
6-6    Economic Analysis   Kailashtila Component
6-7    Ecotiomic AnalyEis   We stern  ½nne Componenr



CHARTS
1.   Energy Sector Organization
2.   Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD No. 19490R
(Location of ERL, Kailashtila LPG Recovery Facilities and
Baghabari and Khulna LPG Storage and Distribution Terminals'
** * * ** **' *f** * 
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.  Techno-Economic Feasibility Study by Lummus Crest Engineering, Inc.
Volume 1             -   Executive Summary
Volume 2             -   Demand/Supply
Volume 3             -   Review of ERL
Volume 4             -   Alternative Processing Configuration
Volume 5             -   Optimization Studies
Volume unnumbered   -   Addendum to above.
B. Memorandum of Association of ERL
C.  ERL Annual Accounts 1982/83 and 1983/84
D.  BPC Annual Accounts 1982/83 and 1983/84



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has requested an IDA Credit of
US$47 million to assist in financing an integrated package of investments and
consulting services to modify the country's sole refinery located at
Cbittagong, recover LPG from natural gas and promote its use mainly as a
substitute for firewood and kerosene. The project is aimed at reducing the
cost of imported crude oil and petroleum products, which in FY84 claimed about
US$450 million or 60% of the country's total export earnings.
1.02     The project consists of two main components: (a) modification of the
Eastern Refinery Limited (FRL) in Chittagong, to increase the yield of premium
value kerosene and diesel, which would otherwise be imported, by conversion of
surplus fuel oil which is currently cxported at depressed prices. This
component includes project management assistance, training, and spare parts
and materials for preventive maintenance; and (b) LPG recovery, storage and
distribution facilities, which include modifications to existing gas treatment
facilities at the Kailashtila gas field to recover about 5,000 metric tons per
annum (mTpa) and 2,000 addit-onal mTpa of condensate; an important
contribution of this component is the establishment of an organizational
structure for the marketing of LPG featuring both public and private entities
operating in parallel, which could be progressively expanded to handle larger
quantities of LPG in the future. The implementation of these components is
expected to be completed by FY92.
1.03     Total financing requirements for the project, including physical and
price contingencies and interest during construction, are estimated at US$81.3
million, of which US$52.5 million are in foreign exchange. The IDA Credit
will be made to GOB on standard IDA terms. GOB will on-tend US$45.9 million
to ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas Limited at an interest rate of 11.51 per annum (p.a.)
and on repayment terms of 15 years including four years of grace. The foreign
exchange risk will be borne by the companies. US$1.1 million will be applied
against a Government minority share in a privately operated LPG distribution
company to be established.
1.04     The modification of the refinery resulted from the on-going Energy
Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1357-BD) under which a
detailed techno-economic study was conducted by consultants (C.E. Lummus of
the USA) to compare the various options available to Bangladesh to reduce the
cost of petroleum supply, including closing down the refinery. The
consultants concluded that this objective could best be achieved by improving
the use of existing facilities, thereby minimizing the need for costly capital
investments which had been considered previously.
1.05     The project, which should significantly reduce foreign exchange
outlays, has been accorded a high priority by the Government. The economic
rate of return on the refinery modification component is estimated at 21%
p.a., that of the LPG recovery and distribution component at Kailashtila at
17Z, and that of the LPG storage and distribution component (Western Zone) at
15%. The project was appraised in October 1985 by Messrs. L. Wijetilleke,
J.P. Pinard, F. Manibog, P.T. Venugopal and A.C.W. Vonck of the Energy
Department.



-2-
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR 1/
A. Background
2.01     Per capita energy consumption in Bangladesh is among the lowest in
the world, It is estimated at about 90 kilograms of oil equivalent (kgoe) per
year, of which about 402 is accounted for by cormercial energy and the rest by
non-commercial sources such as fuelwood, crop residues and animal wastes.  Per
capita commercial energy consumption, estimated at only 36 kgoe, is about one-
sixteenth of the corresponding world average and one-tenth of the average for
low-income countries. Otherwise poorly endowed in primary energy, Bangladesh
has an abundant potential supply of natural gas.  Although traditional biomass
energy forms are expected to remain the predominant energy source particularly
in rural areas, the accelerated development of the gas sector has led to a
rapid growth in co mrcial energy utilization and a progressive decline in the
share of commercial energy derived from liquid hydrocarbons. Natural gas now
accounts for 522 of total couercial primary energy.  Despite this
development, petroleum product imports continue to make disproportionate
claims on the country's limited foreign exchange resources. This is due
primarily to the almost Lzclusive dependence on petroleum products of the
transport and agriculture sectors, which account for 472 of total oroducts
demand, and for which opportunities for gas substitution are limited. In
FY84, total primary coumercial energy supply (gross of conversion losses)
amounted to 3.9 NHtoe (million tons of oil equivalent), of which net oil
imports contributed 1.4 HNtoe (at a cost of about US$450 million), claiming
about 602 of the country's total export earnings. In addition, there is a
widening imbalance between the patterns of domestic petroleum product
consumption and refinery output, which has led to a steady increase in the
volume of middle distillate imports while surplus fuel oil had to be exported
at a loss.
2.02     There is a large potential for expanded commercial energy use to
support economic development. Natural gas is the obvious resource to fill
this gap since it can provide both fuel and feedstock ecosomically. Indeed,
subject to confirmation of potential reserves and well productivity, natural
gas offers an unparalleled development opportunity by making the establishment
of a reliable, comparatively low cost energy base a feasible objective within
the country's severe resource constraints. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
has accordingly focussed its energy policy on the reduction of the economy's
dependence on oil imports by accelerating the development of domestic gas
resources and incresing the economy's absorptive capacity for gas.
2.03     There are, however, geographical (all known gas fields are east ok
the Jamuna river) as well as technological and economic factors (particularly
in the western zone, and in the transport and agriculture sectors) that limit
the substitution of liquid fuels by natural gas. Hence, sizeable imports of
petroleum products in addition to imports of crude processed in the refinery
1/ A more detailed description and analysis of the sector is contained in the
report entitled "Bangladesh: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector" (October
1982, Report go. 3873-BD), which is part of a series of reports of the Joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program.



-3-
are expected to continue. Accordingly, GOB is attempting to intensify the
search for oil, whieh has proved unsuccessful so far and is currently at a
very low level. The oil companies that entered into production sharing
contracts in the late 1970s for offshore exploration have all relinquished
their concessions and Bangladesh Shell Oil Company is the only remaining
active foreign company exploring in Bangladesh. In an effort to attract mote
companies to explore in Bangladesh, GOB has undertaken, partly with IDA
assistance, a program of seismic surveys and geological studies which would
form the basis of a promtion effort to attract participation by international
oil companies. On the downstream side, GOB is also undertaking with IDA
assistance the rehabilitation of the country's sole refinery at Chittagong and
the preparation of an industrial energy conservation program.
B. Commercial Energ Balance
2.04     Commercial sources of primary energy in Bangladesh are hydropower,
natural gas, imported oil and coal. The table below estimates Bangladesh's
energy balance in terms of oil equivalent:
ronarcial Energy Balance - 1983/84
('000 toe)
SUPPLY                                          DEMAND
Domestic                                        Res Idential/CommercIaf  747  (22%)
Natural Gas               2,009
Piydro Power                281                lodustrial a/           1,103 (32%)
Energy Imports
Petroleum (net)           1,405                 Transport               506 (15%)
Coal                        177
Total Primary Suppiy      3,872                 Agriculture             901  (27S)
(of which fertilizer)    (754) (22%)
Less: Conversion and
Transmission Losses         475                Others                    140 ( 4%)
Total Net Energy Supply   3,397                Total Demand            3,397 (100%)
a/ Excluding gas used as fertilizer feedstock.
Sources: Bangladesh ofl, Gas and MInerals Corporation (formerly Petrobangla), Bangladesh
Petrolewu Corporation, Enstern Riefinery Limited, Bangladesh Power Develogmsnt B0ard
and Bangladesh Bank.



-4-
C. Resource Endowment
2.05     Natural gas and a limited hydropower potential are the only two
domestically available commercial primary energy sources. Mining of coal and
peat deposits is presently not considered economic. More critically,
Bangladesh has no known oil reserves and has to meet all its liquid
hydrocarbon requirements through imports.
2.06     Past exploration efforts have led to the discovery of substantial
reserves of natural gas. Thirteen gas fields--:welve onshore and one
offshore--have been discovered, all located east of the Jamuna River which
divides the country from north to south into eastern and western zones. Total
gas reserves are currently estimated at about 11 trillion standard cubic feet
(TCF), of which 75% are expected to be recoverable. Gas output has increased
steadily over the last decade, growing at an average of 14% p.a. from 29
billion cubic feet (BCF) in 1975/76 to 81 BCP in 1983/84 (2.0 MMtoe). The
bulk of gas consumption is in power generation and fertilizer production,
while other industrial, commercial and domestic uses are expanding steadily.
2.07     Two of the world's largest rivers, the Ganges and the Brahmaputra,
flow through Bangladesh. The flat t3rrain, however, makes the potential for
hydroelectric power limited. The hydropower potential that can be
economically harnessed at Kaptai in the Chittagong Hill Tracts has been
evaluated at 340 MW, of which 130 MW has been developed. Elsewhere, the
northern portion of the Brahmaputra river offers an estimated capacity of 400
MW but the remote location and high development costs make the construction of
a dam at this site a remote possibility.
2.08     About 60% of the total energy used in Bangladesh continues to be met
from traditional biomass sources such as crop residues, animal wastes, straw,
rice husks, jute sticks and firewood. 1/ Overall, binmass energy use is
estimated at 5 MMtoe annually. While the relative share of biomass fuels
within the overall energy balance is expected to gradually decline, Bangladesh
does not have the resources to sustain a major shift to commercial energy, and
demand for traditional sources is likely to keep pace with population
gro-h.   The rapid depletion of the country's forest resources has become a
critical issue. Fuelwood resources are being overexploited to meet increasing
demand, and alarming increases in fuelwood prices and the commercialization of
jute residues portend a crisis situation, particularly in North Bengal.
Foreign assistance has recently started to support forestry studies and
community forestry projects. Further support to accelerate rural
afforestation is essential. In addition, concerted efforts are required to
upgrade end-use efficiency of traditional energy through the introduction of
improved cooking stoves or wood-burning devices.
I/ A more detailed discussion of the rural energy subsector is provided in a
report entitled "Bangladesh: Rural and Renewable Energy Issues and Prospects"
(Energy Department Note No. 5, April 1982).



-5-
D. Sector Planning
2.09     The energy assessment prepared in 1982 under the Joint World
Bank/(NDP Energy Assessment Program identified major weaknesses in energy
sector planning and management. Recognizing the need to improve sector
planning and establish a central planning body, GOB has recently taken major
steps to strengthen its energy policy making capabilities. COB is in the
process of drafting a five-year plan (FY85-89) which is expected to continue
giving high priority to the energy sector in the allocation of investment
resources.  Over the last two years, an Energy Study and Planning Cell (ESPC)
was established within the Planning Commission with the objective of upgrading
the capability for energy planning within the Planning Commission. This cell
has been supported by a UNDP/ADiB funded technical assistance project, the
Energy Planning Project (EPP), which was completed in mid-1985. GOB has also
commissioned a Power System Master Plan to guide future investment in the
power sector. Finally, the IDA-financed Rnergy Efficiency and Refinery
Retabilitation Project has assisted COOB in preparing a program of industrial
energy conservatioa measures, and developing an optimum petroleum products
supply strategy. The effects of these recent actions on improving sector
planning will need to be closely monitored in the next few years.
E. Petroleum Products Subsector
1. Consumption and Supply of Petroleum Products
2.10     Despite the increased utilization of natural gas in almost all the
sectors of the economy, petroleum products still account for 36% of total
commercial energy consumption. About 37% of the total consumption of
petroleum products is in the transport sector, followed by domestic usage
(20%, mainly for cooking and lighting), power generation (19%) and the
industrial sector (14%) (Annex 2-1). The pattern of consumption of petroleum
products in Bangladesh has changed noticeably since the mid-seventies (Annex
2-2). Increased use of natural gas has dampened demand for lighter petroleum
products (naphtha) as well as for heavier residual fuel oil.
HistoricaI Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1975-1984
(in thousand metric tons)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
1975            1980            1984       1975-80  1980-84
LPG              -      -       2.7   0.2       6.9   0.5        -      26.4
Gasol ine       58.8   5.4      62.0   4.4      557.  3.8        1.1    -2,6
Jet Fuel       23.8   2.2      44.4   3.1      64.0   4.4      13.3      9.6
Kerosene       340.9  31.4    384.0  27.2    351.4  24.2        2.4    -2.2
Diesel Oil     278.8  25.7    447.2  31.7    615,8  42.4        9.9      8.3
Fuel Oil       383.4  35.3    470,7  33,4    359,5  24,7        4.2    -6.5
Total      1,085.7  100.0   1,411.0  100.0  1,453.3  100.0    5.4     0.7
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation



- 6
2.11     Consumption increased at an average annual rate of 5.42 from 1975 to
1980, diesel oil registering a growth of 9.91 and fuel oil 4.2X per annum.
However, between 1980 and 1984 while diesel oil consumption continued to
increase at 8.3Z per annum, fuel oil demand declined by 6.51 per annum, due to
its displacement by natural gas. During this same period, the share of middle
distillates# comprising of jet fuel, kerosene and diesel oil, increased from
621 to 71Z while the demand for fuel oil declined from 331 to 25X.
2. Petroleum Products Demand Forecast and Balance
2.12     The future rate of growth in energy use will depend in part on the
pace of investment in the economy, the level and composition of foreign aid to
Bangladesh, and on such outside events as changes in world oil prices, or the
production and relative prices of jute goods, the country*s most important
export commodity. The uncertainties surrounding these factors make long-term
projections of energy consumption subject to wide margins of error. The
consultants appointed to design the proposed refinery modification project
prepared demand forecasts for petroleum products based on three alternative
growth scenarios (Annex 2-3): a no growth per capita petroleum consumption, a
low growth scenario (5.3% p.a.) in petroleum consumption derived from
historical demand over the past five years, and a high growth scenario (7.8X
p.a.) developed from a predicted 5.5% p.a. growth in commercial energy. Under
these scenarios, demand for middle distillates is projected to grow at annual
rates ranging from 21 to 9% p.a. This is expected to reinforce the domination
of middle distillates whose share would grow to between 751 and 85X of total
product demand by 1995.
2.13     In FY84, Bangladesh imported some 400,000 mT of middle distillates
(diesel and kerosene) and exported 95,000 mT of naphtha, bearing the cost of
transport to and from Singapore on both export and import. The surplus of
naphtha is unavoidable and will continue to increase, especially as additional
quantities of condensate, about two-thirds of which are direct gasoline
blending components, -re recovered from natural gas. Fuel oil export (in a
currently depressed mLrket) has so far been largely avoided by reducing the
refinery throughput. This, however,, will become increasingly difficult as
more natural gas is utilized in place of fuel oil in the power and industrial
sectors. This will force the export of fuel oil at depressed prices, unless
suitable modifications are brought to the refinery to better tailor its
operating capability to the consumption pattern. Because of the supply
constraints described above, the rapid growth in diesel consumption is a key
source of concern for GOB. Diesel products are used mainly in the transport
and agriculture sectors, 38' in road transport alone (Annex 2-4).  Diesel use
for irrigation and for road transport have grown equally rapidly over the last
ten years at about 11% p.a.
3, Refinery Investment Strategy
2.14     Bangladesh has no known petroleum reserves and meets its petroleum
product requirements entirely through imports. Petroleum products are
obtained from three different sources: (i) domestic refining of imported crude
oill (ii) purchases of petroleum products mostly under short-term contracts;
and (iii) product imports under barter arrangements with the Soviet Union.
Responsibility for importing and refining crude oil, marketing refined
products, and importing deficit petroleum products is assigned to the



Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) which has been managing the country's
petroleum supply competently (Annex 2-5). The country's only refinery, the
Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) at Chittagong, is a fully owned subsidiary of
BPC. The refinery facilities consist of a 1.5 mTpa crude oil distillation
unit, a platformer to convert low octane value naphtha to high octane
gasoline, a gas oil hydro-desulfurizer to remove sulfur, and a recently added
asphalt plant. The crude distillation unit is capable of separating crude oil
into fractions conforming to the boiling ranges of different petroleum
products, while the other downstream facilities can only improve the quality
of these products. The refinery's production pattern is therefore limited to
that generated by the type of crude oil being processed.
2.15     In 1982, the Covernment sought IDA assistance to examine the various
options available to minimize the cost of meeting the country's petroleum
product requirements. Several options were evaluated including the
possibility of mothballing the refinery and importing all products. Offshore
processing in Singapore of crude oil procured by GOB-an option which BPC/ERL
had been pursuing for some time and abandoned as uneconomic--was also
evaluated. Evaluation of these issues and options called for an assessment of
future crude oil and product prices over the medium and long-term, the related
influence of new refining facilities in OPEC and existing refineries in
Singapore, and the relative availability of different types of crude oils.
These aspects, together with the results of the evaluation of the various
supply alternatives available, are in Annex 2-6.
2.16     Given the uncertain outlook for future crude oil and product prices,
COB in consultation with the Bank opted for the lower capital cost, and lower
risk, option described in Chapter IV (pars 4.04). With this investment,
surplus fuel oil will be converted to premium value diesel oil, while
eliminating the downgrading of diesel oil to low value fuel oil needed to
reduce the viscosity of fuel oil. The additional production of diesel, even
if demand were to remain at the FY85 level, will easily be absorbed within the
country. While fuel oil will remain in surplus, it will be at e substantially
lower level than without the project.
F. LPG Consumption and Supply
2.17     Even after the refinery is modified, Bangladesh will need to import
about 150,000 mTpa of kerosene, of which about 501 is estimated to be for
cooking, for which LPC could substitute. In addition, firewood is used
extensively for cooking in the western zone of the country causing acute
deforestation. Currently, about 7,000 mT of LPG is consumed annually in the
Chittagong area. The potential supply is considerably larger. In the medium
term, with the completion of the refinery modification, SIL's LPG production
could reach a capacity of 13,000 mTpa; a further 5,000 mTpa could be recovered
by modifying the existing Kailashtila gas treating unit. In the long term, it
is estimated that up to 120,000 mTpa could be recovered from natural gas
produced at the Bakhrabad, Beani Basar, Kailashtila and Titas fields.
Currently, LPC is consumed mostly in the eastern zone. With the availability
of natural gas in the east, demand for LPG will decline. It is therefore
likely that the entire additional supply of LPG from the refinery, about 6,000
mTpa, as well as some of the 6,000 mTpa of LPC currently consumed in the east,
will be available for marketing in the west. It is also the objective of the
Government to promote a greater balance between the western and eastern zones



-8-
of the country in terms of access to energy sources. LPG is therefore
targetted to be marketed increasingly in the west where natural gas is not
available.
2.18     Presently, neither the institutional arrangements nor the facilities
exist for distribution and marketing of LPG. The development of transporta-
tion, storage and marketing networks for the smaller quantities of LPG from
ERL and Kailashtila would in effect constitute the first stage of a major
drive to promote the use of LPG in Bangladesh. In line with its general
policy to encourage the involvement of the private sector in the economy, it
is the Government's intention to seek the participation of private investors
in this effort. Thu small-scale distribution component included in the
project provides an opportunity to initiate a strategy of active private
sector participation in the area of LPG distribution which would lay the
foundation for a subsequent larger project when a large-scale LPG recovery
plant (from natural gas) is constructed, possibly in the late 1980s.
Agreement was reached in principle with GOB during negotiations to invite
private sector participation in the project, as discussed in para 4.07.
Participation of the public sector concern currently engaged in LPG bottling
(LP Cas Limited) in parallel with a privately operated company would at once
bring an element of competition in the sector and help define the long-term
arrangements for private participation in a subsequent larger project, inter
alia, the need for monitoring of operations, enforcement of safety standards
and the setting of a competitive price structure.
G. Pricing
2.19     Pricing of biomass-derived fuels in Bangladesh is determined in the
market place. Prices of petroleum products, natural gas, coal and electricity
on the other hand, are set by the Government at various points in the delivery
system and at the consumer level. Natural gas pricing aims to encourage
substitution while reflecting overall economic costs. The prices of other
energy products are uniform for all classes of consumers throughout the
country, except for natural gas, for which GOB sets differential prices for
various classes of consumers.
1. Natural Gas
2.20     Gas pricing has been one of the principal ingredients of IDA's
economic dialogue with GOB. The average price of natural gas to industry was
about $0.63 per thousand cubic feet (about one million Btu) in July 1984.
Under the Second Gas Development Project approved in April 1985, GOB agreed on
fixing gas prices and excise duty rates at such levels as to ensure that: (a)
sale prices are higher than the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of natural gas
after taking into account a depletion allowance; 1/ (b) the revenues from gas
operations permit the gas production and distribution entities to remain
financially viable and contribute substantially towards future investments;
1/ Due to the relative abundance of gas reserves in relation to demand, gas
prices should as a minimum cover the costs of production and distribution
(LRMC) as well as an allowance reflecting the progressive depletion of
reserves rather than its substitution value (opportunity cost).



- 9 -
and (c) gas tariffs mobilize resources for the economy. In accordance with
previous agreements reached with IDA, natural gas prices were increased by 20X
in July 1, 1985 to $0.76 per thousand cubic feet on the average for industrial
consumers and again by 20% in July 1, 1986 to $0.91 per thousand cubic feet.
During negotiations for the Second Gas Development Project, IDA also received
assurances from GOB that, beginning July 1987, gas prices will be adjusted in
accordance with a program to be agreed with IDA based on the long-run marginal
cost 4f extractiont transmission and distribution plus an appropriate
depletion allowance.
2. Petroleum Products
2.21     Consistent with GOB policy of maintaining stable product retail
prices, BPC has absorbed international crude and product price fluctuations
through its transfer prices to the marketing companies, which provide a buffer
between international and domestic prices. Losses incurred during the early
1980s when international prices were higher than BPC's transfer prices are now
being translated into profits due to the decline in international prices,
which are currently lower than transfer prices.
2.22     Retail prices are well above border (c._.f.) prices although the
relative pricing structure differs significantly from that of c.i.f. import
prices, as shown in the following table:
Import Parity and Retail Prices of Petroleum Products, 1985/86
'$/per metric ton)
Ratio of Retail
Import Parity     Retail Prices      to Import Price
Gasoline             169                571                3.38
Jet Fuel             150                379                2.53
Kerosene             140                272                1.94
Diesel               132                268                2.03
Fuel Oil              60                152                2.53
Retail prices have not been revised by GOB, pending stabilization of crude oil
and product prices in the region. Even though in relative terms gasoline is
priced much higher than diesel in the domestic market (the current ratio is
2.2), there appears to be little uneconomic substitution of diesel for
gasoline. For road transport, this apparently happens because the taxation
system and restrictions on the import of diesel vehicles offset the price
differential. The potential for cross-substitution between diesel and
gasoline consumption through a reduction in the price margin between these
products is limited: while an increase in kerosene/diesel prices would run
counter to some of GOB's key social and development objectives in rural areas,
a decrease in the duties on gasoline would encourage consumption of gasoline
in the highest income groups, but little of this incremental consumption could
be expected to entail a corresponding decrease in diesel use.



- 10 -
3. LPG
2.23     LPG is a direct substitute for kerosene in cooking and its
substitution value is thus related to the border price of kerosene. Both LPG
and kerosene prices are above corresponding economic cos.s. A 12.5 kg
cylinder of LPG is currently marketed at a price of Tk lOS at field depots.
Taking into account the higher calorific value and combustion efficiency of
LPG versus kerosene on a weight basis, LPG price could in effect be up to 150%
that of kerosene, but is in fact 6% lower. The current price ratio of 0.94,
however, provides financial conditions conducive to a rapid penetration of LPG
in the domestic market. While, in the short term, it seems appropriate to
price LPG on the basis of its marginal costs of production, there is still
scope to increase the price of LPG as the market develops, while maintaining
its competitiveness with kerosene. The government has agreed that it will not
later than July 30, 1989 remove oil price controls over the distribution and
sale of LPG.
H.  IDA's Role and Lending Strategy in the Petroleum Sector
2.24     In the absence of other sources of commercial energy, Bangladesh will
have to rely increasingly on natural gas and petroleum products to meet the
demand of the modern economic sectors, as well as part of the basic needs of
its growing population (household energy). The main concern of IDA over the
years has been to ensure that adequate energy supplies are available at
reasonable cost and that prospects for the development of domestic energy
resources are identified, explored and developed efficiently. In order to
achieve these objectives, IDA lending in the oil and gas sector has proceeded
along three main lines addressing natural gas, efficiency improvements and
exploration promotion.
2.25     In the natural gas subsector IDA has, in parallel with ADB, supported
the development of the transmission and distribution infrastructure required
to bring natural gas to the markets. It is also assisting in establishing a
reliable reserve base from which Bangladesh's future requirements could be
met. One gas infrastructure project has been satisfactorily completed and gas
appraisal projects are currently under implementation. These projects have
formed the basis for institutional improvements which in turn have led to the
reorganization of the gas industry and the concept of an integrated gas
system. In terms of policies, IDA has strongly suggested the introduction of
rational gas pricing policies, as described in para 2.20, and the development
of new markets including the introduction of CNG in the transport sector.
2.26     One of the issues identified by the Energy Assessment was the
inefficiency of the energy processing and utilization industries, including
the ERL refinery and a number of industrial plants. The refinery
rehabilitation project as well as the proposed project have addressed these
issues and provided support for the rehabilitation of existing facilities and
the introduction of energy conservation measures that would reduce the overall
cost of supply. With this project, IDA will support the efforts of the
Government in expanding LPG production and use, thus increasing significantly
the value of natural gas and petroleum products while makin_ available a clean
fuel which could meet a significant share of the residential needs in urban as
well as rural areas (cooking and illumination). LPG could in the future play
a significant role in domestic energy supplies and attract domestic and
foreign private investors.



- 11 -
2.27     Finally IDA is supporting GOB's exploration promotion program aimed
at attracting foreign capital for exploration in areas which are believed to
have oil potential. This three-pronged approach will continue to be supported
in the future through further lending operations.
III. THE BENEFICIARIES
3.01     The beneficiaries of the project are Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL)
and LP Gas Limited (LP Gas), both of which are fully owned subsidiaries of the
Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC), and the Bangladesh Oil, Gas and
Minerals Corporation (BOGMC). BPC and BOGMC report directly to the Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Resources (Chart 1). The operations and performance of
BPC, ERLp BOGMC and LP Gas Limited are discusse4 below.
A. Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC)
3.02     BPC is a fully state-owned holding company established in 1976 to
optimize crude oil and products procurement and implement GOB policy with
respect to distribution and retail pricing of petroleum products. BPC
management is vested in a GOB-appointed Board of Directors consisting of a
Chairman and five members. BPC operates as a trading company and supervises
ERL, LPG Limited and three petroleum marketing companies (PMCs). BPC's
subsidiaries, their responsibilities and ownership structure are summarized in
Annex 3-1.
3.03     A review of BPC's operations and management informatien systems
during the appraisal of the ongoing Energy Efficiency and Refinery
Rehabilitation Project identified two major weaknesses that are presently
being addressed: (i) the need to strengthen BPC's qualified core group with
additional staff with the skills and experience necessary for handling the
growing volume, diversity and complexity of BPC opErations; and (ii)
inadequacy in BPC's accounting and management information systems. About ten
senior level staff are undergoing training abroad under the rehabilitation
project. Further training is required to use the new procedures contained in
a recently completed set of manuals on accounting, management reporting,
financial planning and budgeting, and job evaluation. A manual dealing with
internal audit procedures is also under preparation for BPC's internal audit
group.
3.04     BPC's financial position is adequate.  An area of continuing concern,
however, has been the status of BPC's accounts receivables. These stood at
15 days of sales (as of June 30, 1985), with some customers, like the
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), in default for about ten months to
the marketing subsidiaries. This is due in part to the absence of a definite
credit period for invoices against BPC's subsidiaries as well as for those
raised by the subsidiaries against large petroleum product customers. It was
agreed during negotiations that GOB shall, not later than January 1, 1987,
cause BPC to operate a system satisfactory to the Association, which shall
inter alia: (i) limit credits to a period of 45 days to subsidiaries and other
direct customers of BPC's subsidiaries; and (ii) levy interest at the
prevailing commercial bank rate together with an appropriate administrative
charge on amounts outstanding beyond 30 days of billing date. In respect of



- 12 -
BPDB, it was further agreed that receivables accumulated up to June 30, 1986,
would be required to be paid to BPC at a rate of not less than Tk 50 million
per month until the arrears are fully cleared.
B. Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL)
3.05     ERL was established in 1966 as a fully integrated refinery.  From
1968 to 1985, Burmah Oil Company (BOC) of the U.K. had a 30% interest in ERL
operations, entitling it to a guaranteed 15Z return (net of taxes) on paid-in
capital. Recently, in keeping with corporate policy of disinvestment from the
refinery sector worldwide, BOC negotiated an agreement with GOB to dispose of
their ERL shares. Bank staff met with BOC management on several occasions to
explore means of encouraging more active BOC participation in ERL operations
as well as in the proposed project. BOC, however, has firmly decided to
withdraw from ERL, which is now fully owned by BPC.
3.06     The existing relationship between BPC and ERL is not consistent with
autonomous operations and restricts ERL management initiatives and
performance. ERL has no responsibility for production optimization, which is
a function of BPC. BPC also exercises close control and supervision of ERL's
operating budget, capital investments, appointment of senior staff and day-to-
day operations. Although ERL has its own Board of Directors, with the BPC
Chairman also acting as ERL Chairman, ERL Board decisions are still subject to
final review and approval by the BPC Board. Although some form of control by
BPC, being the sole owner of ERL, is justified, such control could best be
achieved by having one of BPC'F full-time directors sit on both BPC and ERL
Boards and assume executive rLdponsibility for ERL operations. Therefore GOB
has decided that BPC's Director of Planning and Operations will be appointed
concurrently as Managing Director of ERL and will assume responsibility as
Chief Executive of ERL starting January 1, 1987. GOB also agreed to raise the
financial authority of ERL's Chief Executive to Tk 5 million and thLt of ERL's
Board of Directors to Tk 20 million. These limits would be reviewed by IDA
annually, taking into account domestic inflation, and adjusted as necessary.
3.07     ERL operations are headed by the General Manager who sits on its
Board, and is assisted by several senior managers. Although the senior staff
as well as the junior engineers are technically well qualified, the loss of
many top-level managers to foreign employment has resulted in lack of
adequately experienced staff in the company. Over the past few years,
however, ERL has managed to retain senior staff. In order to strengthen
skills at all levels, the ongoing Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilita-
tion Project made provision for a comprehensive training program. A training
center is now in operation and management information systems are being
upgraded as part of the technical assistance provided to BPC as discussed in
para 3.03.
C. LP Gas Limited (LP Gas)
3.08     LP Gas was incorporated in 1983 as a fully-owned subsidiary of BPC.
Bottled LPG is sold by LP Gas to BPC marketing subsidiaries which handle
retail marketing either directly in gasoline stations or through private
dealers. The organization and staffing of LP Gas is scaled to its present
operation of handling up to 6,000 mTpa only, and consists of a manager,
foreman and skilled labor. The activities of LP Gas will be expanded during



- 13 -
the project period to include two additional bottling plants. LP Gas will
also supply retail filling stations by trucks and supervise the operations of
these stations. To carry out these tasks, LP Gas will require appropriate
technical assistance support, preferably from an experienced LPG operating
company. Technical assistance is particularly needed in the implementation ef
the pilot retail filling station scheme and in drafting a set of operating
codes and safety standards. The project provides for such technical
assistance (para 4.08). Recruitment of a General Manager for LP Gas, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, will be a
condition of disbursement under the LPG Storage and Distribution Component.
D. BOGMC
3.09     BOGMC (previously Petrobangla) is the sector corporation responsible
for oil, gas and minerals exploration and production. BOGMC is managed by a
GOB-nominated Board of Directors consisting of six members, including the
Chairman, and is organized in four directorates (planning, finance,
exploration and administration) and a Secretariat. While BOGMC coordinates
the activities of operating gas production and distribution companies, it is
not a holding company as such. A major reorganization of the gas sector will
take place with technical assistance provided by ODA under the Second Gas
Development Project to address the fragmentation of the existing
organization. In lieu of the existing operating companies, three new
companies would be created with responsibilities assigned on a functional
rather than regional basis, i.e. for petroleum exploration and drilling, gas
field development, and gas transmission and distribution.
3.10     BOGMC assumes direct responsibility for the implementation of a large
share of gas development projects, including the Second Gas Development
Project financed in part under Credit 1586-BD. BOGMC was also responsible for
the construction of the existing surface facilities at Kailashtila and will
implement the LPG Recovery Component.
E.  Accounts and Audits
3.11     BOGMC, ERL and LP Gas are required by law to prepare full accounts of
their financial position and the results of their operation. Their accounting
systems are reasonably good. The companies also follow adequate internal
control procedures and are subject to two types of external audit: (a)
external audit by a firm of chartered accountants, after which the balance
sheet and profit and loss account of each entity are to be presented to the
general meeting of the stockholders at least once during each calendar year;
accounts are required to be ready for external audit within six months
following the end of the financial year and are reviewed within three months
after submission; (b) each entity is also subject to the Government's
commercial audit whose report is submitted to the concerned Ministry of the
Government. Agreement was reached with GOB that it will cause the three
companies to supply the Association with copies of their unaudited financial
statements, including the project accounts, not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, and not later than nine months after the end of
the fiscal year copies of the audited statement together with a copy of the
report and comments of the Comptroller and Auditor General.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives snd Scope
4.01     The man objective of the project is to help minimize the cost of
petroleum imports to the country by rationalizing the supply of petroleum
products and promoting the substitute use of LPG for kerosene. To help
achieve this general objective, the project includes:
(a) a Refinery Modification Component to enhance the flexibility of the
refinery in bringing about a better match between refinery output and
petroleum products demand than has been possible hitherto, thereby
reducing the cost of meeting petroleum product requirements; -nd
(b)  an Early LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribution Component to
establish the institutional framework and the facilities necessary to
promote the use in the medium term of about 12,000 mTpa of LPG
recovered from natural gas and at the refinery, as a substitute for
kerosene and firewood, and, in a longer term perspective, market the
substantially larger quantity of LPG expected to be recovered from
natural gas.
B. Project Rationale
4.02     The project is an important element of IDA's assistance in the
country's energy sector. The refinery modification component followed from
the detailed techno-economic studies undertaken by Lummus Crest (U.S.) under
the on-going Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1357-BD). As noted in paragraph 2.15 and Annex 2-6, several options were
evaluated including the possibility of mothballing the refinery and importing
petroleum products. The study concluded that continued operation of the
refinery in its present configuration was economic and that economic benefits
would be enhanced by minor modifications in the refinery configuration. IDA
has been closely involved with the study and the evaluation of the various
alternatives, impressing upon GOB the need to select a low capital option that
minimizes the vulnerability of the investment to future fluctuations in the
price margins among petroleum products, which is the major risk factor in
refining operations. The main elements underpinning the economic rationale
for the refinery investment are the imbalance between refinery output and
domestic consumption patterns, the continued need for middle distillate
imports, the surplus of fuel oil in the domestic market resulting from
extensive gas use, the accentuated price margin between these two products
brought about by Bangladesh absorbing transport costs for both import and
export of petroleum products, and the low capital cost of the project.
4.03     The earl, LPG recovery component and the LPG storage and distribution
component will increase the economic value of existing gas production and set
the basis for wider LPG use when gas production from the Kailashtila field is
expanded. An important element of this component is the setting up of the
organizational structure and groundwork for marketing the substantially larger
quantity of LPG expected to be recovered from natural gas in the future. In
particular, the project will support the entry of private investors in the



- 15 -
area of LPG distribution in parallel with the existing public sector entities
involved in the distribution of petroleum products, thereby initiating a
strategy of active private sector participation in the LPG sector and laying
the foundation for a subsequent larger LPG distribution scheme. The project
wilL help bring about important institutional changes by enhancing ERL's
autonomy and financial accountability, partly through the introduction of a
toll fee processing scheme, and by building up the capabilities of LP Gas.
Finally, each of the project components have been designed with a view to
improving the operating efficiency of the public entities involved and
encouraging their development as revenue generating profit centers to which
private investment capital could eventually be attracted.
C. Project Description and ITplementation
1. Refinery Modification Component
4.04     Description.  This component will consist essentially of the
installation of secondary conversion facilities in the refinery, resulting in
improved yie:ds of middle distillates and reduced yields of fuel oil.
Specifically, this component involves the revamping the refinery's hydro-
desulfurizer to a mild hydrocracker, the installation of a long residue
visbreaker and associated facilities, detailed engineering, upgrading of
existing facilities as required, bulk materials procurement, construction,
start-up, training, and management and technical assistance. On completion of
the proposed modification of the refinery, the petroleum products yields will
change as shown below:



- 16 -
Refinery Yields Before and After Modification
(in '000 mTpa)
Without a/         With             Increase
Production                Modification      Modification       (Decrease)
LPG                            13                13                --
Naphtha                       102               114                12
Gasoline                       49                49                --
Kerosene                      331               344                13
High Speed Diesel Oil         341               458               117
Fuel Oil                      631               478              (153)
Bitumen                        25                25                --
Total                       1,492             1,481               (11)
Process Fuel
(excludes natural gas
used as process fuel)         8                19               (11)
Total Crude Throughput      1,500             1,500                 0
Crude Used - Arab Light (34.80 API)
a/ The product yields shown here are those now expected to be obtained upon
completion of the ongoing refinery rehabilitation program. They differ
from those shown in the appraisal report for the Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project as better results are now expected from the
rehabilitation program than was anticipated at appraisal.
In addition to the process units and ancillary equipment, the project provides
for operations assistance, training and spares for preventive maintenance for
a period of five years.
4.05     Implementation.  The implementation of the project component will be
the responsibility of ERL. The engineering consultants (C.E. Lummus), which
carried out the original feasibility study, have prepared the invitation-to-
bid documents, including basic and project design specifications, and the
necessary project details to enable the award of the contract on a lump-sum
turnkey basis. Project implementation is expected to take 36 months, assuming
implementation will ceomence with Credit effectiveness and ends with
commissioning of the facilities. A General Contractor will be selected to
implement the project and provide operations assistance on the basis of a
single contract. A Project Implementation Coordinator will assume
responsibility for project implementation. A project unit, headed by the
Project Implementation Coordinator, will be established within ERL to
supervise project implementation. The Project Implementation Coordinator will
report to the Managing Director of ERL. A Project Management Assistance Team
(PSAT) will be recruited by ERL to assist with the execution of the project,
including evaluation of bids received, selection of the General Contractor,



- 17 -
supervision of works and establishment of operating norms (para 5.04). The
PMAT will answer directly to the Project Implementation Coordinator. A
detailed project implementation plan was submitted during negotiations. The
appointment of the PNAT is a condition of effectiveness for the Refinery
Modification Component.
2. Early LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribution
4.06     Description.  LPG from natural gas offers an opportunity to reduce
the cost of imported petroleum fuels substantially. The quantity of LPG to be
.marketed under the proposed project component is relatively small, compared to
the 120,000 mTpa expected to be recovered from the Bakhrabad, Beani Bazar,
Kailashtila and Titas natural gas fields in the future. The proposed project
component provides the vehicle to develop the institutional arrangements as
well as the management and operational skills and distribution and marketing
network, which are now lacking. This component is in effect a pilot project,
the benefits of which would be fully realized with the marketing of larger
quantit.es of LPG (possibly up to 120,000 mTpa) in the future. The project
component includes: (i) the modification of existing gas treating facilities
at Kailashtila to recover about 5,000 mTpa of LPG and 2,000 mTpa of
condensate; (ii) installation of bulk LPG loading facilities at Chittagong to
facilitate the loading of LPG tankers; (iii) construction of bulk storage and
distribution terminals at Khulna, Kailashtila and Baghabari; (iv) LPG tankers;
(v) LPG cylinders; (vi) installation of bottling plants at Khulna, Baghabari
and Kailashtila; (vii) equipment for eight retail filling outlets; (viii) LPG
tank trucks; (ix) related infrastructure facilities; and (x) training and
operational assistance to LP Gas.
4.07     Imelementation.  The LPG recovery facilities will be implemented by
BOGMC. No project implementation assistance is required as BOCMC has
reasonably competent project management staff who presently handle projects of
larger magnitude and complexity. Engagement by BOGMC of consultants for the
design and detailed engineering of the LPG recovery plant at Kailashtila will
be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The LPG Storage and Distribution
component will be implemented in part by LP Gas and by a privately operated
entity to be established with the possible assistance of the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) and in which the Government may take a minority
participation. Both entities will share responsibility for the distribution
of LPG in the western zone, LP Gas from a terminal located at Baghabari, the
private entity from a terminal located at Khulna or any other suitable
location in the western zone. LP Gas will be responsible for the construction
of loading facilities at Chittagong and bottling plants and associated
facilities at Baghabari and Kailashtila; both LP Gas and the private company
for bulk transport of LPC from Chittagong to the western zone; and the private
company for the construction and operation of the Khulna bottling terminal and
distribution of LPG therefrom. Agreement was reached with GOB during
negotiations that it will involve private investors in the distribution of LPG
along the lines suggested above (or any similar scheme). GOB has invited
proposals from private investors for participation in the project. The
establishment of one or more privately owned LPG Storage and Distribution
companies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, will be a
condition of disbursement (except for the Kailashtila LPG bottling and storage
facilities).



- 18 -
4.08     Selected expatriate consultants, preferably from an operating LPG
distribution company, will be engaged to assist LP Gas in designing and
implementing the different project sub-components for which it is responsible,
and in establishing safety and inspection standards consistent with
international standards for the operation of the bottling facilities, bulk
transport and retail stations. Recruitment of LPG Distribution and Marketing
Consultants, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of disbursement under
the LPG Storage and Distribution Component. The LPG Recovery Component is
expected to be implemented within 24 months from the date of Credit
effectiveness to start-up of facilities; and the LPC Storage and Distribution
Component about 30 months from Credit effectiveness to extension of
distribution to all areas envisaged (Chart 2).
D. Project Preparation Status
4.09     The Refinery Modification Component is at an advanced stage of
preparation. The consultants engaged for the techno-economic feasibility
study are also responsible for preparation cf the project design including
basic engineering up to the preparation of piping and instrument drawings and
invitation-to-bid documents. The feasibility study was completed in March
1985. At the request of the Association further work was done to define the
scope of the project. This was completed in October 1985. The consultants
completed the project design and basic engineering in early April 1986. BPC
and ERL have reviewed and finalized the design package. The invitation-to-bid
documents necessary for the selection of the General Contractor is expected to
be issued by November 1986.
4.10     The feasibility of an LPG Recovery Component at Kailashtila has been
established. An engineering firm responsible for the detailed engineering has
been selected by BOGMC; contract arrangements are expected to be finalized by
the end of 1986. The scope of the LPG Storage and Distribution Component was
developed by BPC together with IDA staff. No extensive design work is needed
other than a detailed work plan, the design of infrastructure facilities of a
modest scale, and procurement of LPG tank crucks and cylinders, BPC together
with LP Gas are currently developing project proformas for all needed items.



- 19 -
E. Capital Cost Estimates
4.13     The total financing requirements of the project, including physical
contingencies, price escalation and interest during construction, are
estimated at US$81.3 million equivalent, of which $47.0 million are in foreign
exchange, as shown below:
Project Cost Estimates
(in US$ million)
Foreign     Local al   Total
I.      Refinery Modification
(}) Refinery Modification and
Operations Assistance                      21.7         6.4       28.1
(2) Project Management Assistance                 1.0         0.1         1.1
(3) Trainir.g and Technical Assistance            0.5         0.1         0.6
(4) Spare Parts                                   3.2         0.8         4.0
Sub-total                        26.4         7.4        33.8
II.     LPG Recovery Facilities
LPG Recovery Facilities at
Kailashtila                                 3.5         0.7        4.2
Sub-total                         3.5         O.7         4.2
MII.    LPG Storage and Distribution
(1) LPG 3ottling Plants                           0.6         0.2         0.8
(2) LPG Bottles             .3.0                              0.6         3.6
(3) LPG Transport (Trucks and Barges)             3.0         0.8         3.8
(4) LPG Retail Filling Units                      0.2         0.2         0.4
(5) Implementation Assistance/Training            0.5         0.2         0.7
(6) Infrastructure Facilities/Port/Land           1.3         1.3         2.6
Sub-total                         8.6         3.3        11.9
Base Ccst Estimate (Total of I, II & III)            38.5        11.4        49.9
Physical Contingencies                                3.9         1.1         5.0
Price Contingencies                                  10.1         3.8        13.9
Total Cost                                           52.5        16.3        68.8
Interest during Construction                           -         12.5        12.5
Total Financing Required                             52.5        28.8        81.3
a/ Local costs incl-ude US$8.2 million of customs duties.



- 20 -
4.14     Base cost estimates are expressed in June 1985 prices and were
developed based on: (i) the Refinery Modification Study prepared by the
consultants, CeE. Lummus; (ii) BOGMC and IDA estimates for the Early LPG
Recovery Component; and (iii) BPC and IDA estimates for the LPG Storage and
Distribution Component. Physical contingencies are 10% of the base cost.
Price contingencies are based on projected international and local price
increases of 7% in 1986, 7% in 1987, 7.5Z in 1988, 7.6% in 1989, and 4.5% in
1990 for foreign costs; 10% each year from 1985 to 1990 for local costs.
Consultant services are estimated at 60 man-months for project management
assistance to ERL and 24 man-months for LPG tistributiQn and marketing
assistance.
F. Financing Plan
4.15     The financing plan for the project is established as follows:
LPG
Refinery       LPG       Storage and
Modification   Recovey   Distribution   Total
---------------US  million)------
Long-Term Debt (IDA)                35.5           4.6           5.8         45.9
GOB Equity Contribution
- IDA Credit                        -             -            1.1          1.1
- Own Resources                   12.3           3.7           3.5        19.5
Internal Cash Generation (ERL)       7.3            -             -          7.3
Private Investors                                   -            7.5          7.5
Total                           55.1           8.3          17.9        81.3
(of which interest
during construction)              (9.6)         (1.8)         (1.1)      (12.5)
4.16     The IDA Credit (US$47 million) will cover about 90% of the project
cost net of taxes and duties and of the contribution of private investors.
The proceeds of the Credit used for the Refinery Modification Component, the
LPG Recovery Component and the publicly-managed LPG Transportation, Storage
and Distribution Component will be onlent by GOB to ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas at a
rate of 11.5% for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of four
years, on the basis of Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the
Association. The proceeds of the IDA Credit to finance BPC's share (US$1.1
million) in a privately operated LPG Storage and Distribution Company will be
passed on to BPC as equity. A condition of effectiveness will be that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreemerts between GOB and ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas respectively,
have been executed and that the Project Proformas have been approved by COB.
During negotiations, assurance was obtained from GOB that it will make
available to the beneficiaries on a timely basis any local and foreign
currency funds including cost overruns that may be needed to complete the
project.



- 21 -
G. Procurement
4.17     The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
--…(----(-US$ million)----
Project Element                               Procurement  Method
ICB        Other        N.A. a/   Total Cost
a) Equipment and Materials
Including Installation and
Start-up (Lump Sum Turnkey)
(1) Refinery Modification             30.6          -          5.4 bI       36.0
(27.0)                   (-)         (27.0)
(2) LPG Recovery Plant                  6.1         -          0.4 b/        6.5
(4.6)                   (-)          (4.6)
b) Equipment SuppLy
(1) LPG Handling Equipment
and LPG Cylinders                  4.2         2.0 c/      0.9 b/        7.1
(2.9)      (1.0)        (-)          (3.9)
(2) LPG Trucks and Tankers             4.8          -          0.9 b/        5.7
(2.0)                   (-)          (2.0)
(3) Spare Parts for ERL                4.2         2.0 c/      1.0 b/       7.2
(4.2)      (2.0)        (-)          (6.2)
c) Civil Works                              -          -          3.0           3.0
d) Project Implementation
Assistance/Training                      -         3.3 d/       -            3.3
(3.3)                    (3.3)
49.9        7.3        11.6         68.8 e/
(40.7)      (6.3)        (-)        (47.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
a/ Not applicable
bl Customs duties
cl Limited International Bidding
d/ Following IDA guidelines for the use of consultants
e/ Net of interest during construction



- 22 -
4.18     All contracts, equipment and materials to be financed by IDA will be
procured in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. International
competitive bidding (ICB) will be used for the procurement of individual items
costing over $200,OOO. For purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods procured under ICB, qualified domestic suppliers will be
allowed a margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported
goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less. Small
items costing less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate of US$4.0 million, will
be procured through limited international bidding after solicitation of
quotations from qualified suppliers from at least three IDA-eligible
countries. To the maximum extent possible, identical or similar items shall
be grouped together for the purpose of bidding and procurement. Consulting
services for project implementation assistance and training will be awarded in
accordance with IDA guidelines on the use of consultants. There is no
provision for local competitive bidding.
H. Disbursements
4.19     An estimated schedule of Credit disbursements is given in Annex 4-1.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 1992. The rate of
disbursement for the LPG Component follows the historic disbursement profile
for industrial projects in the South Asia Region. For the Refinery
Modification Component a faster rate of disbursement over the same spread of
years as for the LPC component is provided for. For the Refinery Modification
Component, the procurement would mainly be lump sum turnkey in nature and
therefore speedy. There is also the recent experience of a major energy
project in Bangladesh, the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project (Credit 1091-BD),
which has been completed in less than four years with all disbursements
effected.
4.20     Disbursements will be fully documented.  A special account with an
authorized allocation of US$5.0 million equivalent, representing about four
months of IDA-financed expenditures, will be established in a Bangladesh
bank. The proceeds of the IDA Credit will cover, net of taxes and duties, the
following components:
Category               ERL  iOGMC   LP Gas   Total    Eligible Expenditure
…(USS million).
a) Equipment/Materials
including installation
and start-up             22.0   4.0       -       26.0   ) 100% of foreign expenditure,
) 100% of local expenditure
) (ex-factory), and 80% of
) local expenditure.
b) Equipment/Materials                                      ) 100% of foreign expenditure,
excluding installatici                                   ) tO0% of local expenditure
or any other services     5.0     -       5,9     10.9   ) (ex-factors)
c) Project Implementation/
Training                  1.5    -        I eO     2.5     100%
28.5   4.0      6.9     39.4
Unallocated                                        7.6
Total                                             47.0



- 23 -
I. Monitoring and Reporting
4.21     ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas will be required to submit to the Association
quarterly project progress and procurement status reports within 30 days of
the end of each quarter. In addition, within six months after closing date of
the project, each company will prepare and furnish to the Association a
completion report on the project, dealing with its implementation, initial
operations and the costs and benefits derived and expected to be derived
therefrom.
J. Ecology and Safety
4.22     The refinery does not discharge any liquid or solid wastes harmful to
the environment. However, oil sludge some of which could contain lead from
the gasoline tanks are either dumped in ponds or have been left in non-usable
tanks in the past. With the repair and rehabilitation of tanks, sludge can no
longer be accumulated but will be treated in the separators and disposed of
either as fuel oil, blended into asphalt or burnt. The rehabilitation of the
process heaters will reduce significantly the level of sulfur and nitrogen
oxide emissions.
4.23     Recovery of LPG from refinery gas or natural gas is a clean, non-
polluting process and creates no harmful by-products. Process facilities both
at the refinery and at the Kailashtila gas treating plant will be designed in
accordance with international standards for the industry. The marketing of
bulk or bottled LPG is also a clean and safe process. The loading and
unloading of bulk LPG cause the discharge of minute quantities of non-toxic
gas into the atmosphere. However, compared to the discharges associated with
the transfer of other petroleum products, the contamination caused by LPG is
negligible.  Unlike other petroleum products, LPG is delivered and stored
until consumed under pressure.  All equipment and storage vessels including
cylinders will be designed in conformity with standards applicable to pressure
vessels as stipulated by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)
or comparable safety codes, and procured from suppliers with experience of not
less than ten years in the fabrication of such equipment/facilities. In
addition, to ensure proper maintenance of facilities, the project provides for
technical assistance in LPG market,ng and distribution to help establish
adequate safety and inspection procedures, provide training of staff and
supervise operations during the initial period.
K. Insurance
4.24     Both ERL and LP Gas have adequate insurance coverage for buiLdings,
machinery, stores and spares against various risks including fire, flood and
cyclone. The proposed Refinery Modification Project will be adequately
covered during the construction and erection phase and, following
commissioning, under an integrated insurance plan consistent with accepted
pracLices ir. the industry. Insurance coverage for LP Gas will be extended to
cover new facilities as well as LPG tankers and tank trucks. The Kailashtila
LPG recovery facility will similarly be covered under the existing insurance
policy for the gas treating plant.



- 24 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.01     Financial analyses were carried out for each project component
separately. The separate projections for ERL are discussed below. The
financial outlook of BOGMC's gas operating companies was discussed under the
Second Gas Development Project, for which an IDA Credit was approved in April
1985, and financial covenants were agreed at that time to safeguard their
financial viability. The small LPG Recovery Component included in the
proposed project is not expected to modify significantly the gas production
operations placed under BOGMC.
A.  Refinery Modification Component
1. ERL's Past Financial Performance
5.02     The current arrangement between ERL and BPC (which is responsible for
crude oil procurement and marketing of refined products) provides for ERL to
be reimbursed by BPC for all its processing costs and be given, in addition, a
15X return on its paid-up capital, net of taxes. 1/ This has provided ERL
with an assured minimum, albeit limited, level of profitability. ERL's
operating expenses have remained at reasonable levels, with an average
processing cost of less than US$0.65/bbl of throughput over the last two
years, which compares satisfactorily with similar (hydroskimming) refineries
elsewhere. Profit levels have been particularly modest since FY84 mainly due
to large tax obligations. A summary of ERL's financial performance in recent
years is presented in Annex 5-1. Key statistics are summarized below:
ERL - Summary of Recent Financial Performance
(in million Takas)
FY82        FY83       FY84      FY85
(Unaudited)
Gross Revenue                     129.4        143.3      130.8     138.8
Operating Profit                   18.7         25.6      20.3       17.3
Net Profit After Tax               17.9         22.6       12.0      11.5
Current Assets                    197.1        219.9     269.6      306.4
Current Liabilities                81.3         63.1      82.7       79.3
Net Fixed Assets                  149.1        155.6      138.2     143.7
Long-Term Debt                    207.6        127.5     135.7      174.9
Equity                             57.3        184.9     189.4      195.9
Ratios
Net Profit/Gross Revenue (%)       13.8         15.8        9.2       8.3
Net Profit/Fixed Assets (X)        12.0         14.5       8.7        8.0
Current Ratio                       2.4          3.5       3.3        3.9
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio       78/22        41/59     42/58      47/53
1V In addition there is a bonus of 25% on the value of any process fuel that
it may save from the 4.5% process fuel and losses allowed by BPC, or a penalty
if process fuel and losses should exceed 4.5%.



- 25 -
5.03     The long-term debt/equity ratio stood at 78:22 on June 30, 1982
(during the appraisal of the ongoing Energy Efficiency and Refinery
Rehabilitation Project) - a ratio which the Association considered too highly
leveraged. Of the Taka 212 million long-term debt outstanding at that time,
nearly 60% (Taka 124 million) was related to debts contracted before the
creation of Bangladesh. The liability has since been transferred to a capital
reserve account in ERL's books and is thus no longer shown as a long-term
debt. Nevertheless, it remains a contingent liability. During negotiations
GOB agreed to raise the paid-in capital of ERL by Tk 1,200 million by a
corresponding reduction in the long-term debts that ERL owes to GOB. Such
conversion of debt to equity will be a condition of disbursement for the
refinery modification component, Following this change, the debt-equity ratio
of ERL, even reckoning the pre-independence liability as debt, is expected to
fall below 65:35.
2. Remuneration of ERL
5.04     The current arrangement between BPC and ERL for the remuneration of
ERL refinery operations (para 5.02) is not satisfactory in that it does not
provide ERL management with adequate incentives to improve cost efficiency.
As a result of the project, the refinery will help generate revenues
sufficient to cover all production costs as well as provide an adequate return
on capital employed (para 5.06). The problem for GOB is (a) to allocate the
incremental income that will accrue as a result of the project among ERL, BPC
and itself through excise duties, (b) decide on a financial structure and a
fair dividend policy for ERL, and (c) establish a remuneration policy to ERL
that provides incentives to ensure operational efficiency. Refineries similar
to ERL generally operate on the basis of a processing fee per barrel of crude
feed that reflects the complexity of their configuration, in addition to an
allowance for refinery fuel and losses. IDA impressed upon GOB the
desirability of switching ERL operations to such a toll processing fee
arrangement. Agreement was reached during negotiations that ERL's mode of
remuneration will be changed, beginning January 31, 1987, to a system in which
ERL will be paid a processing fee per barrel (in dollar equivalent) fixed at a
level that would provide ERL with a reasonable rate of return (about 1OZ) on
revalued assets employed in refinery operations under efficient operating
conditions, with a system of rewards and penalties designed to maximize the
output of middle distillates based on a set of operating norms. The details
of the system of norms, rewards and penalties will be prepared by BPC/ERL,
with the assistance of their engineering consultants for the rehabilitated
refinery, and that of the PMAT (para 4.05), for the refinery as it will be
operating upon completion:, of the modification project. The proposed set of
norms for the rehabilitated refinery will be submitted to IDA prior to Credit
effectiveness. IDA also reached agreement with ERL that it will submit to the
Association an optimized production program every six months during the
project implementation period, together with a review of the extent to which
agreed targets and norms have been met over the preceding six months.
3. Financial Projections
5.05     Proforma financial statements (income, sources and application of
funds and balance sheet) for ERL with the proposed modification were prepared
in constant 1985 Takas on the basis of ERL's fiscal year (July 1 to June
30). The projections are based on the assumption that ERL will receive a



- 26 -
processing fee per barrel of crude oil of $l/bbl between FY87 and FY90 and of
$1.35 afterwards (i.e. after completion of the project) -- a level well within
the average netback margin of $3-4 per barrel expected by 1990. The
projections further assume an increase in the paid-in capital of ERL by Tk
1,200 million by reduction of ERL long-term debt to the Government (para
5.03). The detailed projections, together with the assumptions used, are in
Annex 5-1. Highlights of these projections are given below:
ERL - Summar  of Financial Pro ections
in million 1985 Takas)
(Unaudited
Actual)                 Estimates
FY85        FY87     FY90     FY93     FY95
Processing Fee
(including fuel
saving bonus)                 138,8       267.9    468,9    468.9    468,9
Income Before Taxes           21.5         24.7    93.1      86e6    139.8
Not Income After Taxes         11,5        24.7    93,1    86.6    69X9
Current Assets                306.4       463,4    663.9    832.2   1010.1
Current Liabilities            74.2       106.1    247.7    247.7    307.3
Fixed Assets in Operation     127.2       647.9   1395.9    934,3    584.5
Long-term Debt                174.9       773,5   1183,8    772.3   508,4
Equity                        201.0       464,6    903,2    958.2    990.7
Ratios
Income Before Taxes/
Gross Revenue (%)            15.5         9.2      19.9    18,5    29.8
Net Income after
Taxes/Gross Revenue(          8.3         9,2     19,9     18.5    14.9
Operating Profits/
Operating Fixed Assets (%)     15          13       11       15       23
Current Ratio                   4e1         4.4      2.7      3.4     3.3
Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio   47/53       63/28    57/43    42/55    34/66
Debt Service Coverage           -           2e4      2,5      1.3      1,5
5.06     The projections indicate that, based on the processing fee levels
mentioned in para 5.05, ERL's financial position will be satisfactory.  The
financial internal rate of return for the refinery as a whole for the 16 year-
operating life of the project (1987-2003) is estimated at 11%. The debt
service coverage ratio, initially down to 1.2 in FY91 when repayment on the
proposed loan begins, improves to 1.3 or higher thereafter. The operating
return on net fixed assets in operation is also satisfactory, starting at 11%
in FY91 and improving to 23% in FY95. The financial covenants agreed under
Credit 1357-BD (Energy Efficiency and Rehabilitation Project) will be
maintained under the project but for one change indicated below. The
covenants require that: (i) ERL's long-term debt/equity ratio will not exceed
65:35 from FY87. To this end, as a condition of disbursement the government
would convert Tk 120 million of ERL's debt to the government to equity; (ii)
ERL's current ratio will be at least 1.5:1 from FY87; (iii) no dividend will
be declared by ERL if this would cause its current ratio to fall below 1.5;



- 27 -
(iv) ERL will not incur any additional debt if this would cause ERL's debt
service coverage in any fiscal year to fall below 1.3 (it is 1.5 for each
fiscal year under Credit 1357-BD); and (v) ERL will not make any investments
in fixed assets in excess of an aggregate amount of US$5.0 million without
prior approval of IDA. The reduction from 1.5 to 1.3 in the minimum debt
service ratio will not adversely affect the financial viability of ERL
considering the combined impact of the other covenants.
B.  Earl  LPGRecoverComonent (BOGMC)
5.07     The recovery of LPG from natural gas at Kailashtila is expected to be
financially viable despite the small-scale size of the undertaking, partly on
account of the additional recovery of condensate. The financial projections
at Annex 5-2 and summarized below assume a transfer price of LPG to LP Gas of
Tk 3,500/ton (US$113/ton). The assumed transfer price of LPG would also
ensure the financial viability of downstream distribution activities, as
discussed in the following section.
Summary of Financial Projections
(in Million 1985 Takas)
FY91          FY93           FY95
Revenue
LPG                      14.0          17.5           17.5
Condensate                6.4           8.4            8.9
Operating costs             7.9           8.0            8.0
Net cash flow
(operations)               12.5          17.9           18.4
C. LPG Storage and Distribution Component (LP Gas)
5.08     This project component, to be implemented by a combination of public
and private sector entities, is of a pilot nature and carries costs that could
benefit the larger LPG distribution operations that will be needed in the
future. Moreover, the project is to be used as an instrument to test consumer
acceptance of a different mode of retail marketing. Even though the current
retail price could be increased (para 2.23), it is not proposed to effect any
major change in order to encourage consumption of LPG. As the market expands,
there will be scope to increase the retail prices in order to help finance new
investments.
5.09     BPC currently transfers about 6,000 tons of LPG from ERL to LP Gas at
a price of Tk 5,200/ton (US$168/ton). LP Gas in turn transfers bottled LPG to
the marketing companies at its battery limits at Tk 7,600/ton (US$245/ton).
The marketing companies then sell the bottled LPG to consumers at Tk 8,400/ton
(US$270/ton) ex-depot. While the existing pricing arrangement, which allows a
margin of approximately Tk 2,400/ton (US$77/ton) to LP Gas, is adequate for
the disposal of LPG within the Chittagong area, it will be necessary to raise
this margin substantially to cover the cost of transport to the western
zone. The current ex-refinery price of LPG was fixed based on the rationale



- 28 -
that the alternate use of LPG in the refinery was as refinery fuel, displacing
fuel oil, the refinery fuel at the time. Following the recent substitution of
natural gas as refinery fuel, the ex-refinery price for LPG should be adjusted
downwards to reflect the opportunity price of natural gas to the refinery
(currently US$63 per ton equivalent). There is also room to adjust the
consumer price of LPG upwards taking into consideration the relatively high
economic value of LPG vis-a-vis'kerosene, as discussed in para 2.23. The
financial projections in Annex 5-3 assume a margin of Tk 7,100/ton
(US$230/ton) for the LPG produced at the refinery and Tk 5,550/ton
(US$180/ton) for the LPG to be produced at Kailashtila. On this basis, the
financial internal rate of return for the LPG storage and distribution
component is estimated at 1OZ, which is adequate.
5.10     The financial projections show that there would be sufficient
internal generation of cash to meet debt service commitments, although both LP
Gas and the private sector company would be building up assets for
distributing larger quantities of LPG in the course of time. In order to
assure LP Gas of an adequate margin on the sale of LPG, agreement was reached
with GOB that the transfer prices of LPG from ERL and BOGMC to LP Gas, and
bulk and bottled LPG from LP Gas to the marketing companies, will be reviewed
at least every 12 months beginning June 30, 1987, and set at such levels as
will ensure that LPG Limited has sufficient internal cash to meet, in the
minimum, all its operating costs and debt service payments. This
understanding is also expected to guarantee satisfactory operating conditions
for the privately operated company.
5.11     Cylinders procured by LP Gas will be sold to the marketing companies
and/or private dealers except for a small inventory to be retained by LP
Gas. Cylinders and regulators were originally distributed at a price of Tk
500; the selling price was then reduced to Tk 350 to encourage consumption and
subsequently raised to Tk 1,000 when the petroleum marketing companies
purchased additional cylinders and were allowed to recover their costs from
customers. The current price of Tk 1,000 (US$33) is adequate in relation to
the import price of cylinders but will require monitoring. During
negotiations GOB agreed to set the price of cylinders to reflect import costs
as well as applicable taxes and duties and to review cylinder prices at least
once a year.
VI.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction - Past Trends
6.01     The margin between the price of petroleum products and that of crude
oil determines the economics of refinery operations. For ERL, the petroleum
product prices in Singapore will largely determine this margin. Over the
period 1976-1984, when crude oil prices at Singapore (in 1985 dollars)
increased from US$136/ton to US$242/ton in 1982 and then decreased to
US$210/ton in 1984, the margin ac Singapore fluctuated from US$35/ton in 1976
to US$70/ton in 1981 but touched a low of US$11/ton in 1984. While the
economics of a refinery as a whole would depend on the price margin between
products and crude oil, the economic viability of a secondary conversion
project for processes which increase the yield of diesel oil is determined by
the price difference between diesel oil and fuel oil. For the period 1976-



- 29 -
1984, this differential at Singapore (in 1985 dollars) changed from US$65/ton
in 1976 to US$48/ton in 1981 and to US$68/ton in 1984, reaching its lowest
level at US$46/ton in 1977. During the first quarter of 1986, subsequent to
the decline in the price of crude oilt the differential increased to US$751
ton. A graph showing the price variations, in 1985 dollars, at Singapore for
crude oil, diesel oil and the composite product (the product mix to be
achieved at ERL after the project is implemented) is presented in Annex 6-3.
B. Crude Oil and Product Price Assumptions
6.02     Until September 1985, the margin between the price of crude oil per
barrel and the composite price (i.e. the value of products derived from a
barrel of crude oil) as well as the differential between the prices of diesel
oil and fuel oil showed almost no change over 1984. Thereafter, despite the
onset of a rapid decline in the price of crude oil, product prices have not
declined as rapidly, and the margin between the crude oil price and the
composite price, as well as the interproduct differentials, particularly
between distillate petroleum products and fuel oil, have tended to be higher.
6.03     For the economic analysis, the crude oil price projections up to 1995
developed by the Economic Analysis and Projections Department (EPD) in April
1986 have been used, together with mission estimates up to 2000. For product
price projections, product-to-crude oil price ratios developed by the Bank in
November 1984 1/ have been used. These ratios were developed in the
perspective of the higher crude oil prices then prevailing and projected, as
well as the relatively low margins (in US$ or equivalent) in refining and
marketing. The current scenario is of far lower crude oil prices but
improving refining axid marketing margins. It would follow that since the
lower crude oil price projections are being used for the economic analysis,
the product-to-crude oil price ratios should be higher. Nevertheless, it was
decided to adopt the ratios as developed in November 1984. As a result,
product prices used in the economic analysis are lower than what they are in
the current market, thereby yielding economic rates of return which, although
depressed by the conservative product price assumptions used, remain
sufficiently attractive. The projected crude oil and petroleum product price.._
used in the analysis based on the assumptions just explained are given below
(in constant 1985 dollars):
Product Prices (USM/ton)
(FOB Singapore)
1990        1995        2000
Naphtha                         154         172          198
Gasoline                        173         191          219
Kerosene                        165         182          209
Diesel                          157         175          201
Fuel oil                         88         112          129
Crude oil                       122         140          161
Composite Product Price         135         154          177
1/ World Bank Technical Paper Number 32. World Refinery Industry: Need for
Restructuring.



- 30 -
C. Refinery Operations
1. Refinery Modification Component
6.04     The economic benefits to be derived from the modification component
will come mainly from increased yields of premium value middle distillate
products, namely, kerosene and diesel oil. The economic evaluation for this
component is based on a comparison of the net benefits of meeting the
country's petroleum product requirements with and without the project, taking
into account the incremental capital and operating costs of the new
facilities, the loss in revenue from reduced output of fuel oil and the
benefits to be derived from the increased yield of middle distillates. The
economic capital cost of the project component excludes interest during
construction, import duties and local taxes. The base case for the economic
evaluation relates to the EPD crude oil price projections and petroleum
products prices given in para 6.03. On these price assumptions, the project
has an ERR af 21%. The economic analysis is presented in detail in Annex 6-1.
6.05     Sensitivity tests were carried out to arrive at a range of diesel-to-
fuel oil price differentials over time, at which the project breaks even at
the cost of money (12%). For this to occur, the differential would have to
fall and remain at less than US$45/ton (in 1985 dollars). This is higly
improbable, when tested against the past from 1976. In 1977, the differential
was at its lowest at US$46/ton (in 1985 dollars), at which time the price of
crude was US$133/ton. In 1984 when the margin between the composite product
price and the price of crude was at the lowest for nine or ten years, at
US$11/ton, the differential between diesel price and fuel oil price was
US$68/ton. The differential between diesel price and fuel oil price
apparently correlates better (excluding market factors) with the inve_.tments
needed to produce more diesel oil than with either the price of crude oil or
with the overall refinery margin. In 1977, the unit value index of
manufactured exports 1/ was 75.9 on a 100 base in 1985.
2. Refinery As a Whole
6.06     The economic evaluation of the refinery is based on the estimated
value of existing facilities on completion of the ongoing rehabilitation
program and proposed modifications, using the same base case assumptions as
for the refinery modification component for crude oil and product prices. On
this basis, the refinery shows an ERR of 18%. The detailed economic analysis
is provided in Annex 6-2. The refinery's economic viability was first tested
to determine the margin between the composite product price and that of crude
oil (using Singapore as the reference location), which would bring the ERR
down to 12%, assigning a replacement value (depreciated) to the refinery as it
exists. Such a margin would be US$10.5/ton (in 1985 dollars). if investments
in the refinery as is (before rehabilitation or modification) are taken as
sunk costs, the margin has to be only US$9/ton. It is unlikely that such low
1/ Unit value index of manufactured exports from five industrial market
economies exporting to developing countries on a CIF basis (EPD published
data).



- 31 -
margins would come to prevail at any time. Two graphs (see Annexes 6-4 and
6-5) illustrate how the margins between the composite product price and the
crude price are projected to behave in the period 1987-2000, the first in the
'base' case, and the other in a 'minimum' case where the ERR of the refinery
would drop to 12%. The result of other sensitivity tests are given below:
Sensitivity Analysis on Economic Rate of Returr.
%
Base Case (Refinery as a Whole)                       18
Capital cost increase by 30%                           15
Delay of 2-year in project implementation             11
Capacity utilization less by 30%                      13
D. LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribution
6.07     For the purpose of economic analysis, the recovery and distribution
of LPG at Kailashtila, and the storage and distribution of LPG in the western
zone are considered as two inde;endent operations. The Kailashtila Component
comprises recovery of LPG (5,000 tons) by BOGMC and its storage, bottling and
sale by LPG Ltd. The Western Zone Component comprises storage, bottling,
transportation and distribution of the additional LPG (6,000 tons) to be
produced by ERL, to be handled by LPG Limited and the privately operated
company.
1. Kailashtila LPG Component
6.08     5,000 mTpa of LPG are expected to be recovered and distributed under
thia project component. The input streams consist of 3,000 mTpa recovered
from pipeline gas and 2,000 mTpa from flared gases. The input cost of all
5,000 mTpa is the aggregate of its value as natural gas at the wellhead, plus
the fixed and operating costs of recovering, bottling and distributing the
LPC. Annex 6-6 gives the estimated capital and operating costs for this
component. For deriving the benefits the economic evaluation assumes that one
metric ton of LPG replaces 1.50 mT of kerosene, taking relative heat content
and combustion efficiency into account. Condensate which comes as a by-
product when recovering LPG from natural gas yields additional benefits taken
at the value of crude oil. The estimated ERR is 17%, which is satisfactory
for a pilot project. Sensitivity test results below indicate that the pilot
project remains viable under a wide range of values for the main parameters.
Sensitivity Analysis on Economic Rate of Return
Base Case                                            17
Capital Cost Up 30%                                  12
Kerosene Price Down 20%                              13
Demand Down 20%                                      12



- 32 
2. Western Zone LPG Component
6.09     The economic analysis assutmes that LPG will substitute largely for
kerosene and that 1 ton of LPC will displace 1.5 tons of kerosene or the
basis of their relative combustion efficiencies and calorific values.
Economic cost of the feed stream is assumed to be the economic cost of natural
gas at the refinery plus cost of recovering LPG in the refinery. The
estimated capital and operating costs and the economic evaluation for this
component is given in Annex 6-7. This component is sensitive, among other
factors, to bulk transportatien costs.  While the facilities provided under
the project are capable of handling larger quantities of LPG, the economic
evaluation is based on the distribution and marketing of the additional 6,000
mTpa only. The ERR for this component is 15%, and would improve rapidly when
larger quantities become available in the future. Results of sensitivity
tests are summarized below:
Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rate of Return
Base Case                                             15
Demand Down 20%                                       10
Kerosene Price Down 20%                               10
Capital Cost Up 30%                                   11
E. Project Risks
1 Refinery Modification
6.10     The main risks are those resulting from changes in the international
price of crude oil and petroleum products. With respect to the refinery
modification component, the anticipated economic return is satisfactory even
at price margins between diesel. and fuel oil well below past levels. There is
little risk of the margin between petroleum products and crude oil
deteriorating to such an extent that refinery operations, with the proposed
modification, could become temporarily uneconomic. The project is expected to
enhance the refinery's viabilicy.
2. LPG Recovery, Storage and Distribution
6.11     With regard to the LPG components, the LPG wrtrket is virtually
untapped and I s will displace mainly kerosene and firewood -- both high value
fuels. The ri,ks of the benefits being eroded to a level that makes the
project components uneconomic are slim, as -)reign exchange savings are
significant when LPG displaces kerosene, and the additional benefits of
reduced deforestation when substituting for firewood are substantial. The
risk of an inadequate market for the additional LPG in low, since unsatisfied
LPC demand is very large due to its cleanliness in use and cheaper price
relative to kerosene.



- 33 -
VII. AGRE0MEETS
7.01     The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
With the Government that
(a) it will not later than July 30, 1989 remove all price controls
over the distribution and sale of {.PG (para 2.23);
(b)  it will stipulate (through BPC) credit periods on accounts
receivable by B0C from subsidiaries of BPC as well as by the
subsidiaries from their customers and further cause BPDB to
reduce its arrears to BPC by Tk 50 million per month until these
arrears are fully cleared (para 3.04);
(c)  it will ensure the appointment of a General Manager for LP Gas
and that this will be a condition of disbursement (para 3.08);
(d) as a condition of effectiveness, it will ensure the engagement
of consultants for the desigr. and detailed engineering of the
LPG recovery plant at Kailashtila and, as a condition of
disbursement, it will ensure the establishment of one or more
privately owned LPG Storage and Distribution companies, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para 4.07);
(e) as a condition of effectiveness, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
between GOB and ERL, BOGMC, and LP Gas, respectively, will have
been executed and the Project Proformas approved by GOB
(para 4.16);
(f) it will ensure the availability of necessary resources to
complete the project and meet any cost overruns or shortfall in
funds to finance the project (para 4.16);
(g) as a condition of effectiveness, it will establish, beginning
January 31, 1987, a toll processing fee for compensating ERL
based on product yield, refining complexity and a reasonable
return on inv,:stment, together with yield norms and a system of
rewards and penalties (para 5.04); and
(h) it will, as a condition of disbursement, convert Tk 120 million
of ERL's debt owed to the government to equity (para 5.06); and
(i) it will review, pending decontrol of LPG prices, at least every
12 months beginning June 30, 1987, and set the transfer price of
LPG from ERL and BOGMC to LP Gas, snd from LP Gas to the
marketing companies, at a level that will ensure that LP Gas has
sufficient internal cash generation to meet, at the minimum, all
its operating costs and debt service payments (para 5.10).



- 34 -
With ERL that
(a) the appointment of PMAT will be a condition of effectiveness
(para 4.05);
(b) as a condition of effectiveness, it will, with the assistance of
consultants, establish yield norms for the rehabilitated
refinery for different crude oils likely to be processed,
together with a system of rewards and penalties;
(c) it will submit optimized production programs semi-annually
during the project implementation period, together with a review
of the extent to which production targets and norms have been
met (para 5.04); and
(d) (i) its long-term debt/equity ratio will not exceed 65:35 from
FY87; (ii) its current ratio will be at least 1.5:1 from FY87;
(iii) no dividend will be declared if this would cause its
current ratio to fall below 1.5; (iv) it will not incur any
additional debt if this would cause ERL's debt service coverage
in any fiscal year to fall below 1.3; and (v) it will not make
any investments in fixed assets greater than a total amount of
US$5.0 million without prior IDA approval (para 5.06).
With LP Gas that
(a) it will obtain the services of LPG Distribution and Marketing
Consultants to design different components and assist in the
implementation of the project, as a condition of disbursement
(para 4.08); and
(b) it will review at least once a year and set the price of LPG
cylinders to cover procurement costs, taxes and duties
(para 5.11).
With BOGMC, ERL and LP Gas that
(a) they will supply the Association with copies of their unaudited
financial statements, including the project accounts, not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, and not later
than nine months after the end of the fiscal year copies of the
audited statements together with a copy of the report and
comments of the Comptroller and Auditor General (para 3.11).
7.02     Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$47 million.
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- 35 -                               Annex 2-1
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Rcovery and Distribution Project
Sectoral Shares in Petroleum Products Consueption a/
('000 MT)
Comparative Shares (%)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1976    1981    1984
-----------------------------------------------------___----------____-_-_-_-__----_---------------------------
Transport          323    371      407     467    5S1      520     436     473     560      31      34       37
Residential/
Cosurcial        338     377    398      392     361     366     303     300     311      3)      24       20
Power              178     171     178    206      245     254     195    246    291         16     17       19
Industry          206      294     304     320     297     274     209     238     214      19      18      14
Agriculture         37      52      71      84      85     102     110    140      150       3       7       10
TOTAL         1,082   1,265   1,358   1,469   1,499   1,516   1,253   1,397   1,526     100      100     100
a/ Including naphtha, jute Oetching oil, lubricants and bitumen.
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



Bongladesh: Refinery ModificatIon and LPG Recovery and Distribution Project
Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1976-1984
(1000 T)
1975-1984
1984 Share    Average
in Total      Annual
1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983     1984    Consumption   Growth Rate
(%)          (M)
High Octane
Blending Component        2.4       2.9       4.0       5,3      6.2       6.9      6.7       5.6       6.3      7.1        0.5          12.6
Motor Spirit                51.4     51.9      55.9      60,8     55.8      49.6      47.8     38.6      42,0      48.6       3.3          -0.6
Jet Petrol                 23.8      24.5      26.5      30.5     44,4      50.3      58.2     50.9      54.2     64.0        4.4          11.6
Superior Kerosene Oil    340.9    337.2    378.0    398.2    384.0    448.1    402.7    324.9    322.2    351.4              24.2           0.3
High Speed
Diesel Oil              246.8    252,5    304.4    334.9    414,6    413.3    511.6    455.2    516.5    595.8             41.0          10.3
Light Diesel Oil           32.0      23.0      31.0     31.0      32.4      35.2     30.2      22.0      20.6     20.0        1.4          -5.1
Furnace Oil,
High Sulfur             352.8    319.9    385,0    423.4    428,6    371.2    331.5    289.0    384.5    359.5             24.7           0.2
Furnace Oil,
Low Sulfur               30.6      32,i      36,6     40,3      42.1      40.0     29.8       4,0        -        -          -              -
Liquefled
Petroleum Gas               -        -         -       0.7       2,7       4.5       5.0      4.3       6.2      6.9        0.5          47.4 a/
TOTAL              1,080,9  i,044.6  1,221,4  1,325,1  1,410.8  1,419,1  1,423.5  1,194.5  1,352.5  1,453,3              100
a/ For the period 1978 to 1984
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
N
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LAiO Racovery and Distribution Project
Petroleum Products Demand Projections
('000 mT)
No Growth                         Low Growth                        High Growth
1985        1990   1995   2000   % p,a.       1990   1995   2000   % p.a.        1990   1995   2000   3 p.a.
(Actual)                            Growth                             Growth                             Growth
Motor Gasoline           55,6          48      51     53    -0.32         52     54      57    0.17          54     62      68    1,35
AvturA(erosene          415.5         427    449    472    +0,85         532    693    905    5,33         638    909   1207    7,37
Diesel/Gas Oil          628.7         622    726    846       2.00       761   1053   1436    5.67         955   1656   2818   10.52
Fuel Oil                394.1         310    328    346    -0.86         331    366    404    0.17         348    403    467    1.14
Others a/                24.0          29      30     32      0.19        33     42      56    5.81         33      45      59    6.18
1517.9        1436   1584   1749      0.95       1709   2208   2858    4,31        2028   3075   4619    7.77
a/ Others include asphalts, lubricating oils and LPG; likely increased consumption of LPG resulting from proposed project is
not reflected,
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- 38 -                                    Annex 2-4
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution Project
Sector-wise Consumption of Kerosene. Diesel and Fuel Oil, 1984/85
Total Fuel      Sector Share in       Fuel Shares In
Consumption    Fuel Consumption       Total Product$
Fuel                  Sector                   ('000 mT)            (I)              Consumption (C)
SKO                Residential/Commercial        305                  87
(Superior          Power                          46                  13
Kerosene Oil)                                                       ---
351                100                    24
'ISD               Power                           60                 10
(High Speed        Agriculture                   150                  25
Diesel) a/        Transport:                    (376)             (63.5)
Rail                         47                  8
Road                        226                 38
Water                       100                  17
Foreign Bunker                3                0.5
Industry                       10                1.5
596                100                    41
FOMiS              Power                          175                 47
(Furnace Oil,      Industry                      171                  46
High Sulfur)      Transport bl                   25                   7
371                100                    25
a/ LOO (Light Diesel Oil) accounts for only 2S of total products consumption and is used mainly
in foreign bunkers.
b/ Mostly for foreign bunkers.
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- 39 -                            Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 2
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery
and Distribution Project
Review of BPC Petroleum Products Supply Strategy
1.       ERL operations as well as BPC crude oil and petroleum products supply
strategy were extensively reviewed by C.E. Lummus, the consultants. The
conclusions that emerged from their review are:
(a) the refinery operations, given the constraints of limited
manpower and maintenance provision, are reasonably well managed;
and
(b) that BPC, by a judicious choice of crude oils and a mix of
refined products and crude oils, has minimized the cost of
petroleum products needed by the country.
2.       The mission reviewed critically the procurement and processing of
crude oils over the past three years. Although there is a 3overnment-to-
government contract between GOB and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, BPC has
regularly procured crude oils outside this contract as well. Crude oils
processed in the past include Tapis, Murban from the UAE, Iraq Basrah, Iranian
Light and Arabian Light. The crude oils that have been processed most are
Arabian Light and Murban at ratios that have varied from 70:30 to 50:50
(Arabian Light to Murban). The consultants in their study, as evident from
the graph attached, concluded this to be optimum range and the most suitable
crude oil mix.
3.       Besides optimizing the crude oil mix, BPC has also taken advantage of
the favorable petroleum product prices that prevailed over the past several
years. Here again, the conclusion was that operating the refinery at around 1
mmTpa was the optimum throughnut level.
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



; | ''t                  _40 -                                                                            As                  I     -$
... .....; .1  ''............. .  -X. . X.,
L _L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    . .; . .....w  ... ........... ;i-:l-! 
.... ........... ..... .. . . ..... .. a .... , ~~~~. .  ...............
. ..  __..___... ..t._.                                                                                                                                                                               i_. ,.. 1..**._
,--_  __.                                                .     .      .     . i              .   _T..........
3so A ____ _ -_ __ _ ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ... ..__._.
320*''                                    '    *-'i-                          ' '-          
-0> -                                       *                   so     --     . ,,  .
=R~~~~~~~~ LIH  ARABIAN.. .. ..................  



- 41 -                           Annex 2-6
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH: REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPG RECOVERY AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CONSULTANTS STUDY AND AN ASSESSMENT OF
FUTURE CRUDE OIL AND PRODUCT PRICING
1.       The five-volume consultant study by Lummus Crest (U.S.) consisted in
a review of several refinery operating and modification alternatives ranging
from low-cost to more capital intensive options. The principal options
evaluated were: (i) mothballing the refinery and importing all products; (ii)
spiking crude oil while continuing to operate the refinery in its present
configuration; (iii) processing lighter crude oils better suited to meet
Bangladesh's changing consumption pattern; (iv) modification of the refinery
with a visbreaker (VB); (v) modification of the refinery by revamping the
existing hydro-desulfurizer into a mild hydrocracker (MHC) and adding a
visbreaker; (vi) modification of the refinery with a new visbreaker and a new
mild hydrocracker; and (vii) modification of the refinery with a full range
hydrocracker.   The consultants concluded that mothballing of the refinery and
importing all product requirements would result in a marginal increase in the
cost of acquiring essential petroleum products. Similarly, spiking was also
rejected as unfavorable, since the primary advantage of reduced transportation
costs for refined products is lost in Bangladesh due to the extra costs
involved in lightering crude oils. The consultants concluded that
modification of the refinery has substantial economic merit and that Saudi
Arabian Light is the optimal crude oil. The comparative economic merits of
different modification options are given below:
Average Annual Foreign Exchange Savings
and Capital Costs of Various Modification Options
(Crude Oil: Arabian Light)
Average Annual          No. of Years        NPV at a/
Foreign Exch-    Capital   to Recover    IRR   12% Dis-
ange Savings    Costs    Capital      (%)   count Rate
------(USS Million)…------  ------------  -----  ---------
Visbreaker + Revamped MHC         13.40        20.00      1.49      44.12    48.24
VIsbreaker + New MHC              18.80        43.66      2,32      3t,.92    53.70
Visbreaker                        11.10        15.86      1.42      45.72    40.65
Hydrocracker                      25.99        81.41      3.13      23.48    55.38
Hydrocracker + Visoreaker        30.55         95,94      3.14      23.42    64,87
Visbreaker + Thermal Cracker      9.30         47.82      5.14      13.25    3.05
a/ NPV of incremental investments and savings (losses) of different options compared to operating
refinery "as is".
2.       IDA has had a critical input in the selection of the most attractive
strategy for modifying the refinery configuration. Its review of the
consultants' conclusions was aimed at: (i) identifying the least-cost
effective strategy for Bangladesh based on forecasts of the future demand for



- 42 -                             Annex 2-6
Page 2 of 5
and price of the various petroleum fractions; and (ii) assessing the
Justification for the most attractive option under various alternative price
scenarios that could affect adversely the viability of the proposed
investment. As mentioned above, full hydrocracking options are expected to
yield relatively higher net savings than the other less ambitious modification
options. However, they would involve considerably higher capital costs but
only marginally acceptable rates of return (below 20%)-on the incremental
investments over the MHC/VB options, making these additional investments very
vulnerable to changes in relative product prices. For these reasons, the two
hydrocracking options were not considered any further. In the course of its
discussions with the Government, IDA underscored the fact that a similar
argument would apply when comparing the new MHC option with the revamped MHC
option. The Government eventually concurred with IDA's recommendation that
the most attractive option was the revamped MHC with visbreaker (returns on
revamping the MHC are almost equally as attractive as on the visbreaker
alone). Using the net present value of the cost (NPV) to Bangladesh of
meeting its petroleum product requirement as a basic criterion for comparison
purposes, the suggested modification (visbreaker + revamped MHC) is expected
to yield savings on the NPV of US$49 million compared to operating the
refinery "as is" and of US$111 million compared to mothbaLling the refinery.
Review of Some Factors that Affect Refining Economics
A. Supply from OPEC and Singapore Export Refineries
3.       OPEC.  With the completion of projects under construction or firmly
committed, the primary distillation capacity in OPEC countries will increase
from 5.3 million barrels per calendar day (bpcd) in 1982 to 7.7 million bpcd
in 1990. Secondary conversion capacity will increase from 300,000 bpcd to
820,000 bpcd.
Total crude distillation (CDU)              7,700,000 bpcd
Total conversion capacity                     820,000 bpcd
Conversion as percent of CDU capacity           10.7
4.       A substantial part of the new capacity is being built for domestic
demand but most of the new plants in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Libya and UAE are
export-oriented. The volume of product exports will depend on the domestic
consumption and the utilization rate of new facilities, which some industry
analysts believe would not exceed 70 for crude distillation facilities due to
poor demand for residual fuel oil. However, assuming that these refineries
can operate at 85 to 90 percent of design capacity and a modest growth in
domestic consumption, a recent internal OECD paper, considered reliable,
estimates the following export potential by 1990.
Million Metric               Million
Tons per annum        X       bpcd          %
Gasoline/Naphtha              22.00         (20.0)      0.51      (23.3)
Middle Distillates            24.20         (22.0)      0.50      (22.8)
Residual Fuel Oil             63.80         (58.0)      1.18      (53.9)
Total                    110.00        (100.0)     2.19      (100.0)



- 43 -                             Annex 2-6
Page 3 of 5
5.       OECD estimates that about 40% of the above wil  be targetted to
Western Europe from refineries in the Red Sea and Arabian Gulf areas. This is
partly due to the fact that the Jubail and Yanbu export refineries are owned
50X by international oil companies which have been shutting down distillation
capacity in Western Europe, and also to the fact that the best netback
realization for products is likely to be available in European Common Market
countries. For the latter reason, a substantial part of exports from
Mediterranean and North African refineries are likely to find their natural
outlet in the Mediterranean basin itself and some in Japan and the Far East
and alternatively in Northwestern Europe or conceivably also on the Eastern
Seaboard of the USA.
6.       The above represents the scenario for exports from the Middle East.
Undoubtedly, there will be products available to smaller countries.
Bangladesh will have no difficulty obtaining needed products. Prices will
oscillate between spot market prices as at present, and posted prices when
supply is tight.
7.       Singapore.  Outside OPEC, Singapore is likely to be the country most
likely to influence the supply balance in South and East Asia. The total
installed refining capacity in Singapore consists of 1,096,000 bpcd of
atmospheric and 161,400 bpcd of vacuum distillation capacity, and 105,000 bpcd
of thermal and 24,000 bpcd of hydrocracking facilities. Singapore has access
to light East Asian crude oils as well as crudes from the Middle East.
Typical yield, averaged for all the refineries, resembles the breakdown given
below (volume X):
LPG                            2.8
Naphtha                       10.0
Motor gasoline                10.0
Mid-distillates               40.0
Fuel oil                      33.2
Refinery fuel/losses           4.0
Total                   100.0
8.       The current demand for products in Singapore including bunkers is
estimated as follows (bpcd):
Naphtha                      5,000
Gasoline                    10,000
Mid-distillates             50,000
Residual fuel oil          120,000
Others                       8,000
Total                 193,000



_ 44 -                            Annex 2-6
Page 4 of 5
9.       Based on the yield structure, when not exporting fuel oil, the
production from the refineries is estimated as follows (bpcd):
LPG                         10,100
Gasoline                    36,000
Naphtha                     369200
Mid-distillates            1459000
Residual fuel oil          120,000
Others                       8,700
Total                 356,000
10.      Singapore would have, at this low throughput (40% of design), about
95,000 bpcd of mid-distillates for export. The demand for mid-distillates in
the region is high, Thailand alone needing about 50,000 bpcd, Philippines,
Taiwan, Korea and South Asia over 150,000 bpcd, not counting Japan whose
deficits are over 200,000 bpcd and are imported mostly from Singapore, when
available. In order to increase the output of middle distillates, Singapore
will need to increase throughput, which will also increase the output of fuel
oil. While in the medium term Singapore may be able to supply some of the
deficits, in the long term substantial secondary conversion capacity will be
needed to maintain the current level of exports with refineries operating at
around 65% of design.
B. Crude Oil and Petroleum Product Prices
11.      In the face of uncertainties with respect to crude oil availability,
demand and changing consumption patterns, projection of crude oil and product
prices over a period as long as 10 to 15 years, which is required in the
evaluation of high capital intensive projects, fall short of the desired
degree of reliability. A working group of World Bank staff from various
departments analyzed this problem over a period of several months to develop
guidelines for estimating the economic value of feed to, and products from, a
refinery in the medium and long-term. The group concluded that estimation of
refinery margins needed to support new investments would provide a more
reliable basis for project evaluation than absolute prices, and that these
margins could be used to project product-to-crude oil price ratios.
12.      Production costs were developed by the group on the basis of the
total feedstock and fixed and variable costs for each conversion facility
required by the industry, allowing an acceptable rate of return on conversion
investment, for thermal cracking, fluid catalytic cracking and
hydrocracking. Based on industry and demand trends, the refinery of the
future is assumed to have either fluid catalytic cracking or hydrocracking
units, possibly with some form of thermal cracking unit. The price of
distillate products has been assumed to be intermediate between the cost of
production from refineries with respectively a hydrocracking or a fluid
catalytic cracking unit, and the margin between the net weighted average price
of products and crude oil. It was further observed that the margin had to be
adequate to cover all operations costs as well as recover the capital and
provide a reasonable return on the investment over the project life



- 45 -                            Annex 2-6
Page 5 of S
considered. The price projections thus obtained were then reviewed against
historical inter-r-oduct relationships and adjusted as appropriate. The
resulting product-to-crude oil price ratios are given below:
1982      1985       1990      1995
1. Rotterdam/ Caribbean
Premium Casoline/Crude                1.46      1.42       1.41       1.39
Regular Gasoline/Crude                1.40      1.36       1.34       1.33
Naphtha/Crude                         1.19      1.13       1.18       1.17
Jet Fuel/Crude                        1.40      1.36       1.34       1.33
Kerosene/Crude                        1.29      1.28       1.27       1.26
High Speed Diesel/Crude               1.21      1.21       1.27       1.26
Fuel Oil/Crude                        0.68      0.67       0.71       0.77
IT. Singapore/Bahrain
Premium Gasoline/Crude                1.51      1.50       1.48       1.42
Regular Gasoline/Crude                1.45      1.44       1.42       1.36
Naphtha/Crude                         1.30      1.27       1.26       1.23
Jet Fuel/Crude                        1.45      1.44       1.42       1.36
Kerosene/Crude,                       1.38      1.36       1.35       1.30
High Speed Diesel/Crude               1.33      1.30       1.29       1.25
Fuel Oil/Crude                        0.79      0.71       0.72       0.80
13.      These estimates, which were prepared following several months of
study, are considered a reasonable reflection of likely long term trends in
product relationships. In the short term, the possibility of greater
fluctuation in product pricing exists. A major uncertainty in this area is
the influence of the new export refineries shortly to be brought on-stream in
several OPEC nations as well as the future role of the Singapore refineries.
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- 46 -                             Annex 3-1
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery
and Distribution Project
BPC Subsidiaries
Ownership
Subsidiary             Operating Responsibility        Structure (%)
BPC      Other
ERL                      Petroleum Refining          100%        -
Burmah Eastern Co.       Product Marketing          1.35X    98.65% (Other GOB
agencies &
private
investors)
Jamuna Oil Co.           Product Marketing           100%
Meghna Petroleum Co.    Product Marketing            100X        -
Eastern Lubricants       Lubricants Blending       17.33%    82.67% (Other GOB
Blenders Limited       and Special Products                         agencies &
private
investors)
Asphalt Plant            Bitumen Production      BPC Project    -
LPG Limited              LPG Bottling                100%        -
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



BANGLADESH
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPG RECOVERY AND DiSrRI8A1ON~ PROJECT
Energ Sector Orgontettion
In
Mneras CcL,*zotm                               Manager
Chowficn& Socrd f DOCctos  Ctar                               Boorcl f Dbeclr
Dtrecta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ad ~-O3~
Finonce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



BWNGLADESH
REFRNERY MODIFICTION AND LPG RECOVERY AND DiSTRIBUTION PROJECT
IMggrrnenaon Schedule
ACWM                         (MON"10*111  II 2131415 6171 S  91411 12 is14 45116147148jil 201222122412517251229210 3i32!3I 3153 3a738 3,0414243 464 45  46    AS
0) PCpOIfltM'lpt of Pfo)eC lfl lienyetolton Consultonftt
b* PtoqucltotIIIIIII                                                                               I    I                                      1iall
C) dStel ln_t to__ to Bid DouMen                                                                                                            lllI
U) ftpatlon                                                  M PlOPOIOFS (by b.dde)  -  - -                                                                                                   |
t) 8 dOpenlng Is    o                                                                                 Ivx                    L Conpoonts/M
0) Bid Evaluation RetleW by SDC/Bonk c
) SelecDon d
I) t-ftoct
k) AMigmteNl ot StaffI to Now FacitItles
I) O"WIbTe   NW trttt^i Cooftactor                                                                                                                 imN
mn) Ttdeilng at Selecte Locdton Abrood
0) PlantStlerioBS-
0) Invitafton to Oid (Or PlatkoAl                                                                                                                                                                           cotooii
c) Rettew & Selection of Conhtoctkx
ILKG TMANPOTA1Io* StORAG6 
0)SWtatig of LPG UiMitd
b) Selection ofCmwatailing Film
C) Sibm4om Of olrorpmotl~ on toage                                                                               I
Distributoni & N ttWig Plan
I,) Rartian t s   a                                                              
N-) LP tormIIUCi lanim ltet CMI
il) Issue orti
I) PFepatlon at PropOralts Iy B.dders
) Selection at Conlaoctoa/Sopttr                                                                                                                                                                            I
Jaibi Itfiti



- 49 -                            Annex 4-1
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery
and Distribution Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year             Estimated Disbursements         Annual Disbursement
and Quarter             By End of Quarter    Cumulative       As X of Credit
1987
September 30, 1986
December 31, 1986            5.0                5.0
March 31, 1987               0.2                5,2
June 30, 1987                0.3                5.5             11.7
1988
September 30, 1987           1.7                7.2
December 31, 1987            1.8               9.0
March 31, 1988               2.0               11.0
June 30, 1988                2.1              13.1              16.2
1989
September 30, 1988           4.3              17.4
December 31, 1988            4.3              21.7
March 31, 1989               4.3              26.0
June 30, 1989                4.3              30.3              36.6
1990
September 30s 1989           2.8              33.1
December 31, 1989            2.8              35.9
March 31, 1990               2.7              38.6
June 30, 1990                2.7              41.3              23.4
1991
September 30, 1990           1.0              42.3
December 31, 1990            1.0              43.3
March 31, 1991               0.8              44.1
June 30, 1991                0.8              44.9               7.7
1992
September 30, 1991           0.6              45.5
December 31, 1991            0.4              45.9
March 31, 1992               0.4              46.3
June 31, 1992                0.4              46.7               3.8
1993
September 30, 1992           0.2              46.9
December 31,1992             0.1              47.0               0.6
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- 50 -                 ~~~~Annex 5-1
-    -0             ~            Page 1 of 4
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery
and Distribution Project
Eastern Refinery Limited
Financial Projections
Financial Statements - Assumptions
(1) The processing fee has been reckoned at the equivalent of $1/barrel
for FY87, FY88 and FY89 and at $1.35/barrel from FY90 onwards.
(2) Bonus on process fuel saved has been maintained in money terms at the
same level as in 1984, in view of its insignificance in comparison to
the total processing fee.
(3) Regarding operating costs, comments have been given in paragraph
5.02. Depreciation on the Rehabilitation and Modification assets has
been calculated on the straightline basis with a 10-year life. It is
recommended that ERL should change the depreciation formula
accordingly. For income tax purposes, however, the rates allowed
under the income tax law will apply. The breakup for the incremental
operating costs may be ascertained from the consultants' report on
modification.
(4) Interest charges during construction have been capitalized. After the
assets are commissioned, the interest on loans is charged to P&L
account. The credit for Modification is to cover the foreign exchange
costs. The interest rate is 11.5%.
(5) Interest income at 14% is taken into account in respect of cash on
hand and in banks on balances held over one year.
(6) The accounts receivable from BPC are on the basis of outstandings of
180 days, as has been the experience of ERL.
(7) Insurance-spares represent 'capital' items in stock, which may be
required in emergencies and which in all probability will be used for
turnaround after 1995.
(8) Workers' profit participation fund - it is assumed that a share in
profits will continue to be passed on to workers although the formula
may have to be changed.
(9) The capital reserve of Tk 123.6 million up to FY85 is raised to
Tk 309.3 million from FY86 to reflect revaluation of fixed assets in
operation to be effected as on June 30, 1986. Regarding the amount of
Tk 123.6 million mentioned above, a reference to it is made in
paragraph 5.03. When GOB causes the increase in paid-in capital by
converting a part of its loan to equity, the 'Capital Reserve' account
to the extent of Tk 123.6 million should, for the purpose of
determining long-term debt-equity ratio, be considered as if it is a
'debt' heading, until there is a resolution of the pre-independence
liability.



E1l3  - CIWSITE - III BTTEIETUS
(As Is k 6billtation + f0ificatiaoe
(Is flhlliam leAp
AcTual.                               EBTJUT~~~iik il iDp takes)   9~Tae
xmk                                ~~~~~~~~ESTINTED  IC"tot 19*5 Tska)
Audited Uneuditad
3983    1984     1985    3986    1987    198         1m 9     99      1991     l992     1993     Im       19995
-E-                                                               -  -       --                                         -
PrKMessing Fee                                        135.3   123.5   131.5   201.5   260.4   302.3   325.5   461.4   461.4   46.4   461.4   46.4   461.4
Beaus an Process Fuel Saving                            8.0      7.3      7.3      7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5      7.5      7.5      7.5      7.5      7.5     7.5
Total                                             143.3   130.8   338.8   209.0   267.9   309.9  3m.0   46.9   468.9    41.9   468.9   441.9   468.9
.. - - - - _ - - - - - * - -----           - - -  -  -- - --                  .      ...   .. _...~- w
IP9R8TIUS COSTS
Salaries, ees 6 belits                                 32.5    36.7    42.3    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7
Chesocals                                              15.I    16.2    19.8    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5
Stores aad sars                                        26.3    13.8    14.3    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.0    14.8
Utilities                                               L.I      6.3      4.4      4.5      4.5     4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5
Inserance                                               2.8      3.1      4.0      4.3     4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.)     4.1      4.1
Depreultion                                            30.7    29.7    32.6    75.3   103.3   134.2   134.2   177.0   374.t   174.9   174.9   174.9   374.9
Nihsellaneus                                            4.2      4.7      3.9      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
lncreantal op cost (rehab & sodif)                                                6.0      6.0    10.6    29.2    47.8    47.8    47.8    47.8    47.8    47.8
(saint, ins, staf-l-
----  -- -       -- -     ---       -- -.                                                ....    ----
Total                                             117.7   130.5   121.3   172.9   398.9   236.5   235.1   336.5   314.4   314.4   314.4   334.4   314.4
IERATINS PROFIT                                          25.6    20.3    17.5    36.3    69.0    93.3    98.0   152.4   154.5   154.5   154.5   154.5   354.5
INTEREST COAlERES (NET)                                   3.0    11.7)    (4.03   15.3    44.3    52.0    61.1    59.3   110.3    90.3    67.9    42.8    34.7
INCOIIE BEFORE TAXES                                     22.6    22.0    23.5    20.8    24.7    41.3    36.9    93.3    44.2    64.2    86.1.   111.7   139.8
INCIOE TAX                                                        10.0    10.0    30.3                                                                    55.9    69.9
NET INCWOE                                               22.6    12.0    13.5    20.5    24.7    41.3    36.9    93.1    44.2    64.2    86.6    55.9    69.9
....=    :;tt    =5-:::   :5:::   :55       znr    .n2=55       555    5=-5       5555     555   55        5n
{ deprration on re.hab t sodaf coaponents included under dereciation in operating cost.
CURRENT RATIO (EICU  INS-SPARES)                2.42     3.48     3.26     4.13    5.45     4.37     4.22     3.e3     2.69     2.82    3.05      3.36    3. 0     3.29                         N
DEBT TO EOUITY RATIO                           78/22    41/59    42/58    47/53    51149   6213S    65135    62/3.    57143    54/46    50/50    45/55    40/60    34/66
RETURN ON NET F.A.                                       0.17     0.14     0.15    0.35    0.13      0.11     0.o0    OL1    0.12       0.13     0.15    0.18     0.23
DEBT SERVICE COVERASE                                                              2.67     2.42     3.53     1.52     2.45     1.38     1.26     1.34     1.43    3.53



ERL - CW'OSUTE -   WIL^  MM$
Ihn It + Rtobabilatatien * Rofnlathgml
(In Itullion Tadt t
1982    33    1984    1985    194          1987    398    1999    1990    19          199l2    I3      1994    1995
A.       M
C"rrent Asets
Cim an hand  nd in Banok                     83.8    85.5   105.5   129.9   131.2   186.4   14.4   116.3   255.4   290.7   3t4.0   423.7   526.5   601.6
Oeposits and prapayots                        2.1      3.0     3.3      4.3     4.4      4.4      4.4     4.4      4.4     4.4      4.4      4.4     4.4      4.4
Attconts reiovablo free BPE                  16.6    38.0    58.0    53.5   100.9   130.2   151.1   162.8   230.7   230.7   230.7   230.7   230.7   230.7
Loas  d advete,                              11.3     8.0    11.3    17.7    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    10.3    18.3    18.3    19.3
Stt4ks, spar. and chtnicals                  83.3    BS.4    91.5   101.0   103.3   124.0   134.3   144.7   155.0   155.0   155.0   155.0   155.0   155.0
Wouirena - Wr"n                                                                                 103.3   211.B   211.8   211.8   211.8   211.8   211.9   211.8
total Coutent As,ts                       197.1   219.9   269.6   306.4   358.0   463.4   59.9   658.3   875.7   711.0   966.3  1,044.0  1,146.8  1,221.9
-----_ -- -  -  --     -- -   -- -     -- -        .    -- -     ......                                      _
Fined Akets
let fixed assets in Opation                 349.1   154.4   127.2   106.1    35.5   647.9  1,086.6  1,401.1  1,395.9  1,284.1  1,109.2   934.3   759.4   584.5
Capital assets undwr construction                      1.2    11.0    37.0   130.7   233.0   319.9   108.8    63.1
_____    -----   ___ --    _* -----                                           -----   ... __  _  __  _~-~--~~ 
Total Fited Asets                         149.3   155.6   138.2   143.7   516.2   880.9  1,406.5  1,509.9  1,459.0  1,284.1  1,109.2   934.3   759.4   5B4.5
... ~ ~  ~   -- -    -- - -_-             - -   - - .   ...._     ....    ---               ..-. _-__
TOTAL ASSETS                                  34b.2   375.5   407.8   450.1   974.2  1,344.2  1,966.4 2,168.3  2,334.7  2,195.1  2,075.5  1,979.3  1,906.2  1,806.3
o2=2    2*2 2- 2-        22222   ...2 S.    222   2222    2==         222    *22*     22
S.   LIB1ILITIES AID SIEIAIIIDIJFRS EUITY
Current Liabilities
Current pwrtion 6f long-tore debt                                               10.3    61.1   l6.1    61.1   137.2   137.2   137.2   137.2   137.2   126.8
llrersl   profit participation fund           0.4      0.4     0.4      0.0      1.1     1.1      1.1      1.1     1.3      1.1      1,1     1.1      1.1      1.1
Accounts payable/other liabilities           73.4    47.9    60.5    73.4    54.3    43.9   4A.0    54.4    62.9    62.8    62.8    62.8   118.6   132.7
Dividends payable                             7.5    34.8    21.8                                                 46.7    46.7    46.7    44.7    46.7    46.7
Total Current Liabikitine                  81.3    63.1    82.7    74.2    65.7   106.1   108.2   116.6   247.7   247;7  247.7   247.7   303.6   3O;75
-- -             ----    ---   _   --      --      ... ..                       --      ---   ._. ....  ._
Long-Tore Debt
s68 AlP loan                                 88.3   101.9   110.1   100.3    82.7    72.3    42.0    51.1    41.3    31.0    20.7    10.3
Rdaab                                                                      299.1   507.3   456.5   405.8   355.1   304.4   253.6   202.9   152.2   101.5
Nftdai                                                                             167.4   669.6   795.2   760.9   684.8   600.7   532.6   456.5   380.5
Debentures                                   12.0    12,0    12.0    12.0    12.4    12.4    12.4    .2.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4
Suppliers Credit                             93.7 1
Pro-liberation liabilities                   13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    14.1    14.1    34.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    1I.3    14.1    14.1
Total Lon-Term Debt                       207.4   327.5   135.7   125.9   408.8   773.5  1,214.6  1,279.1  1,13.8 13,04.6   909.5   172.3   635.2   508.4
Shareholdnrs Equity                                                                                                                                                                             t
Paid-in capital                              50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    51.7    91.9   229.5   321.5   405.0   405.8   405.8   405.8   405.8   405.
Capital reerwe                               -       123.6   123.6   123.6   309.3   309.3   309.3   309.3   309.3  S30.3   309.3   309.3   309.3   309.3                                 ^
Retained Eatuings                             7.3    11.3    15.9    27.4    38.8    63.5   104.8   143.7   188.1   185.7   203.2   243.2   252.3   275.6
Total Shareholders Equity                  57.3   184.9   189.4   201.0   399.7   4b4.6   643.6    M.5   903.2   900.7   91B.3   958.2   967.4   990,7
TOTAL LIABILITIES AID
StURENOLDERS EQU1tY                          346.2   375.5   407.8   401.1   874.2  1,344.2  1,966.4  2,168.1 2,334.7  2,195.1 2,075.5  1,978.3 13,06.2  1,806.3
:::22    :s:::   ::222:::  22    *2...     22222 :::::    ::::   s:    m:    =_:,   2=22    ..222   t22a:           -22:e



ERL - Cl"INPSITE - STATEIEITS OF SDUCES AlI  USES OF FlAWS
(ks Is + Rehabilitation + Nndificationl
(In lillin Takasl
IS6    1397       199      199      190      1        192      IM9      1994     35
SOURtES
NET IlCOiE SEFORE INTEREST                                                         25.9     69.0      9,       99.0    152.4    154.5   154.5   154.5       ".7      54.6
ADD: DEPRECIATION                                                                  75.3    101.3   1l;        114.2    177.0    174.9   174.9    174.9   174.9   174.9
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                                                   101.1    170.3   207.5   212.1   329.4   329.4   329.4   329.4   273.6   259.5
LAN BORRI3INSS                                                                    249.0   425.7   502.2    125.6    41.9
INCREASE IN PAID-UP CAPITAL                                                                 40.2   137.6    92.0    94.3
TOTAL SOURCES                                                            350.1   636.2   847.3    429.7   455.6   329.4   329.4   329.4   273.6   259.5
USES
INCREASE IP FIXED ASSETS                                                          261.4   465.9   639.8   217.5    126.2
DEBT SERVICE
LOAN REPAYMENT                                                                   10.3      10.3    61.1      61.1     61.1   137.2    137.2    137.2    137.2    137.2
INTEREST PAYNENT                                                                 15.3    44.3      52.0    61.1    59.3   110.3    90.3    67.9           42.9     14.7
DIVIDENDS PAID                                                                                                          46.7    46.7      46.7    46.7    46.7       46.7
INCREASE/IDECREASE) IN KS CP                                                       62.7    115.7    94.4    90.0   162.4    35.3    55.3    77.7    47.0             61.0
TOTAL USES                                                               349.9   636.2   947.3   429.7   455.6   329.4   329.4   32S.4   273.6   259.5
=__:=   ::__:   55=5=    ::5    :Z=    ::::=:   C-202:3   C;lW  te        MCC:
Energy Department
November 11. 1986



_54 -                                      Annex 5-2
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Recovewy
and Distribution Project
. SOC LPG RECUVERY
FIINACIAL EVALUATION
(MILLION TAKAS IN 1995 PRICESt
1987     1988     19899    199       1991      1992     1993      1994     1995     1996
CAPITAL INVESTIENT                                 (9.61   (48.3)   (59.7)   (62.8J   (24.91    (5.1)
INCONE
1LPG SALES                (tons)                                                      4,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
(a takas)                                                   14.0      17.5     17.5     17.5      17.5     17.S
CONDENSATE SALES          (tonsi                                                      1,600    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
(as takas)                                                   6.4       9.2      9.4      8.6       8.9      9.1
20.4     25.7     25.9      26.1     26.4      26.6
OPERATING COSTS
COST OF SOURCE GAS                                                                     (0.3)    (0.4)    (0.41    (0.4)    (0.4)    (0.4)
NAt4UFACTURING                                                                         (7.61    (7.6)    (7.6)    (7.61    (7.6)    (7.6)
(7.91    (9.01    (8.01    (9.0)    (8.0)    (8.0)
NET CASHFLOI  (excluding interest payents)         (9.6)   (48.3)   (59.71   (62.8)   (12.41    12.6        17.9     18.1     11.4      8.6
22=5        22    223    33    U2 ' -                                      3 3 - _a   3
lal  Plant/gate price of  G6: Ti 3503/ton.
(b)  Cost of source gas - Tk 1.96/mcf.
It)  Evaluation includes isport duties but eicludes taxes.
(dl  Capital investment as apportioned to the project (701 loan, 302 equity).
le)  Debt service reaches a mxiium of 26 million takas in FY 91 and
thereafter decreases as loan is repaid in installmts comencing frog that year.
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- 55 -                                       Annex 5-3
Bangladesh: Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution Project
LPG Storage and Distribution Component
Financial Evaluat ion
(Million Takas in 1985 Prices)
1987     1988      1989      19%      I99       1992     1993      19        199      1994
IUVETSI                                            (58.91  (124.6)  (2M.4)  1173.4)   (98.0    (10.4)          2.4
SAE
SAXK  01S                                                                            3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,00
BOTTLE an S                                                                          1000   15,000   15,000   I5,000   15,000   15,00
NET REW                                                                               120.1    120.1    120.1    120.1    120.1    120.1
WRATIIB CMO
MOTIDOMLING                                                                            (8.91    (3.9)    (8.9)    W8.9)    (0.L        (80.9)
RETIL STATIOS                                                                          (0.3)    (0.3)    (0.31    40.3)    40.3)    40.3)
niASPRTATI                                                                             (1.0)    (1.0)    (1.0)      1.0)    41.01    (1.0)
DISTRIBUTION                                                                          (14.91   (14.91   (14.91   (14.91   (14.91   (14.91
NE  CAULO                                          (58.91)  (124.h)  4210.4)  (73.4)        7.0     84.4      97.4      9.0      95.0      95.0
33=32     :: .- s :8:2:    33883    :8:23    38832    38333  en su3    3a38           33338
FM           10.031
Asutions
11 Sales quantitin and operating costs ar  taien fra  the KOnouiC aralysis stateomts,
and nisting LPG production is added, togothr w. corresponding operating costs.
2) Revenu is calculated as foliouss
at 3550 takes/tn fr purchases froa 8OU
at 7100 tahaslton fr purchases froa ERM.
3) Euisting invstment in the bottling plant at Chittagong is rovalued (2001)
and included under inwestent in 1981.
4) Dbt service reacke  a auisu  of 72 oillion takas in FY 91 and thereaftr
decreNSe  as loan is repaid in installOents caeeenCing froe that yoU.
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- S6 -                                                                   Anne5  6-1
BRauladesh: Refiner, Modificatton  and LPG  Recoverv and  Dtistributton  Project
ERL Reftnery Modtficattin Component
Economic Analvati
(tn millton (SS)
1987     3it      119       I91O     199t     1992      VSt    191l        1995     1116       "I57    t9it      t        20Q0
_--  ---    ---      ----      ---      .... ..    ... ..   - ..        .....    ---   ... .. .. -_ --    ---      .. .. .
CAPITAL CM51                             (6.01  (11.001   (4.51    t1i.501
I8C8111f8t16  D4ERi8i83   COST                                      tl 751 11.711   11.5t1   tl.751   l0.751   t1.751   t1.t5    11.15)   11.75)   11.751   U1.751
ElPDRT REYtiE5M
tt411M                                                       1.74     I.80     1.S 4     1. S 9   1.95      0.f6     2.02     2.t0      2.Al     2.20      2.26
FtEL OIL                                                  112.621   13.W23   13.341 tl tWSI  114.151  (16.341  ILt.E1  117141  112.191  t1i.iti  (1E.S71
Sl(                                                         2.21      2.27     2.33      2.39     2.45     2.44      2.50     2.58      2.64     2.71     2.79
ISO                                                         19.45    19.60    20.04    20.59    21.15    21         21 I.P4   22.33    22.04    23.51    24.15
1L.001  (18.400    14.501    7.1t     8.90       .11     9..38    9.iS      7.45     7.65      7.89 9    .O9 8".34         8.5
£tnf              tnt    :stsa    -s           .t;n     Sa       555       ftSt    Watm       ts:ttas  fttve  55553    .S:ttss
ERR          21.0N
hit    COE DIL USED - NU  LIGHT, 1040
tii I  PICT VIELOS - EFGRE AN  A 1FtER tDIFICT1IN iS GIVEt 8t COitsLTtIITS
11111  CRIII OIL PRICES Al STRUM        */til
1998     1t9      19912    IM        1994      1995     199l    I997      199i     199      2000
121.9    t25.4    128.5    132.2    135.8    140.2    143.9    148.3   151.9    154.3    160.7
(lv)   PR102UT PRCI  itATI6S TO iRUltE CIL
R8TIOS
19       I"5                 "9O     1991      t992     193      1994      I5       t991      I"?7      "8       119      2004
29818A                 1.26     1.23              153.6    158.2    1f1.9    tx1.5    171.1    172.5    177.0    182.4    181.9    192.3    t97.7
is                     1.42     1.31              173.1    178.3    182.5    187.7    192.9   19.7    195.7    201.7    204.6    212.6    218.i
Sft                    1.3'     L.30              14.6   161.5.   171.5    T78.4    181.4    182,3    187.4    192.3    117.5    293.2   248.
HoSt                   1.29     1.25              157.3   162.0    165.8    170.5    175.2    175.3    t79.t   195.3    189.9    t95.4    200.9
FO                     0.72     0.80               87.8    9C.4       92.5     95.2      93.8    112.2    115.1    118.0    121.5    125.1    1280.
ty)    FREG1Htt AMI FtiS I9 Dft1 S  O1 AINID SUitRCtEQ FO9  EPD81tS FRM  C0ITl0t0t.
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



- 57 -
Annew f-2
Pake I of 2
Ban,ladesh: Refinery M4odification and LPG Recoverv and D1stributcton Project
RRL Refinery As A Whole
!conomic Analysias
1987    1908    1989       9Q0    1991    t992        1993      994      1995      199       ts99      1998     1999      2000
ilVESTRENIS
AS IS - ESTIRATED
PRESENT VALUE             MM3.0
REUAILITATIOM                   (18.0)
(IOOFIEAT1011                    (S6.0   (18.O    (4.5)    (1.51
COP REPAIRS                                                                  .30)      t3.01     (3.0)     (3.01    (3,0)      (5.0)     (S.01    13.0)     13.0)
COST OF CRUDE Ol.                (148.9)  (710.9)  1184 91  (187.4)  t192.91  1197.3)   (202.)   1208.2)   1214.M)   1220.3)   (226.9)  t232.41   (239.0)   (245.6)
PRQCESSINB COST                    (3.01    13.3)    13.5)    (4.5)    (4.5)   (4.51     44.5)     14.5)     (4.5)     14.5)     (4.5)    (4.5)     (4.5)     (4.5)
REFINERY "UEl                      (2.0)     2.0)    (2.))    12.3S    12.41    (2.6)    (2.8)     (7.91     13.1)     (S.40     13.61     13.8)    (4.1)     (4.4)
PROOUCT VALUE - ERL              159.49   183.17   197.95   207.04   212.64   217.54    223.65    229.77    237.11    243.23    250.55    256.68   264.02    271.36
NET CASHFLON                      (31.4)  '11.0)      2.9    11.4    12.8    10.2        10.6      11.1      11.6      12.0     12.5      12.9      13.4      13.9
am       .Sn::   nasa    saa:sa ==:a           s =====        a==        ttn       tan -tt             Int =nfl:    It.:
ASSlTIS
1987    I988     1989    1990    1991    1992        1993      1994       95       (996      1997     (998      1999      2000
(1) CRUOE COARE  0ooo TONS)          1200.00  1300.90  1399 80  1500.00   50000  1500.00  (500.00   1580.00   1500.00  (500.00   500.00   1500.00   150O.00   1500.00
(2) PRODUCT YIELD 1000 TNS)
LPG                           10.00   IO.9    11.70    12.10    12.70   12.70       12.70     12.70     12.70     12.70     12.70    12.70     (2.70     12.70
APIITHA                      101.60   110.90   1)8.50   114.10   1)4.10   114.10    114.10    114.10    114.10    114.10    114.10    114.10    114.10    114.10
6SO INE                       57.20    62.00    66.70    49.00    49.00    49.00    49.00     49.00     49.00    49.00     49.00    49.00    49.00       49.00
KEROSE                       357.20   387.00  416.70   344.00   344.00   344.00    344.00    344.00    344.00    34.00   344.00    344.00    344.00    344.00
DIESEL OIL                   265.90   288.00   310.20   458.00   458.00   458.00    458.00    458.00   458.00    458.00   458.00    458.00    458.00    458.00
FUEL OIL                     360.50   392.60   424.70   478.00  478.00   478.00    478.00    478.00    478.00    478.00    478.00   478.00    478.00    478.00
OTIER (itummn)                25.00   25.00    25.00    25.00    25.00    25.00     25.00     25.00     25.00     25.00    25.00     25.00     25.00    25.00
NET YIELD                 1177.40  1276.40  1373.50  1480.88  1480.80  1480.80   1o0.80   1480.80   1480.80   1460,80   1480.30   1480.80   1480.80   1480.80
PROC.FUEL4LOSS                22.60    24.50    26.30    19.20    (9.20    19.20    19.20     19.20     (9.20     19.20     I9.20    19.20     19.20     19.20
TOTAL                  1200.00  1300.90  139.80  (500.00  1500.00  1500.00  (500.00   1500.00   1500.00  (500.00   (500.00  (500.00   1500.00   1500.00
13) CRUDE PRICE  Sparen/T             116.07   123.39   124.12   121.92   125.58   128.51    132.17   135.83    140.22    143.30    148.28    (1.94    156.33   16072
14) CRUDE PRICE  BOnh/IT              124.07   131.39   132.12   124.92   128.58   131.51    135.17    138.83    143.22    46.88    tSI(.28    154.94    159.33    163.72
(5) CRUDE COST  tS MR)                148.88   170.92   184.94   (87.39  192.88   197.27   202.16    208.25    214.84   220.33    226.91    232.40    238.99    245.58



Annex Oi-2
Paile   o0    2
RI. efiOnery As 4 Vhole
Beonomic Analysis
(in million ITSS>
163 PROOUCT PRICES
RArtO tO
CRUOE PRICE
9R1990  Y91995
LPS           1.35    1.30      156.69  166.57   167.56  164.60   63.26  167.07    171.82   116.58    182.29    WA1.05   192.76   197.52   203.23   2".94
NAPHTHA       1.26    1.23      146.25  155.47   56.39  153L62  t54.47  158017   162.57   161.07   172.48   176.98   182.38   186.88   192.28    m.69
681O1.1E      1.42    1.36      164.B2   175.21  176.25  173.13  10.79  174.18   179.75    184.73   190.70   195.68   201.64    26.63   212.61   218.31
kEOSEW        1.35    1.30     b156.b   166.57  167.56  164.60  163.26  167.07    171.8    176.58   192.29   187.05   192.76   197.52   203.23   2M8.9
DIESEL        1.29    t.25    1W9.73  159.17  160.11   157.2   156.98  160.64   165.22    I69.79   175.28   179.86   185.8   109.92   19.41   20.90
FUEL O1L      0.72    0.80       83.57   8s.84   89.37 l   7.7n  100.47   102.8t   105.74   108.67    112.18   It5,11    118.62   121.s5   12.06   128.56
BITUME1N      1.00    1.00      116.07  123.39   12-.12  121.92  125.58   128.51   132.17   135.83   140.22   143.88   148.2B    151.9"    16.33    10.72
(10 FiB VALUE OF ERL P01TS
LP6                               1.57    1.82    1.9      2.09    2.07    2.12       2.18     2.24      2.32     2.38     2.45      2.51     2.53      2.65
11PHT81                          14.86   17.24    L.53   17.53   17.62   18.04    18.55    19.06    19.68    20.19    20.81    21.32    21.94    22.56
6RS011n1                         9.43    10.66    11.7b6   9.48      .37    8.56     8.81      9.05     9.34      9.59     9.88     10.13    10.42    10.71
KEROSEE                          55.97   64.46   b1.02   56.62   56.16   57.47    59.11    60.74    62.71    64.34    66.31    61.95    69.91    71.81
DIESEL                           39.81   45.B4   4.67   72.04   71.90   73.57    15.67    77.16    80.28    82.37    84.89    86.98    89.50    92.01
FUEL OIL                         30.13   34.88   37.95   41.9    48.02   49.14    50.54    51.94    53.62    55.02    56.70    58.10    59.78    61.46
BITILEW                           2.90    3.08    3.10    3.05    3.14    3.21       3.30      3.40     3.50      3.60     3.71      3.80     3.90     4.02
TOTAL  1S M)1t1                 154.66   118.09   192.60  201.77  201.29  212.12   218.16   224.20   231.45   237.49    244.14   250.78   258.03   265.29
i8) CUNSUlP - tO                    312.00   3108.00  3M5O00  33.0   338.00  344.00   351.00   359.00   366.00    373.00   180.00   3.40   396.00 4O.00
19) ERL YIELD - FO                  360.50  392.60  424.70   478.00  478.00  417.00   478.00   478.00   478.00   470.00   478.00   417.00   478.00   473.00
310) EIPORT - fO                      48.50   14.60   99.70  147.00  140.00  134.00    127.00   120.00   112.00   105.00         8.00    98.00    02.00    74.00
(11) FREIGHT ADUIIIOM                  4.82    4.9B    5.15    5.27    5.35    5.42        5.49     5.57      5.66     5.73      5.81     s.90     s.9       6.00
12) PRODUCT VALUE - ERL              159.49   183.17  197.95  201.04  212.64  217.54   223.65   229.77   237.11   243.23   250.55   256.6    20.02   271.36
113) REFIREY FtIEL
OTY - 41000 TOIMS OF NAT G8
PRICEITOR                      48.64   48.46   51.76   55.27   59.03   63.05    67.33    71.91    76.80    82.03    87.60    93.56    S'.92   lo.1n
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



Annex 6-J
-59-
Batjladenl. Ref£ineOry Modification and lPC; Recovery and Disttibution Proleot
Crule/rrodiwt Price V'afiations . Sh1slapuon (119C761q84)
~~~4,*.~~~~~~ ~                          . 
I
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .p; X  F
.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~'r -                           .                 p                              ! - .  -
J~ ~                                                             -,
24--,
t   21  4                                              i - 9
,, ~  ~     ~    I 24t                       ;-                      *               QCt-
2) The composite product price (product slate as would be yie-lded by ERL after
modification) was $161.3/ton in 1976, $137.2/ton in 1978. $311.8/ton in 1981 and
$221.7 in 1984.
3) Diesel price was $178.4/ton in 1976, $150.8/ton in 1978. $358.1/ton in 1981 and
$244.1 In t984.
Energy Department
NOvember 11, 1986



- 60- -sem
Bangladesh: RetinerZ Modification and 1LPG Recvery and Distribution Prolect
GraPb~
CrudelProduct Ptice Variations at Singapore (1987-2000)
(in 1985 USS)
ERL
li415E C;4S-E
279
2440
219-
1 7-
140                  ~,.
-
119
190
.n   . |     ~~~~~I  .      I                            I             
19e7          1961991                      1-9 93          99'          199            199?
YE4Aj
° DRUDE                        (2IESEL                     PODQE 7
1)  Crude price is taken at 116.1/ton in 1987, 121.9/ton in 1990 and 140.2/ton in 1995
(1985 terms).
2) Composite product price (from a ton of crude oil) per ton io taken at $128.9 in 1987,
$134.5 in 1990 and $154.3 In A995.
3)  Diesse  price to taken at $149.7/ton in 1987, $157.3 in 1990 and $175.3/ton in 1995.
4) ERR for the vhole refinery is 18% and for the modificatlon component 212.
Energy Department
November 11, 1986



Aaex 6-5
61 -
Bangladesh: Refinery )bdification a n LPO Recovery and Distribution Project
GraPh
Crude and Prd%ct Pr!ie Variations at 5nLapore (198j-2000o
(in 1985 US$)
ERL
LOER CRUDE OIL PRICE S14ANQ
24tQ
561~
228
.17
CL      17('
"   1 -X
I 2')31
Ij 10 -
1987           19'9           19411 19                        99           1997           199
0    CRUD E               4-    DIEPRODU
1) Crude price is taken at $93.0/ton in 1987, $80.2/ton in 1990 and $109.0Gton in 1995
(1985 terms).
2) Composite product price (from a ton of crude oil) per ton to taken at $105.4 in 1987,
$90.3 in 1990 and $122.2 in 1995.
3) Diesel price to taken at $123.0/ton in 1987, $106.1/ton in 1990 and $139.5/ton in 1995.
4) ERP for the whole refinery is 122 and for the modification component 152.
Energy Department
Novezber 11, 1986



-  62                                                                A n"%o 0~-
Refinery  *Ic4i EoctIon f                   ,ndc  LPrC  Recovery  nold  r I t f I h.4 Ion  PN    c
Fcon-irl Anal. 'ftE
Fal laNt,t lie CowMn.,nent
(If,, ',( In IYI trices)
o*;  60s  .~~~~~~.  Os:     003      25)3     lEt       1015 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1450  .20'  il        lg0q      2000'     2001i    24D(2     2003      2004-
BEhEFTS
[IPS SALES                  t,>                                                           5..;      ¾i        52        51t        .;      ss           t5     5,606     5,00      5,006'    5,000    5,000    1,8000
0(80586E D050L4(00         ttqua.                                                OO        ,!'        56       .el       .50.    7, 510    71,0      71,00       1,50Q    71,30    7.50(    1,500    7.10       7,100
'600 1;                                              ,.5C    4.10       137?    !,0!'    _400         1,444    1.45,    I,'523    1,5i5      1,000    4,0352    1,698    1,744    j,793
CoIlOJsAIt                 floss                                                             ,-5     _ v,L.    2.,.w    ,,o:V    Ltid    i,'&       2.0f)(    2,0001    ",OOv    LOW        2.00*    2,000    2,000
t '      6 ~       'L       2'S       'oh       204       %03       706       319      32?       DS0        4o       $5       3us
0u000t.1           .061L                                                .45o      [ott'    7,052      .tOE      !6 7,05      30     ,   1,     632 %e   1,000    I,3e      1.989    2,044    2,100    2,118
LOST OF 1110A6 I.0BAS.                                                                                              1     13          .3         Ii       .3        .11        13'      73,      IIIt      liii      1031
006T8118 COSTS
0A6ACTUR10610                                                                     75        :2         S           5,5         ,sh,   15a. l o ' St.,   t110                        'ISO.     71501    11501    11501
IEP0th00TTLIN6                                                                    '45.       45.      its       '45~     '05        :4'       45        0'        45         5.      .4,        1Oi      141        4.
016301801108                                                  .c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'A    ,  -..w''20  i s  2,~L'    200.    '200.      7200'     1200,     4209.    .20       12001    12007
Subtotal                                   ',':'Q:              '01'    ''N       .30S.,305:CaA                  105       305     .305;      3131     13951    13911      13051 .19"  '91  G51  395) (391    1351  395
REI 01     U              7401080*2                  ''12u'*.  >2.*.*               4        .1       i           O I                  1;:   1,3861    1,424    i.4'u      i.528    1,581    I,057    1,692    1,750
0760  125            1333.0
ta   Lach household uce c,.lnao,        I0q- pa. aroW  cc tOe aw4'ee.
t6)  Kerosbne - adjusted iur heat ConMer..
cIt  0istrobutiwr - Tt IS 9e. t,)lndOr.
'd)  (ruoe pfice it S.ogapure   -c.10 Pt016                               '¾       lv-'.      7S       [II4      1405~    lOOt      10        1990      1999      2000      2001     2002      2002      200
i2.1     12.10;    151.50    i2i.11    12! 30          4,.2l  1'4.016   108.20   031.00   050.13'   160.73   165.24   1&9.90   174.69   119.62
Iie  kerosenepUrice                                2-33 O    IX, It   !175.24    lyaos;  Y03         080.0    10'.10   ItS         11.iu   20O-Q    200.17    214.44   220.3    220.20    222.50   239.00
707  Condensate price                              [P1       :   3    :2.04tA:  A-:.:   1                              1::0 l6 004  151. 176  7341.030  159.328   103.12   160.24   172.90   171.00   102.62
ql1  Natoral gas p',te       $Z7a-                   24 -Ot.il    ,.ul            3-1       LoO       ta        2.00      3.a0      2.04      2,04      2.h4      2.a4     ZoO       2.04      2.64      2.04
'ISa 70fouct at ealhihaur
Energy Department
Novemebr 11, 1986



- 63 -                                                              Annex A-7
las  ladesh:  Refinery 'qa,41ftation  *n0  L6PG4  Recoverv and  iltatrtbnct  n Prolect
lcona.tc Analvsis
((100  ISS  tn  19A5  vrices)
19S7     190M     1999      tn90     494       1992     t993     19  -   94         1996      14t97    U9I S    4         2000     2eo0      2002     203      2004
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                                             -- -     -- -      .  ._....  -----,  . .... ..  ...     
WltitL llFtr ttOt
t 1s0  F1CIV4t41tit4 t;                  4191     4911    41341    4131t      4071      4491
IBITUiS 0iUitlltttit BiUWITRO          42090  4 S14    11.199;    t4431    4403)     14041
1li0 3           "'0                                      491*4  t1,3404    15101    ili10
MLItSOI  iE R!                                                       437      917       357       77
---      .. .. .    . .. -.--        ---           --    --                         .....   .... ___. ...  .         . ..
SitO l                          4204  tl,4021  42,2031  (1,207,        U403      S2        17
.   .   .   .   .   .   ..   .  ..   _    .       _   .              _~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   .    ...  --     -   - -  ..   .  ...   .  -----  
UIPS"
(PB hSAM                  lilA                                              3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    1,000    3,000    3,000    3,990    3,000    3,000    3,000    2,000    3,000
WV1                                               3. S,Q00   0 30    ,000    3,000    3,600   3s,60       1,000    3,004    3,09*    3,000    3,000    S,000    S,00t    3,000
tat. tONS                                          ,000    0,000    0,0O0     6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000        0 6,000 t        ,0QO    t.000    0.000
MGM   014t0                  S                                              9,000    9,000    9,000    9,000    9,000    9,00        9,0      9,00     9,000    9,000    9,000    9,000    9.t         9,00V
(bfy     t000                                              1,575    t,044    1,655    0,100    l,69Q    I,?J3    ,1im       ,I07    tjSt7   1,930    1,903    2,037    2,093    2,151
hiote              10o0 $1                                           1,575    1,t11    1,t55    1,700    I,69       1,3m3    1,7it    1,S27    1,819    t,950    1,98       2,037    2.09S    2,151
3T ilF km                                                                       it414   tl941    42064    i216)    422    t24kl    t26,t    1271i4   42954    45141           S3334     3551     3714     402i
t1*li#  CmlS
UoIIIII0                                                                    44034    441 10       3400   41034    (403)    41034    44034    41034    4403)    4403)    403  103       4    4403; 1103    4 is
am    SA1 3                                                                    494      494      194      194       (9)       491      494      19)       (94      494       494      49       494       (94
,in1601Ut                                                                      OP3      4334     4334      1331     (33)     (334      4334     US3)      4334     4334      M3       4331     433.      4334
oitsItU                                                                      42i04    42004    420)    (2M0l    430)    0301          1200)    40        18 ( 2     0047)    4200;    42004    4290;    42T00
..--    -- -  .   - -       - -     .....     -_-          - -   - -     ....                                  ...  .,.  --  .. -   --_--.-.
-i-otal                                                              04253    44251    1425t    (4251   l4251    (4254    (4254    404    1425)    (4251    04251    44251    4425)              9254
.~~~~~~~~-                     -- -    ----                                    --       ----    -- -     ..____. ..  -- -   ----     -----
at 0U8 Lik    It 42l02;    ,204;  11,2071                                       903    t,074    4,102    4,G57    4,03       1,4062    1,090    1,125    1,159    1,191    1,224    1,257    1,291    4,324
w09  42in            846.36
05              ~~~~15.31
Ee  Lghn    aold an cylia*  VW  U,t0.
(      i1 Mmusladw rea cirthm.
tcl  br tu&  cost   - t0.025Tloa .ll0.
I4d l    TtOSciudar ad Tk 17600       too balk.
tol L0S 0t -td   it atomic value of 0 atural  as
ditc  tfu0r  bus to aus to place oL 4.0 t 174t1o  irefinmng taItt
1m      m1        19'1      4M       49s       1994     1995     199t      1997     4M9       1999     2000     2004      202      20 GS
*.1      50.5     54.0      57.0     01.5      65.7     70.2     75.0      00.4 I    5.5     91.3      97.5    104.2    111.2    443.8    126.9
IOTei  Dprnt
Nawaber 11, 1986



MAP SEC'ION



IBRO 19490R
819-                          90                                                            92e
B A N G L A D E S H
REFINERY MODIFICATION AND LPG RECOVERY
f f)&orhar.             AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
-26'                                                 ro J   t taur_Proposed (Second Gas Project)  26-
Existing
Rangariur                                                               V Under Implernentation
rC KwA.o,                                                                                       D        Natutal Gas Discoveries
Dira;purX     \          \          t                                             _        Primdry Roads
-a--         |   iRailroads
Rivers
>   8   t-  ---  Internatiotnal Boundaries
-25       )                    I                                                                                C           S --               25r
aogao                                                                                W ,)  <   JhJamalpar  _ ,  h -2
) 1w30Nugaort            a      ogra                                                                   Ks t    \         ?   l.Kia 5 o S,ktha,
Mym       enin                               F       aea'lbazar
asa.                     \)shweqa/n:
;-.O->5-~~ ~~~             ag abt   5 ur  +                            Ash.gan
24                         Iuri         agaa                                                                                                   24-
-24c>, ,~~~~~'''S''ushia -                                                          - 1                        I N  D  I A             2-
Ta. *i~. ar.  3.aaas                -ad           u              Pa,_tuak atra   .h
I N  D    A                     Jemre dOfii.t  (                                                                                        4
as5 a,, Ta bt,n hi #49                                                                                                                          3
.Ir,atana' tfli,i  ia's  J ~ ~ ~ uin
aira' tgIant a' r r9Srr
>                                                           \   A<J/         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kapta ,
rnrb v .... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or ..   Patuzakhdt htagtA]
('D Kutubdia
F0e rrons  S                                                                                                                              J
O          25 5r r.  MILES                                                  BURMA
21H_ _                            _        _ '                                                              21C
.   .  O       50             100 KILOMETERS
SII LANKA                                         90                                                            92
90,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 92                       S  ir



