COFFICI1AL
CREDIT NUMBER 1749 BD
Project Agreement
(Refinery Modification and
LPG Recovery and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EASTERN REFINERY LIMITED
and
BANGLADESH OIL, GAS AND MINERAL CORPORATION
and
LP GAS LIMITED
Dated           4   4]     ,7     , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1749 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   2,i7      , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAT ON  (the  Association)  and
EASTERN  REFINERY  LIMITED, BANGLADESH   OIL, GAS AND MINERAL
CORPORATION, and LP GAS LIMITED (hereinafter collectively called
the Project Entities).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Entities agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B) by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Project Entities, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to each of the Project Entities
on the terms and conditions set forth in each such subsidiary
loan agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Entities, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions with
the last sentence of Section 3.02 thereof deleted (the General
Conditions) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Entities declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the part of the Project for which it is
responsible with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the part of the Project for which it is responsible.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, each of the Project Entities shall carry out the
part of the Project for which it is responsible in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Association and the Project Entities.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Project Entities shall carry out
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and the part of the Project for
which it is responsible.
Section 2.04. Each of the Project Entities shall duly
perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Project Entities shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the part of the Project for which
it is responsible, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Each of the Project Entities shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the part of the Project for which
it is responsible, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by it of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
the Project Entities
Section 3.01. The Project Entities shall carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section  3.02. The Project Entities shall at all times
operate and maintain their plant, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound financial and engineering practices.
Section  3.03. The Project Entities shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04. ERL shall by January 31, 1987, and every six
months thereafter until completion of Part A of the Project,
furnish to the Association for its review a program of operating
and production targets and norms for the next six months,
together with a review of the extent to which such program has
been achieved during the preceding six months.


﻿Section 3.05. For purposes of Part A of the Project, ERL
shall employ a project management assistance team whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. LP Gas Limited shall from time to time, but at
least once a year, review and as necessary adjust the price of
LPG cylinders to reflect their import cost, including taxes and
duties imposed by the Borrower.
Section 3.07. LP Gas Limited shall not later than January 1,
1987, appoint   a   General  Manager  whose   qualifications  and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. For purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, LP
Gas Limited shall appoint distribution and marketing consultants.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Project Entities shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
(b) The Project Entities shall:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case (A) not later than six months
after the end of each such year, certified copies
of its unaudited financial statements for such
year; and (B) not later than nine months after the
end of such year, certified copies of its
financial statements audited as provided in
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, together with
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 5 -
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Project Entities shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(i) ERL shall, commencing in fiscal year 1987 and
thereafter, not incur any debt, if after the
incurrence of such debt the ratio of the aggregate
principal amount of debt of ERL then incurred and
outstanding to its equity would be greater than
65:35;


﻿-6-
(ii) ERL shall in fiscal year 1987 achieve and there-
after maintain a ratio of current assets to cur-
rent liabilities (hereinafter referred to as the
current ratio) of at least 1.5:1;
(iii) ERL shall not declare any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its capital or
make any prepayment of debt if such distribution
or prepayment shall reduce the current ratio below
1.5;
(iv) ERL shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of ERL
shows that the projected internal cash generation
of ERL for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times
the projected debt service requirement of ERL in
such year on all debt of ERL including the debt to
be incurred; and
(v) until the completion of Part A of the Project, ERL
shall not incur capital expenditures for fixed or
other non-current assets (other than those re-
quired for carrying out Part A of the Project and
for the maintenance thereof) in excess of an
aggregate amount of $5,000,000 equivalent.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ERL
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (a) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date of such con-
tract, agreement or instrument on the date, and to
the extent, the amount of such debt has become
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument; and (b) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.


﻿- 7 -
(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of ERL not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.
(iv) The term "current assets" means cash, accounts
receivable due within twelve months, marketable
securities, inventories convertible to saleable
goods within twelve months, pre-paid expenses
properly chargeable to operating expenses within
the next twelve months following the date in which
such pre-paid expenses were made, and all other
assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted into cash within twelve
months.
(v) The term    "current liabilities" means    accounts
payable within twelve months, customer advances,
income taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other
liabilities (including debt) which, pursuant to
their terms, will become due and payable or could
under circumstances then existing be called for
payment within twelve months.
(vi) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by ERL in the fiscal year in which the
debt in question is to be incurred, which the
Association and the Borrower accept as reasonable
and as to which the Association has notified the
Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no
event has occurred since such notification which
has, or may reasonably be expected ihsthe future
to have, a material adverse effect on the finan-
cial condition or future operating results of ERL.
(vii) The term "internal cash generation of ERL" means
gross revenues of ERL from all sources, less all
operating expenses of ERL including expenses
attributable to administration, maintenance and
taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before
provision for depreciation of assets and interest
and other charges on debt.


﻿-8-
(viii) The term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.
(c) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing official rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association  and   of  the  Project  Entities   thereunder  shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify the Project Entities of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ERL:
Eastern Refinery Limited
P.O. Box 35
North Patenga
Chittagong, Bangladesh
Cable address:                   Telex:
EASTERNOIL                       65 607 ERL BJ
Chittagong


﻿- 10 -
For BOGMC:
Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Mineral Corporation
Chamber Building, 122-124 Motijheel C/A
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                    Telex:
B.O.G.M.C.                        642765HNXN BJ
Dhaka
For LP Gas Limited:
LP Gas Limited
Guptakhal
Chittagong, Bangladesh
Cable ad-"Iress:
LP Gas
Guptakhal, Chittagong
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Project Entities, may be taken or
executed by the Chief Executive of the respective Project
Entities or such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing, and he shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/egional Vice President
South Asia
EASTERN REFINERY LIMITED
By 5
Authorized Representative
BANGLADESH OIL, GAS AND MINERAL CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative
LP GAS LIMITED
By                     'a&     L4(
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD_ Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   (a) To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more each.
(b) Contracts for Parts A.1 and B of the Project shall be
awarded on a lump-sum turnkey basis.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $4,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding proce-
dures on the basis of an evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).


﻿- 13 -
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for equipment and mate-
rials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
ERL, BOGMC and LP Gas Limited in carrying out the parts of
the Project for which they are responsible, shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such


﻿- 14 -
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
1mplementation Program
Refinery Modification
ERL shall be responsible for this part of the Project. ERL
shall prepare the invitation-to-bid documents, including basic
and project design specifications and project details to enable
the award of a contract to be made on a lump-sum turnkey basis.
These documents shall also provide for satisfactory commissioning
of the modified units and assistance to ERL in the initial
operation. A general contractor shall be selected to carry out
the refinery modification. A project implementation coordinator
assisted by a project unit to be established in ERL shall have
overall responsibility for project implementation. A project
management assistance team, to be recruited by ERL, shall assist
with project execution, including the evaluation of bids,
selection of the general contractor, supervision of works and
establishment of operating norms. It shall report directly to the
project implementation coordinator.
Project implementation is expected to take about 36 months.
LPG Recovery
This part of the Project shall be carried out by BOGMC in
accordance with its usual standards and practices. BOGMC shall
employ engineering consultants to design the recovery facili-
ties. Design and invitation-to-bid documents are expected to be
ready by October 1986.
Project implementation is expected to take about 24 months.
LPG Storage, Transportation and Distribution
LP Gas Limited shall be responsible for Parts C.1 and C.2 of
the Project. LP Gas Limited's operations will be expanded to
handle storage and bottling of LPG from both the refinery and
Kailashtila. Distribution and marketing consultants shall be
engaged to design the project sub-components and assist LP Gas
Limited in implementing the project and in establishing safety
and inspection standards consistent with international standards
for the operation of the bottling facilities, bulk transport and
retail stations. The storaye, transportation and distribution
component is expected to take about 30 months.


﻿- 16 -
Part C.3 of the Project shall be the responsibility of the
private company or companies referred to in Section 4.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


