                                         Documentof

                                       The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                          Report No.: 26688




    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                               PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                   FOR A PROPOSED

            SOCIALPROTECTIONSECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                      INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$200MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                REPUBLICOF CHILE



                                  OCTOBER 24,2003




HumanDevelopmentDepartment
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay,UruguayCountry ManagementUnit
Latin America andCaribbeanRegionalOffice


This documenthas a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipientsonly inthc
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                   US$1.00 :Ch$700 (+/-)Variable
                                             FISCALYEAR
                                        January 1- December 31

                       GLOSSARYOFACRONYMS & SPECIALTERMS                   -
AFPs         Privatepensionfundadministrators(Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones)

BPF         Conditionalcash transfer for paxticipantsinPuenteProgram(Bonode Proteccion Familiar)

CAS         Country AssistanceStrategy

CASEN       Chile's NationalHouseholdSurvey, conductedeverytwo years (Caracterizacion Socio Economica Nacional)

CFAA        CountyFinancialAccountability

CONADI      (Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo Indigena)

DDO         DeferredDraw Down Option

DIPRES      Budget Office, Ministry of Finance(Direccionde Presupuestos. Ministerio de Hacienda)

FDI         ForeignDirect Investment

FichaCAS    QuestionnaireBasedTargetingInstrument Usedto Prioritize Recipientsof SocialTransfers

FONASA      Chile's PublicHealthInsuranceSystem (FondoNacional de la Salud)

FOSIS       Chile's Social Investment Fund(Fondo Solidario de Inversion Social)

INDAP       AgricultureandRuralDevelopment Institute (Insfituto Nacional de Desarollo Agropecuano)

ISAPREs     Chile's Private HealthInsuranceProviders(Institutosde Salud y Prevision)

JUNAEB      NationalSchoolLunchesand ScholarshipsProgram(JuntaNacional de Auxilio Escolar y Becas)

JUNJI       NationalKinder GardenProgram(JuntaNacional de Jardines Infantiles)

MIDEPLAN    Ministry of Planning andCooperation

MPG         ContributoryMinimum PensionGuarantee

PASIS       NonContributory, Social Assistance Benefitto Elderly Indigent(Pensionesasistenciales)

PEPS        Public Employment Programs, bothdirect employment andprivateemployment subsidies

Pro-Empleo  Job SearchAssistanceProgram

Puente      Entry programto Chile Solidario, Administeredby FOSIS

SAFP        Regulatorof Private PensionSystem(Superintendencia de AFPs)

SAP         PotableWater Subsidy (Subsidio al Consumode Agua Potable)

SENCE       NationalJob Training andEmploymentAssistanceProgram(ServicioNacional de Capacifaciony Empleo)

SI1         IntemalRevenueService (Serviciode Impuesros Internos)

SME         Small andMediumEnterprises

SUF         Non ContributorySingle Subsidy to Poor Families (Subsidio Unico Familiar)




             Vice President:                               Davidde Ferranti

             Country Director LCC7C:                       Axel van Trotsenburg

             HumanDevelopmentDirector:                     Ana Maria Arriagada

             HumanDevelopmentLeadEconomist:                Ariel Fiszbein

             Sector Leader, HumanDevelopmentLCC7C:         Jesko S. Hentschel

            Social Protection SectorManager:               Christopher Chamberlin

            Task Team Leaders                              Theresa Jones & TrumanPackard

                                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                   Table of Contents


        Introduction                                                                                                    1
        Part I           Economic and Social Setting                                                                    2
                         I.A. Macroeconomic Outlook                                                                     8
                         I.B. Chile's Pro GrowthStructural Reforms                                                      8
                         I.C. Trends in Poverty and Inequality: The Persistence of                                      11
                          IndigencePoverty
        Part 11          Chile's Social Protectionand Poverty Reduction Policies                                        13
                         1I.A. Risksand Vulnerability to Income Shocks among Chilean Households                         13
                         1I.B.Weaknessesof Chile's Social Protection System                                             18
                         1I.C. Reforms to Chile's Poverty Reduction and Social ProtectionPolicies                      20
        Part I11         The Proposed Loan                                                                             26
                         1II.A. Rationale and Objectives                                                               26
                         1II.B.Links with the Country Assistance Strategy                                              28
                         1II.C. The Deferred Draw Down Option                                                          29
                         1II.D.The Proposed Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan                                   30
                         1II.E.The ProposedAccompanying Social ProtectionTechnical Assistance Loan                      38
                         1II.F.Environmental Impact of the Proposed Operation                                           39
                         1II.G.Risks                                                                                    39
        References
        Annexes
        Annex 1          Draft Letter of Development Policy (translated from official version)                         43
        Annex 2         Draft Letter o f Development Policy (official version)                                         47
        Annex 3         Draft Policy Matrix - Chile: Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan with DDO                 52
        Annex 4         Highlightsof Chile's Pro Growth Structural Reforms                                             56
        Annex 5         Chile's Public Expenditure in the Social Sectors and in Social Protection                      61
        Annex 6         Strengths and Weaknesses of Chile's Ficha CAS                                                  64
        Annex 7         FundsRelations Note                                                                            65
        Annex 8         A review of the Composition and Performance of the Bank's Chile Portfolio                      70
        Annex 9         Portfolio Indicators                                                                           71
        Annex 10        Financial Relations with the Bank                                                              72
        Annex 11        Chile at a glance                                                                              73



        This operation i s being prepared by a World Bank Team consisting of: Daniel Oks and Zeinab Partow (Country
        Economists for Chile, LCC7C), Estanislao Gacitua Mario (Senior Social Scientist, LCSEO), Paul Sisk (Senior
        FinancialManagementSpecialist, LCOAA), Felipe Saez (Lead Country Officer for Chile, LCC7C), Jorge Barrientos
        (Consultant), Marta Elena Molares-Halberg(Lead Counsel), Christina Alquinta Tania Gomez, Natalia Moncada and
        Martha P. Vargas (Team Assistants, LCSHD). The Team is lead by Theresa Jones and Truman Packard (Co-Task
        Team Leaders, LCSHS). The Team would like to express appreciationto our counterparts in DIPRES, MIDEPLAN
        andFOSIS for their efficiency, attentionto detail andenthusiasminthe implementationof the Chile Solidarioinitiative
        andthe preparationof thisoperation.



This document has a restricted distribution andmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                                            Tables

Table 1  Chile: SelectedEconomicIndicators                                               4
Table 2  Income, InequalityAnd Poverty InChile, 1987-2000                                12
Table 3  VulnerabilityAnd Risk Indicators, 2000                                          15
Table 4  CoverageOf Chile's PrincipalSocialProtectionProgramsAnd Interventions           17
Table 5  Average Monthly PerCapitaIncomeOf HouseholdsParticipatingInPuente In2002        23
Table 6  PuenteCase Workers By RegionAnd Affiliation                                     25
Table 7  Milestonesof Implementation of Chile Solidarioand RelatedReforms                34


                                           Figures

Figure I Comparative GrowthRates, Chile, Latin AmericaandEast Asia & Pacific             3
Figure2  BasisPointSpread Over US Treasury BondsPaid on SovereignDollar-Denominated      6
         Debt, 1999-2002
Figure   PublicExpenditureon Social Sectorsas aPercentageof GDP in SelectedLatin         61
A.2.1   American and OECD Countries, 1998

Figure   Chile's Public Spendingon the SocialSectors, 1992- 2001                         62
A.2.2

Figure  PublicExpenditureon Chile's PrincipalSocialProgramsand Interventions, 1992- 2001 63
A.2.3



                                         Text Boxes

Box 1   Smoothingthe Cycle:Chile's StructuralSurplus Rule                                5

Box 2   RecentStructural Reformsin Chile                                                 10
Box 3   Chile's Suitability for the DeferredDraw Down Option                             30

                                 REPUBLICOF CHILE

                  SOCIALPROTECTION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT

                               Loan and Program Summary

Borrower          Republic of Chile.

Implementing      DIPRES (Budget Office in the Ministry o f Finance) and MIDEPLAN (Ministry
Agency           of Planning and Cooperation).
PovertyCategory   Poverty Targeted Intervention.

Amount           US$200million.

Terms            Fixed Spread Loan payable in 4.5 years, including 4 years of grace, disbursement
                 linked and 1 bullet repayment.

CommitmentCharge The government has elected the Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO): 1 percent of
                 the undisbursed amounts, beginning 60 days after the loan agreement is signed, is
                 payable during the period while DDO is not exercised.

Front-EndFee     A front end fee of 1percent of each withdrawn amount will be paid to the Bank
                 from the loan proceeds only upon drawdown.

Objectives       The objectives of the proposed Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan are to
                 support the efforts of the Government of Chile to: (a) improve the access of the
                 poorest households to the social protection system; and (b) increase the
                 effectiveness of this system in alleviating extreme poverty.


Description      The loan would support government actions in five key areas: (i)   maintenance o f
                 a satisfactory macroeconomic framework that continues to be consistent with the
                 objective of sustaining economic growth to further reduce poverty; (ii) reforms to
                 Chile's poverty reduction and social protection policies, to reduce poverty and
                 exclusion by creating greater access to social protection and wider social services
                 for the neediest households (the Chile Solidario initiative); (iii) increasing the
                 efficiency and efficacy o f social policy through improved targeting and better use
                 of information by integrating, gathering and exchanging publicly and privately
                 held data on households and relevant to social policy into a national information
                 system; (iv) strengthening regular monitoring and impact evaluation of social
                 programs and policies; and (v) increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty
                 reduction and social protection policies, through clear assignment o f roles and
                 division of responsibilities between central government, municipal authorities
                 and civil society.


Benefits         The primary target group is the estimated 225 thousand indigent households, a
                 substantial share o f whom are expected to participate in Chile Solidario, and
                 through that participation improve their standard o f living, including, but not
                 limited to, their level o f income. Thus, if the project is successful, one would
                 expect to see a decline in the share of households below the extreme poverty line,
                 higher coverage o f existing social protection policies and programs among the
                 extreme poor, and some re-design of interventions to better address the needs of
                 the group. Other groups besides the extremely poor or those participating in
                 Chile Solidario will benefit from improvements in social protection policies
                 because some o f the reforms will affect a broader segment of the population.




                                              i

Risks              The risks to this program are considered modest. Chile's excellent track record
                   in economic management, program implementation and transparency speak for
                   themselves, and make the satisfactory completion of the program highly likely.
                   Nevertheless, several areas of implementation could prove difficult for the
                   Government to implement. These include: closing the employment gap among
                   the neediest households; ensuring good targeting o f Chile Solidario and making
                   any needed adjustments during implementation; including historically excluded
                   groups, such as the indigenous population; and promoting greater participation of
                   local governments and civil society. A draft bill o f law for Chile Solidario has
                   been presented to the National Congress. It would provide clear powers for
                   MIDEPLAN to coordinate and implement Chile Solidario, to create the national
                   information system for social protection, and consolidate the administration of
                   the cash transfers. Although the law has not yet passed, the Chile Solidario
                   Program has been carried out since 2002 under contractual arrangements with the
                   agencies involved, Delay in passage of the law could slow implementation and
                   the formalization of these administrative arrangements, but would not prevent the
                   Government from continuing to make progress on many aspects of the reform
                   program. Moreover, future financing for Chile Solidario has been approved
                   through recently enactedlegislation.


Project I.D. No.   PO78088

Map:               IBRD25555




                                              ..
                                              11

                                        REPUBLICOF CHILE
                SOCIALPROTECTIONSECTORADJUSTMENT LOAN

                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT


INTRODUCTION

1.       This memorandum proposes a Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan for
US$200 million to the Republic of Chile in support of reforms to the country's poverty
reduction and social protection policies and programs.'                   The loan would support
government actions in five key areas: (i)           maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework that continues to be consistent with the objective of sustaining economic
growth to further reduce poverty; (ii)           reforms to Chile's poverty reduction and social
protection policies, to reduce poverty and exclusion by creating greater access t o social
protection and wider social services for the neediest households (the Chile Solidario
initiative); (iii) increases in the efficiency and efficacy of social policy through improved
targeting and better use of information, by integrating, gathering and exchanging publicly
and privately held data on households and relevant to social policy into a national
informationsystem; (iv) strengthening regular monitoring and impact evaluation of social
programs and policies; and (v) increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty
reduction and social protection policies, through clear assignment of roles and division of
responsibilities betweencentral government, municipal authorities and civil society.

2.       Despite the substantial progress achieved in reducing poverty since 1987,
indigence poverty in Chile remains persistent.                Recent analysis even shows a slight
increase in indigence since 1998. Quantitative and qualitative analysis conducted by the
World Bank and Chilean researchers indicates that the persistent, "structural" poor come
from larger households with a greater number of younger children; tend to live in rural
areas; tend to be employed (and self employed) in agriculture; and tend to have fewer
years of formal education. The concentration of structural poverty in rural areas comes
as little surprise given the rapid changes in the rural economy in Chile, and points to
isolation and even exclusion from a variety of networks that provide access to public and
privately suppliedrisk mitigation instruments. The Government considers this exclusion
as the primarydeterminant of persistent structural poverty.

3.       In its last poverty report for Chile, the Bank arguedthat given persistent rates of
indigence despite years of economic growth and increasesin targeted social spending, the
Government should take a more proactive stance in its poverty reduction and social
protection policies. Relatively lower rates of poverty and indigence make a proactive
approach more viable in Chile than in other developing countries. Analysis in the last
poverty report, and for the more recent report on Household Risk Management and Social
Protection, indicates that a new set of policies and interventions - buttressed with
institutional reforms to improve targeting and to mainstream monitoring and evaluation

`As is always the case with adjustment lending, the proceeds of the loan may not necessarily finance
reforms to the social protection policies and programs directly.

 practices - may be requiredto reach Chile's poorest groups and increase the effectiveness
 of social protection and poverty reductionpolicies.

 4.        InMay 2002 the Lagos Administration announcedthe ChileSolidario initiative, a
 package of legislative and administrative reforms to Chile's poverty reduction and social
 protection policies. The packageof reforms representsa concerted effort to bringChile's
 225 thousand neediest households out of indigence poverty. The Chile Solidario package
includes both new legislation and changes in current laws that will dramatically alter the
Government's approach to confronting poverty and extending social protection.

5.        The proposed Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan will support the
Government's efforts to improve the access of Chile's neediest households to the social
protection system; and increase the effectiveness of this system in alleviating extreme
poverty. Policy reforms included inthe proposed adjustment operation, would be further
supported by an accompanying Technical Assistance loan benefiting the agencies
charged with implementingthese activities. The Technical Assistance Loan would likely
be presentedto the Boardby December 2003.

PARTI.ECONOMICAND SOCIALSETTING

I.A. Macroeconomic Outlook

6.        Chile's macroeconomic policies and strong fundamentals have, to a large extent,
insulated the country from recent regional crises and have allowed continued growth,
albeit at lower rates than in the mid-1990s. Economic performance continues to outpace
that of the rest of Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC), and compares well with
growth rates of the world's top performing region, East Asia and the Pacific (see Figure
1). Inper capita terms, GDP growthhas averaged4.5 percent per year since 1990, versus
1percent for the LAC region duringthe same period.

7.        This performance is sustained by sound fundamentals and an ambitious structural
reform agenda. The country's fiscal position i s structurally sound, and public debt has
fallen from 34 percent of GDP in 1990 to 11percent in 2002.2 A flexible exchange rate
andinflationtargeting are implemented by an independent central bank, and the financial
sector is healthy and solvent, having weathered well the economic slowdown since 1998
as well as various emerging market crises. Chile's significant advances in negotiating
free trade agreements have helped bolster its external sector and a strong program of
structural reforms at both the macro- and micro- levels aims to ensure continued strong
growth. Reflecting these generally positive conditions, Chile's country risk premiumhas
declined to under 150basis points this year, the lowest of any LatinAmerican country.

8.        Nonetheless, over the past five years, the rate of economic growth declined to an
average 2.4 percent per year, from 7.8 percent in 1990-1997. This is the result of less


 Public sector debt has increased slightly in recent months and is projected to stand at about 11.6 percent
of GDP by the end of 2003. Both Government and IMFestimates, however, indicate that the debt-to-GDP
ratio is currently at its peak and project that i t will follow a declining trend in coming years.


                                                           2

favorable external and domestic conditions. A volatile external environment has been
largely responsible for Chile's subdued performance, particularly the global decline in
foreign direct investment flows, the economic slow-down experienced by Chile's trading
partners, falling commodity prices (especially the price of copper) and more recently the
crisis inArgentina, uncertainty inBrazil and the international political instability that has
resultedinhigher oil price^.^

 Figure 1. Chile's economic performance continues to outpace that of it's neighbors
                          and compares with countries inEast Asia
                                    (Comparative growth rates, %)

          10.0

           9.0       0 1990-1997

           8.0       W 1998-2002
                       1990-2002
           7.0

           6.0

                   r
           5.0

           4.0

           3.0

           2.0

           1.o

           0.0
                      LatinAmerica                  Chile          EastAsia & Pacific


9.      On the domestic front, the combin ion of fiscal and monetary policies in 1998-
1999 is also likely to have contributed to the slow-down, while the maturing of the wave
of reforms of the 1990s has meant that the impetus to economic growth that they
provided early in the decade may have waned. In addition, domestic constraints to more
rapid growth have emerged. These could be relaxed through improvements in human
capital development, increasing the flexibility of the labor market, improving the
environment for small and medium enterprises as well as removing some regulatory
bottlenecks inkey sectors such as electricity and telecommunications.

10.     While Chile's economic performance was more than double that of its neighbors
during 1998-2002, the country experienced a slow-down in growth in 2002, with GDP
expanding by only 2.1 percent, down from 3.2 percent in 2001. The deceleration was
driven by stagnating investment and a fall in consumption. Nevertheless, the economy
began to revive towards the end of 2002, and by June 2003 growth stood at 3 percent as


 Petroleum accounts for about 1Ipercent of Chile's total imports.


                                                   3

compared to a year earlier. Consensus projections for the year as a whole are for a GDP
growth ratebetween 3 and 3.5 percent.

 11.     This growth is expected to be sustained largely by an expansion of exports as a
result of somewhat greater dynamism in the international economy, improved copper
prices, the entry into force of the free trade agreement with the EU, and by some
strengthening indomestic demandhelpedalong by Chile's currently expansive monetary
policy. In order to bolster flagging consumer confidence and domestic demand, the
central bank reduced interest rates various times from 6.5 percent in early 2002 to 2.75
percent in mid-2003, although the effect of monetary loosening on aggregate demand
may be delayed by the sluggishness of commercial banks in passing on lower interest
rates to small borrowers. The central bank's inflation targeting policy has kept inflation
within the 2-4 percentband, ending2002 at 2.8 percent, andprojected to stand at between
3 and3.5 percent at the end of 2003.

 Table 1.Although external economic prospects remain uncertain, Chile's economic
                policies are sound and its macroeconomic outlook is good.
                               (Chile: SelectedEconomic Indicators)

                                       1999        2000           2001       2002 e   2003 pr
                                                                Growth (%)

 GDPat market prices                   -1.0        4.3             3.2        2.1       3.5
 Exports of Goods & Services           5.1         11.9            -3.9       -0.7      9.0
 Imports of Goods & Services          -19.8        16.0            -4.0       -2.9     10.0

 Real   Exchange    Rate     (+ =      -6.2         2.5            -9.5       -6.5      2.0
 apprec.)
 CPIinflation, e-o-p                   2.3         4.5             2.6        2.8       3.0
                                                             Share of GDP (%)

 Current Account Balance               0.1         -1.0            -1.7       -0.8      -1.0

 Central Government Balance            -2.2        -0.8            -0.7       -1.2      -0.7

 Structural Balance                    -0.8         0.1            0.8        0.7       0.8
                                                                Percent (%)

 Unemployment, average                 9.7         9.2             9.2        9.0       8.5

 Source: Central Bank of Chile


12.    Since 2000, Chile has been able to implement a counter-cyclical fiscal policy
which permits deficits in years of slower growth that are recouped when the economy i s
stronger. Under this policy, the government keeps its expenditure to a level that would
yield a fiscal surplus of 1percent of GDP if output were expanding at its potential and
copper prices were at their long-term average (see Box 1). In 2002, the actual deficit
reached 1.2 percent of GDP, which translates into a structural balance of 0.7 percent of
GDP, in line with the rule. For 2003, the Central Government projects an actual deficit of
0.9 percent of GDPconsistent with a structural surplus of 0.8 percent of GDP, although a


                                               4

 number o f developments, including slower-than-anticipated growth, generated concern
 that this deficit may be difficult to achieve. Among the other factors that could lead to a
 larger deficit i s the expected decline in tariff and VAT revenues associated with the
 implementation of the recently signed free trade agreement (FTA) with the EU.4

  13.      To address this expected fall in revenues, estimated at about 0.2 percent of GDP
 in2003,5 the Government has taken a variety of measuresto increase actual revenues and
 reduce expenditures. A one percentage point increase in the VAT from 18 to 19 percent
 came into effect in October 2003. As the net effect o f revenue losses due to the FTAs
 and possibly slower growth i s larger than the gain from the VAT increase and other
 revenue measures, the Government has also implemented a US$300 million cut in
 expenditure to maintain the actual balance in line with the Budget Law. With this fiscal
 adjustment, the Government aims to protect its priority social programs while complying
 with the 1%structural surplus rule.

                         Box 1.Smoothing the Cycle: Chile's Structural Surplus Rule

          In 2000, the Government of Chile introduced a fiscal rule (not a law), mandating an annual
 structural surplus of 1 percent of GDP, to reaffirm its commitment to fiscal responsibility. The structural
 balance reflects the amount of revenues and expenditures that would be obtained if the economy were
 operating at "potential" and if copper were trading at its estimated long-term price. B y filtering out the
 cyclical effects of changes in GDP and the copper price, the operation o f an automatic counter-cyclical
 fiscal policy is facilitated. Potential GDP determines potential revenues, which in turn establish the actual
 spending envelope consistent with the 1%rule. The actual surplus in a given period will be larger duringa
 boom, and smaller in a recession, helping to avoid abrupt revisions of the fiscal stance at the extremes of
 the cycle, and ensuring that expenditures will follow the relatively smoother path of structural revenues.

          In addition to smoothing expenditures, a key value of the rule is its impact on the credibility of
fiscal policy, as it imposes a constraint on Government's expenditures that can easily be monitored. By
communicating a clear signal of fiscal discipline to the markets, the fiscal rule has helped to avoid
excessive discretion and thereby may have contributed to lowering the cost of financing; its relative
transparency and simplicity contribute to the credibility of fiscal policy. The rule is not without its critics,
however. Some consider that both "potential" GDP and long run copper prices have been systematically
overestimated, leading to an expansion in spending and introducing a deficit bias in the actual balance that
makes it unlikely that a structural surplus of 1% is being met. Four consecutive years of fiscal deficit have
fed critics' doubts. Since no single method of measurement exists, and different estimation techniques will
result in different estimateso f the structural balance, this criticism is difficult to address.

          The Government has responded to scepticism by stressing that an independent committee of
experts is charged with projecting "potential" GDP and copper prices, and by noting that in the annual
exercises, GDP projections have followed a downward trend, and are now well below what is generally
considered to be the country's long term potential GDP. The recent fiscal adjustment undertaken by the
administration should serve to bolster the argument that while the fiscal rule does not place an ex-ante
ceiling on spending, expenditures can be, and are, cut to ensure compliance. In formulating fiscal rules for
other countries, it should nevertheless be kept in mindthat a financing problem might arise if actual deficits
persist despite structural surpluses. The risk of such instability is low for Chile, however, where the public
debt-to-GDP ratio has declined dramatically over the last decade, and today stands at under 12% of GDP.


4 The impact of the FTA with the US will not be felt until next year, assuming, as is expected, that the
agreement successfully passes the Chilean legislature in the next few months.
  The loss in revenues is expected to increase in 2004 as the FTAs with the US and South Korea both come
into effect.


                                                        5

 14.     Reflecting its strong policies and performance, Chile issued US$1 billion in ten-
 year bonds inearly 2003, at a spread of 163 basis points, the lowest of any ten-year issue
 made by the country in the past. The resources will be used to finance the 2003 fiscal
 deficit and the more expensive, older debt. Chile's sovereign spreads have declined
 further inrecent months, reaching 130basis points inJuly.

  Figure 2. Chile has longmaintained the confidenceof international investors, and
            by most measuresof country risk, by far surpassesits neighbors
        (Basis PointSpreadOver US Treasury BondsPaidon SovereignDollar-DenominatedDebt,
                                      Jan 2000-Jul2003)

   8000



   7000         +Argentina
                -m-  Brazil
                     Colohia
   6000              Mexico
                -0- Chile

   5000



   4000



   3000



   2000



   1000



     0




Source: JP Morgan, EMBIGlobal, NorbertFiess, Office of the LCR Chief Economist

15.     Chile's export revenues fell moderately in 2002 over the previous year,
particularly affected by low copper, wood pulp and salmon prices; copper alone accounts
for over a third of Chile's export revenues. Imports, however, dropped slightly more, in
line with the decline in domestic demand. The net result was an improvement in the
trade balance of close to 50 percent in 2002 with respect to 2001. For 2003, the growth of
both imports and exports is expected to accelerate, for a projected current account deficit
of close to 1percent of GDP, slightly higher than its level in 2002. Between January and
March, exports and imports grew 10 and 14% year-on-year, respectively, slowing down


                                               6

 to growth rates of 5 and 7% in the second quarter and resulting in a trade surplus of
 US$lSOOmillion during the first half of year, a level very similar to that of 2002.

 16.      FDI flows are projected to amount to under 2 percent of GDP, similar to their
 level in 2002. This is a significant decline from the 1990s, when FDI flows into Chile
 represented6.4 percent of GDP per year, making an important contribution to financing
the country's rapideconomic growth. The weakening incapital inflows reflects investors'
risk aversion following the Russian Debt Crisis and, in particular, wariness of Latin
America following the Brazil devaluation and Argentine debt default6; moreover,
investment incopper mining, which normally accounts for about a third of total FDI, has
been slowed by weak (though recently strengthened) copper prices. The peso has
stabilized at levels close to 700 to the US$l.OO over the past few months, after
experiencing a period of turbulence during the second half of 2002 when it climbed to
750 pesos to the US$I.OO for a short period. Gross official reserves stood at US$15.6
billion at the end of June, more than twice covering Chile's short term external debt.

 17.     The financial sector is highly solvent, well regulated, and generally subject to
minimal risk, having successfully adjusted to lower growth conditions. The corporate
sector has also managed to weather the recent years of slow growth, undergoing a major
adjustment between 1999 and 2002, and controlling costs and debt levels. While the
corporate debt level is substantial, at 50 percent of GDP, its impact on the level of risk in
Chile is moderated by the fact that it is private debt, its terms are favorable, with low
rates and long maturities resulting in a low debt service burden, and it i s generally taken
out by foreign-owned firms or by domestic exporting firms. An important portion of the
debt is indeedwith the foreign parent companies. Less information is available on small
andmediumenterprises (SMEs) or on their financial capacity. Given their higher degree
of vulnerability, SMEs suffered the reverberations of the economic downturn of the late
1990s to a greater extent than did large firms. Today, small and medium firms may
continue to suffer a significant credit crunch in addition to other effects of economic
recession. Enhancing the opportunities available to the SME sector will be a key
ingredient to ensuringsustainable long term growth and employment creation.

18.      The national unemployment rate has consistently remained close to 9 percent in
recent years. The moderate improvement in economic conditions experienced in 2003 is
likely to bring down unemployment only slightly, to about 8.5 percent. A recent
phenomenon, however, has been a simultaneously high rate of job creation. High
unemployment rates combined with accelerating job creation may be explained by
structural rigidities in the labor market, combined with the tenuous recovery in economic
activity, both of which may favor short-term temporary contracts over more permanent


  The impact of the Argentine crisis on Chile, beyond its effect in worsening the general climate for FDIin
Latin America, has been significant but not overwhelming. The Argentine collapse came after a long period
of deterioration which allowed Chile to prepare for the worst by adopting a floating exchange rate regime
in 1998 and running a tight fiscal policy. Exports of Chilean goods to Argentina have fallen by over 60
percent year-on-year, and incoming tourism from Argentina dropped by about half. Losses o f Chilean firms
with investments in Argentina are estimated to take 0.2 points off GDP growth this year.




                                                    7

 employment. Recent analysis7suggests the effects of labor regulation in Chile - namely
 minimum wage and severance payment rules - are detrimental to the very workers that
 they are supposed to help. Both minimum wages and job security regulation appear to
 reduce the employment opportunities of the young and the unskilledwhile promotingthe
 employment of skilled and older workers. There is also a negative effect on the
 employment of women with respect to that of men. These effects appear to be due to
 changes infirms' demandfor labor as the firing costs rise with tenure. Tackling these and
 other related issues of labor rigidity is one of the key remaining reforms for Chile to
 undertake in its efforts to ensure sustained improvements in growth and in social
 conditions.

 19.     Faced with increased uncertainties, Chile would like to expand and diversify its
 risk management mechanisms. The Government is seeking ways to manage risks pro-
 actively, especially in the event of higher volatility in international financial and
commodity markets beyond what could be cushioned by the country's present risk
management tools.      As mentioned above, Chile has already put a system of fiscal
management in place that builds in automatic stabilizers.           However, prudent risk
management policy under conditions of higher risk point to the need for additional
measuresto ensure funding sources inthe event of simultaneous external shocks.

I.B. Chile's Pro GrowthStructuralReforms

20.     The essentialchallenge facing Chile i s a return to fast economic growth and lower
unemployment. The resumption of rapid growth will continue to depend, on the one
hand, on an improvement in global economic prospects which would encourage exports
and FDI inflows, and on the other hand, on the further deepening of Chile's structural
reform agenda.

21.     Fundamental economic and policy conditions inChile, as summarized by credible
monetary policy, rules-based fiscal policy and a flexible exchange system, already
provide a strong foundation to support rates of growth over 4 percent. To buttress its
foundations for growth, Chile has continued to promote an impressive reform agenda to
tackle domestic obstacles to rapid growth and to place itself ina stronger positionto reap
the benefits of a global upturnwhen it materializes.

22.     Chile continues to place great emphasis on the importance of trade and foreign
direct investment for the evolution of its economy. Early and aggressive trade
liberalization, in concert with other reforms, helped Chile to maintain high growth rates
throughout much of the 1990s. More recently, trade policy has focused on the negotiation
of a numberof trade agreements. Over the past 18 months, Chile has negotiated free trade
agreements with the EU and the US, its two largest trading partners, with South Korea
and with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). Chile already had FTAs with
Canada, Mexico, and a number of Central American countries. Looking forward, Chile
plans to continue seeking bilateral trade agreements, focusing on Asia. Trilateral talks



 Montenegroand Pagts.(2003)


                                            8

 with Singapore and New Zealand have been launched and there are hopes of starting
 discussions with India.

 23.     Chile's agreement with the EU, which came into effect in February 2003, led to
the lifting of tariffs on more than 90 percent of industrial goods traded bilaterally upon
the agreement's corning into force, with agricultural tariffs phased out over a ten-year
period. An important feature is the phase-out of tariff escalation clauses which have
hindered the diversification of Chilean exports inthe past (agro-industrial exports faced a
tariff of up to 40%). Chile and the US reached agreement on a free- trade accord in
December; the agreement has been ratified by the US Congress, and ratification by the
Chilean legislature is expected over coming months. The deal includes trade, a dispute
resolution mechanism, services, investment, and sections on environment and labor
standards. The agreement on trade consolidates the market access conditions for Chilean
exports and aims at the elimination of all tariffs within a period of 12 years, including
tariffs on agricultural and textile products. All escalation tariffs on Chilean exports will
be gradually phased out. On capital flows, the agreement states that foreign investors
would be able to protest any future restrictive measures by the Chilean government one
year after their implementation.

24.      Chile's new FTAs will help to attract investment from the US, EUand Asia, using
Chile both as export platform and as a hub for operations: market access through Chile i s
huge: over a billion persons by next year.' Chile is already a very open economy, and the
agreements will help to further improve access for its exports. The main channel,
however, through which FTAs will benefit Chile's economy generally and its investment
climate more specifically, is by signaling the irreversibility of Chilean reforms. This
should help to enhance the stability of the "rules of the game" for investors and
contribute to further reducing country risk.

25.      In addition to efforts to boost trade, Chile has responded to its recent growth
slowdown by putting forward an impressive structural reform program, well beyond its
trade agenda. Components are described in Box 2 below (and in greater detail inAnnex
3). The wide-ranging list of structural reforms, many of which have already been
approved and are under implementation, covers a gamut of topics, including: state
modernization and increased transparency, regulatory reforms to spur investment and
growth in a number of key sectors, enhanced financial regulation and supervision, and
labor market measures, among others. Interestingly, many of these reforms have been
agreed with the private sector under theAgenda Pro-Crecimiento.

26.     The administration has also emphasized its commitment to improving the quality
and efficiency with which education and health services are delivered - coverage is
already at high levels - and has several initiatives in place in these areas. Ineducation,
Congress recently passed a law making full secondary education compulsory. The
government has also committed itself to improving the quality and relevance of
education, especially higher education, including through stronger links to employers in

* Rulesof origin will not present a major obstacle, as a gradual reduction of tariffs over 3 years has been
negotiated in order to give firms sufficient time to substitute suppliers.


                                                       9

the private sector. It has also emphasized the need to stimulate innovation and
technological development and is working to establish a strong and coherent policy
framework to support the developmentof an effective innovation system.



                                Box 2. RecentStructuralReforms in Chile

The Lagos Administration has introduced a wide-ranging program of structural reforms intended to spur
growth with equity. The more prominent items in this program include

The Pro-Growth Anenda. A series of micro-economic reforms and incentives, agreed with the private
sector and adopted and expanded by the government, which aim to stimulate investment in a number o f key
areas. Some measures were approved in 2002, including the legalization of digital signatures and a law
designed to promote Chile as a regional business center by establishing a special, tax-exempt, regime for
foreign enterprises based in Chile but which invest abroad, The elements of the Agenda under discussion in
2003 include (some have already been approved), among others: a reform of electricity regulation to ensure
fair access to transmission infrastructure and to promote competition and investment in the industry; a
fishing law which aims to reduce uncertainty regardingfishingrights in order to promote investment inthe
sector; a modernized bankruptcy law which would expedite bankruptcy procedures; the creation of an anti-
trust court to ensure competitive practices; the creation o f 16tax courts; and labor regulation to increase the
adaptability of the labor market by reducing the legal restrictions to part-time and shift work and a
modernizationo f the judicial system for resolving labor issues.

Modemization of the State and Increased Transparency.The government and the opposition agreed, early
in 2003, to a national proposal to modernize state institutions, ensure greater transparency, halt corruption,
and stimulate growth. Between March and May of 2003, the Government took to Congress a package of
nearly 50 measures largely related to public sector reform and with a heavy emphasis on state
modernization and transparency. . The main elements are: a reform of the civil service regime, including
the introduction o f performance-based incentives and reduction o f political appointees in the senior
executive service; an expediting and simplification of administrative procedures to reduce the uncertainty
for the private sector in its dealings with the public sector; a public procurement law, establishing an
electronic procurement and information system, and increasing the transparency of government contracts
for the purchase or lease o f goods; and a package of measures to increase government transparency, the
most important o f which is campaign finance reform, setting limits on electoral spending and making
financing more transparent and subject to external controls.

Cauital Markets Reform II. Following on the heels of an extensive deregulation of capital and financial
markets in 2001, the government, at the end of June, took to Congress further measures in the form of a
Second Capital Market Reform. The reform contains a number of important items, whose main goal is to
foster improved access to finance for start-up companies as investors, primarily private pension funds who
have been reluctant to commit capital to the industry. Among other measures this includes a scheme to
guarantee bonds issued by venture capital funds, capping investors' potential losses. The reform also seeks
to reduce start-up and transactions costs for small companies, whose sale o f shares would be exempt from
capital gains tax. The package also fills regulatory gaps revealed earlier in the year by the collapse of a
financial services group, through strengthening supervision and enforcement in the financial system. In
addition, the reform aims to significantly increase the size of the voluntary retirement-saving market in the
country by permitting companies and their employees to set up collective pension schemes, similar to the
US401Kplans.

Source: See Annex 3 for more details.




                                                      10

 27.     Before the end of 2003, the government hopes to obtain congressional approval
 for legislationto implement healthcare reform (Plan Auge), designedto increase equality
 of access and reduce waiting times in the public health system. The elimination of
 extreme poverty, supported by this loan, is a flagship endeavor of the administration
 (ChileSolidario),and a comprehensiveprogram to attain this goal is underway.

 28.     So while there is still significant uncertainty regarding the strength of Chile's
 current economic recovery given continued weak consumer confidence and sluggish
 domestic demand, looking further ahead, the outlook i s bright. Chile is only now
 beginning to reap the benefits of important reforms in its trade sector, and has
 significantly reinvigorated its reformprogram inother key areas. Despite uncertainty in a
 global environment whose vicissitudes have a large impact on an open economy such as
 Chile's, the country's reform agenda, coupled with strong policy fundamentals, augurs
well for the mediumterm

I.C. Trends in Poverty and Inequality: ThePersistenceof Indigence Poverty'

29.      Chile has achieved substantial success in reducing poverty (World Bank, 1997
and2001a). For almost the entire period from 1987-2000,poverty inChile declined. The
rapid decline in poverty was mainly associated with economic growth" and an increase
intargeted social spending(See Annex Five). Furthermore, although highincomparison
with other countries, income inequality remainedstable over this period.

30.      However, recent analysis of trends in poverty and income distribution from 1998
to 2000 (the latest year for which nationally representative data are available, see Table
2) show that: after a period of growth, average incomes in Chile stagnated in the late
 1990s; although stable for several years, there has been a slight increase in income
inequality since 1998; and most worryingly, while poverty has continued its downward
trend since 1998, the rate of indigence in Chile (as measured by the lowest of three
poverty lines) remainspersistently stable.

31.      While Chile has been successful in reducing poverty, indigence remains
persistent. Further, the results of the poverty analysis presentedin World Bank (2003),
summarized in Table 2, point to a worrying trend. While increases in dispersion in the
upper tail of the income distribution have been common in Chile since 1987, these
increases were usually accompanied by reduced dispersion in the lower tail of the
distribution -that is, falling poverty levels across all poverty lines. However, since 1998
there has been little change in mean income, with increases in dispersion in both the
higher and the lower end of the income distribution. Reductions in poverty inChile were
largest in years of faster growth, (from 1987 to 1992), and smaller in years after 1992
when growth slowed. However, the trend analysis indicates that when growth slows
down, the indigent poor - those with the lowest income in the country - seem to be hit the

 From Chile: Household Risk Management and Social Protection
loDuring the sub-period 1992-1994and later in the 1990s when the rate of economic growth declined there
was also a lower rate of change inpoverty.


                                                  11

 hardest: in 1994 and again in 2000 as the economy began to recover from a recession all
 measures of indigent poverty rose.

   Table 2. Despitegains inthe fight against poverty, indigence remains persistent.
                          (Income, Inequality and Poverty in Chile, 1987-2000)
                                                                     --
                   1987            1990         1992          1994            1996          1998          2000

 Mean Income      90,598         101,075      122,353        126,644        142,892        159,821      160,441

 Gini             0.5468         0.5322        0.5362        0.5298          0.5409        0.5465        0.5457

Poverty            40.0            33.1         24.2          23.1            19.9          17.0          15.7

Indigence          12.7             9.0          4.7           5.1             4.2           3.9          4.2

Source: World Bank(2003)
Notes:
     1. All calculationsusingCASENhouseholdsurveys
    2.  All income values are total monthlyhouseholdincomeper equivalent adult, anddeflatedto Santiago2000pesos
    3.  Monthly per capitapovertyline, expressedin Santiago 2000 pesos, equalto Ch$40,562
    4.  Monthly per capitaindigenceline, expressedinSantiago 2000 pesos, equal to Ch$20,887


32.     What are the determinants of poverty inChile? The analysis conducted for World
Bank (2003) focused specifically on persistent, indigence poverty that cannot be easily
traced to the loss of income from particular adverse events, such as unemployment; costly
sickness or disability; and loss of earnings-ability in old age. Building on the Bank's
earlier poverty analysis (World Bank, 2001a), the report found that household
composition; educational endowment; and sector of employment were all important
determinantsof income and poverty.

33.     Having children, particularly young children, reduces incomes significantly, and
the effect appears stronger in rural areas, where incomes are generally lower, but where
job opportunities are also fewer, particularly employment that can be combined with
child-care.    Further, households with larger numbers of adults tend to have lower
incomes, even after controlling for economies of scale. Finally, households headed by
women are worse off than those headedby men.

34.     Schooling also plays an important role in determiningincomes. Incomes increase
significantly with education level achieved, with substantial differences between those
with no formal education and those with university level education. Evena small amount
of primary education provides significant income gains.

35.     Sector of employment i s also a strong determinant of poverty. Compared to
agriculture almost every other sector receives higher incomes, in both urban and rural
areas. Further, while employers are better off than salaried employees the self-employed
have seen a change in fortunes over the course of the 1990's. In 1990, when growth was
strong, self-employment was arelativelywell-paid option. However, as growth stagnated
in the late 1990s and 2000, the self-employed have become worse off than salaried
workers.



                                                     12

 36.      Further, the findings of focus group discussions on risks and shocks to income
 reveal that adverse events - such as job loss, costly sickness, disability and the loss of
 earnings ability with old age - do not occur inisolation.' Among the focus groups drawn
 from households in the first and second income deciles, rarely do participants report
having recoveredfrom an adverse shock to income. When one of these principal shocks
 occurs, even minor subsequent shocks can prevent householdsfrom fully recovering from
the original loss andthus from taking measures to mitigate future losses.

 37.      The quantitative and qualitative analysis of poverty presented in World Bank
(2003) indicates that the persistent, "structural" poor come from larger households with a
greater number of younger children; tend to live inrural areas; tend to be employed (and
self employed) in agriculture; andtendto have fewer years of formal education.

38.       The concentrationof structuralpoverty inruralareas comes as little surprise given
the rapid changes in the rural economy in Chile, and points to isolation and even
exclusion from a variety of networks that provide access to public and privately supplied
risk mitigation instruments. The Government considers this exclusion as the primary
determinant of persistent structural poverty.



PART11. CHILE'S SOCIALPROTECTIONAND POVERTYREDUCTION
POLICIES

ILA. Risks and Vulnerabilityto Income ShocksAmong Chilean Households

39.      Table 3 presents a set of indicators of risks to individual and household incomes,
applying an emerging convention of sorting risks according to their relevance during
different phases of the life cycle. For example, the risks to future income-earning
capacity relevant from ages 0 to 5 are malnutrition and failure to attend pre-school.
Further risks to future earnings capacity among children from 6 to 14, include failure to
attend school andchild labor. Fromage 15 to 24, prior to (full)entry into the labor force,
risks primarily arise from interruptions in the final years of education, failure to complete
secondary school (that i s later manifested in lower relative productivity and earnings in
the course of individuals' working lives), and failure to enter university - a level of
education that is becoming increasingly necessary to remain competitive in Chile's labor
market.

40.      During individuals' working lives -usually from ages 25 to 64 -the primary risks
to income are typically unemployment, ill health and disability.                            A particular


I' Thirty focus groups were formed representing the extreme poor (income deciles 1 and 2), the poor
(deciles 3 and 4), and the Chilean middle class (deciles 5 - 7), at various stages in the life-cycle (early
adulthood 18 - 35; early work and family formation, 35 - 50; late work approaching retirement, 50 - 65;
and retirement, over 65). Separate focus groups were convened for men and women and informants from
urban and rural areas. Additionally, two groups of indigenous informants were interviewed (one rural, one
urban) to capture possible significant differences in risk perceptions and mitigation strategies among this
population. For greater detail, see Raczynski, et a1(2002), background paper for World Bank (2003).




                                                     13

 phenomenon in Chile - remarkably low numbers of women in this age group
 participating in the labor force - can also be a risk to earnings capacity and income.
 Furthermore, in most countries social protection systems condition access to protection
 on holding a legal employment contract, excluding informal workers without a contract
 and the self employed.        Although there is a large and growing literature that would
 suggest that self employed individuals often choose to run their own businesses over
employment with a contract, unless they are taking measures to protect themselves, these
individuals (above all non-professional self employed) and their dependents can be
especially vulnerable to adverse shocks to income.

41.      Table 3 presents the incidence of the risks to earnings and income discussed
above, as well as other relevant indicators o f vulnerability. Using data from the 2000
wave o f the CASEN household survey, the incidence of each risk i s shown among
Chile's poorest (income deciles 1 and 2) and among individuals with average incomes
(deciles 5, 6 and 7). Readers can compare the incidence rates of different risks among
these income groups with those among the population as a whole (under the columns
labeled "total").      The risk indicators are presented separately for the urban and rural
populations, andfor men andwomen where appropriate.

42.      It is immediately evident that the incidence of the various risks - from
malnutrition and failure to attend school (among children of the specified age groups), to
unemployment, ill health and disability - are typically higher among Chile's poorest
groups. At every stage in the life cycle, and for most of the risks included in the table,
the poorest inChile face higher rates o f incidence than the population as a whole.12




12A notable exception to this pattern is the incidence of old age, and isolated old age among the indigent
and the poor. This is lower than the population mean, due to lower rates of longevity among lower income
groups.


                                                    14

                                       Table 3. Chile'spoorest householdsare at greatestrisk

                                                                                                   Urban                            Rural
 Population                                     Risk Indicator                                           ~~



                                                                                       dec 1& 2 dec 5,6 & 7     total    dec 1& 2  dec.5.6 & 7  total

 From0 to 5 Malnourished(incidenceundernourished,underweight,overweight)                 14.5        11.4       11.9        13.6       12.2     12.7
    years     Does not attendpre-school (only 5 year olds)                               30.4       24.0        25.6        39.5      44.2      44.1

              Does not attendprimary schools(6-1Iyears)                                  0.7         0.3        0.4         0.9        0.3      0.4

              Age does notcorrespond to grade level (6-1 1years) (I)                     7.6         3.3        4.9         12.2       6.9      8.6

              Does not attend primary nor secondary school (12-14years)                  5.4         4.1        4.5         3.8        3.8      3.7
From6 to 14
    years     Age does not correspondto grade level (12-14years)                         24.4        14.3       15.9        31.1      24.3      25.7

              Child labor (12-14years) (2)                                                1.2        0.8         1.2         1.9       1.4       1.4

              Inactivity- does not attendschooland does not work (12-14 years)  men      2.5         0.8         1.3        5.1        1.6      2.9

                                                                                women    2.5         0.9         1.7        4.8        4.7      4.2

              Does notattendsecondary school(15-17 years)                                26.8        11.0       15.8       43.8       32.4      34.7

              Does not attenduniversity (18-24 years)                                    91.7       77.0        76.3       98.0       96.4      93.4

              Unemployed(15-24 years)                                           men      16.9        6.7        8.6         10.2       5.3      6.6

+om 15 to 24                                                                    women    9.6         5.9        6.7         5.0        4.4      4.2
    years
              Inactivity- does not attendschooland does not work (15-17 years)  men      11.2        5.1        6.8         14.7       8.7      11.6

                                                                                women    15.8        7.2        8.9        27.9       20.5      21.4

              Inactivity- does not attend school and does notwork (18-24 years) men      44.6        16.6       22 0       38.7       20.0      21.5

                                                                                women    60.9       33.4        37.6       71.8       57.1      55.9

              Unemployed                                                        men      21.2        5.6        7.5         12.2       4.4      5.2

                                                                                women    10.8        3.7        5.1         3.9        2.0      2.0

              Workers without a contract (3)                                    men      28.0        10.4       11.9       37.9       20.6      21.2

                                                                                women    18.2       17.4        18.1        7.2       30.5      25.1

             Seasonalworkers                                                    men      36.4       17.5        17.6       47.6       28.9      28.8

                                                                                women    37.6       15.1        15.1       52.0       36.4      30.0

             Self-employed                                                      men      15.9       21.7        20.1       35.2       27.6      31.6

                                                                                women    20.1       17.5        17.5       22.8       17.2      23.7
                                                                                         90.3       85.2        82.8       81.5       81.8      80.9
     25 to   Nonprofessionalself-employed(% of self-employed)                   men

   years                                                                        women    89.1       85.1        79.3       81.0       78.2      79.9

             Part-timeworkers (% of all employed)                               men      4.6         2.4        3.1         6.6        2.1      2.8

                                                                                women    21.0       10.9        12.4       17.8       14.5      12.3

             Non-educatedor with incompletebasic education(25 to 40 years)              25.6         7.7        10.9       58.7      45.4       44.5

             Non-educatedor with incomplete basic education (41 to 64 years)            41.7       22.6         21.8       75.8       68.8      64.2

             Disabled(4)                                                        men      6.9         5.1        5.0         9.1        6.5      7.1

                                                                                women    7.6         5.4        5.1         8.0        6.5      7.0
             Reportshealth problem (sicknessor accident)                                 14.3       13.2        12.5       16.3       14.1      14.5
             Headof householdwith dependents (5)                                        25.0       48.0         35.5       10.2       37.9      26.3
            /Womenneitherworking nor seekinswork (% of women 25 -64)                    65.4       48.5        47.7        83.4      75.8       73.9

            Elderly adult (% of the total population)                           men      3.6        6.6         6.4         8.6       9.1       9.8
'5 years and                                                                    women    4.3        10.1        8.6         6.2       8.6       9.5
   UP (6)
            Elderly adult living along or with spouse                           men     24.7       36.8         38.0       42.7      26.6       36.2
                                                                                women   27.6       36.4        37.6        46.2      24.9       35.8

    ( 1 ) Children that are behind ineducational level accordingto their age;
    (2)   Includes working and unemployedchildren;
    (3)   Holda contract canact as a proxy for having accessto tenure basedseverance, pensions & health coverage;
    (4)   Disability inhearing, speaking, seeing, mental, physical or psychiatric;
    (5)   Heads of householdeligible to receive family assistance with dependents of the total heads of householdw/ dependents;
    (6)   Note that the legal retirement age for men and women is 65 and 60 years, respectively.




                                                                                15

 43.      Table 4 (on the following page) is a complement to Table 3 and shows the reach
 of Chile's main social protection interventions.                The indicators in Table 4 closely
 correspond to the incidence indicators in Table 3. An attempt i s made to provide a
 comprehensive picture of how well Chile's social protection interventions cover
 individuals and households against the risks discussed above. Thus, each data point in
 Table 4 shows the portion of the target population of a specific policy intervention that is
 covered against the risk in a corresponding point in Table 3 (for example, the share of
 urban children aged 6 to 11 attending a state subsidized school; or the share of
 unemployed who receive unemployment assistance benefits; and the share of workers
 who are coveredby the health and retirement security systems).13

44.      With few exceptions, in almost every stage of the life cycle, risks to earnings
capacity and earned household income are highest among the poorest groups. Further,
while Chile's households are relatively well covered by social protection programs, and
the beneficiaries of key targeted interventions indeed tend to be inpoorer groups, gaps in
coverage (of contributory pensions and health care in particular) are apparent among the
poorest and inrural areas.




l3While every effort has been made to provide a complete picture o f the risks and individuals covered by
Chile's social protection system, some critical programs may be missing from the table. These omissions
are either because questions about the particular program are not included in the CASEN, or, if they are
included, the data on participation or the incidence of benefits may be aggregated in the data sets available
to researchers.



                                                     16

-g
C

.-L
8
s
x
0"%


eC




       P
       C

II.B. Weaknessesof Chile's SocialProtection System

45.      As discussedinearlier sections, the key likely determinant of persistent indigence
poverty in Chile, shown inTable 2, is exclusion of the poorest from the public (and even
the private) supply of critical services. And although Chile's social protection institutions
 are strong and well runrelative to similar institutions in the region, several weaknesses in
the social protection system (identifiedin World Bank, 2003, and inearlier reports) may
contribute to the problem of exclusion reflected in the coverage indicators in Table 4.
These are: (i) inefficient use of available information; (ii)
                 the                                                       structural biases intargeting
instruments; (iii) institutional structures for monitoring and evaluation of social
                      weak
programs and policies; and (iv) coordination failures between different tiers of
government andcivil society.

46.      When considering different policy interventions to reduce poverty and help
households managerisks to their income, policy makers often take for granted the critical
institutional and information infrastructure necessary to operate social protection
programs effectively. A comprehensive, integratedinformation systemi s critical inorder
to ensure that social programs reach those who need them the most, and to protect a
social protection system - especially social insurance - from falling prey to abuse.
Without such a system social policies and interventions cannot be effectively targeted,
monitoredor evaluated.

47.     The Government of Chile has more information and better data on social
protection programs at its disposal than most other countries in the region. The different
government agencies that regulate or administer the various branches of the social
protection system (the Ministries of Education; Health; Labor; Planning and Cooperation)
hold rich data-bases tracking beneficiaries of social programs, most of which can be
accessed on the internet since the Government initiated the "Gobierno Electronico"
initiative to makedata widely available.

48.     What is missing in Chile are the critical links between data bases on receipt of
social transfers; employment and earnings; taxation and compliance; and the civil
registry. Such links allow governments in OECD countries to accurately identify the
poor, weed out tax evasion, and monitor the impact of their policies. The current
information systems fail to identify many individuals and households at risk largely
through failure to coordinate an enormous amount of data that is already being collected
publicly and privately. To illustrate, there i s no single public agency in Chile that has a
complete registry of formal sector wage earners and pensioner^.'^                        Personal data on




l4These data would be typically held by the social security or tax authorities (such as the Social Security
Agency in the United States). The two agencies inChile where this critical informationon earnings and
pensions would normally be held are the Ministry o f Labor (that pays remaining public pensions through
INP, and supervisesthe private pension system through SAFP), and the Internal Tax Service (Servicio de
Impuestos Intemos, SII). The Ministry of Labor has not maintained a registry o f either wage earners or
pensioners since the pension system was mostly privatized in 1981, and claims there is a confidentiality
problem in using these data that are currently held by the AFPs.



                                                     18

 earnings and pensions are critical to verifying eligibility (prior, during and ex-post) for
 social programs andtransfers.l5

 49.      The component of the current public information infrastructure most directly
 relevant to social assistance and even some social insurance programs is Chile's Fichu
 CAS, a proxy means testing instrument used widely to target programs and policy
 interventions. While Chile does a better job of identifying the poor and compiling data
 on beneficiaries of its social programs than most of its neighbors, there i s still
 considerable room for improvement, primarily in targeting benefits and following up on
 the status of individuals and households receiving transfers. Only some of Chile's social
 programs are effectively targeted. However, even these targeted programs suffer from
 the deficiencies of the Fichu CAS and discrepancies between the proxy-means test and
 other measures of income, which lead not only to errors of inclusion, but more
importantly to errors of exclusion. Analysis conducted for the last poverty report found
that when compared with alternative measures of income, on average, targeted programs
that employ the Fichu CAShave a targeting efficiency of only 38 percent (see Annex 6).

 50.     In addition to information management and targeting problems, Chile's
monitoring and evaluation structures are relatively limited. Once seen as the purview of
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, MIDEPLAN, a culture of systematic, regular,
institutionalized monitoring and evaluation of social programs in Chile has waned. This
has lead to a proliferation of sometimes overlapping, redundant and poorly targeted
programs in the line ministries that are rarely subject to critical review. Although current
laws require programs to be evaluated to receive continued support in the annual budget,
and a well equipped and trained monitoring and evaluation unit was recently installed in
the Finance Ministry, only a handfulof programs have beenevaluated to date.

51.      Aggravating the weaknesses discussed above (missing critical links between
important public data bases; biases in the government's primary targeting device; limited
monitoring and evaluation structures), there is no single government agency that broadly
coordinates social policy (i.e. that supervises data collection; sets standards; determines
eligibility; or evaluates social programs) other than perhaps the Ministry of Finance by
default through its power to appropriate budgets. Although MIDEPLAN i s explicitly
given this role in its original mandate, the ministry has lost much of its power and
capacity. Chile needs a stronger institution to coordinate social policy, set standards,
propose norms, manage agreements between agencies, and conduct regular reviews of
eligibility of beneficiaries, as well as detect over-lap inits social programs.



   The authorities cite Chile's Privacy Act and the reform law that created the AFP system as the main
barriers keeping them from collecting and administering this critical data. Despite legal barriers, there are
examples o f data integration. FONASA, the public branch of Chile's mixed health insurance system,
currently checks applicants for its subsidized levels of health coverage for eligibility and hence, gathers
most of the required data on wage earners and pensioners.          FONASA crosses targeting data with
information on wages and pensions to determine whether individuals are eligible for subsidized health
coverage on a continuous basis. However, FONASA's efforts incur large transactions costs. These could
be lowered if efforts to integrate information were conducted on a larger scale between all public agencies,
and coordinated by a single government body.


                                                     19

 52.    Further, although the formulation and implementation of social policy and
 programs i s considerably more centralized in Chile than in neighboring countries,
 municipal authorities are at the front line and in most cases are the only level of
 government in contact with the poor. The policy and program priorities of municipal
 authorities can often be at odds with those of the Central Government. Since municipal
 authorities are largely responsible for targeting benefits and access to social programs
funded by the Central Government, this tension can lead to implementation difficulties
and problems. Greater efficiency and political sustainability would be brought to the
social protection system by a clearer allocation of powers, roles and responsibilities
between central and municipal authorities in the formulation and implementation of
social policy andprograms.

53.     Finally, there are few formal linksbetweenChile's social protection programs and
policies, and non-government community organizations, particularly those operating at
the local level. Civil Society in Chile could play a greater role in implementing social
programs and policies, especially in bridging the divide between the poorest and the
publicly supplied transfers and services to which they are entitled. The era of military
rule left the civil society sector weakened and dependenton external support. Although it
has grown considerably incapacity and influence since the return to democracy, there are
remaining structural and political problems that impede closer cooperation between Civil
Society and the Government. Civil Society organizations are already largely in contact
with the population the Government would like to target with its social policies and
interventions.    Greater involvement of Civil Society could help the Government to
correct some of the targeting andmonitoringproblems, and to expand access to the social
protection system.

II.C. Reforms to Chile's Poverty Reduction and Social Protection Policies

54.     In its last poverty report for Chile (World Bank, 2001a), the Bank argued that
given persistent rates of extreme poverty despite years of economic growth, the
Government should take a more proactive stance in its poverty reduction and social
protection policies. Although there i s evidence that extreme poverty persists, indigence
and poverty remain relatively low when compared to other countries in the Region.
Relatively lower rates of poverty and indigence make a proactive approach more viable
in Chile than in other developing countries. Analysis in the poverty report, and for the
more recent report on Household Risk Management and Social Protection (World Bank,
2003), indicates that despite the remarkable gains in eradicating poverty in the past
decade, a new set of policies and intervention - buttressed with institutional reforms to
correct targeting errors and to mainstream monitoring and evaluation practices - may be
required to reach Chile's poorest groups and increase the effectiveness of poverty
reduction and social protection policies.

II.C.l. TheChileSolidarioInitiative

55.     InMay2002the LagosAdministrationannouncedthe ChileSolidarioinitiative, a
package of legislative and administrative reforms to Chile's poverty reduction and social
protection policies. A Presidential Decree, issued in July 2002, created an Advisory



                                            20

Commission (presided by MIDEPLAN) with powers to advise the President on the
implementation, coordination and coherence of the measures to be adopted by the
Ministries and other agencies within the framework of the Chile Solidurio System. The
Commission has been implementing the Chile Soliduro initiative under contractual
arrangements with the agencies involved. Special budgetary allocations were made in
2003 and are proposed for 2004 for implementation by the various agencies. In 2003 a
draft bill of law for Chile Solidurio was presented to the National Congress. The law
would provide clear powers for MIDEPLAN to coordinate and implement Chile
Solidurio, to create the national information system for social programs, and to
consolidate cash transfers. The financing for this and other critical social programs has
been approved through recently enactedlegislation. The package of reforms representsa
concerted effort to bring the 225 thousand neediest households in Chile out of indigence
p~verty.'~The Chile Solidario package includes both new legislation and changes in
current laws that will dramatically alter the Government's approach to confronting
poverty and extending social protection. These policy and administrative reforms are
expected to improve the coverage and effectiveness of the social protection system,
thereby contributing to poverty reduction efforts When set against the history of social
policy in Chile, the changes to the social protection system (particularly with respect to
social assistance) impliedby this policy shift are as significant as the reform of welfare in
the UnitedStates inthe mid 1990s.

56.       The policy reforms will, inter alia:

          1.      Institute a proactive outreach to the neediest many of whom have been
          ..      excluded from the social protection system;
          11.
          ...     Focus on the family as the beneficiary unit, rather than the individual;
          111.    Shift away from a piecemeal approach of separate, targeted social
                  assistance and social insurance programs, by bundling existing social
                  services and cashtransfers and creating a new conditional cash transfer for
                  the poorest families that choose to participate;
          iv.     Eliminate quotas and the rationing of benefits and services for the
                  neediest;
          V.      Connect excluded groups to the public and private network of services;
          vi.     Reduce the number of intermediaries between the providers and
                  beneficiaries of social protection interventions; and
          vii.    Act as a catalyst for targeted interventions in other social sectors

57.       The Chile Solidurio policy initiative has several features that distinguish it from            I
other poverty reduction strategies in the region. The startingpremise of the intervention
i s that the principalasset (and perhapsthe only capital) heldby needy households, i s their

l6 The term "neediest" refers to those households whose score on Chile's proxy means test - the Ficha CAS
-isthe lowest. Inmostcasestheproxy-means testidentifies householdsthat areclassifiedas "indigent"
and "poor" according to alternative measures of welfare, such as the income measure in the CASEN
survey, Under the technical assistance loan the Bank would support efforts o f MIDEPLAN to improve the
accuracy of the proxy means test in identifying the poor and indigent.



                                                     21

desire to live as a family andthe complex web of intra-household mutual support that this
entails. Thus, the preferential access to Chile's social protection system created with the
Chile Solidario reform package targets households/families rather than individuals
currently classified as poor or indigent.

58.      Further, rather than make assistance and protection available only to those who
demand it, Chile Solidario seeks to overcome the isolation and the exclusion of the
indigent by actively promoting assistance and protection.           Armed with the data
identifying Chile's poorest, social workers go door to door, and invite indigent families to
participate in a two-year program of social support. This active promotion of social
services is much more characteristic of policies and interventions deployed to address
poverty in OECD countries. This sort of initiative may be more appropriate given
Chile's low levels of poverty and indigence, and greater administrative capacity relative
to other countries inthe region.

59.      The Chile Solidario initiative builds on the Puente ("Bridge") program piloted by
FOSIS early in 2002, and to date (October 2003, fifteen months since the reform was
announced) has expanded the pilot from 14 thousand to over 80 thousand households
(MIDEPLAN, 2003). Puente acts as the entry point to the social protection system for
the 225 thousand households targeted by the Chile Solidario initiative, as well as the
foundation on which the various social transfers and interventions bundled together by
the policy reforms will rest.

II.C.2. WhoBenefitsfrom theChileSolidarioInitiative?

60.     The neediest households identified through the Ficha CAS are approached by
Puente case workers and invited to participate in the program. Potentially eligible
households that have been missed by Chile's poverty targeting instruments (frequently
identified by local government and community organizations) are also approached, the
Ficha CAS is applied and if they are eligible, these formerly excluded groups are also
invitedto participate.

61.     When Puente was piloted, the neediest households according to the Ficha CAS
then had to meet targeting criteria based on the income measures of the CASEN. Only
those that classified as indigent according to the CASENwere invited to participate inthe
program. However, upon the announcement of the Chile Solidario initiative, and the
rapid "scaling up" of the Puente program fromjust a pilot program to the central plank in
the Government's new poverty reduction platform, the two-step targeting procedure was
abandonedinfavor of a single step process using only the FichaCAS.

62.     Potential participants are informed of the Chile Solidario initiative, and that by
participating in the Puente program, they will gain preferential access to Chile's principal
social transfers and programs. Inpractice this means that Puente households are the first
to receive benefits that are otherwise strictly rationed by municipality.

63.     Ifthe targetedhousehold agrees to participate inthe Puenteprogram (andto date,
over 80% of targetedhouseholds accept the invitation), the Puente case worker helps the



                                              22

household to identify its needs in seven potential "problem areas": health; education;
employment; housing; income; family life"; and identification.l8The household and the
case worker then draw up a strategy for how these needs will be met, and how progress
will be monitored over the two year duration of the program.

64.       Participating households receive the newly created Bono de Proteccion Familiar
(BPF), a conditional cashtransferintendedas an additional incentive to stay inthe Puente
program. Further, households that participate and then graduate from the Puenteprogram
are guaranteed access to all the non-contributory transfers to which they are entitled
(namely, the SUF, PASIS and SAP). The new conditional BPF is set at Ch$10,500
(approximately US$15) per month for the first six months of the Puente program;
decreases to Ch$8,000 in the second six months of the program; then to Ch$5,500; and
finally to an amount equivalent to the SUFfor the last six months.

  Table 5. The Puenteprogramis reaching many of the poorest householdsin Chile,
                             buttargeting still needs to be improved
              (Average monthly per capita income of households participating in Puente in 2002)


                 Region                Average per capita monthly
                                                 income                      Standard deviation

   Tarapaci                                        18,055                           10,827
   Antofagasta                                    22,585                            11,846
   Atacama                                         19,399                           10,981
   Coquimbo                                        16,798                           9,633
   Valparaiso                                     20,335                            10,502
   O'Higgins                                       18,376                           10,064
   Maule                                           14,004                           9,98 1
   Bio Bio                                         16,444                           10,739
   L a Araucania                                   14,393                           10,029
   Los Lagos                                       17,280                           10,560
   AysCn                                          21,178                            12,558
   Magallanes                                     25,858                            12,937
   Metropolitana                                  16,476                            11,616
   Total                                          17.120                           11,013
   Source: MIDEPLAN (2003) from FOSIS' Puente Program




l7The "family life" here refers to any problems in family dynamics which may exist, which can range from
substance abuse and addiction, to physical abuse by members of the household.
'*"Identification" here refers to the mundane process of documentation that most citizens of a middle-to-
high income countries undergo in the natural course o f their lives. Although mundane, this process of
documentation creates the legal basis by which citizens have access to the social protection system.
Previous research shows that many o f the rural indigent in Chile are lacking even this most basic form of
documentation: from birth certificates to national identity cards and single identification numbers. The
"identification" component of the Puente program ensures that all members of targeted households are
properly registered and documented as citizens.


                                                    23

 65.     Finally, participating households are granted preferential access to all of Chile's
 public interventions related to the seven problem areas specified. This is to say that in
 the area of health, the households targeted by the Chile Solidario initiative are given
 priority access to primary health care under FONASA. Inthe area of employment, heads
 of targeted households will be the priority beneficiaries of active employment programs
 administered by FOSIS and the Ministry of Labor. In the area of education, schools
 attended by members of targeted households will receive special school retention
 vouchersrecently introduced by the Ministry of Education.

 66.     The characteristicsof the first wave of participants inthe Puente program targeted
 by Chile Solidario largely coincide with the profile of the structural poor described earlier
 in Part I, B. Among the households who have agreedto participate inthe Puente
           Section
program, the average per-capita income i s Ch$17,120 per month (readers will recall from
Table 2 that the monthly per capita indigence line in 2000 was Ch$20,887), although this
varies widely by region, as shown in Table 5. The average age of household heads i s 42
(whereas the national average is 47), and 35% are headedby women (whereas nationally,
only 27% of households are headedby women). A comparison of the age distribution of
household members participating in Puente with the national distribution, shows that the
initiative is reaching households with a relatively greater number of young children aged
0 to 5 and minors aged 6 to 18 (MIDEPLAN, 2003).

II.C.3.InstitutionalImplicationsof ChileSolidario

67.     The Government has included a request for Ch$46,094,985 to finance Chile
Solidario in the proposed budget legislation for 2004.           The Finance Ministry has
estimated that the budget for the program will rise to Ch$59,675,659 in 2005 and
Ch$59,675,659 in 2006 (all in 2004 pesos). MIDEPLAN has been charged with
overseeing and coordinating the Chile Solidario initiative. In addition to identifying the
first wave of households that will be invited to take part in FOSIS's Puente program, the
ministry i s coordinating efforts with the other line ministries (Labor, Health, Education,
Housing, etc.) involved in delivering the payments and services guaranteed to targeted
households. Preferential access for Puente participants to many programs and services i s
formalized in the reform legislation that i s included in the initiative, but in most cases i s
grantedthrough working agreementssigned betweenMIDEPLANandthe line ministries,
all of which will be infull effect at the endof 2003.

68.     An integration of the separate databases used by the various public agencies
involved, as well as those administered by the public registry and taxation agencies, will
become increasingly critical to ensure that the initiative i s properly targeted (to eliminate
errors of inclusion and of exclusion) and coordinated. MIDEPLANhas already begun to
integrate essential data bases.

69.     Implementation of the Chile Solidario reforms will require stronger monitoring
and evaluation structures. The focus on results, measuredwith clear indicators, increases
the importance of effective monitoringand evaluation. The design of the Puenteprogram
and the larger Chile Solidario initiative, assumes a well functioning monitoring and
evaluation system that Chile will have to develop. The Government hopes that such a



                                             24

system- piloted with the Chile Solidario reforms, could eventually be "mainstreamed" to
cover all social programs.

70.     An additional institutional change impliedby the Chile Solidario initiative is the
creation of a new role for municipal governments in the implementation of social policy
and delivery of social services. The Puente program is implemented by FOSIS together
with municipal governments.        Municipal authorities are invited to participate on a
voluntary basis. All of the 332 municipal governments invited to participate in the
Puente program, all have now accepted. Furthermore, the majority of workers at the
"front lines" of the initiative work for municipal governments. Table 6 shows the total
number of Puente case workers currently deployed in each region. In 9 of Chile's 13
regions (including Greater Metropolitan Santiago) there i s a larger share of local case
workers than FOSIS case workers hired directly by the Central Government. Nationally,
55.7% of case workers are locally recruited, while only 44.3% are hired centrally by
FOSIS.

      Table 6. The majority of Puente case workers are recruited by municipal
                                        governments
                          (Puente case workers by region and affiliation)

                                                  Puente Case Workers
     Region                       Hired Locally            Hired by FOSIS       Total

                                No.            %           No.            %     No.

     Tarapacfi                   49          55.1          40            44.9    89

     Antofagasta                 38          71.7           15           28.3    53

     Atacama                     43          49.4          44            50.6    87

     Coquimbo                    26          38.2          42            61.8    68

     Valparaiso                  110         50.0          110           50.0   220

     O'Higgins                   87          56.9          66            43.1   153

     Maule                      107          60.1          71            39.9   178

     Bio Bio                    155          55.0          127           45.0   282

     La Araucania                80          52.3          73            47.7   153

     Los Lagos                  141          57.8          103           42.2   244

     Ayse`n                      13          56.5          10            43.5    23

     Magallanes                  21          70.0           9            30.0    30

     Metropolitana              290          57.5          214           42.5   504

     Total                      1,160        55.7          924           44.3   2,084

     Source: MIDEPLAN(2003)




                                              25

71.     While generally considered an improvement on the current policies (guaranteed
access to cash transfers that have been historically rationed; greater integration between
programs; a focus on results; more required cooperation between line ministries), it will
take an enormous commitment andeffort on the part of the government to implement the
Chile Solidario package of reforms effectively, and to prevent the initiative from
becoming yet another social assistance program.

72.     The legislative reforms in the Chile Solidario package and the institutional
changes required for its successful implementation will help correct the weaknesses in
Chile's social protection system identified in the previous section. If successful, the
reform initiative will connect formerly excluded groups with the public (and private)
supply of critical services and reduce indigence poverty by: forcing government agencies
to share data and use information more effectively; correct biases intargeting instruments
that have lead to exclusion and waste of limited resources; mainstream binding
monitoring and evaluation procedures; engage municipal governments and civil society
to increase the effectiveness of social policies and programs; introduce greater
coordination of social policies andprograms.



PART111.THE PROPOSED LOAN

IILA. Rationaleand Objectives

73.    The objectives of the proposed Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan are to
support efforts by the Government of Chile to improve the access of the neediest
households to the social protection system, and increase the effectiveness of this system
in alleviating poverty. The loans would support Government actions in five key policy


            Economic Management: Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
            framework that continues to be consistent with the objective of sustaining
            economic growth to further reduce poverty;
            Poverty Reduction and Social Protection: Reforming Chile's poverty
            reduction and social protection policies, to reduce poverty and exclusion by
            creating greater access to social protection and wider social services for the
            neediest households (the Chile Solidario initiative);
            Targeting and Information Management: Increasing the efficiency and
            efficacy of social policy and programs, through improved targeting and better
            use of information, by integrating, gathering and exchanging publicly and
            privately helddata on households and relevant for social policy into a national
            informationsystem;
            Monitoring and Impact Evaluation: Strengthening regular monitoring and
            impact evaluation of social programs andpolicies, and
            Wider Participation and Better Coordination: Increasing the sustainability
           of reforms to poverty reduction and social protection policies, through clear


                                            26

             assignment of roles and division of responsibilities between central
             govemment, municipal authorities and civil society.

 74.     In the area of economic management, the loan would support the Government's
continued pursuit of a macroeconomic framework consistent with export and FDI-led
economic growth.

75.      In the area of poverty reduction and social protection, the loan would support
substantial changes in Chile's social policies; the introduction of a pro-active approach
and focus on the family unit; the consolidation of the principal social assistance transfers
and subsidies; the creation of a new conditional cash transfer; the consolidation of the
policy initiative under MIDEPLAN; guaranteedprimary health care and the creation of a
new school-retention voucher for at risk children and youth in beneficiary households;
and measures to bundle the supply of public services to the country's neediest.

76.      In the area of targeting and information management, the loan would support
improvements in Chile's targeting instruments and phased adoption of a more effective
targeting tool; the integration of publicly held data immediately relevant to the efficient
and effective implementation of the Chile Solidario initiative; the full implementation of
a National Social Protection Information System under the inter-ministerial and inter-
agency "Gobiemo Electronico" initiative; and the development of legal safeguards to
protect individual privacy and ensure individualhousehold access to personal
informationheldinthe public domain.

77.      Inthe area of monitoringandimpact evaluation, the loan would support measures
to mainstream and institutionalize regular monitoring andevaluation of the social policies
and programs that make up the core of the Chile Solidario initiative; clearly assign
responsibility for evaluation of these core programs; publicly disseminate evaluation
results including internet availability of results, data and methodology; as well as clearly
assign responsibility for regular evaluation of "non-core" programs critical to the success
of Chile Solidario.

78.      In the area of wider participation and better coordination, the loan would support
measures to ensure greater impact and political sustainability of the Chile Solidario
initiative, through a clear assignment of roles and division of responsibilities between
central and municipal governments and civil society; consultations with municipal
authorities and civil society organizations on the implementation of Chile Solidario;
reforms to provide tax incentives for private contributions to organizations incivil society
involvedinpoverty reduction; the formation of "instancias de trabajo", a regularforum at
which the central government, municipal authorities and civil society can exchange views
and form joint strategies for implementingand improving social policies and programs;
and measures to ensure that municipal authorities and civil society remain closely
involved in the Chile Solidario initiative, and that these agencies also benefit from
improvements inthe informationinfrastructure.




                                             27

 III.B. Links with Bank's CountryAssistance Strategyfor Chile

 79.    In the 1990s the World Bank's lending to Chile fell to about 20 percent of the
 level of lending during the 1980s. During the second half of the eighties the Bank
 concentratedits assistanceon economic reform and mostly infrastructure with substantial
 adjustment and investment lending (US$342 million per annum).                 The return to
 democratic rule in the early nineties coincided with a significant reduction in lending
 (US$l88 million per annum) and a shift towards a more balanced investment lending
program involving infrastructure, social sectors and productive activities. The secondpart
 of the nineties presentedsome further reduction in the level of lending assistance (US$67
million per annum) with a stronger engagementby the Bank in social development. This
was a result of a growing demandby the Government for assistance inthe areas of health
and education and the increasing success of the Government in attracting private sector
participation in infrastructure, an objective promoted by the Bank's assistance in the
sector.

80.     The last World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Chile was approved
by the Bank's Board of Directors in February 2002. This CAS inaugurated a new phase
inthe Bank's relationship with Chile. On the one hand, the CAS calls for selectivity, and
focuses proposed assistance in areas in which the Bank has accumulated substantial
country and global knowledge, where the Govemment feels the Bank can be instrumental
in ensuring the successful design and implementation of its initiatives. On the other
hand, the proposed strategy has diversified the forms of financial assistanceby providing
for direct financing through regular investment and policy-based operations, as well as
for contingent financing. This new phaseof the Bank's relationship with Chile has led to
renewed close cooperation, and brought about a highly ambitious agenda of proposed
lending and analytical work. This intensification of the Bank's dialogue with Chile
reflects efforts by the Lagos Administration to undertake highly innovative and ambitious
measures designed to deal with persistent challenges, among them improving social
protection for the most vulnerable groups and increasing the effectives of human capital
development and innovation strategies. The Bank's Business Plan in Fiscal Year 2004
provides for six AAA studies and five new lending operations to address these
challenges.

81.     The CAS sets out three broad goals: (1) sustain economic growth and social
policy; (2) increase inclusion, especially of rural populations and vulnerable groups; and
(3) modernize the state as the underpinning for the two previous objectives.             The
proposed adjustment loan responds directly to these three objectives. The loan would
support Chile's reform of poverty reduction and social protection policies and programs
directed to the neediest households (disproportionately located in rural areas and
encompassing historically vulnerable groups, such as indigenous communities), and
incorporate initiatives to modernize the state inorder to facilitate this reform, specifically
by better managing information, mainstreaming impact evaluation, and clearly defining
the roles of central and municipal government as well as civil society in the formulation
and implementation of social policy and programs.




                                            28

 82.    The IFC i s expected to help the private sector respond to slower growth and
 adverse effects of the global economic uncertainties and difficulties in Argentina, in
 support of the government's priorities, particularly growth and competitiveness. MIGA's
 support i s expected to facilitate foreign direct investment in Chile and to counteract the
 adverse effects of the global andregional crisis.

 83.    There are currently five loans in Chile's operations portfolio, totaling US$303.2
million incommitments. Two of these loans had already been approved when the present
CAS was discussed: the ones in support of the Second Municipal Development Project
(FY99), and Higher Education Project (FY99). The remaining three, in support of the
Public Expenditure Management Project (FY02), Lifelong LearningProject (FY02), and
Science for the Knowledge Economy (FY03) fall under the present CAS. Additional
lendingfor FY2004FY06 is now expectedto target urban transport, rural infrastructure
services, and social protection.

III.C. TheDeferred Draw Down Option

84.     The proposed choice of the DDO (deferred draw down option) is supported inthe
CAS, given the higher external risks now faced by Chile. Sustainedand rapidgrowth has
been at the heart of the country's past success inreducing poverty. However, the external
environment today i s less hospitable for Chilean exports which are sensitive to developed
country demand and are dominated by primary products. Foreign direct investment and
external financing, important in the 1990s, now may not be as forthcoming because of
heightened regional uncertainties. Compounding these factors are changing trends in
global markets, leading to shifts in demand for Chile's products and introducing new
requirements in terms of technology, skills, and knowledge.            A prolonged global
recession, depressed commodity prices and reduced capital flows - all occurring
simultaneously -could constitute a significant shock for the Chilean economy.

85.     Facedwith these increasedexternal uncertainties, the Government of Chile would
like to expand and diversify the set of risk management instruments at its disposal. The
Government i s seeking ways to manage risks pro-actively, especially in the event of
higher volatility in international financial and commodity markets beyond what could be
cushioned by the country's present risk management tools. Already, Chile has put in
place a system of fiscal management that builds in automatic stabilizers. Yet, prudent
risk management under conditions of higher risk point to the need for additional
measuresto ensure funding sources inthe event of simultaneous external shocks.

86.     As pointed out in the CAS, conditions in Chile are consistent with the Bank's
prerequisites for use of the DDO instrument (see Box 3). Macroeconomic policies and
program implementation have been highly satisfactory. The proposed operation would
support core structural reforms in the area of poverty reduction and social protection in a
country that is eligible for BRD assistance, but i s not making full use of the Bank's
financial resources. Chile i s in good standing with the international financial markets.
Nevertheless, exercising the DDO would give Chile access to long-term TBRD resources
over the three-year draw down period. These funds could be used to protect the social
protection reform program if market borrowing becomes difficult (because of global or



                                              29

regional developments, for example) and a financing need materializes. At the same
time, the social protection adjustment loan with a deferred draw down option would
provide a formal basis for continued engagement with the Bank through the CAS, AAA
and technical assistance.

                  Box 3. Chile's Suitabilityfor the DeferredDrawDownOption

The Board paper for the DDO, R2001-0174, dated September 26, 2001, provides the criteria for
its use. Applying those criteria to a possible DDO operation in Chile, it i s apparent that:
* Chile,  an upper-middle income IBRDborrower, has made much less use of the Bank's financial
resources than it might have: in the 1990s, average lending fell to only about 20 percent of that in
the 1980s.
*  Chile i s in good standing with the international financial markets, accessing those markets with
the lowest spreadof all LatinAmerican countries.
* Prudent    risk management under conditions of higher risk both globally and regionally point to
the need for additional measures to ensure funding sources in the event of simultaneous external
shocks.
*  Chile's external financing requirements-comparable to that in the economic downturn faced in
 1999-could be inthe range of 1-1.5 percent of GDP, or US$700-1,000 million.
* A strong reform packagecould be expected from Chile: it is a country with a solid track record
indesigning andimplementingreforms andmaintainingsound macro-policies.
*  The Bank`s exposure in Chile i s extremely low, reflecting both the level of past lending and
prepayments in the mid-1990s.
Source: ChileCountry Assistance Strategy



III.D.TheProposedSocial ProtectionSectorAdjtstment Loan

III.D.I.Amount and Tranching

87.      The amount of the Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan would be
US$200,000,000 which will be disbursed either in one disbursement or in a limited
number of smaller disbursementsunder a deferred drawn-down option (DDO), as needed
by the Government.

III.D.2. SpecificActions TakenPrior to Board Presentation

88.      The poverty reduction and social protection reform program associated with this
loan is outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (see Annex l),                and
summarized in the draft policy matrix (see Annex 2). The following actions have been
taken by the Government prior to Boardpresentation.

  o      Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework that continues to
         be consistent with the objective of sustaining economic growth to further
         reduce poverty.



                                                 30

o Reformsto Chile's poverty reductionand socialprotection policies, to reduce
  poverty and exclusion by creating greater access to social protection and
  wider social services for the neediest households, specifically: (i)    Presidential
  decree no. 144, launching the Chile Solidario initiative, and creating an inter-
  ministerial advisory committee; (ii)  inclusion of resources in the proposed 2004
  budget to provide financing of Puente and the Chile Solidario initiative; (iii)
  enactment of Chile Solidario financing legislation; (iv) enactment of legislation
  creating targeted school retention vouchers; (v) presentation of Chile Solidario
  reform legislation, setting foundations of a social protection system by formally
  transferring administration of SUF and PASIS to MIDEPLAN, and
  institutionalizing a new conditional cash transfer (the BPF) for participating
  households; (vi) working agreement signed between Ministry of Education and
  MIDEPLAN to implement school retention voucher for Chile Solidario
  participants; (vii) working agreement signed between Ministry of Health and
  MIDEPLAN targeting guaranteed priority primary health care to Puente/Chile
  Solidario beneficiaries; (viii) protocols signed between MIDEPLAN and 25
  public ministriedagencies enabling the implementation of Chile Solidario; and
  (iv) over 80 thousand households invited to participate in Chile Solidario through
  the Puente program.

o Increase the efficiency and efficacy of social policy and programs, through
  improved targeting and better use of information, by integrating, gathering
  and exchangingpublicly and privately held data on householdsand relevant
  for social policy into a national social protection information system,
  specifically: (i) evaluation of the Ficha CAS proxy means test and proposed
  improvements, and pilot of a new Ficha CAS in 15 municipalities; (ii)      inclusion
  of the national social protection information system as part of the wider ongoing
  "Gobierno Electronico" initiative: (iii) presentation of the legislation required to
  institutionalize the national social protection information system (Article V of
  draft Chile Solidario law); (iv) integration of data bases immediately relevant to
  Chile Solidario (Puente, CAS, INP, FONASA, MINEDUUJUNAEB, MINVU,
  Civil Society), and agreement with the Civil Registry to issuekonfirm RUT
  identity of Puente participants; and (v) define a public awareness campaign on
  benefits of integration and privacy protection;

o Strengthening regular monitoring and impact evaluation of social programs
  and policies, specifically: (i)present a plan acceptable to the Bank, for evaluation
  of impact of Chile Solidario on welfare of participants; (ii)  assign responsibility
  for regular evaluation of administration of "core" social policies and programs
  administered by MIDEPLAN (Le. those immediately relevant to Chile Solidario
  including: SUF, PASIS & Subsidio de Agua Potable; and FOSIS' employment
  program); and (iii)  participate in workshop for government and civil society on
  participatory monitoring andevaluation methods

o Increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty reduction and social
  protection policies, through clear assignment of roles and division of
  responsibilities between central government, municipal authorities and civil
  society, specifically: (i)  332 working agreements signed between FOSIS and



                                       31

        municipal authorities for implementation of Chile Solidario; (ii) legislation
                                                                          enact
        allowing tax deductions for private donations to civil society organizations
        working on alleviating and eradicating poverty; (iii)     publish a paper on the
        rationale behinddesignandexecution of Chile Solidario, clearly outlining roles of
        central government, municipal authorities and civil society; (iv) conduct
        consultations with municipal governments on concerns and issues with
        implementation of Chile Solidario reforms; (v) conduct consultations with civil
        society on concerns andissues with Chile Solidario reforms; and (vi) present plan
        for participatory monitoring of Chile Solidario implementation.

The up-front actions taken by the Government since the announcement of the Chile
Solidario initiative in May 2002 represent substantial progress in implementing the
program of reforms. The Government's program will continue to be implemented over
the course of the next three years. Table 7 (on the next page) presents a series of
expected milestones for the three-year implementation period in each of the five policy
areas.

III.0.3.LoanAdministrationDisbursement

89.     The government has decided to select the DeferredDraw down Option (DDO) for
this operation which offers the possibilityof not tapping into the resourcesuntil there is a
need, as well as the absence of a penalty for non-use. This implies a commitment fee of 1
percent on un-disbursedamounts, beginning 60 days after the loan agreement i s signed,
payable during the draw-down period while DDO i s not exercised. A front-end fee of 1
percent of each withdrawn amount will be paid to the Bank from the loan proceeds only
following any draw-down. Upon approval, signing, and effectiveness of the loan, the
Government may submit a withdrawal application.

III.0.4.FinancialManagement

90.     For adjustment lending effective management of all government finances
provides the best assurance that Bank funds are used appropriately. A fiduciary
framework for adjustment lending starts with a sound knowledge of borrower financial
management arrangements and an appreciation of the risks they pose to Bank programs
and funds. This information may be generated by a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) with an embedded financial management risk assessment. Although
the Chile CFAA i s only getting       underway sufficient knowledge on the financial
management risk in Chile to support the operation was acquired in part from the
preliminary review of the accountability arrangementsreported in the Initiating Memo of
the Chile CFAA, principally from the secondary sources which were reviewed in the
preparation of the Chile CFAA, specifically: (i) interest and initiatives underway in
                                                  the
reformingpublic sector expenditure managementincludingthe World Bank Public Sector
Expenditure Project which aims to support improvements inefficiency, transparency, and
accountability; (ii)the favorable conclusions on the transparency of the financial
management arrangements in Chile found in the LMF Chile Fiscal Transparency ROSC;
and (iii)Chile's excellent performance in the compliance with Bank financial




                                            32

management in investment projects - there are five active projects and all are rated
satisfactory infinancial management.

91.    The conclusion, which is taken into account in deciding the design of the
proposed operation, is that the financial management risk is low and that no additional
conditionality need be introduced with respect to financial management. To support
supervision of the operation, the Borrower will generate appropriate reports on the funds
to demonstrate that the funds were included in the budgeted sources of funding and that
uses of these funds, along with all other sources, were duly recorded and reported in the
budget expenditure report.




                                           33

t:

4   c8
0



 III.D.5. Flow of Funds and Audit Arrangements

 92.     Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for
 SALs/SECALs approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. Once the Bank formally
 notifies the borrower that the loan is available for withdrawal, the borrower may submit a
 withdrawal application so that the proceeds (or some part) is deposited by the Bank into
 an account (Deposit Account) of the Republic of Chile, establishedat the Central Bank of
 Chile for the borrower's use.

 93.     Although the Bank will not routinely require an audit of the Deposit Account, it
reserves the right to do so under Terms of Reference, and by auditors, acceptable to the
Bank. In the event that the Bank requested an audit, an audit by the Comptroller
General's Office would be considered satisfactory as an independent audit. The closing
date of the loan will be set three years from the date of signing, estimated to take place in
late December 2003. Following Bank policy, the loan agreement will need to be signed
within six months fromBoard approval or would be withdrawn.

III.D.6.SupervisionArrangements

94.      The contingent nature of disbursements underthe DDO instrument requires closer
contact with the Borrower and flexible supervisory arrangements. The Bank must be able
to confirm the satisfactory implementation of the program supported by the loan as well
as the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and whether the draw
down option is maintained, in a timely manner after receipt of a Government's request
for a drawn loan.

95.      The Bank team will conduct bi-annualsupervisory assessments during the period
of the loan when the Borrower still has not drawn down the full amount of loaned funds.
Although Chile does not have a formal program with the International Monetary Fund,
the Bank team will take advantage of the dialogue between the IMFand the Government
to assess whether Chile's macroeconomic performance remains consistent with the
objectives of the program. The Bank team will use the report of IMF's Article TV
consultation and the back to office reports of the Fund's semi-annual visits, as well as
review of publicly available documents and other sources inits assessment.

I1I.E.A ProposedAccompanying Social Protection TechnicalAssistanceLoan

96.     The purpose of the technical assistance loan would be to support the institutional
and skills requirements of the proposed reforms in social protection, as well as to
improve monitoringand evaluation of social programs. The loan would finance activities
with MIDEPLAN and FOSIS, as the two principal implementation agencies of the Chile
Solidario initiative.

        Institutional Development to Increase the EfSectiveness of Social Policy.
        MIDEPLAN is coordinating the implementation of the new set of policies,
        requiring a program of institutional modernization and strengthening for the
        ministry.



                                              38

         Integrated Znfomzation System. The creation of the single platform and protocol
         for the integration of data relevant to social policy, will require not only legal and
         regulatory changes supported by the adjustment loan, but also institutional
         changes informed by international best practice and the required hardware and
         software.

     0   Training for Implementing Agencies. The changes in implementation of social
         policy brought about with the Chile Solidario reform package are a significant
         departure from Chile's current delivery of social assistance and other social
         services. Successful implementation will require the training of the staff in the
         agencies involved, most importantly, the new case workers that will be in direct
         contact with beneficiary households. This training will include topics related to
         working effectively with indigenous families.         Staff of MIDEPLAN, of the
         government agencies involved in the implementation of Chile Solidario, and of
         localgovernments would also benefit from training.

     0  Monitoring and Evaluation. Chile already has made progress in strengthening
         monitoring and evaluation of public programs and incorporating the analysis into
         decision-making.

97.     The proposed technical assistance loan has been prepared in tandem with the
Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan, and i s described in greater details in the
Project Appraisal Document.

III.F.EnvironmentalImpact of theProposedOperation

98.     The proposed Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan has no direct impact on
the environment. For the purposesof Operational Directive 4.01, the proposed operation
has an environmental category of C, which does not require an environmental
assessment.

99.     More generally, the Bank has assisted Chile in improving environmental
management. The Environmental Institutions Development Project supported the work
of the national environmental commission (CONAMA) to update legal regulations,
develop procedures and guidelines for environmental assessments, sponsor educational
campaigns and develop information systems. There are environmental units in ten
ministries and a solid track record in impact assessment, policy analysis and information
systems. B y 1999,norms were approved for 14 different sectors of activity. CONAMA
still faces major challenges in promoting enforcement and improving natural resource
managementinkey sectorsclosely linked to important extractive industries.

IILG. Risks

100. The risks to this program are considered minimal. Chile's excellent track record
in economic management, program implementation and transparency speak for
themselves, and make the satisfactory completion of the program highly likely. This
said, there are several areas of implementation that could pose difficulties to the



                                               39

 Government meeting its objectives identifiedduring preparation of the proposed loan, in
 which the Bank will lendfurther assistancethrough the proposedaccompanying technical
 assistanceloan.

 101.    Closing the Employment Gap: The progress made under the Chile Solidario
reforms will be measuredby indicatorshenchmarks in a number of problem areas facing
the neediest households. One of the most severe problem areas for the households
 targeted by the initiative is employment. Closing the employment gap among Chile's
neediest households will be particularly challenging - the current economic climate, and
 structural rigidities of Chile's labor market only increasesthe difficulty of the challenge.
The Government will have to pay particular attention to the active labor market policies
and programs to see how these could be improved to increase "employability" of
participants in Chile Solidario. The Bank will offer technical assistance in the design of
new programs to address the high levels of unemployment among the beneficiaries of
Chile Solidario.

 102.    Correcting Targeting Errors and Discrepancies:         Even in the first wave of
implementation of Chile Solidario, a substantial number of householdsthat do not qualify
as "indigent" according to some income measures, are receiving the new package of
targetedbenefits and services. This illustrates not only targeting errors, but discrepancies
between the Ficha CAS and other targeting and monitoring tools, (already identified by
MIDEPLAN and discussed in several World Bank reports). Despite possible errors of
inclusion, although a substantial number of beneficiaries are not strictly "indigent", all
are "poor" according to CASEN income measures. However, since the stated goal of the
initiative is to target the poorest, these weaknesses in the targeting instrument have to be
addressed quickly for the Chile Solidario reforms to remain credible. MIDEPLAN is
working with a team from the University of Chile to strengthenthe Ficha CAS, and more
assistancewill be provided in the technical assistanceoperation. The flip-side of this risk
i s not reaching all of the families who are indigent (errors of exclusion). The primary
reason for exclusion identified so far is that many indigent households have not been
included in the Ficha CAS.          Even if included, the proxy means test i s inherently
imperfect, so that targeting performance will need to be monitored usingother indicators
and adjustments made as necessary as the initiative proceeds. The monitoring and
evaluation being supportedunder the accompanying technical assistance loan is designed
to focus exactly on these issues and provide the information necessary to design remedial
measures, as they are needed.

103.     Ensuring Inclusion of Historically Excluded Groups: Since the risks that Chile
Solidario seeks to mitigate are highest among indigenous communities, the Bank has
worked closely with MIDEPLAN to establish from the very first wave of program
implementation whether there are design features of the intervention that may lead to
exclusion. Through CONADI, the consultative body charged with indigenous issues
within MIDEPLAN, efforts are beingmade to ensure that case workers speak indigenous
languages; that the materials used in the Puente program are culturally appropriate; and
most importantly, that indigenous communities likely to have been missed in earlier
applications of the Ficha CAS proxy means test, are surveyed to determine their
eligibility. These, and other efforts will also be supported under the Bank's technical


                                              40

assistance loan, and are detailed in an annex on "Strategy for Indigenous Communities"
included inthe loan document.

 104.   Ensuring Greater Participation of Local Government and Civil Society:
Consultations with stake holders (municipal governments, civil society and some
opposition think tanks) during preparation of the proposed loan revealed widespread
support for Chile Solidario. However, there is some unease at the greater degree of
centralization of social programs that has been brought about by the reform. Municipal
government i s at the front lines of implementing the initiative, and many municipal
governments are in the hands of the opposition. Many have called for greater discretion
in how Chile Solidario is applied to make the initiative more relevant to their particular
circumstances.    Civil society would also like to play a greater role not only in
implementing the initiative, but also in organizing participatory monitoring, and impact
evaluation. To address this risk, the Government is taking measures to ensure that all
relevant agencies are closely involved in implementation, including the creation of
regular institutionalised channels through which communication can be maintained,
experience shared and ideasexchangedabout the future of the initiative.

105.   Delays in Ensuring Institutional Permanency of Chile Solidario: A draft bill of
law for Chile Solidario has been presented to the National Congress. It would provide
clear powers for MIDEPLANto coordinate and implement Chile Solidario, to create the
national information system for social protection, and consolidate the administration of
the cash transfers. Although the law has not yet passed, the Chile Solidario Program has
been carried out since 2002 under contractual arrangements with the agencies involved.
Delay in passage of the law could slow implementation and the formalization of these
administrative arrangements, but would not prevent the Government from continuing to
make progress on many aspects of the reform program. Moreover, future financing for
Chile Solidario has been approvedthrough recently enacted legislation.




                                           41

References

LITCHFIELD, Julie (2002) "Poverty and IncomeInequalityin Chile, 1987-2000", BackgroundPaper for
Chile: HouseholdRiskManagementand Social Protection, World Bank, Washington, DC

MIDEPLAN, (2002) "La Ficha CAS como Instrumentode Focalizacihde Programas Sociales", Divisi6n
Social

MIDEPLAN, (2003) "Chile Solidario: CuentaPublica2002", SecretariaEjecutivaSistemaChile Solidario,
21de enero, 2003

MONTENEGRO, C. and C. PagCs.(2003). "Who Benefitsfrom LaborMarket Regulations?:Chile 1960-
1988." Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBankResearchDepartmentWorking Paper #494.

MONTENEGRO, Claudio E. (2001). "Wage Distribution in Chile: Does Gender Matter? A Quantile
RegressionApproach." Policy Research Report on Gender and Development Working Paper Series # 20.
Washington, DC: The World Bank. Availableon line at: www. worldbank.org.
          (2002) "Unemployment, Job Security, and Minimum Wages in Chile: 1960 to 2001",
          Background Paper for Chile: HouseholdRisk Management and Social Protection, World Bank,
          Washington, DC

PACKARD, Truman (2002), "Pooling, Savingand Prevention:Mitigating Old Age Poverty in Chile",
World BankPolicy ResearchWorkingPaper, Washington, DC
           (2002b) "Do Workers inChile Choose InformalEmployment?A DynamicAnalysisof Sector
           Choice", BackgroundPaper for Chile:Household RiskManagementand SocialProtection,
           World Bank, Washington, DC
           (2001), "Is There a PositiveIncentiveEffect from Privatizing SocialSecurity?Evidencefrom
           PensionReformsinLatin America", World BankPolicy ResearchWorking Paper,
           Washington, DC

PAGES, Carmenand ClaudioE. Montenegro. (1999). "Job Security and the Age Compositionof
Employment:Evidencefrom Chile." Inter-AmericanDevelopment BankWorking PaperNo. 398.
Available on line at: www.iadb.org.

PESSINO, Carola (2002) "Evaluation and Recommendationsfor Institutionaland Informational
Arrangements for OptimalSocial Protection inChile", BackgroundPaperfor Chile: HouseholdRisk
Managementand SocialProtection,World Bank, Washington, DC
          (2002b) "A Comment on Chile Solidario", Background Paper for Chile: Household Risk
          Managementand Social Protection,World Bank, Washington, DC

RACZYNSKI, Dagmar, Claudia Serrano and Manuela Valle, (2002) "Eventos de Quiebre de Ingreso y
Mecanismos de Proteccion Social: Estudioen Hogares de Ingreso Medio y Bajo", Background Paper for
Chile: HouseholdRisk Managementand Social Protection, World Bank, Washington, DC

WORLD BANK (1997) "Poverty and IncomeDistribution inaHigh GrowthEconomy"

WORLD BANK (2001a) "Poverty and Income Distribution ina HighGrowthEconomy: The Case of Chile
1987 - 1998" Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit, Latin America and the
CaribbeanRegionalOffice, World Bank, Washington, D.C.

WORLD BANK (2001b) "Proposal to Introducea DeferredDrawdownOption (DDO) for Use with IBRD
Adjustment Loans" BoardPaperdiscussedOctober 18, 2001, Washington DC

WORLD BANK (2003) "Household Risk Management and Social Protection" Human Development
Department, Social Protection Unit, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, World Bank,
Washington, D.C.




                                                 42

                                         ANNEX 1.

                                Letter Of Development Policy
                            (Translated FromOfficial Version)


NICOLASEYZAGUIRREu z mG
     Ministerof Finance
     Republicof Chile

Santiago, October 19, 2003

Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President
World Bank group

Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:

The Government of President Lagos has been developing an ambitious agenda for
economic, institutional, and social reforms aimed at modernizing the country and to
develop the instruments requiredto successfully tackle the challenges of the new century.

Inthe macroeconomic area aprudent fiscal administration hasbeenconsolidated through
the adoption of the structural surplus goal, complemented with the modernization
implemented by the Central Bank of its monetary and exchange policy. With respect to
Chile's commercial policy, the free trade agreements signed with the European Union,
the United States, and South Korea consolidate the trade liberalization of the country,
notably intensifying our insertion into international trade. This progress, complemented
with the double taxation treaties, the developments achieved and underway regarding the
modernization of capital markets, and other sectoral reforms under development within
the framework of the Pro-Growth Agenda, will help to increasingly consolidate the
stability and growth potential of the country.

A second pillar of the government's agenda corresponds to the modernization of the
State. Recently approved legislation on personnel management in the public sector and
the creation of a modern public management system constitute a fundamental
administrative reform, consolidating an approach on public management that aims to
balance efficiency and transparency inthe operations of public agencies. This reform, far
from constituting an isolated event, i s part of a modernization process that includes a new
public procurement system, legislation to make the financing of political activities
transparent, and the modernization of financial and budgetary management standards,
among other initiatives. These legal innovations are complemented with the progress
achieved in the development of a management control system linked to the budget, and
the consolidation, underway, of an integrated financial management system of the State;
the latter with the support of the World Bank.




                                              43

 In order for the benefits of these economic and institutional reforms effectively reach the
 entire population of the country, the government is proposing a third pillar through an
 ambitious agenda for social reforms. This includes a radical reform of the public and
private health system, aimingat guaranteeingminimumsocial security healthcoverage to
 all Chileans, continuation of the educational reform, a substantial increase in education
hours for Chilean school children, the development of a labor skills certification system,
 and a new system to finance higher education through capital markets, among other
initiatives underway. The consolidation of a social protection system ensuring that the
poorer families of the country have full access to the social networks, constitutes a central
part of these efforts.

Thus, on May 21, 2002, President Lagos announced the beginning of a new stage in the
implementation of policies to fight extreme poverty in Chile through the development of
the Chile Solidario Social Protection System. This effort i s aimed at fully incorporating in
the next three years the 225,000 poorer families in the country to the social protection
network, and to ensure their access to the monetary benefits to which they are entitled,
complemented with a personalized effort to incorporate each family to the social
networks and programs that can provide them the tools they need to surmount their
extreme poverty. Accordingly, the system involves the coordination of non-tax transfers
and continuous delivery of services provided through the education, health, labor sectors,
etc., involvingimportant financial and managerial efforts.

At the same time, the process is designed to lay the legal, institutional, and operational
groundwork requiredfor a more integrated and effective management of a large number
of instruments that presently operate in an uncoordinated fashion, aiming at the
establishment of a Social Protection System that, beyond supporting these 225,000
families, effectively integrates the social protection efforts of the State. This
determination has resulted in the institutionalization, through a Supreme Decree, of the
Executive Secretariat of Chile Solidario, the presentation to Congress of draft legislation
establishing the permanent institutional basis of the Chile Solidario System, transferring
the administration of non-tax subsidies to MIDEPLAN and institutionalizing a social
protection information system, as well as the approval by the National Congress of a law
establishing the financing of Chile Solidario, and another including an education grant
aimedat school retention of students from families livinginextreme poverty.

These reforms are aimed at permanently transforming the form in which the State
implements its social policies targeting the poor. In addition to the consolidation of an
institutional instrument adequate to this objective, the process will involve the
development of new instruments and human abilities to support the management,
monitoring, and evaluation of the system. The Technical Assistance Project being
designedjointly by the Government of Chile and the World Bank is specifically aimed at
supporting the development of these instruments and capabilities in MIDEPLAN during
the coming years, as well as in all the institutions of the central government and local
governmentsparticipating inthe operation of this system.




                                            44

 Thus, the Chile Solidario Social Protection System is an initiative with unprecedented
 dimensions, both in the history of the country and in the region, being developed along
 the way. It is important to makeprogress, then, to establish during the remaining years of
 the current government, and based on the management of Chile Solidario, the
 institutional, structural, and administrative bases for the management of a modem social
 protection system that makes it possible to incorporate the poorer population of our
 country to the network of social services provided by the State, and to ensure that no
 eligible social group within this population i s excluded, regardless of ethnic origin,
 regional location or family structure, among other considerations.

 In addition to the aforementioned reforms, in order to effectively implement Chile
 Solidario, an information system will be requiredto facilitate the integration and analysis
of the information available in the institutions comprising the Network of Social
Programs. With respect to the human resources involved, the implementation of the
system will require an important training effort of the units participating in the Chile
Solidario System. On the other hand, an adequate evaluation and management of the
system will require the development of a monitoring system to adequately evaluate the
impact of the various system components and to adjust the management of the same
based on its results. All of the above is part of an indispensable process to strengthenthe
instruments available to MIDEPLAN to make the Chile Solidario Social Protection
Systemsustainable over time.

Given the importance the government assigns to the development of these reforms, and
considering our permanentefforts to diversify the sources of available financial resources
and to increase the instruments of financial risk coverage, the Government of Chile has
decided to submit a request to the World Bank for an Adjustment Loan with a Deferred
Draw Option (DDO) for the development of the reforms required for the development of
the Chile Solidario Social Protection System.

Given its specific characteristics,this instrumentcould play a dual role with respectto the
modernization process of the country. On the one hand, it constitutes a flexible financial
management instrument, diminishing the potential need to seek financing in the private
capital markets at a time of probable global contraction, and thus ensuringthe financing
required to maintain the ongoing set of economic, institutional, and social reforms within
the rule of structural surplus. And, on the other, the linking of this instrument to the
developments necessary to establish the Chile Solidario System constitutes a strong
incentive for all those who have responsibilities within the Government of Chile in the
development of this system.

I t is in this sense that we see the linking of this loan to the maintenance of a stable
macroeconomic framework; progress in the incorporation of the poorer families of the
country into the network of public benefits through the Chile Solidario System;
improvements in capacity to use the information required to administer the social
policies; progress in the capacities and practices of the Government to monitor and
evaluate the social protection policies in the country; and the structuring of a sustainable




                                              45

administration framework of the new system, ensuring an adequate coordination of the
central government, the local governments, and civil society inits application.

In consideration of all the above, the Government of Chile appreciates the prompt and
positive consideration by the Board of the Bank for an adjustment loan with Deferred
Draw Option to the Government of Chile in the amount of US$200 million linkedto the
development of the reforms associatedwith the Chile Solidario Social Protection System.

Sincerely yours,

Nicoliis Eyzaguirre Guzmiin
Minister of Finance
Republic of Chile




There is a seal that reads: Republic of Chile, MINISTER, Ministry of Finance and
another that reads: BudgetDirectorate, DIRECTOR, Ministry of Finance




                                          46

                                     ANNEX 2

           Letter Of Development Policy (Official Version)

                                             II                       _II__I_I




 NICQLAB EYZAGUIRRE GUZMAN
         MlNlSTRa Dh UACIFNDA
          RFPlIa~
                kc* DE <*,.E

                                                           Santiago, octubre 19de 2003.




5r.
,James D. Wolfensohn
Presidente
Gruao del Bancn*&fundial



Estiniado Sr. Slroifensolm:


E1Gobierno del Prcsidente Lagos ha venido desarrollando
reformas eronumicrs, institucionales y sociales, destinada
dotarlo de 10s insfrumentos requeridos pare enfaentar exi
nuevo siglo.

Enel imbito macroecon6mico se ha consolidado una administracih fiscal prudente a
travbs de la adopcibn de la meta de superavit estruetural, lo que se ha cumplementado
con la modernkaeihn Ilevada adelante por el Banco Central de su instruments1 de
politiclt manetaria y cambiaria. En lo que se refiere a IS cumercial 10s
                                                                 politica
acuerdos de libre comercio alcanzados con la Uni6n Europea, Estados Unfdov y
                    an la apertura comcrciat del pais, profundizando notable
                     en el comrrciu internacicinal. Estos avances, complementados con
                     doble tributacirin, 10s desarrollos Iogrados y en tramite en la
                    e l mercado de capitales, y las demris reformas sectoriales
desarrollo en el mareo de la Agenda Pro-crecimiento, ayudanin a conrolidar cada +
mbs la estabilidad y el po     ialde creeimiento delpais.

     egundo pilar de la agenda del gobierno corresponde 8 la modernhacidn del
     0. La legisincidn recie            aprobada sobre gesti6n de personal en el sector
                                         sistema de direccibn publica constituyen una
                                        quevlene a consolidar unenfoque sobre gesti6n
phblica que pretende equilibrar efectividad y trvnsparencir en el funcioaamiento de
ios organismos pirhlicos. Esta reforma, lejos de eonstituir un evento aidado, se


                                                                              If-




                                           47

 NICOLAS EYZAGUtRRE OUZMAN
        HINISTIO DE HhCIENQA
         aEPU5LlCA DE CNILS




inscribe en tin proceso     dernizador que se expresa en el nuevo sistema de compras
phblicas, ia legislacidn     transparenta el fin                la acth
modernkzacirin de las normas de administra                      y pres
otras iniciativas. Estasinnovaciones legales se                 con 10s
en el desarrollo de un sistema de control cle gextihn ligudo ai 1
consolidariitn, en curso, de un sistema in       do de gestirin iinsn
iniciativa que cuenta con el apoyo delBanco Mundial.

Yara yuc 10s bcneficios de &as reformas econcimicas e in
efectivamente a trtdn la poblacion del pais, el gobierno se ha pl            como tercer
pilar una amhiciosa agenda de reformas soeiales. Esta inc
sistema de salud pliblieo y privado, que busca garant
        ad social en salud a todos 10s chilenos, la
        on&    aumentandu sustancialmente las horas de educaciitn de loa niiios
chilenos, el desarrollo de un sistema de certificaciiin de competencias bborales y de
un nuevo sistemr de financiamiento de la edueacihn superior a travhs del mercado de
capitaies, entre otras iniciati      en curso. L a consokidaciun de un sistemu de
protecciitn social que asegurc a las familias mls p             a b un acceso pleno a fas
redessociules constituye una pieza centra1de estos

Asi, el 21 de hlayo de 2002 el Prexidente Lagos anunciij el cotnienzo dc una nucva
etupa en la implementacibn de politicas bacia la extrema pobreza en Chile a tnrvb del
desarrollo del Sistema de Proteccicin Social Chile Soiidario, Este esfuerm est&
orientado a incorporar plenamente durante 10s pr6ximos tres aiios a las 225.000
familias mzis pabres del pais a 19 red de protcccihn social del pais, y asegurar su
acceso a ias prestaciones monetarias a las que tienen derecha, lo que se complementa
con un esfuerzo personalizado en cada familia para incorporarh a h s redes y
programas que pueden dotarlas de las herramientas que rcquieren para superar su
condicihn de extrema pobreza. El sistema, por ta        ,involucra   la coordinacion de
transferencias no ronrributivas y prestaciones cantinuas de servicios entregudos
sectorialmcnte a travks de 10s sectores de educacirin, saiud, trabajo, etc, involucrsndo
notables esfuerzostinancieros y de gestibn,




                                      48

             Le, este procesoesta diseiiado piira sentar las bases legale
                               n para una gestih mas intcgrada y
conjuato de instrumentos que hoy operan deucoordinadamente, apuntando a la




                         ccitjn Social Chile Soiidario es una iniciativa con dimensiones
                         toria del pais como en la regicin, y que se esti desarroiiando
sobre la marcha, Se necesitaavanzar, entonces, para que durante Ius pruximou aiios
del actual gohierno, y a partir de
las bases institucionales, estruct
inoderno sistema de proteccitin social que permita inc
pobre de nuevtro pais a la red de prestaciones sacirle                    y aregure que
ningun grupo soci~lque crlifiq                                            uede errlriido,
independientemente de su origen                           ion regional o su estructura
familiar. entre otra?consideraciones.




                                                                             ti-




                                                   t




                                            49

 Adicionalmente a Ias reformas mencionadas, para implenientar efectivamente Chile
 Salidtrrie se rcquerirk de un sistema de informaci6n que permita integrar y analizar
 la informacibn dispoaible en las instituciones que forman parte de Ia Ked de




desarrolle del Sistema de Protecclh Soeial Chile Solidario.


Dada la importancia central que el gobierno asigna al desarrotlo de estas reformas, y
coosiderando nuestros esfuerzos permanentes por diwrsifiear las fuentes de reeursns
                  onibles 5; aumentar
financiero, el Gobierno de Chile ha der:

                                       olln del Sistema de Protcceioa Social Chile
Solidario.


Dadas sus rnracterivticas especifieas este instrumento puede cumptir un doble papel
en lo que concierne a1proceso de modernLaei6n del pais. Por una parte, eonstituye un
instsumento flexible de mane<jofinanciero, disminuyendo la patencial neeesidad de
acudir tl 10s mereadus de capltales privados en momcntos de eventual estrechez
global, y asegurando mi el financiamiento requcrido para mantener en curso el
conjuntode reformas econbmicas, institucionsllesy sociales en curso dentro de la regla
de superrivit estructural. Y por otra, ia asociacibn de estc instrumento        II 10s
devarrollos necesarios para hater realidad el Sistema Chile Solidarb constituye un
fuerte incentivo para todos quienes tiencn responsabilidades dentro del Gobierno de
Chileen el desorrollo de estesistema.




                                        50

NICOLAS EYZAGUIRRE CUZMAN
       YlNISTitO DE WACreND.4
        RCPLaLIC4 DE CHILE




                                 de utilization de la
administrar 18s                  asuncesen laseapacid
destinadas a1m


sociedad civil en su aplicacibn.

Eo considcracih de todo
positisu considerueion por
Defersed Drew Option con
a1 desarrollo de las reformas mociadas ai Sistcma de Proteccih Social Chile
Soiidario.

Saluda alenhmenteB Cd.,




                                    51

x
.I
3G
L
c)




.I
a0
3


    2




LL,
0


                                        ANNEX 4

                   HighlightsOf Chile's StructuralReformProgram

Although far reaching, the Chile Solidario initiative is but one element in a wider
program of structural reforms proposed or completed by the Lagos Administration. This
effort includes reforms inthe social sectors beyond social protection; the implementation
of a pro-growth agenda; modernization of the state; improvements in financial sector
regulation; reforms to the capital markets; and measures to ease rigidity in the labor
market.

Social Reforms. Most of the government's social reforms and programs are already in
operation. The main components are:


            1   Education reform. Congress recently passed a law making full secondary
            education compulsory. Previously, only primary education was obligatory,
            although secondary education is almost universal. Building on an education
            reform begun in the mid-l990s, the government also plans to reinforce
            English teaching, an important element in positioning Chile to take full
            advantage of the opportunities presented by the recent wave of free trade
            agreements. Additionally, the government has committed itself to improving
            the quality and relevance of education, especially higher education, including
            through stronger links to the employers in the private sector. It has also
            emphasized the need to stimulate innovation and technological development
            and is working to establish a strong and coherent policy framework to support
           the development of an effective innovation system.
            .  Healthcare reform (Plan Awe). During 2003, the government hopes to
           obtain congressional approval for legislation to implement a reform of public
            and private healthcare designed to increase equality of access and reduce
           waiting times inthe public system.

Pro-Growth Agenda (Agenda Procrecimiento).          This is a series of micro-economic
reforms and incentives, originally proposed in 2001 by the private sector. Since then, the
government has adopted and added to the list of reforms, which aim to stimulate
investment in a number of key areas. Some measures were approved in 2002, including
the legalization of digital signatures and a law designed to promote Chile as a regional
business center by establishing a special, tax-exempt, regime for foreign enterprises
based in Chile but which invest abroad. The elements of the Agenda under discussion
(some have already been approved) in 2003 include, among others:

               Anti-trust Court. A law to transform the current Anti-Monopoly
           Resolution Commission (Comisidn Resolutiva ) into a full-fledged court to
           ensure competitive practices. The court would have an autonomous budget
           and staffing. (Status: approved inone chamber).




                                             56

             1  Tax courts. The law creates 16 independent, specialized courts for tax-
             related issues. The courts would be autonomous in terms of both budget and
             staffing. (Status: under consideration by Cdmara de Diputados.)

             =  ElectricityLaw. The law reforms electricity regulation, and is designedto
             promote increased competition and investment in the industry; it aims to
             improve the system of transmission charges and their distribution among
            electricity generators and to ensure fair access to transmission infrastructure.
             (Status: under study by relevant congressionalcommittees).

                Fishing Law. The first part of this law extends what were previously
            temporary fishing licenses for ten years. The second part of the law increases
            the quotas for small-scale fishing, for certain species, and extends fishing
            rights for an additional 15 years. The goal is to reduce uncertainty regarding
            fishing rights and promote investment in the sector. (Status: first part of law
            approved; secondpart is under discussion).

             =  Telecommunications Sector Regulation. The law aims to set uniform and
            transparent access fees between all telecommunication companies. The
            Telecommunications Regulation faces strong opposition and is still in draft
            form. (Status: to be presentedto Congressin September 2003).

            =   Bankruptcy law. Modernizes the existing bankruptcy law. Aims to
            expedite bankruptcy procedures. (Status: under study).

            =   Military tax exemptions. The law would eliminate the tax exemption on
            imports destined to the Armed Forces, with the exception of fuel, spare parts
            and ammunition. (Status: understudy by Chamber of Deputies).

            =   Labor-market Regulations, describedbelow.

The Agenda includes many other measures, such as the creation of tax courts and an anti-
trust court, an Investment Platform law to avoid double taxation on foreign enterprises,
all aimed at improving the investment climate inChile.

Modemization of the State and Increased Transparency. In March of this year, the
opposition and the government agreed on a national proposal to modernize state
institutions,   ensure greater transparency, halt corruption and stimulate growth. The
proposal had a very ambitious approval and implementation schedule, to be achieved
before the end of 2003. This was due to the political need to eradicate corruption and to
take advantage of the small window of opportunity ahead of the municipal elections in
October 2004 and congressional and presidential elections inDecember 2005.

In effect, between March and May of this year, the Government took to Congress a
package of nearly 50 measures largely related to public sector reform and with a heavy
emphasis on state modernization and transparency. Many of the measures have already
been approved. The main elements are:



                                              57

           1   A reformof the civil service regime, with changes inthe remuneration and
           promotion process for non-managerial civil servants, including the
           introduction of performance-basedincentives. A national directorate for Civil
           Service, under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, i s created by the
           reform. A separate bill approved by Congress will reduce (but not eliminate)
           the number of political appointees by creating a labor system for the senior
           executive service (alta direccio'n pliblica). In the future, these posts will be
           advertised andfilled competitively. These measures follow on a law passedin
           January setting new salaries for upper-level public officials which had failed
           to keep pace with private sector wage increases.

               Expediting and simplification of administrative procedures such as the
           issuance of bureaucratic permits and certificates in order to reduce the
           uncertainty for private firms intheir dealings with the public sector.

           *   A public procurement law to increase the transparency of government
           contracts for the purchase, rental, and lease of goods. The law establishes an
           electronic procurement and information system, and creates a public
           procurement court.
           .   Government Transparency. The package, approved by Congress in May,
           includes twelve anti-corruption measures of which the most significant is
           campaign finance reform, setting limits on electoral spending and making
           financing more transparent and controlled. The law establishes a blind-trust
           system to prevent candidates and parties from identifying the source of
           donations. In addition, the law makes donations tax-deductible for firms in an
           attempt to increase equality of political opportunity. The government is also
           preparing a bill to regulate lobbying, to be presented to Congress later this
           year. Other measures, presentedto the legislature but awaiting approval, relate
           to congressionalprivileges, conflicts of interest, and transparency inthe use of
           parliamentary funds.

In a similar vein, the central bank has in recent months moved to increase the already
high levels of transparency and credibility of the conduct of monetary policy. The bank
already publishes its inflation forecast and intends to start publishing its inflation
forecasting models. Various data, such as official reserves and trade flows, are now
released more frequently, and distributed electronically. Also, the publication lag for
bank policy meeting minutes was cut to 45 days, and policy votes will now be made
public.

Financial Sector Regulation and Supervision. Recent scandals served to highlight some
gaps and a lack of clarity in existing regulation. Legislation has been recently proposed,
much of it within the framework of the SecondCapital Markets Reform, to address some
of the supervision and enforcement concerns raised.        Proposed reforms touch on a
numberof issues:




                                            58

           1   Award of licenses. The different regulatory bodies that supervise Chile's
           financial markets would be given wider discretionary powers to reject an
           application for an operating license. In addition, their powers to veto transactions
           involving 10%or more of a company would be strengthened.

               Supervisory coordination. The reforms would explicitly authorize the sharing
           of information by the different regulators, which has to date been restricted by
           confidentiality requirements, and would increase the powers of the Bank
           Superintendencyto monitor the activities of bank subsidiariesin other fields.


           1   Stays-of-action. A company would no longer be able to obtain a stay-of-action
           on a suspension, ordered by the Securities and Insurance Superintendency, simply
           by filing an appeal to the courts, but would have to obtain a rulingon the appeal.

           a   Intervention procedures. Steps would be taken to fill a legal gap in the
           intervention of troubled AFPs (private pension funds), as well as to expedite the
          existing mechanismfor intervening inlife insurancecompanies.

           a   Electronic issue and trading. Measures are planned to encourage the electronic
           (rather than physical) issue and trading of securities. As a result, according to the
          Central Custody Service, all trading will be electronic by the end of next year, up
          from half at present.

 CapitalMarketsReform ZI. Following on the heels of an extensive deregulation of capital
and financial markets" in 2001, the government, at the end of June, took to Congress
further measures in the form of a Second Capital Market Reform. The reform contains a
number of important items whose main goal is to foster improved access to finance for
start-up companies as investors, primarily private pension funds (AFPs) have been
reluctant to commit capital to the industry. The package also seeks to fill regulatory gaps
revealedearlier inthe year by the collapse of the Inverlink financial services group.


               1    Venture Capital Reform. In order to provide incentives for local
               institutional investors to participate in venture capital funds, CORFO, the
               government's economic development agency, will launch a scheme to
               guarantee bonds issued by venture capital funds, capping investors' potential
               losses. The reform also seeks to reduce start-up and transactions costs for
               small companies, whose sale of shares would be exempt from capital gains
               taxes. In addition, the reform also provides for the creation of a new type of
               company, a limited liability corporation, with a flexible structure. More
               flexible rules would be introduced on the use of assets as collateral in order to
              ease access to bank credit. A national register of assets would be created to
               facilitate the task of banks.



19 Earlier steps to improve capital markets regulation include a law (2000) on tender share offers that
increases the protection of minority shareholders' rights and tightens corporate governance standards. The
first capital markets reform of 2001 introduces measures to increase market liquidity, improves firms'
access to finance and encourages voluntary savings.


                                                     59

           1    Corporate Governance. The reform addresses some of the issues raised by
           the recently completed ROSC on corporate governance inChile carried out by
           the World Bank. These include a tightening of controls on insider trading and
           the extension of the period for filing claims for damages. Proxy voting
           mechanisms will also be established to facilitate the exercise of minority
           shareholders' rights.


           1   Voluntarv Saving; Schemes. The measure would permit companies and
           their employees to set up collective pension schemes, similar to the U S 401K
           plans. Employers' contributions would be eligible for deduction from taxable
           income. The schemes could significantly increase the size of the voluntary
           retirement-saving market inthe country.

           =   Supervision and enforcement in the financial system. This includes
           various reforms (already mentioned above) to improve regulation and
           supervision inthe financial system.

Labor market measures. Another reform currently under study, and expected to be
presented to Congress in the near future, i s for measures that reduce the legal restrictions
to part-time and shift work. The business sector is lobbying strongly for this reform,
arguing that present restrictions discourage new investment. The government also plans
to modernize the judicial system for resolving labor issues, with the introduction of oral
hearings rather than the present written proceedings; this would require a tripling in the
numberof labor courts.




                                             60

                                          ANNEX 5

           Public ExpenditureInThe Social Sectors And On Social Protection

1.      Figure 1 compares public expenditure on the social sectors (health, education,
public housing, social security and welfare) in Chile, with that of other Latin American
and selected OECD countries. The data in Figure 2 shows that as a percentage of GDP,
Chile's expenditure on the social sectors - 14% in 1998 (the latest year for which
comparative data are available) was roughly equivalent to that of countries at similar
levels of development in the region.          While substantially lower than social sector
spending in many OECD countries, Chile's level of expenditure is only slightly lower
than that of the US (14.6% of GDP). Chile's spending on social protection programs
(specifically, social security and welfare assistance) as a percentage of GDP, while lower
than that of its neighbors in the Southern Cone with very generous social protection
systems, like Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina, is much higher than spending in Colombia

us.
andMexico, andis roughly comparableto social protection spendinginAustralia and the


  Figure A.2.1. Chile's expenditure inthe social sectors is slightly lower than other
  middle income countries inLatinAmerica, but compares with that of the United
                                             States
  (Public Expenditureon SocialSectorsas a Percentageof GDPinSelectedLatinAmerican andOECD
                                        Countries, 1998)


        35,O

                                             31,O
        30,O


                                                                               i
        25,O                                                   24,7

   0                                                               22,7
   m
  .-
   7                                                                   21,o
   E                                                                       19,7
   n 20,O
  20
   n
                      16.2
   p
   a
        15,O                                                                         14

  2e
   a


        10,o



        5,O



        0,o




Source: WorldBank SIMA, WDIDatabase



                                               61

 2.      Although comparative data on expenditure are useful, analysis and insights should
 be drawn with caution. Since structural reforms to retirement security and the health
 system, large proportion of "social security'' contributions and expenditure (pensions and
 health) i s now being managed by the private sector. Thus unqualified comparisons
 between aggregate spending in Chile and other countries with different delivery systems
 could be misleading.

 3.      Public spending inthe social sectors has been risinginthe past decade. However,
 spending on social protection programs has remained relatively stable compared to
 spending for education and health. Figures 2 shows increasing government spending in
 the social sectors (both as a percentage o f GDP, and total public expenditure). Figure 3
 presents trends in spending on Chile's social protection programs relative to that on
 health and education (as a percentage of total spending inthe social sectors).

   Figure A.2.2. Spendingon the social sectors has risen steadily, both as a share of
                                 GDPandof total expenditure
                         (Public Spending on the Social Sectors, 1992 - 2001)


                                                                                      72,O
                                                                              16,4
                                                                  15.4   15y6  .I
                                                                                      9
                                                                                      70,o 8
                                                                                           0,
                                                                                      68,O 92
                                                                                      66,O nr
                                                                                           7

                                                                                           8<
                                                                                      64,O $
                                                                                           3
                                                                                           CD
                                                                                      62,O 2
                                                                                           m
                                                                                           x
                                                                                          `0
                                                                                      60,O

                                                                                           E
                                                                                      58,O 3

                                                                                      56,O
                  1992  1993   1994  1995   1996   1997   1998    1999   2000 2001

                nSocialSectors,YoofGDP             --O-Social Sectors,Yoof Expenditure



Source: DIPRES, Ministerio de Hacienda

4.      As inmost countries, earnings-related retirement, survivor and disability pensions
make up the largest item o f social spending in Chile. While public spending on pensions
is falling - a legacy o f a structural reform to the pension system in 1981, and a sign of
progress - spending on poverty-prevention pensions shows an upwardtrend. Incontrast,



                                                 62

spending on family allowances and targeted transfers to poor families, has been
declining. Spendingon unemploymentbenefits has remainedstable.

                      Figure A.2.3. Spendingon different socialprograms
                                  has remained relatively constant
         (Public Expenditureon Chile's Principal Social Programsand Interventions, 1992- 2001)


           50,O

           45,O


     .-Ea
      a 40,O

     c
     'c1   35,O

     %S

     -w
      X    30,O

     .-m   25,O

     -I-"
     00
     V)    20,o

     UQ
           15,O
     r

     8
     *     10,o

            5 4

           0 8
                  1992    1993    1994     1995     1996 1997 1998    1999 2000    2001

         -
         -Earnings       RelatedPensions (left axis)      0,..ofwhichRecognitionBonds(leftaxis)
           qSubsidies to Schools (left axis)              -0-MinimumPensionGuaranteeandPASB
               Family Allowances and SUF                  -o-MaternityLeave
         +UnemploymentBenefit                             -w-DrinkingWaterSubsidy
               Rimary HeathCare


Source: DIPRES, Ministerio de Hacienda




                                                       63

                                                   Annex 6

         StrengthsAnd WeaknessesOf Chile'sProxyMeansTest, TheFicha Cas

 1.       The Fichu CAS i s the most widely used targeting device in Chile. The proxy-
means testing instrument assigns a rating to households based on certain indicator
variables. This rating is then used by government agencies to determine whether an
individual or household is eligible to receive benefits.                   Data on over five million
households have been collected with the Fichu CAS and are held by MIDEPLAN.
However, this database is not checked or crossed with data on past and current
employment and wages, receipt of pensions or other benefits, and property holdings.
Recent studies have shown that the Fichu CAS may systematically benefit non-poor
groups.

2.       Analysis for the Bank's last poverty report (World Bank, 2001) shows that there
are gaps in coverage of targeted social programs in Chile. The most extensive program
(SUF) or family allowances, only reaches about 30 percent of the poor (defined as the
poorest 20% of households). 2o Furtherthere are leakages from targeted programs. Of the
total spending on SUF, about 66 percent goes to the poor, and about 54 percent of total
spending on PASIS are in the lowest quintile.21Further, the Fichu, does not update the
information continuously, and fails to cross the targeting data with other data necessary
for verification (World Bank, 2001).                In an evaluation of the targeting instrument,
MIDEPLAN (2002) finds that it fails to capture incomes of household members other
than the householdhead andtheir spouse.

3.       Although the instrument has been successful in identifyingmany of the poor, this
i s mainly done at the moment that an individual applies to receive a particular program
targeted with the Fichu CAS. The instrument misses the poor that do not apply for social
programs. Nor is it a dynamic tool that can be used on a continuous basis. The Fichu
does not capture changes in household income and composition, say from shocks such as
unemployment or the arrival of new household members. Since the Fichu CAS is not
used to "follow" individuals and households, program administrators cannot use the
instrument to find whether and where poverty has increased in the wake of a
macroeconomic shock or some other adverse event (Although people are required to
updatetheir data inthe CAS database every two years).

4.       MIDEPLAN is currently undertaking a thorough evaluation of the Ficha CAS to
identify and correct these weaknesses, which will be corrected with support of the
proposed technical assistance loan. Recent analysis shows that 83% of the poorest
quintile has been surveyed with the Ficha CAS.                     Although this i s wide coverage,
compared to even OECD countries, the outreach effort embeddedin the Chile Solidario
approach should increase coverage rates further.                   The success of these efforts are


*'To be eligible families must have minors under 18 years of age, in addition to other requirements.
21 In a recent international comparison of target performance of social programs, these 2 programs ranked
fairly high relative to errors of inclusion, ranking6th and 12threspectively (see Grosh, Coady, y Hoddinott,
2002).


                                                      64

particularly important if the program is to reach the extreme poor, where coverage rates
almost certainly are lower.




                                           65

                                                 Annex 7

                                          FundRelations Note

                                                                International MonetaryFund
Public InformationNotice (PIN) No. 03/103                       700 19thStreet, NW
August 20,2003                                                  Washington, D.C. 20431 USA


                                  Chile: PublicInformation Notice



On August 18, 2003, the Executive Board concluded the Article IV consultation with
Chile.22

Background

Chile's sound policy framework and strong fundamentals have shielded the country from
the regional financial crisis and permitted continued, though moderate, growth. The pace
of Chilean growth has largely followed that of the global economy, as Chile has
successfully resisted contagion from neighboring countries' difficulties. Inthe context of
inflation targeting, monetary policy has played an important countercyclical role, while
the government's fiscal structural balance rule has allowed automatic stabilizers to
operate.

Economic activity has turned up since mid-2002, with a recovery of domestic demand
prompted by lower interest rates, better terms of trade, and improved consumer
confidence as employment picked up after several years of stagnation. The
unemployment rate remains elevated, however, and is declining only slowly from its
1999 peak. Given a still sizable output gap, inflation has stayed inside the 2-4 percent
target band, with very brief exceptions, and indicators of inflation expectations confirm
the credibility of the inflationtargeting framework.

Monetary and fiscal policies have followed their rules-based frameworks. The central
bank has maintained the accommodative stance it adopted during the first part of 2002.
The low policy interest rate has kept inflation from dropping below the target band, as it
was successfully transmitted to commercial rates, fueling a recovery of consumer credit
and mortgage activity. The Chilean peso fluctuated considerably in 2002, reflecting
turbulence in the region. At the height of market concern about Brazil last October, the
central bank announced a temporary window of potential exchange market intervention;

22Under Article IV of the IMFs Articles of Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with members,
usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and
discusses with officials the country's economic developments and policies. On return to headquarters, the
staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. A t the conclusion o f
the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views o f Executive
Directors, and this summary i s transmitted to the country's authorities.


                                                     66

inthe event, intervention was less than the announced limits. Fiscal policy continued to
aim at a structural surplus of 1percent of GDP, which, inthe context of a sizeable output
gap, allowed for a modest widening of the actual deficit (to around 1%percent of GDP).

For 2003 and 2004, recovery is expectedto gather momentum as slack capacity i s taken
up, while inflation remains close to 3 percent. Over the medium term, potential output
growth should gradually increase on account of both higher capital accumulation and
productivity growth, on the basis of recent and planned reforms. As demand recovers, the
modest current account deficit will widen, but only slowly, since the terms of trade are
expected to improve. As both output and copper export prices recover over the medium
term, the actual government balance is projected to converge to the structural balance
target.

The authorities have made progress in implementing the Pro-Growth Agenda formulated
early last year. Further reform efforts have focused on ambitious measures to modernize
the public administration, increase monetary and fiscal policies transparency, and
reinforce the financial system. Chile also has concluded negotiations for free-trade
agreements with South Korea and the United States, and such an agreement with the
EuropeanUnioni s now inforce.

Executive BoardAssessment

Executive Directors commended the Chilean authorities for implementinga sound policy
framework, basedon inflation targeting, exchange rate flexibility, and a prudent target for
the structural fiscal balance. They considered that these policies, in conjunction with
other strong fundamentals, such as transparent institutions, an open trade regime, and
sound banking and financial regulatory systems, have allowed Chile continued stability
andeconomic growth in2002.

Directors recognized that Chile's inflation targeting framework has successfully anchored
inflation expectations and increased the economy's resilience to external shocks while
maintaining price stability. They supported the current accommodative monetary stance,
in light of the still tentative recovery in Chile and the global economy, and advised the
authorities to stand ready to adjust the monetary policy stance in either direction in order
to keep inflation inside its target band. They commended recent initiatives to strengthen
monetary policy transparency and supported the authorities' interest in recapitalizing the
central bank, which would further consolidate confidence in the independence of
monetary policy and allow for a better understanding of the authorities' fiscal policy rule.

Directors observed that the floating exchange rate regime has helpedthe economy adjust
smoothly to adverse shocks. They noted that the peso had remained flexible even
throughout an episode of exceptional volatility in late 2002, during which the central
bank chose to intervene inthe markets.

Directors supported the central banks decision to deepen the market for peso-
denominated debt, though they suggested a cautious approach to issuing dollar-indexed



                                             67

 debt and continuing to avoid issuingsuch debt at short maturities. Some Directors urged
 the inclusion of collective action clauses in future external debt issues, stressing the
 positive signal that such action would transmit to other emerging market economies,
 given Chile's strong position ininternational financial markets.

 Directors underscored the importance of sustained fiscal discipline and supported the
 government's commitment to meeting its structural surplus target of 1 percent of GDP,
 consistent in the current environment with a small actual deficit. They viewed recent
 actions to raise taxes and lower expenditure as appropriate to achieve the fiscal objective,
 and in particular endorsed the recent VAT rate increase as a means to replace the tariff
revenue forgone through recent trade agreements and finance additional outlays
 associatedwith social programs.

Directors noted that the structural balance rule had improved the credibility of the fiscal
policy framework and the effectiveness of monetary policy. Looking forward, they
agreed that reinforcingthe public consensusregarding the need for the structural balance
rule would be essential to sustaining it. Several Directors encouraged the authorities to
consider formalizing elements of the structural balance target, including its level or
procedures for measuring the balance, though others thought that greater formalization
would be unnecessarilyconstraining.

Directors commended the authorities for the transparency of fiscal policies, as
documented in the recent fiscal ROSC. They welcomed the authorities' plan to further
improve transparency by presenting information on off-budget expenditures, contingent
liabilities, and public-private partnerships, as well as reformulating the fiscal statistics
usingthe 2001Government Finance Statistics standards.

Directors endorsedthe broad set of public sector reforms taken this year, including those
to rationalize remuneration inthe civil service, place limits on and increase the control of
campaign finance, and increase the transparency of procurement procedures. They
considered these reforms an appropriate response to weaknesses that had recently come
to light in public governance, and urged the authorities to remain vigilant in monitoring
their effectiveness. They also welcomed the authorities' efforts to improve the financial
regulatory framework through legislation submitted to congress that would strengthen
bank regulatory controls, exchange of information among supervisory agencies, and
modernize financial transactions, and supported the authorities' intention to participate in
an FSAP later this year. They commended Chile's continued efforts to combat money
laundering andthe financing of terrorism.

Directors considered the sizable external debt and refinancing needs of the corporate
sector one possible source of vulnerability, but recognized that the central bank's liquid
international reserves and the corporate sector's significant foreign assets offered
assurance against instability in financial markets. A few Directors suggested that the
global economic slowdown and the volatility of international capital flows was having a
serious effect on Chile's well-managed economy, reinforcing the importance of greater
surveillance of advancedeconomies.



                                             68

Directors highlighted that the main challenge for Chile is to return to higher, sustained
growth and to reduce unemployment. They emphasized the importance of enhancing
progress to date in addressing constraints to growth and investment through regulatory,
capital market, and social sector reforms, including those in the Pro-Growth Agenda. In
this regard, they noted the importance of proposed steps to broaden capital market access
and promote financial stability, including measures to promote venture capital, reduce
transactions costs, and improve corporate governance.

Directors also noted that recent trade agreements, including with some o f Chile's largest
partners, should enhance growth prospects. They considered that Chile's endowment o f
natural resources would best serve the process of economic development when combined
with a further enhancement of human capital. Though encouraged by recent growth of
employment, they urged the authorities to move ahead on their commitment to make
work schedules more flexible, and to consider other steps, such as introducing a more
differentiated minimumwage structure, that would lower unemployment.

Directors recognized that the data received by the Fund are of good quality, timely, and
adequate for surveillance purposes. They welcomed that most of the data shortcomings
identified inprevious consultations have been addressed.


For questions please contact Mr.Eliot Kalter, Division Chief, Pacific Division (PA),
Western Hemisphere Department, IMF, ext. 202-623-8501




                                            69

                                 Chile: FinancialPositioninthe Fund
                                              As of July 31,2003

 I.MembershipStatus:Joined:December31,1945;                                                      Article VI11


 II. ResourcesAccount:
    General                                                               SDR Million              %Quota
    Ouota                                                                      856.10                 100.00
    Fund holdings of currency                                                 463.24                   54.11
    Reserve Position                                                           392.86                  45.89
    Holdings ExchangeRate


111.SDR Department:                                                       SDR Million           %Allocation
    Net cumulative allocation                                                  121.92                 100.00
    Holdings                                                                    28.81                  23.63


IV. OutstandingPurchasesand Loans: None


V. Latest Financial Arrangements:
                           Approval               Expiration          Amount Approved       Amount Drawn

      Tyue                   Date                    Date                (SDR Million)      (SDR Million)
    Stand-by            Nov 08,1989              Nov 07, 1990                      64.00               64.00
    EFF                 Aug 15, 1985             Aug 14, 1989                     825.00             650.00


VI. ProjectedPayments to Fund
 (SDRMillion; basedonexisting useof resourcesand presentholdingsof SDRs):
                                                                             Forthcoming
                                                 2003           2004          2005       2006          2007
  Principal
  Chargeshnterest                                  0.73            1.42        1.42        1.42         1.42
  Total                                            0.73            1.42        1.42        1.42         1.42


VII. Implementationof HIPC Initiative: Not Applicable


                                                                               Preparedby FinanceDepartment




                                                         70

                                        Annex 8

 A Reviewof the Compositionand Performanceof the WorldBank'sChilePortfolio

The Chile portfolio is centered mostly in promoting innovative Government programs
and presents few if any implementation difficulties. Over a relative short period of time,
the Chile portfolio has evolved from sector-specific operations to multi-sector initiatives
focusing on institutional change and human capital development. This trend i s clearly
noticeable in some of the most recently approved operations, the Lifelong Learning and
the Public Expenditure ManagementProjects.

The portfolio comprises five active projects, for a total value of commitments of $303.2
million, of which $200.6 million are undisbursed. The average age of the portfolio i s 3.1
years. The portfolio has no problem projects, with all projects rated satisfactory in terms
of both implementation progress (IP) and development objectives (DO), and one project
ratedhighly satisfactory for bothIP andDO (the Quality of Higher Education Project).

The disbursement ratio of the portfolio shows a steady pace of implementation, with an
annualized disbursement ratio for the first semester of CY03 of 30%. Projects benefit
from a predictable planning scenario and stable budgetary environment. There i s close
and periodic interaction between the Budget Office and Project Units, ensuring that
project financing is provided ina timely manner and in accordancewith plans.

A central and growing focus of Bank support since the nineties has been the country's
human capital development and innovation strategies.         Strong cooperation between
Government and Bank teams has generated a stream of highly successful operations
which were initiated with a reform of basic education in the early nineties and have
touched almost every aspect of the education system (and more recently, Chile's
innovation system).




                                           71


                                             Annex 10

                         Chile: FinancialRelationswith the WorldBank

                              (Inmillions of U.S. dollars)

                                               Commitmen
                                                      (Net of
                                               Cancellation Disbursemen

                       I.IBRDOperations(asofAugust

Fullydisbursed                                      3,008.6     3,008.6        0.oc

Loans inprocessof
                                                         0.00      0.00        0.oc
  Educatio                                            246.4       90.0       156.4
  Environme                                              0.00      0.00        0.oc
  Healt                                                  0.00      0.00        0.oc
  Municipaland                                          10.1       6.88        3.22
  Public sector                                         23.2       3.40      19.8
  Transpo                                                0.00      0.00        0.0c
  Water                                                  0.00      0.00        0.oc

Total                                               3,288.4     3,108.9      179.4



                        11. IFCOperations(as ofJuly 31st,


                                       Loan           Emit   Ouas'1     Particiuatic
Held                                    76.6            44.1       77.5      69.7
Disburse                                35.7            44.1       73.7      49.5
Approvals pending                       50.0             2.00      0.00      53.0

                       111. IBRDLoanTransactions


                                        2000            3001       2002     2003/
Disbursemen                             48.3            38.5       29.6      29.9
Repaymen                               115.0          118.5      202.3       64.7
Net                                    -               -

~~       ~~~    ~




  Source:World

  1/Includesrepaymentfromthird
  2/ As of August 3lst,




                                        73

                                                       Annex 11

                                           Chile at a glance                                                               8/26/03

                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                     Latin  Upper-
 POVERTYandSOCIAL                                                America   middle
                                                        Chile    & Carib.  income      Developmentdiamond.
 2002
 Population,mid-year (millions)                          15.6         527     331                   Lifeexpectancy
 GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                      4,260       3,280    5,040
 GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                         66.4       1,727    1,668
 Averageannualgrowth, 199602
 Population(%)                                              1.3       1.5      1.2
 Laborforce (%)                                             2.0       2.2      1.8     GNI                                Gross
                                                                                       per                               primary
 Mostrecentestimate (latestyear available, 1996-02)                                    capita                           nrollment
 Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverfyline)           17
 Urbanpopulation(% of tofalpopulabon)                       86         76      75
 Lifeexpectancyat birth(yearsj                              76         71      73
 Infantmortality (per 1,OGUlivebirthsf                       9         27      19
 Child malnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                      1          9                    Accessto improvedwater source
 Accessto an improvedwatersource (% ofpopulation)           93         86      90
 llliieracy(% ofpopulationa9e 754                            4         11        7
 Grosspnmaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)         103         130     105               Chile
     Male                                                 104         131     106               Upper-middle-incomegroup
     Female                                               101         128     105

 KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982    1992        2001    2002
 GDP (US$billions)                                                                     Economicratios.
                                                 24.3    41.9        66.5    64.2
 GrossdomesticinvestmenffGDP                     113     23.8        20.7
 Exportsof goodsandservices/GDP                  194     30.7        34.7                               Trade
 GrossdomesticsavingsiGDP                         9.4    25.2        22.7
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                                 21.5        19.8                                 T
Currentaccoun! balance/GDP                       -95     -2.3        -1.9
 Interestpayments/GDP                             8 0      2.7        2.7      2.5     Domestic                       Investment
Total debffGDP                                   71 1    45.7        57.8    63.0      savings

Total debtservice/exports                                20.8        29.5    33.1
Presentvalueof debt/GDP                                              56.8
Presentvalue of debfhxports                                        167.2
                                                                                                     Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02   2001        2002  2002-06
(averageannualgrowh)
GDP                                      6.8      5 0     2.8                             -
                                                                      2.1      4.0               Chile
GDP percapita                            5.0      3 6      1 5        0.9      3.0          . .  UDDer-middle-incomeO~OUD
Exportsof goodsandservices               9.7      8 8     9.7


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY                                                              1 0
                                                1982    1992        2001     2002    IGrowthof investmentandGDP      (%)          c
(99 of GDP)                                                                      II
Agriculture                                       5.5     9.9         8.8              20

Industry                                         34.7    38.1        34.3
   Manufacturing                                 18.5    20.5        15.8
Services                                         59.8    52.0        56.9            I

Privateconsumption                               75.3    65.2        65.3        ..   -401
Generalgovernmentconsumption                     15.3     9.7        12.0
Importsof goodsandservices                       21.3    29.3        32.7                       -GDI           -GDP



                                             1982-92 1992-02        2001
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                      7.4      1.8         6.5             20                                         I
                                                                                        7-

Industry                                         5.7     5.1          2.1       ..    10
  Manufacturing                                  6.4     3.1         -0.3       "
Services                                         5.7     3.6          2.9              0

Privateconsumption                               5.4     5.8          3.0            -10

Generalgovernmentconsumption                     1.5     3.6         2.7        ..   -20
Grossdomestic investment                        14.6     5.0       -13.8                     -Exports         +Imports
Importsof goodsandservices                       9.4     8.4         -1.3                                                        I
                                                                                                                 ~~          ~~

Note: 2002 dataarepreliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentral database.
'Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry(inbold)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwill
   be incomplete.




                                                                74

                                                                                                                               Chile

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                               1982         1992     2001    2002
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   9.9       15.4       3.6     3.0
ImplicitGDPdeflator                               8.5       11.8       1.5     2.6
Governmentfinance
("A of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                             22.9     22.8    22.8             97    sa      99       w      01
Current budget balance                                        5.0      3.2     2.4    j
Overall surpluddeficit                              ......                                    -GDPdeflator
                                                              2.3                                                    b C P I
                                                                      -0.3    -1.1

TRADE
                                               1982         1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                         Exportand import levels (US$mill.)
Total exports(fob)                             3,706       10,007  18,050   19,133
  Copper                                       1,685       3,886    6,746    7,151
  Fruits                                         375       1.005    1,116    1,182
  Manufactures                                 1,207       4,031    9,070    9,614
Total imports(cif)                             4,094       10,183  16,334   17,151
  Food                                           590
  Fueland energy                                 632        1.138   2,589    2,718
                                                                                                                                    I
  Capital goods                                  697       2,540    3,418    3,589
Export price index(1995=100)                                  75       65       68           96   97     98     99    w    01

Import price index (1995=100)                                  86     117      127                Exports        .Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           ..        87       55       53                                               O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                               1982         1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                         Currentaccount balanceto GDP(Oh)             1
Exports of goods and services                       ..     12,364  22,315   23,019
Importsof goods and services                               11,820  21,221   20,619
Resourcebalance                                     ....      544   1,094    2,400
Net income                                                 -1,881   -2,757  -2,808
Net currenttransfers                                ....      378     422     -529
Current account balance                       -2,304         -957   -1,243
Financingitems (net)                                ..      3,455   2,363
Changes innet reserves                              ..     -2,498   -1,120  -1,165
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)                ..      9,009  16,331   17,495
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocal/US$)                  50.9       362.6    634.9   688.9

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                                1982        1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                         Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed           17,315       19,134  38,398   40,432
  IBRD                                            200       1,928      728     555
  IDA                                             20           13        7       6
Total debt service                             3,676        2,693    6,648   7,702
  IBRD                                            28          312      182     252
  IDA                                               1           1        1       1
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                   7          56       23       0
  Official creditors                              -69          54     -121    -313
  Privatecreditors                             1,497          532    1,461   1.385
  Foreigndirect investment                        401         935    4,476       0
  Portfolioequity                                   0         338     -219       0                          F:36.400
World Bank program
  Commitments                                       0         313        0       0                                         -
  Disbursements                                                                        A IBRD                            E Bilateral
                                                  32          200       39      28     B IDA     D- Other multilateral   F .Private
  Principalrepayments                              14         168      119     202     C IMF
                                                                                        ---                              G Short-tern
                                                                                                                           -
  Net flows                                        19          32      -81    -175
  Interestpayments                                 15         144       64      50
  Net transfers                                     3        -112     -144    -225

Note: This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.                                                  8/26/03




                                                                  75


