               Document of
            The World Bank




                                         Report No: 30744

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (FSLT-72020)

                  ON A

                  LOAN

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION

                 TO THE

           REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                 FOR A

SOCIA PROTECTION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




               June 27, 2005

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 23, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Chilean Peso
                                           Ch$ 1 = US$ 0.0016903
                                       US$ 1.00 = Ch$ 589.25

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BPF        Conditional cash transfer for participants in Puente Program (Bono de Protección
           Familiar)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CASEN      Chile's national household survey, conducted every two years (Caracterización
           Nacional)
DDO        Deferred Draw Down Option
DIPRES     Budget Office, Ministry of Finance (Dirección de Presupuesto, Ministerio de Hacienda)
Ficha CAS  Questionnaire based targeting instrument used to prioritize recipients of social transfers
FOSIS      Chile's social investment fund (Fondo Solidario de Inversión Social)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF        International Monetary Fund
MIDEPLAN   Ministry of Planning and Cooperation (Ministerio de Planificación)
NGO        Nongovernmental organization
OECD       Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
PASIS      Non Contributary, Social Assistance Benefit to Elderly Indigent (Pensiones
           asistenciales)
Puente     Entry Program to Chile Solidario, Administered by FOSIS
SECAL      Sector Adjustment Loan
SUF        Non Contributory Single Subsidy to Poor Families (Subsidio Unico Familiar)
VAT        Value Added Tax

                                 Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                               Country Director       Axel Van Trotsenburg
                                Sector Manager        Helena Ribe
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Theresa P. Jones/Truman Packard

                                            CHILE
                          Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Partner Comments - Informe de Evaluación                                24

Project ID: P078088                                                  Project Name: Social Protection Sector Adjustment
                                                                     Loan - DDO
Team Leader: Theresa Jones                                           TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan - DDO L/C/TF Number: FSLT-72020
   Country/Department: CHILE                                                              Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (75%); Central government administration
                            (10%); General education sector (5%); Health (5%); Sub-national
                            government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Social risk coping (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (S); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/26/2003                                     Effective: 12/15/2003                01/08/2004
     Appraisal: 09/22/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 11/25/2003                                      Closing: 01/06/2007                 04/29/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CHILE/MIDEPLAN; DIPRES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:                 Helena Ribe                                    Christopher Chamberlin
Team Leader at ICR:             Theresa Jones & Truman                         Theresa Jones and Truman Packard
                                Packard
ICR Primary Author:             Jorge C. Barrientos


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Chile Social Protection Sector Adjustment operation were to support
efforts by the Government of Chile to improve the access of the neediest households to the social protection
system, and increase the effectiveness of this system in alleviating poverty. This one-tranche loan was
designed to support Government actions to (1) maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework that
continued to be consistent with the objective of sustaining economic growth to further reduce poverty; and
(2) reform Chile's poverty reduction and social protection policies, to reduce poverty and exclusion by
creating greater access to social protection and wider social services for the neediest households (the Chile
Solidario initiative). In addition, a separate Technical Assistance loan was provided to support actions
aimed at (1) increasing the efficiency and efficacy of social policy and programs, through improved
targeting and better use of information, by integrating, gathering and exchanging publicly and privately
held data on households relevant for social policy into a national information system; (2) strengthening
regular monitoring and impact evaluation of social programs and policies; and (3) increasing the
sustainability of reforms to poverty reduction and social protection policies, through clear assignment of
roles and division of responsibilities between central government, municipal authorities and civil society.

In May 2002, the Lagos Administration announced the Chile Solidario initiative, a package of legislative
and administrative reforms to Chile's poverty reduction and social protection policies. The Chile Solidario
policy initiative has several features that distinguish it from other poverty reduction strategies in the region.
The starting premise of the intervention is that the principal asset (and perhaps the only capital) held by
needy households, is their desire to live as a family and the complex web of intra-household mutual support
that this entails. Thus, the preferential access to Chile's social protection system created with the Chile
Solidario reform package is targeting households/families, rather than individuals, currently classified as
poor or indigent. At the same time, it is shifting away from a piecemeal approach of separate, targeted
social assistance and social insurance programs, by bundling existing social services and cash transfers and
creating a new conditional cash transfer for the poorest families that choose to participate. Additionally, it
is eliminating quotas and the rationing of benefits and services for the neediest, connecting excluded groups
to the public and private network of services, reducing the number of intermediaries between providers and
beneficiaries of social protection interventions, and acting as a catalyst for targeted interventions in other
social sectors. This active promotion of social services, similar to practices prevailing in OECD countries,
was considered appropriate given Chile's low levels of poverty and indigence, and greater administrative
capacity relative to other countries in the region. When set against the history of social policy in Chile, the
changes to the social protection system particularly, with respect to social assistance, implied by this policy
shift are as significant as the reform of welfare in the United States in the mid 1990s.

This operation was based on the Bank's broad knowledge of the Chilean poverty situation and the
Government's policies and programs to address it. Although Chile had achieved substantial success in
reducing poverty since 1987, associated with economic growth and an increase in targeted social
expending, indigence has hardly declined since the early 1990s. The Bank had argued in its 2001 Poverty
Report that given persistent rates of extreme poverty the Government should take a more proactive stance
in its poverty reduction and social protection policies. Relatively lower rates of poverty and indigence than
in most countries in the region make a proactive approach more viable in Chile than in other developing
countries. Both the Poverty Report, and the more recent report on Household Risk Management and Social
Protection (World Bank, 2003), had indicated that despite the remarkable gains in eradicating poverty in
the past decade, a new set of policies and interventions - buttressed with institutional reforms to correct
targeting errors and to mainstream monitoring and evaluation practices - were required to reach Chile's
poorest groups and increase the effectiveness of poverty reduction and social protection policies. This



                                                       - 2 -

analytical work provided a solid base to assess the Government's Chile Solidario initiative and structure
achievable development objectives consistent with the country's needs and ability to implement policy
reforms and establish the associated practices and instruments.

The stated objectives of the loan are considered appropriate. These objectives supported the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and they were appropriate, realistic, and responsive to the Government's
priorities. The SECAL represented the culmination of the Bank's analytical work on poverty issues that
led to a meaningful and productive policy dialogue with the Government.

The choice of the DDO (deferred draw down option) was based on the support for the instrument provided
in the CAS, based on the external risks being faced by Chile. The argument made in the Program
Document was that sustained and rapid growth has been at the heart of the country's past success in
reducing poverty. However, Chilean exports, dominated by primary products, were highly sensitive to
changing trends in global markets introducing new requirements in terms of technology, skills, and
knowledge. Additionally, foreign direct investment and external financing, important in the 1990s, now
might not be as forthcoming because of heightened regional uncertainties. Faced with these increased
external uncertainties, the Government of Chile wanted to expand and diversify the set of risk management
instruments at its disposal. The Government was seeking ways to manage risks pro-actively, especially in
the event of higher volatility in international financial and commodity markets beyond what could be
cushioned by the country's present risk management tools. As pointed out in the CAS, conditions in Chile
were consistent with the Bank's prerequisites for use of the DDO instrument. Macroeconomic policies and
program implementation had been highly satisfactory. This operation supported core structural reforms in
the area of poverty reduction and social protection in a country that was eligible for IBRD assistance, but
was not making full use of the Bank's financial resources. Additionally, the social protection adjustment
loan with a deferred draw down option provided a formal basis for continued engagement in policy dialogue
with the Bank. The government requested the Deferred Draw Down Option (DDO) for this operation
because it offered the possibility of not tapping into the resources until there was a need, as well as the
absence of a penalty for non-use. Another attractive feature for the government was that, being a
single-tranche loan with upfront conditions, all funds became readily available upon loan effectiveness.

However, after the loan was declared effective in early January 2004, the Government decided to
drawdown the full amount immediately. Instead of the risk hedging objectives pursued with the DDO
instrument, the Government opted to use the DDO resources as part of its overall financing requirements,
including reducing the overall cost of the debt portfolio.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A.

3.3 Original Components:
The social protection reform program under the SECAL consisted of actions in five key policy areas, as
detailed below and in the Policy Matrix (see Annex 1).

l Economic Management. It was important to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework that
    continued to be consistent with the objective of sustaining economic growth to further reduce poverty.

l Poverty Reduction and Social Protection. A need had been detected for reforming policies to reduce
    poverty and exclusion by creating greater access to social protection and wider social services for the
    neediest households (the Chile Solidario initiative). This component was aimed at introducing
    substantial changes in Chile's social policies including (1) the introduction of a pro-active approach and



                                                       - 3 -

  focus on the family unit; (2) the consolidation of the principal social assistance transfers and subsidies;
  (3) the creation of a new conditional cash transfer; (4) the consolidation of the policy initiative under
  MIDEPLAN; (5) guaranteed primary health care and the creation of a new school-retention voucher
  for at risk children and youth in beneficiary households; and (6) measures to bundle the supply of
  public services to the country's neediest.

l Targeting and Information Management. Although the Government of Chile had more information
  and better data on social protection programs at its disposal than most other countries in the region,
  what was missing were critical links between data bases on receipt of social transfers, employment and
  earnings, taxation and compliance, and the civil registry. Such links allowed governments in OECD
  countries to accurately identify the poor, weed out tax evasion, and monitor the impact of their policies.
  The current information systems failed to identify many individuals and households at risk largely
  through failure to coordinate an enormous amount of data that is already being collected publicly and
  privately. In addition, there was a need to revise the proxy means instrument and improve its
  administration, particularly at the municipal level. This component was designed to increase the
  efficiency and efficacy of social policy and programs through improved targeting and better use of
  information. In the area of targeting and information management, the loan supported (1)
  improvements in Chile's targeting instruments and phased adoption of a more effective targeting tool;
  (2) the integration of publicly held data immediately relevant to the efficient and effective
  implementation of the Chile Solidario initiative managed by MIDEPLAN; (3) the full implementation
  of a National Social Protection Information System under the inter-ministerial and inter-agency
  "Gobierno Electrónico" initiative; and (4) the development of legal safeguards to protect individual
  privacy and ensure individual household access to personal information held in the public domain.

l Institutionalize regular monitoring of implementation, and impact evaluation of social policies and
  programs. Chile's monitoring and evaluation structures were relatively limited, leading to a
  proliferation of sometimes overlapping, redundant and poorly targeted programs in the line ministries
  that were only subject to some review within budgetary processes. A well equipped and trained
  monitoring and evaluation unit had been installed in the Finance Ministry, but only a handful of
  programs had been evaluated to date. This component was included to strengthen the government's
  ability for monitoring and performing impact evaluation of social programs. In this area, the loan
  supported (1) measures to mainstream and institutionalize regular monitoring and evaluation of the
  social policies and programs that make up the core of the Chile Solidario initiative; (2) clearly assign
  MIDEPLAN a key role and responsibility for evaluation of these core programs; (3) public
  dissemination of evaluation results including internet availability of results, data and methodology; and
  (4) clearly assign responsibility for regular evaluation of "non-core" programs critical to the success of
  Chile Solidario.

l Wider Participation and Better Coordination. Although the formulation and implementation of
  social policy and programs was considerably more centralized in Chile than in neighboring countries,
  municipal authorities were at the front line and in most cases were the only level of government in
  contact with the poor. The policy and program priorities of municipal authorities could often be at
  odds with those of the Central Government with the potential for implementation difficulties and
  problems. Greater efficiency and political sustainability could be brought to the social protection
  system by a clearer allocation of powers, roles and responsibilities between central and municipal
  authorities in the formulation and implementation of social policy and programs. Additionally, there
  were few formal links between Chile's social protection programs and policies, and nongovernmental
  community organizations, particularly those operating at the local level. Civil Society in Chile could
  play a greater role in implementing social programs and policies, especially in bridging the divide


                                                    - 4 -

    between the poorest and the publicly supplied transfers and services to which they were entitled. Civil
    Society organizations were already largely in contact with the population the Government would like to
    target with its social policies and interventions, and they could play a key role helping the Government
    to correct some of the targeting and monitoring problems, and to expand access to the social protection
    system. This component aimed at increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty reduction and
    social protection policies, through reaching a clearer assignment of roles and division of responsibilities
    between central government, municipal authorities and civil society. In the area of wider participation
    and better coordination, the loan supported (1) measures to ensure greater impact and political
    sustainability of the Chile Solidario initiative, through a clear assignment of roles and division of
    responsibilities between central and municipal governments and civil society; (2) consultations with
    municipal authorities and civil society organizations on the implementation of Chile Solidario; (3)
    reforms to provide tax incentives for private contributions to organizations in civil society involved in
    poverty reduction; (3) the formation of a regular forum at which the central government, municipal
    authorities and civil society could exchange views and form joint strategies for implementing and
    improving social policies and programs; and (4) measures to ensure that municipal authorities and civil
    society remained closely involved in the Chile Solidario initiative, and that these agencies also benefited
    from improvements in the information infrastructure.

3.4 Revised Components:
The five key policy areas were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The CAS set out three broad goals: (1) sustain economic growth and social policy; (2)
increase inclusion, especially of rural populations and vulnerable groups; and (3) modernize the state as the
underpinning for the two previous objectives. The adjustment loan responded directly to these three
objectives. The loan supported Chile's reform of poverty reduction and social protection policies and
programs directed to the neediest households, which also ranked quite high in the government's priorities.
Additionally, this operation incorporated initiatives to modernize the management of the state in order to
facilitate the reform process, specifically by better managing information, mainstreaming impact
evaluation, and clearly defining the roles of central and municipal government as well as civil society in the
formulation and implementation of social policy and programs.

Based on its consistency with CAS objectives and government priorities, quality at entry is considered
satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and outputs is considered Satisfactory. However, since very little time
passed between the approval of the loan and the drawdown, it needs to be recognized that it is not possible
yet to see of the major expected outcomes. Nevertheless, the discussion below by component demonstrates
that in spite of delays in some areas, the reform program supported by the loan seems to be on a good
footing. Based on current information, it would appear that the lending operation provided a sound basis
for establishing a modern social protection system in Chile under an environment of good macroeconomic
management. Progress in each component of the loan is summarized below. Detailed information is
contained in the table: Milestones in the Implementation of Chile Solidario and Related Reform Program.

Macroeconomic framework




                                                       - 5 -

Chile continued to demonstrate a sound policy framework and strong macroeconomic fundamentals.
Recent data on macroeconomic performance confirm the positive assessment made in the Program
Document. Growth for 2003 stood at 3.3% and is expected to rise to about 5% in 2004. Inflation in 2003
reached only 1.1%, the lowest rate achieved over the last 6 decades. A fiscal surplus of GDP is currently
estimated for 2004, spurred by strong exports and strengthening domestic demand. This is an improvement
over the fiscal deficit of GDP registered in 2003, and remains consistent with Chile's 1% structural fiscal
surplus rule. Monetary policy continued to play an important counter-cyclical role. During January 2004,
the reference interest rate was reduced 100 basis points to 1.75%, although it was increased to 2.0% in
September. With public external debt projected to decline from 13% to 10.5% of GDP, international
reserves at almost US$ 16 billion, and a well regulated and deeply capitalized financial sector (the capital
adequacy ratio is close to 14%), the economy has many cushions against potential external shocks,
including against regional contagion. The credibility of macroeconomic policy has been further increased
by the Government's continued strict control over expenditures, the increase in revenues through a
temporary 1% increase in the VAT in order to offset the tariff revenue forgone through recent trade
agreements and to finance additional outlays associated with social programs (including Chile Solidario),
and the use of most of the surpluses accumulated by Copper Stabilization Fund to repay more
expensive debt.

Faster growth in 2004 is expected to stem from both external factors ­ improved terms of trade and a
generally favorable external environment ­ and domestic factors ­ higher investment and consumer demand
in response to low domestic interest rates and improved overall confidence. Despite the exchange rate
appreciation vis-à-vis the US dollar, Chile's exports are expected to continue growing at a fast pace,
favored by the recently signed Free Trade Agreements (most recently with the United States), continued
strong demand from trading partners and the US dollar depreciation vis-a­vis other currencies. Chile's
main sources of vulnerability are its insufficiently diversified export structure, dominated by
resource-based products (copper) and agro-industry; a relatively high level of corporate debt, regional
instability and a sharp increase in global interest rates or oil prices. However, these risks are mitigated by:
low public debt levels, a strong net international asset position, a track record of prudent macroeconomic
policy, a structural reform program backed by broad political consensus, strong institutions, and proven
resilience during recent shocks.

Other Components

In addition to the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, the Loan supported
Government actions in four key areas: (1) reforms to Chile's poverty reduction and social protection
policies, to reduce poverty and exclusion by creating greater access to social protection and wider social
services for the neediest households (the Chile Solidario initiative); (2) increasing the efficiency and
efficacy of social policy through improved targeting and better use of information by gathering,
exchanging, and integrating into a national information system, publicly and private held data on
households and relevant to social policy; (3) strengthening regular monitoring and impact evaluation of
social programs and policies; and (4) increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty reduction and
social protection policies, through clear assignment of roles and division of responsibilities between central
government, municipal authorities and civil society.

Reduce poverty and exclusion by creating greater access to social protection and wider social services.
There was good progress in this component of the reform program. First, on December 10, 2003, the
Senate approved unanimously the Government's proposal on Chile Solidario. In March 2004 a law for
Chile Solidario was approved by the National Congress and enacted two months later. The law provided



                                                       - 6 -

powers to the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (MIDEPLAN) to coordinate and implement Chile
Solidario, to create the national information system for social programs, and to consolidate cash transfers.
The only item expected to be included in the law, but not approved, was the transfer of SUF and PASIS
administration from the Ministry of Labor to MIDEPLAN. The financing for this and other critical social
programs have also been approved through recently enacted legislation. Second, the number of families
participating in Chile Solidario has risen from the 80,000 mentioned in the Program Document to 126,271
as of August 2004, as compared to the target of 117 thousand. Moreover, the rates of refusal to participate
or interruptions in participation continued to be low (5% or less). Third, the Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation (MIDEPLAN), the agency responsible for coordinating Chile Solidario, has signed 14
agreements with public and private agencies to transfer resources for Chile Solidario and 25 additional
working agreements with other programs to gain preferential access to their services for Chile Solidario
beneficiaries.

Increase the efficiency and efficacy of social policy and programs through improved targeting and better
use of information. Progress in this area was less than planned, although several important actions were
carried out. Databases relevant to Chile Solidario as well as data for 11 social programs were integrated
into the national social protection system The Government decided not to apply the revised proxy means
instrument (ficha CAS) to the Puente Program. MIDEPLAN did decide on a plan of costs and a timeline
for the switch to the new ficha. The expected study on the optional balance between privacy and efficiency
was not carried out nor were protocols drawn up for the access and use of information, due to delays in
contracting the needed technical support for the design and installation of the national information system
for social protection.

Institutionalize regular monitoring of implementation, and impact evaluation of social policies and
programs. The Program continued to be well-monitored by the Borrower, including the progress being
achieved among the participant families. In addition, in the area of monitoring and evaluation, the field
work for the household survey, the primary source of data for the impact evaluation of Chile Solidario, was
completed during November-December 2003. The instrument added questions needed for the impact
evaluation. Work to design the follow-up survey was carried out on time and the field work commenced as
scheduled in November 2004. There were delays in carrying out the impact evaluation of core social
policies and programs, which instead of being completed in 2004, are now expected during 2005.

Greater sustainability of reforms to poverty reduction and social protection policies, through clear
assignment of roles and division of responsibilities between central government, local government and
civil society. Not all the actions identified in the Program Document were carried out. The "instancias de
trabajo" proposed to be created with the participation of the central government, municipal authorities, and
civil society organizations to coordinate implementation of Chile Solidario policies and programs were not
created. Working groups comprised of municipal authorities and civil society organizations do exist at the
municipal level. There were no events hosted by the central government to exchange implementation
experience between municipalities. Although municipal governments did not receive access to the ficha
CAS on line in 2004, training had started to roll-out this instrument and was expected to be completed in
2005.

Furthermore, a beneficiary assessment was carried out, in two regions, by the Faculty of Social Sciences of
Universidad de Chile, during February ­ March 2004, with highly positive results. 88% of participants
considered the program a success, highlighting its multidimensional approach and the personalized support
received. Three aspects of the program had a particularly positive recognition by beneficiaries: (1) social
recognition, where participants feel they are considered as persons who can participate in conversations
about themselves; (2) a social protection scheme with several programs actually reaching them in a


                                                       - 7 -

coordinated way, and support providers becoming simultaneously and information link and a contact
person with social services institutions; and (3) social mobility where they now feel that they have a
concrete program of actions for coming out of indigence.

A complementary technical assistance loan was approved by the Bank in December 2003 to support the
efforts of the government implement Chile Solidario and lay the foundation of a national system of social
protection. The loan became effective June 18, 2004. The project supports actions in four key areas: (1)
increasing the efficiency and efficacy of social policy through improved targeting and better use of
information by integrating, gathering and exchanging publicly and privately held data on households and
relevant to social policy into a national information system, including improvements to the country's
primary targeting instrument, the Ficha CAS; (2) strengthening regular monitoring and impact evaluation
of social programs and policies; and (3) increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty reduction and
social protection policies, through clear assignment of roles and division of responsibilities between central
government, municipal authorities and civil society. Implementation of the technical assistance project
started in late 2003 and is currently well underway. Project teams are in place and the initial actions to
design and begin implementation of the integrated information system and the impact evaluation of Chile
Solidario have already started. The technical assistance project is expected to be completed by December
2006.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The Social Protection Reform
See Table of Milestones in the Implementation of Chile Solidario and Related Reform Program.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is considered substantial. The Chile Solidario Secretariat created by
the Government in May 2002, when the program was launched, is now consolidated. It is currently playing
a key coordinating role with several ministries and agencies involved in the program. Most importantly,
after the Chile Solidario law was approved, the Secretariat was given authority to manage the budget
approved for the program, irrespective of the ministry or agency actually making disbursements for
subsidies or other operating expenditures under the program. This feature became, in practice, a tool for
ensuring that resources are being used to reduce gaps in coverage under a wide range of programs favoring
Chile Solidario beneficiaries. Furthermore, the role given to MIDEPLAN under the law ensures that there
will not only be support to complete the Chile Solidario program as originally envisaged but also to
establish a solid basis for implementing a modern social protection system in the longer-run.

Another key feature in institutional development is the implementation of the social protection information
system, supported by the Technical Assistance loan and currently underway. This system would enable to
implement a social protection system on a decentralized basis, supporting municipalities in their key role
interacting directly with beneficiaries. Having access to an information system, with supporting data from
ministries and agencies involved in social protection programs, is a key element need in order to provide a
sound basis for implementing a decentralized system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome



                                                      - 8 -

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
While passing the Chile Solidario law, the Congress refused to include the consolidation of all transfers
under MIDEPLAN. Two critical subsidies within the program, for assisting poor families (SUF) and the
elderly (PASIS), were kept under the social assistance agency within the Ministry of Labor. The argument
given in Congress was that such reforms belonged to a different initiative dealing with streamlining
management of public expenditures. This has imposed an additional burden on the Secretariat for
coordinating subsidies for Chile Solidario beneficiaries. The government is currently planning to include
transfer of these subsidies to MIDEPLAN under the proposed law for public expenditures management.

One factor that has had a positive effect on implementation has been the bipartisan support that the
program has had both in Congress, for approval of the laws, and within municipalities for its
implementation. The program has been very well received and accepted by all relevant stakeholders.
Particularly remarkable was the support to the program coming from mayors even from opposition parties,
who have provided managerial and operational staff and, in some cases, additional financial resources to
accelerate implementation of the program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Perhaps the most salient characteristic has been the political commitment to the program reflected in the
passage of the laws (both financing and Chile Solidario). The good macro-economic management by the
Government has also not only facilitated the availability of adequate budget resources but also enabled a
favorable socioeconomic environment for its implementation. Another key factor in the satisfactory
implementation pace of Chile Solidario has been the strong implementation capacity of FOSIS which
enabled the targets on inclusion of families to be met. One factor which contributed to some weaknesses
and delays in implementation of the Program were the lack of sufficient cooperation and of close working
relationship between the Social Division of MIDEPLAN and both the Executive Secretariat of Chile
Solidario and FOSIS. More recently, there has been an improvement in the are which is expected to
strengthen implementation of the Program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
N/A.

5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the program is considered highly likely. Several factors support the sustainability of
the program. Both key laws were passed providing the institutional and legal framework, as well as the
financial resources to implement the Chile Solidario program. Additionally, the Technical Assistance
Project, financed under a separate loan, has ensured support for critical implementation activities, such as
the establishment of a consolidated social protection information system in the public sector, monitoring
and implementation of the program, and institutional strengthening of MIDEPLAN.

Additionally, several key activities demonstrate already good progress towards sustainability of the
program. As of June 30, 2004, MIDEPLAN had signed 14 agreements to transfer resources for Chile
Solidario beneficiaries. These resources would ensure that programs would have adequate resources and
coverage of the public network of services, facilitating the completion of the minimum conditions for the
families in the Program. In addition, MIDEPLAN had concluded agreements with 25 institutions or public
programs for providing preferential services to the families of Chile Solidario. These arrangements are



                                                      - 9 -

working to promote the needed changes in the design and delivery of social programs to better serve the
extremely poor in Chile. Already some programs (for example, FOSIS, and educational scholarships) have
been major institutional changes to bring this about. The link with budget resources is critical - both for
the leverage it provides to the Executive Secretariat of Chile Solidario and for the focus on the results
achieved with the financing. The full support of the DIPRES in the Ministry of Finance is a major factor
which should improve the chances for sustainability. MIDEPLAN has also signed an agreement with
FOSIS to cover, with Chile Solidario resources, the requirements for the housing dimension of the
minimum conditions. Furthermore, implementation of the plan to switch to a new "Ficha CAS" began in
early 2004. MIDEPLAN has decided to combine the implementation of the new Ficha CAS and the
CAS-on-line project which would substantially improve management of government subsidies by
municipalities and, at the same time, enable better updated information on the geographical distribution of
poverty which would improve policy making. Another key element to ensure sustainability of the program
lies in the proposed strengthening of MIDEPLAN's capability for monitoring and conducting impact
evaluation of social policies and programs. Albeit too early to judge results, the work on the impact
evaluation for Chile Solidario has gotten off to a strong start.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in preparing the operation was satisfactory. In the opinion of the Borrower, the
assistance provided by the Bank team during preparation and appraisal was very helpful, in large measure
because it built on the comprehensive sector work that had been carried out. The availability of the
Household Risk Management and Social Protection report provided a sound basis to help the government
to put together the reform program. As a result, the loan was able to ensure linkage of priority
macroeconomic concerns with key elements to be strengthened in the social protection system - improving
access to social protection and wider social services, mechanisms to improve targeting and the use of
information, and strengthening of the monitoring and impact evaluation of social programs. At the request
of the Government, the Bank mobilized consultant resources to jump-start the initiative on the social
protection information system. The Bank also made important contributions in the key areas of impact
evaluation and in promoting civil society involvement in social programs. Bank input and participation had
an important influence in the design of these aspects of the project. Cooperation within the team on
macroeconomic and sectoral issues was close. This was the first Bank operation to be prepared as a DDO,
and the only one to be drawn down.

7.2 Supervision:
Approval of the Government of Chile's two requests (January and February, 2004) for drawdown of the
loan's resources were handled in a timely and efficient manner, although it was the first time that these
procedures had been implemented in the Bank. Performance by the Bank is considered to be satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Considering performance in both lending and supervision, Bank performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance is considered to be highly satisfactory. Governments inputs were well organized
and provided in a timely manner. During preparation work for the DDO, Bank staff pushed to include



                                                    - 10 -

more controversial, deeper social protection reforms in the operation but government staff insisted that the
core content of the operation be strictly limited to changes in policy and institutions that would ensure
success of Chile Solidario. They believed that by maintaining this strict link and disciplined focus, wider
changes to the social protection system would eventually take place in a way that was more politically
possible and sustainable. The Government's ability to ensure a design that they believed would be more
effective is considered to be a positive factor for the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance is considered to be satisfactory. The Government has made substantial progress
to implement the reform program envisaged under the Social Protection Adjustment Loan, although there
have been delays in some areas (implementation of the national social protection information system and
social program impact evaluations). Key achievements were the passage of the Chile Solidario legislation,
achieving the target for inviting additional families to join the Chile Solidario program, and carrying out
the work necessary for the impact evaluation of Chile Solidario. The current status of actions envisaged as
milestones for 2004-5 is summarized in Table 2. The slow start to the technical assistance loan
contributed to some of these delays, but more recently implementation has picked up. In most cases, the
actions expected to be carried out in 2004, but not realized, are expected to be completed during 2005.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
N.A.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is considered to be satisfactory. The Borrower was highly committed to the
adjustment program, as demonstrated by the personal involvement of President Lagos in ensuring approval
of the Chile Solidario legislation. The government commitment had already been demonstrated with their
request for, support for, and participation in the preparation of the Household Risk Management and Social
Protection report, in the two years prior to start of preparation of the DDO. This commitment was also
shown by their work in designing and launching the pilot PUENTE program in February ­ April 2002, the
announcement of the President to upscale Puente into Chile Solidario in the presidential address of May
2002, their request for an adjustment operation in August 2002, and their close participation and
cooperation in the preparation of the DDO operation. The time required to implement the national social
protection information system and to carry out the impact evaluations for social programs turned out to be
greater than planned, but there has been no change in commitment in these areas. The identification of the
appropriate mechanisms to involve civil society more closely in the implementation of Chile Solidario also
has been slower than expected, but some lessons should be available by the end of 2005. More effort is
needed to analyze the municipal experience in the implementation of Chile Solidario.




8. Lessons Learned

1.       Poverty Focus. While many of the recent adjustment operations in the social sectors have been of
the multi-sector, programmatic variety, this was an adjustment operation focused surgically on poverty
reduction policies. The nature of the changes required by the new policies, are likely to have beneficial
external spill-over effects on the quality of public services in the social sectors that will benefit groups
beyond just the poor.

2.       The DDO Instrument. This was only the second DDO in the Bank, but the first DDO to be
prepared as such from the earliest stages of identification. It should be highlighted, that it was the client
who requested to use this new instrument. It was clearly an advantage that the Bank was supporting a


                                                      - 11 -

reform program which is already underway, ensuring that there is already substantial government
commitment and thus reducing the risks associated with a reform program.

3.       Conditionality. The reduced number of conditions for the single tranche was a positive feature
reflecting the nature of the DDO instrument. Additionally, most of the conditions included under this
operation were focused on establishing or strengthening "good processes" (data integration, evaluation and
monitoring, division of responsibilities between various levels of government and NGO's, etc.), which were
converted into matters of "good policy". One special feature associated with a DDO is that the
commitment fee (1 percent on undisbursed amounts) only begins to be applied 60 days after the loan
agreement is signed. Since all conditions are met before Board presentation, there is a strong incentive for
fast disbursing as it did happen in this case.

4.       Technical Assistance Project. The link with the Technical Assistance loan will ensure continued
Bank involvement, regardless of whether the DDO is the draw down quickly, as it was the case. The
Technical Assistance Project would also help to support sustainability of the reform program.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has provided to the Bank their own Implementation Report which has been added as Annex
8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

ICR Team:
Theresa Jones, ICR Task leader
Truman Packard, co-Task Leader
Jorge C. Barrientos, Consultant
Febe Mackay, Program Assistant




                                                    - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Policy Objective                     Policies/Policy Reform               Prior to Board Presentation
Maintenance of a satisfactory        Satisfactory macroeconomic           1.           Satisfactory
macroeconomic framework.             framework                            macroeconomic framework, reflected
                                                                          in IMF Article IV report ad World
                                                                          Bank Staff assessments.

Reduce poverty and exclusion by      Reforms to Chile's poverty reduction 1.         Presidential decree No.144,
creating grater access to social     and social protection policies: The  launching the Chile Solidario
protection and wider social services Chile Solidario policy initiative    initiative, and creating an
                                                                          inter-ministerial and advisory
                                                                          committee.
                                                                          2.         Inclusion of financing of
                                                                          Puente and Chile Solidario initiative
                                                                          in budget proposal for 2004.
                                                                          3.         Adoptions of Chile
                                                                          Solidario financial legislation.
                                                                          4.         Adoption of legislation
                                                                          creating targeted school retention
                                                                          vouchers
                                                                          5.         Agreements signed between
                                                                          MIDEPLAN and at least 25
                                                                          ministries and agencies for
                                                                          cooperation I the implementation of
                                                                          Chile Solidario.
                                                                          6.         Presentation of Chile
                                                                          Solidario reform legislation, setting
                                                                          foundations for a social protection
                                                                          system by formally transferring
                                                                          administration of SUF and PASIS to
                                                                          MIDEPLAN, and institutionalizing a
                                                                          new conditional cash transfer (the
                                                                          BPF) for participating households.




                                                   - 13 -

           Milestones in the Implementation of Chile Solidario and Related Reform Program
                                 Year 1 (2004)            Actual Performance            Year 2 (2005)            Actual
                                                                                                             Performance

I. Maintenance of a        1. Satisfactory macro      1. Chile demonstrated a        Satisfactory macro
satisfactory               framework reflected in     sound policy framework.        framework, reflected
macroeconomic              IMF Article IV report and Growth expected to rise to      in IMF Article IV
framework, consistent      World Bank Staff           5% in 2004. A fiscal surplus report and World
with the objectives of the Assessment.                of 1.5% of GDP estimated       Bank Staff
program of reforms,                                   for 2004, consistent with 1% Assessment.
including domestic and                                fiscal surplus rule. Public
external debt                                         external debt projected to
sustainability.                                       decline from 13% to 10.5%
                                                      of GDP.

II. Reduce poverty and     2. Enactment of Chile      2. Chile Solidario legislation Smaller CASEN PanelSurvey in
exclusion by creating      Solidario Legislation.     passed by Congress in March to monitor coverage     November 2004 of
greater access to social                              2004 and the law (19.949)      indicators           Chile Solidario
protection and wider                                  promulgated on May 14, 2004.                        beneficiaries and
social services.                                                                                          controls which will
                                                                                                          provide
                                                                                                          information on
                                                                                                          coverage
                                                                                                          indicators.

                           3. Transfer of SUF and     3. Not accomplished.           175 thousand families
                           PASIS administration to                                   been invited to enter
                           MIDEPLAN                                                  Puente

                           4. Complete baseline of    4. Complete baseline
                           coverage indicators from   indicators for coverage from
                           CASEN 2003 (SUF,           CASEN 2003 (SUF, PASIS,
                           PASIS, Agua Potable)       Agua potable) published in
                                                      August 2004)

                           5. 117 thousand families   5. 126,271 families invited
                           been invited to enter      to participate in Chile
                           Puente                     Solidario as of August 31,
                                                      2004

                           6. Additional working      6. and    7.
                           agreement signed with
                           (Ministries and            As of September 2004,

                           government agencies)       MIDEPLAN had signed 17

                           granting priority access toagreements to transfer

                           Puente beneficiaries       budget resources in order to
                                                      guarantee preferential access
                                                      for Chile Solidario
                                                      beneficiaries to 21 social
                                                      programs. In addition,
                                                      MIDEPLAN had concluded

                           7. Working agreements      agreements with 21

                           between MIDEPLAN and       institutions or public

                           participating government   programs to give preference

                           ministries and agencies    to the families of Chile

                           fully operational          Solidario without specific
                                                      budget transfers. An



                                                             - 14 -

                                                         agreement has been signed
                                                         with FOSIS to cover with the
                                                         resources of Chile Solidario
                                                         the requirements for the
                                                         housing dimension of the
                                                         minimum conditions.

                            8. Completed study of the 8. Study carried out.
                            costs and benefits
                            extending access to
                            private pensions,
                            disability and survivor
                            coverage to participants
                            in Chile Solidario

III. Increase the efficiency                                                                                 Implementation of
and efficacy of social      9. Databases relevant to     9. Databases relevant to Chile Implementation of    the plan to switch
policy and programs         Chile Solidario integrated Solidario have been integrated plan to switch to new  to new Ficha CAS
through improved            in the national social       in the national social          Ficha CAS
targeting and better use of protection information       protection information system                       began during
                                                                                                             second half of
information.                system.                                                                          2004.

                            10. Apply lessons from       10. Decision made not to        Integration of       By end 2005, an
                            pilot of proposed new        apply new Ficha CAS to          additional public    additional 8-10
                            Ficha CAS to targeting for Chile Solidario.                  databases (data      data bases
                            Puente.                                                      administered by      expected to be
                                                                                         municipalities)      incorporated

                            11. Present a plan of costs 11. MIDEPLAN has decided Publication and             To be prepared as

                            and timeline for full switch to "roll-out" the               dissemination of    part of study

                            to new Ficha CAS             implementation of the new       "access protocols"  starting at the

                                                         Ficha CAS and the CAS on        for use of publicly beginning

                                                         line simultaneously over the    administered data   of 2005

                                                         last part of 2004 and the early
                                                         part of 2005. Plan is to collect
                                                         information necessary for both
                                                         the old and revised versions of
                                                         the ficha CAS. In a period of
                                                         no more than 2 years
                                                         (2005-2006) for all families
                                                         with a ficha CAS it will be
                                                         possible to calculate both the
                                                         old and new scores. This
                                                         reflects the need to update the
                                                         ficha CAS every two years.
                                                         Once this point is reached, a
                                                         decision will be made on how
                                                         and when to make the change.
                                                         The entry of Chile Solidario
                                                         families will not be affected
                                                         by the transition.

                            12. Publication of study on 12. Discussion postponed to      Integration of      Contract for the

                            optional balance between follow the analysis of legal        additional public   design and

                            privacy and efficiency       aspects of integrated national databases            construction of a

                                                         social protection system.                           structure for
                                                                                                             interchange of data
                                                                                                             and a model for
                                                                                                             standardization of
                                                                                                             data organization




                                                                - 15 -

                                                                                                        under preparation
                                                                                                        would begin early
                                                                                                        2005

                       13. Public awareness       13. Workshop scheduled for      Define rules for      Contract for legal

                       campaigns of benefits of   October 2004 in order to both public, individual      work related to

                       integrating databases and publicize and deliver training access to personal      social protection

                       citizen protections and    on the social protection        data                  information system

                       privacy safeguards under   information system.                                   to start early 2005

                       new system.                Participants would be
                                                  Government staff working in
                                                  the programs that are included
                                                  in the Government's
                                                  informatics initiative.

                       14. Integration of data on 14. Data integrated for 11
                       beneficiaries of social    programs via CD's (not
                       programs and policies      automatic, pending
                                                  additional work).

                       15. Results of study of    15. Data on coverage of the
                       coverage of Ficha CAS      Ficha CAS analyzed in broad
                                                  terms. More detailed
                                                  analysis to take place during
                                                  first half of 2005.

                       16. Define a strategy for  16. Would be done after
                       "difusión y comunicación" completion of legal analysis,
                       public awareness campaign which is being contracted to
                       on benefits of integration start work in early 1995.
                       and privacy protection

                       17. Draw up protocols for 17. Contract for legal work
                       access and use of          related to social protection
                       information to protect     information system under
                       individual privacy         preparation to start early 2005.

IV. Institutionalize                                                              Evaluation of non-coreSpecific programs
regular monitoring of  18. Impact evaluation of   18. CASEN survey of             social programs       to be evaluated
implementation, and    Puente/Chile Solidario     November 2003, as well as       completed             would be decided
impact evaluation of   underway                   application of questionnaire to                       in early 2005
social policies and                               sample of Chile Solidario

programs                                          beneficiaries, carried out.
                                                  Questionnaire included
                                                  questions related to Chile
                                                  Solidario. Work in progress to
                                                  select control group, do first
                                                  set of analysis, and prepare
                                                  questionnaire for the follow-up
                                                  survey of both beneficiaries
                                                  and controls in November
                                                  2004. The process of
                                                  contracting the survey is
                                                  underway.

                       19. Impact evaluation of   19. Terms of reference          Results, methodology

                       core social policies and   prepared to contract            and data used

                       programs complete and      evaluations of 5 programs for   available on internet

                       lessons incorporated       which convenios have been
                                                  signed with the Executive




                                                         - 16 -

                             Secretariat of Chile
                             Solidario. Expected
                             completion date: mid-2005

20. Results, methodology     20. Studies not yet
and data used in impact      completed.
evaluation of core
programs available on
internet

21. Assign responsibility    21. Studies to be defined at
for impact evaluation of     be beginning of 2005
"non-core" social programs
(i) school retention
voucher; and (ii) primary
health attention for
Puente/Chile Solidario
Beneficiaries)

22. Create "Instancia de     22. Not fully carried out.
trabajo" with the            Working groups exist at the
participation of the central municipal level with those
government, municipal        authorities and the civil
authorities, and civil       society organizations
society organizations, to    participating in the network
coordinate implementation of services. Extent of
of Chile Solidario policies participation of civil society
and program.                 organizations varies among
                             municipalities.

23. Exchange of              23. Not carried out. An
implementation experience exploratory workshop is
between municipalities,      planned in late 2004 in a few
hosted by the central        municipalities to collect
government.                  information on municipal
                             views on sustainability of
                             Chile Solidario.

24. Access given to          24. Training scheduled to
municipal governments to start in August to "roll-out"
CAS on line                  the CAS on line. Training
                             will be carried out gradually
                             to cover all municipalities by
                             mid-2005

25. Assistance to 100        25. MIDEPLAN coordinating
poorest municipal            with SUBDERE
governments to upgrade
technological capacity, and
ensure access to integrated
information system.

26. Protocols granting       26. Contract for legal work
access   and establishing    related to social protection
responsibilities of          information system to start in
municipal governments in early 2005.
use of integrated database.




                                    - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

N/A




                                      - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               01/2003                   3    Economist/Task Manager (1)
                                              Operations Officer (1)
                                              Social Development Sp. (1)
               3/2003                    6    Economist/Task Manager (1)
               4-5/2003                          Economist (1)
                                                 Operations Officer (2)
                                                 Social Development Sp. (1)
                                                 Integrated Inf. Sys. Sp (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               7/2003                    6    Economist/Task Manger (1)
                                               Operations Officer (2)
                                               Country Economists (2)
                                               Financial Management Sp
                                              (1)
               9/2003                    3    Economist/Task Manager (1)
                                                Operations Officer (1)
                                                Lawyer (1)

 Supervision
               1/04                       1   Operations Officer                      S               S
               2/04                       1   Operations Officer                      S               S

 ICR
               5/04                      3     Economist/Task Manger (1)              S               S
                                                 Operations Officer (2)
               11/04                     1     Economis/Task Manager



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              28.81                        107,076.88
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   21.59                            74,840
  Supervision                              1.16                             6,425
  ICR                                      3.88                         14,534.10
  Total                                   55.44                        121.692,24




                                               - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

N/A.




                                      - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments

                                       INFORME DE EVALUACIÓN

                            SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN


I. Antecedentes

Durante el año 2002 el Ministerio de Hacienda de Chile inició conversaciones con el Banco Mundial con el
propósito de firmar un crédito de ajuste bajo la modalidad de Deferred Draw Option (DDO), asociado a las
reformas requeridas para la efectiva implementación del Sistema de Protección Social Chile Solidario. Las
reformas asociadas a la implementación de este sistema habían sido anunciadas por el Presidente Lagos en
mayo de 2002 y se orientaban a generar un sistema integrado de apoyo a las familias más pobres del país,
a cargo del Ministerio de Planificación y Cooperación (Mideplan).

De acuerdo a los antecedentes que había entregado el Banco Mundial al Ministerio de Hacienda, el nuevo
instrumento financiero, estructurado en la forma de una línea de crédito, estaba destinado a apoyar en sus
necesidades de liquidez a países que presentan estabilidad financiera, y sus desembolsos no se encontrarían
sujetos a los gastos de un proyecto en particular, sino que a la mantención de condiciones
macroeconómicas estables y avances en áreas específicas de reforma a acordar.

Ambas características resultaban atractivas para el Ministerio de Hacienda. Por una parte, la posibilidad de
tener acceso expedito a financiamiento del Banco Mundial sin que éste estuviera sujeto al desarrollo de un
proyecto de inversión específico, entregaba una alternativa interesante para diversificar las fuentes de
financiamiento del Gobierno Central, que en los últimos años se ha basado preferentemente en la emisión de
bonos comerciales de la República. Tan significativamente como lo anterior, el Ministerio de Hacienda
también estimó importante contar con el apoyo de los equipos técnicos del Banco Mundial en el
seguimiento de la implementación de Chile Solidario por parte de Mideplan.

Bajo esta perspectiva, el Gobierno de Chile trabajó con el Banco para acordar la firma de un crédito bajo
esta modalidad sujeto a (i) el mantenimiento de una política macroeconómica consistente con los objetivos
de la instalación de un sistema de protección social y (ii) avanzar en la instalación del sistema de
protección social Chile Solidario y el desarrollo de acciones y políticas consistentes con los objetivos de la
instalación de este sistema. Como preparación al establecimiento del DDO, durante el año 2003 se
sostuvieron diversas reuniones de trabajo entre profesionales del Banco Mundial y de la Dirección de
Presupuestos del Ministerio de Hacienda, con el objeto de determinar la matriz del crédito que permitiera
definir los requisitos previos para el establecimiento del mismo así como las variables a monitorear una
vez establecida la relación crediticia.

II. Comentarios al Proceso

El proceso de trabajo conjunto y negociación previo a la firma del crédito fue, en general, fluido, y se
ajustó en términos temporales a las necesidades del Ministerio de Hacienda.

En lo que se refería al marco de políticas y reformas asociadas al desarrollo del sistema de protección
social, el proceso fue ampliamente facilitado por el muy buen nivel técnico de los funcionarios del Banco
Mundial encargados del mismo, y el trabajo previo de investigación conjunto realizado entre 2001 y 2002



                                                     - 24 -

entre la Dirección de Presupuestos y el Banco Mundial en el área de protección social en Chile.

Tal vez el elemento menos armónico del proceso se dio en la discusión del marco macroeconómico.
Precisamente por haber alcanzado las condiciones de estabilidad económica y financiera que lo hacen
elegible para este tipo de instrumento financiero (DDO), hace muchos años que Chile no tiene un programa
con el Fondo Monetario Internacional ni programas de ajuste que requieran de una matriz de condiciones
macroeconómicas a ser monitoreadas por instituciones externas. La sugerencia inicial por parte del Banco
de un marco muy detallado de condiciones y metas macroeconómicas asociadas al crédito parecía, por
tanto, más un retroceso que un avance para el país en términos de sus relaciones con las entidades
financieras internacionales.

El alcanzar un acuerdo respecto de qué significaba específicamente mantener un marco de política
macroeconómica consistente con el desarrollo del sistema de protección social, por tanto, fue un proceso
interactivo y de aprendizaje para ambas partes. Finalmente, se acordó un marco que parece a nuestro juicio
el más apropiado para un instrumento de este tipo. Esto es, que se mantengan las condiciones generales que
le han dado al país la estabilidad que lo ha hecho elegible para el instrumento en el primer lugar, sin que
esto involucre un marco detallado de metas macroeconómicas distintas al marco de metas
macroeconómicas que el país autonomamente se ha dado.

III. Comentarios respecto del Instrumento

Como decíamos, el crédito de ajuste con un deferred draw option, presentaba para el Ministerio de
Hacienda de Chile una serie de elementos atractivos, tanto en términos financieros como de gestión pública.


En lo puramente financiero, el acceso a una línea de financiamiento con el Banco Mundial, abierta para
cubrir requerimientos de liquidez no anticipados, aparecía como un instrumento interesante para
complementar las fuentes de financiamiento que el gobierno ha venido abriendo en los últimos años en los
mercados de financiamiento privados (externos e domésticos).

Las condiciones financieras del crédito, por otra parte, aparecían relativamente atractivas, aunque nos
parece que la estructura de cobro del instrumento resulta en incentivos algo distorsionadores para los
objetivos del mismo. En efecto, la existencia de una comisión (sobretasa) por no uso de la línea, genera un
fuerte incentivo a girar rápidamente el saldo de la línea, lo que hace que la opción de diferir el giro sea más
bien teórica por el costo involucrado. Esto influyó en la decisión del gobierno de Chile de girar prontamente
el monto total de la línea.

En lo que se refiere al marco de condiciones de política, el condicionar el crédito al desarrollo del sistema
de protección social Chile Solidario resulta en un apoyo muy útil para el Ministerio de Hacienda, porque
asegura la participación de técnicos del BM en el monitoreo de los resultados administrativos y de gestión
del Ministerio de Planificación en el desarrollo del sistema de protección social Chile Solidario. Este es un
elemento que el Ministerio valora mucho y podría extenderse a otras áreas de reforma.




                                                     - 25 -

- 26 -

