Page  1
 
 
           
27311 
Project Information Document (PID) 
 
 
Project Name 
CHILE SOCIAL PROTECTION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN 
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean Region 
Theme 
Human Development 
Project ID 
P078088 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Chile 
Implementing Agencies 
MIDEPLAN, DIPRES 
Environment Category 
C  
Date PID Prepared 
October 8, 2003 
Auth Appr/Negs Date 
October 14, 2003 
Bank Approval Date 
November 25, 2003 
 
 
Background:  
  
 
In its last poverty report for Chile, the Bank argued that given persistent rates of indigence despite years of 
economic growth and increases in targeted social spending, the Government should take a more proactive 
stance in its poverty reduction and social protection policies.  Relatively lower rates of poverty and 
indigence make a proactive approach more viable in Chile than in other developing countries.  Analysis in 
the last poverty report, and for the more recent report on 
Household Risk Management and Social 
Protection
, indicates that a new set of policies and intervention - buttressed with institutional reforms to 
correct targeting errors and to mainstream monitoring and evaluation practices - may be required to reach 
Chile’s poorest groups and increase the effectiveness of social policies. 
In May 2002 the Lagos Administration announced the 
Chile Solidario
 initiative, a package of legislative 
reforms to Chile’s poverty reduction and social protection policies.  The package of reforms represent a 
concerted effort to bring Chile’s 225 thousand poorest households out of indigence poverty.  The Chile 
Solidario package includes both new legislation and changes in current laws that will dramatically alter the 
Government’s approach to confronting indigence and extending social protection. 
Objective and Description: 
 
The objectives of the proposed Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan are to support the efforts of the 
Government of Chile to: (a) improve the access of the poorest households to the social protection system; 
and (b) increase the effectiveness of this system in alleviating extreme poverty.  The loan would support 
government actions in five key areas: (i) maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework that 
continues to be consistent with the objective of sustaining economic growth to further reduce poverty; (ii) 
reforms to Chile’s poverty reduction and social protection policies, to reduce poverty and exclusion by 
creating greater access to social protection and wider social services for the neediest households (the Chile 
Solidario initiative); (iii) increasing the efficiency and efficacy of social policy through improved targeting 
and better use of information by integrating, gathering and exchanging publicly and private held data on 
households and relevant to social policy into a national information system; (iv) strengthening monitoring 
and evaluation of social programs and policies; and (v) increasing the sustainability of reforms to poverty 
reduction and social protection policies, through clear assignment of roles and division of responsibilities 
between central government, municipal authorities and civil society.  
IBRD Loan Amount:   
$200 million
 
Page  2
 
 
 
Environmental Aspects: 
 
The proposed Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan has no direct impact on the environment.  For the 
purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, the operation has an environmental category of C, which does not 
require an environmental assessment.  More generally, the Bank has assisted Chile in improving 
environmental management.  The Environmental Institutions Development Project supported the work of 
the national environmental commission (CONAMA) to update legal regulations, develop procedures and 
guidelines for environmental assessments, sponsor educational campaigns and develop information 
systems.  There are environmental units in ten ministries and a solid track record in impact assessment, 
policy analysis and information systems.  By 1999, norms were approved for 14 different sectors of activity.  
CONAMA still faces major challenges in promoting enforcement and improving natural resource 
management in key sectors closely linked to important extractive industries. 
 
Project Benefits: 
 
The primary target group is the estimated 225 thousand indigent households, a substantial share of whom 
are expected to participate in Chile Solidario, and through that participation improve their standard of 
living, including, but not limited to, their level of income.  Thus, if the project is successful, one would 
expect to see a decline in the share of households below the extreme poverty line, higher coverage of 
existing social protection policies and programs among the extreme poor, and some re-design of 
interventions to better address the needs of the group.  Other groups besides the extremely poor or those 
participating in Chile Solidario will benefit from improvements in social protection policies because some 
of the reforms will affect a broader segment of the population. 
 
Project Risks 
 
The risks to this program are considered modest.  Chile’s excellent track record in economic management, 
program implementation and transparency speak for themselves, and make the satisfactory completion of 
the program highly likely.  Nevertheless, several areas of implementation could prove difficult for the 
Government to implement.  These include: closing the employment gap among the neediest households; 
ensuring good targeting of Chile Solidario and making any needed adjustments during implementation; 
including historically excluded groups, such as the indigenous population; and promoting greater 
participation of local governments and civil society.  A draft bill of law for Chile Solidario has been 
presented to the National Congress.  It would provide clear powers for MIDEPLAN to coordinate and 
implement Chile Solidario, to create the national information system for social protection, and consolidate 
the administration of cash transfers.  Although the law has not yet passed, the Chile Solidario Program has 
been carried out since 2002 under contractual arrangements with the agencies involved.  Delay in passage 
of the law could slow implementation and the formalization of these administrative arrangements, but 
would not prevent the Government from continuing to make progress on many aspects of the reform 
program.  Moreover, future financing for Chile Solidario has been approved through recently enacted 
legislation. 
10. Contact Point: 
 
        
 Task Manager 
Theresa Jones 
         
The World Bank 
         
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington D.C. 20433 
         
Telephone
:  202-473-5309 
Page  3
 
 
          
Fax: 
 202-522-3135 
 
 
 
11
.  For information on other project related documents contact: 
 The 
InfoShop 
    
 The 
World 
Bank     
 1818 
H 
Street, 
NW 
    
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 Telephone: 
(202) 
458-5454 
    
 
Fax:       (202) 522-1500 
 
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily 
included in the final project. 
 
 
 
