Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7202-CH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Protection Sector Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 6, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7202-CH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 6, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated October 
19, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s social protection system (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Program) to the satisfaction of the Bank 
and has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; 
WHEREAS (C)  the Borrower may elect to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement at any time within three years from the date 
of this Agreement (or any longer period that the Bank may establish as provided in 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement) when a financing need arises, subject to the provision of 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;  and 
 WHEREAS 
(D) on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount from the Loan Account shall be made in 
the Loan Currency of such amount.  The Bank, at the request and acting 
as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency or currencies of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and  
 9.08. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
“Advisory Committee” means the committee established by Decree 
No. 144 for the initial implementation of Chile 
Solidario
 and composed of, 
inter alia
,
MIDEPLAN, FOSIS and the Borrower’s Ministries of Finance and Labor; 
(b) 
“Chilean Peso” means the Borrower’s currency; 
(c) “Chile 
Solidario
”
means the social protection system referred to in 
Decree No. 144;
 
(d) “Chile
 Solidario
 Financing Legislation” means Law No. 19888 
published in the Official Gazette on August 13, 2003 for the financing of priority social 
programs including Chile
 Solidario
;
(e) 
“Decree No. 144” means the Borrower’s Presidential Decree published 
in the Official Gazette on August 19, 2002 regarding the establishment of the Advisory 
Committee; 
(f) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period; 
(h) “
Ficha
 CAS” means the Borrower’s targeting instrument used to 
prioritize recipients of social transfers referred to in MIDEPLAN’s document entitled 
“
Mejoramiento del Factor Discriminatorio de la FICHA CAS
”, dated December 2002; 
(i) 
“FOSIS” means the Borrower’s social investment fund established 
pursuant to Law No. 18989 published in the Official Gazette on July 19,1990; 
(j) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; 
(k) 
“MIDEPLAN” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and 
Cooperation; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(l) 
“National Social Protection Information System” means the system 
described in Section 2 of the Borrower’s document entitled 
“Proyecto Integración 
Asistencia Técnica Chile Solidario – Banco Mundial”
,
dated September 2003; 
(m) 
“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial
;
(n) “PASIS” 
means 
Pensiones Asistenciales
,
the Borrower’s program of 
non-contributory social assistance benefits for elderly and disabled indigents set forth in 
Decree-Law No. 869 of January 28, 1975; and 
(o) “SUF” 
means 
Subsidio Unico Familiar
,
the Borrower’s program of non-
contributory single subsidy for poor families set forth in Law No. 18020 published in the 
Official Gazette on August 17, 1981. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
 Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in up to three draw-downs in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Withdrawals 
from the Loan Account, except those for the payment of the front-end fee set forth in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw any amount from the Loan 
Account for deposit in the Deposit Account only after the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, that:
 
(i) the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower continues to be consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and (ii) the Borrower continues to adhere to the Program and 
its actions and policies remain consistent with the objectives of the Program.  
Page  6
-
5
-
(d) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank; (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 6, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of any amount withdrawn from the Loan Account.  On the date of such 
withdrawal, the Bank shall: (a) retain one percent (1%) of the withdrawn amount for 
itself in payment of said fee; and (b) immediately thereafter deposit the remainder of the 
withdrawn amount into the Deposit Account. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of one percent (1%) per annum on the unwithdrawn principal amount. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in full on the ninth (9 th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable 
after June 15, 2008, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all 
such Disbursed Amounts. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Principal Payment Date for 
each Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount. 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) through (c) of this
 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determined in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01.   (a)  The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect.  
(b)  
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the consistency of the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
framework with the objectives of the Program, and the continued adherence of the 
Borrower to the Program. 
(c) 
The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(d)  
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(e) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date April 5, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Teatinos 120 
 
Santiago, Chile 
 
Facsimile:   (56-2) 698-8903 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
By /s/ Andrés Bianchi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: 
/s/ Andrés Bianchi 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Controller General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: 
/s/ Andrés Bianchi 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
A. 
Reforms of Poverty Reduction and Social Protection Policies
1. 
The Borrower has issued Decree No. 144 and created the Advisory Committee. 
2. 
The Borrower has budgeted, in the proposed budget law for 2004, an amount of 
Chilean Pesos 40,864,000 for the financing during 2004 of Chile 
Solidario
.
3. 
The Borrower has adopted the Chile 
Solidario
 Financing Legislation.  
4. 
The Borrower has adopted Law No. 19873 published in the Official Gazette on 
May 25, 2003, creating a program of targeted school retention vouchers. 
5. 
The Borrower, through MIDEPLAN, has signed agreements 
(protocolos)
 with at 
least 25 of its ministries and agencies for cooperation in the implementation of Chile 
Solidario
.
6. 
The Borrower has submitted to its Congress a draft bill of Law (Draft No. 228-
349 of September 1, 2003) for: (a) the operation of Chile 
Solidario
;
(b) the transferring of 
the administration, as part of Chile 
Solidario
,
of
SUF and PASIS to MIDEPLAN; and (c) 
the establishment of a new cash transfer for participating beneficiaries of Chile 
Solidario
.
B. 
National Information System for Social Protection
1. 
The Borrower, through MIDEPLAN, has completed an evaluation of the 
Ficha
 
CAS, proposed measures to improve it, and piloted the new 
Ficha
 CAS in at least 15 
municipalities. 
2. 
The Borrower has included the National Social Protection Information System in 
the Borrower’s electronic government initiative by instructions in the Borrower’s letter 
dated October 1, 2003. 
3. 
The Borrower has submitted to its Congress a draft bill of law (Draft No. 228-
349 of September 1, 2003) for the establishment of a national information system  for 
social protection. 
Page  15
-
14
-
C. 
Monitoring, Implementation and Impact Evaluation of Social Protection 
Programs
The Borrower has presented to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
evaluation of the impact of the implementation of Chile 
Solidario
 on the welfare of the 
participants. 
D. 
Decentralized and Civil Society Roles in Social Assistance Programs
1. 
The Borrower, through FOSIS, has signed agreements with 332 municipalities 
for implementation of Chile 
Solidario
.
2. 
The Borrower has adopted Law No. 19885, published in the Official Gazette on 
August 6, 2003, allowing tax deductions for private donations to civil society 
organizations working on alleviating and eradicating poverty. 
 
