Document oi
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8664
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1216-YAR)
MAY 17, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Thbis document has a restricted distri'bution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thber offal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(mid-1989)
Currency Unit           =     Yemeni Rial (YR)
1981 SDR 1              -    Approx. US$1.11
US$ 1              -     YR 9.90
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO      - Central Planning Organization
DCA      - Development Credit Agreement
GOY      - Government of Yemen Arab Republic
GSA      - Geological Survey Authority
MOMR     - Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources
PCR      - Project Completion Report
PPF      - Project Preparation Facility
PDRY     - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
YAR      - Yemen Arab Republic
YOMINCO  - Yemen Oil and Minera' Resources Corporation
YPC      - Yemen Petroleum Company



THE WORLD SANK                laoil   s   n
Was.ton OC. 0433
U.S A
OlkCA d ODttw..W#aI
May 17, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND rdE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Yemen Arab Republic
Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project
(Credit 1216-XAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Yemen Arab Republic - Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration
Promotion Project (Credit 1216-YAR)l prepared by the Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
The document ha a esuletd disibutoi and may be usd by uoasiens  in de pufoean
of thef o@kcm) dutbia In con"" may nl otlbew  be dislsed withou Wodd Ilt outb_



FOR OFMFCIL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
r   M=LFu AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROMfOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1216-YAR
PROECT COMPLDETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .i............................. .
Evaluation Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I - Review from the Bank's Perspective
A Project Identity .1
B Background .1
C  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
D Project Design.                                                    3
E  Changes in Project Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
F  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
G Project Results .6
H  Project  Costs.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   7
I Project Sustainability.                                            8
J Bank Performance.                                                  8
K Borrower Performance.                                              9
L Project Relationships.                                             9
14  Selection and Performance of Consultants . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
N Project Documentation and Data .10
PART II Review from the Borrower's Perspective. . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART III - Statistical Information
Tables:
1 Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits and Sector Reports . . . . . . . . . 14
2 Project Timetable .17
3 Estimated and Actual Disbursements .1
4 Project Implementation .19
5 Project Costs and Financing .20
6 Summary of Additional Consultancies .22
7 Studies .23
8 Status of Key Institutional Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
9 Use of IDA Resources .25
This document has a restricted distribution aeJ may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otbise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



- i -
YEMEN ARAB REPFUBLIC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PRONOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1216-YAf
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
The Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project (the
Project) supported by Credit 1216-YAR was approved by the IDA Board of
Directors on March 16, 1982.
The Credit of SDR 1.8 million (equivalent to approximately US$
2.0 million at time of appraisal) was made to the Government of YAR (GOY)
under standard IDA terms and conditions. The GOY provided the proceeds of the
Credit as a grant to the Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO
- replaced in 1985 by the Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources - MOMR) for
the implementation of the Project.
The Credit *was closed on June 30, 1988, three years after the
original closing date. An amount of SDR 210,208 (approximately US$ 230,000)
was cancelled on January 1, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division,
Country Department III, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower, (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the nroject in November 1988, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit, Guarantee, and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



. ii -
YEMEN ARAB EPUBC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROIOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1216-YAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUAIQONSNMRY
Proiect Objectives
The Project was designed to provide technical assistance (i) to
GOY in their efforts to intensify petroleum and geothermal exploration
activities through attracting foreign oil companies; and (ii) to allow GOY to
strengthen its project implementation capabilities in the petroleum
exploration subsector.
Implementation Experience
Of the two main originally appraised project components which were
related to petroleum and geothermal exploration, the former was completed on
time and the latter experienced a one year delay. Following changes in
project scope necessitated by YAR's discovery of oil and gas in 1984 and
subsequent changes in Government priorities, and due to slow and cumbersome
procurement and withdrawal procedures on the part of YOMINCO/NOMR and other
GOY agencies, the Project implementation period was extended by about four
years beyond appraisal estimates.
Results
The Project achieved only some of the objectives envisaged at
appraisal, partly due to the sectoral changes mentioned above, and partly as a
result of institutional weaknesses at MONR/YOMINCO. Nevertheless, the Project
was instrumental in encouraging several oil companies to undertake exploration
in YAR, including Yemen Hunt Oil Company (Hunt), which resulted in the 1984
oil discovery.
Other direct results of the Project were:
- a consultant report (Evaluation of Hydrocarbon Potential of
Tihama Basin) indicating continuing exploration in the Tihama basin to be
justified, and identifying four zones with potential for oil and gas;
- COY's project preparation/implementation activities which were
enhanced through four important consultancies addressing several technical,
legal and administrative issues confronting GOY in the oil and gas subsectors;
- a Petroleum Products Pipeline System Feasibility Study which was
completed, but implementation of a subsequent project is still pending; and
- acquisition of urgently needed office furniture and other
equipment by MOHR, beyond what was envisaged at appraisal.



- iii -
Susta$nabili14tv
Despite the changes in scope, the Project proved useful in
providing assistance in various sectoral development aspects. A follow-up
project (Credit 1702-YAR approved in 1987) is continuing this and other
efforts, including consultancies and training.
Findinsns and Lessons Learned
-    An implementation schedule of three years as was envisaged
for this Project, is over-optimistic in countries suc21 as
YAR, where startup delays and the lack of project
implementation and supervision capabilities and of adequate
and effective procurement procedures are typical.
-    Hore intensive supervision efforts by the Bank in the early
stages of project implementation, are often critical. These
need not always take the form of full supervision missions,
but even brief issues-oriented visits could be beneficial to
a project.
=    Projects in technology-intensive sectors in countries like
YAR should always be designed to include institution-
building components to overcome organizational and
administrative weaknesses including in record-keeping which
can hamper decision-making by project implementation
agencies.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1216-YAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPCRT
PART I - REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Proijct Name:   Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion
Credit No.:     1216-YAR
RVP Unit:       Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region,
Country Department III,
Industry and Energy Division
Country:        Yemen Arab Republic
Sector:         Energy
Subsector:      Petroleum
B. W_CKGGROUN
Petroleum Sector
1.          During the 1970's YAR had no known conventional energy resources,
except small deposits of commercially unexploitable, poor-quality crude oil.
As a result, the country was totally dependent on imported petroleum products
for meeting its needs for commercial energy. YAR's oil import bill had
increased from about $3 million in 1973 to more than $260 million in 1980.
The value of oil imports as a share of YAR's total imports had risen from less
than 2 percent in 1973/74 to about 20 percent in 1979/80. The increasing oil
import burden on YAR's economy necessitated the search for untapped domestic
energy resources.
2.          Sedimentary basins with petroleum potential had been identified
both in the western (Red Sea Rift basin) and eastern (Al-Jawf basin) areas.
The eastern area attracted little attention from international petroleum
companies because of its inaccessible location and lack of obvious prospects.
Petroleum activities carried out in YAR were thus confined mainly to the
western part and limited to about 8,000 line-kns. of seismic surveys and
drilling of eight exploration wells (five by an independent US oil company,
and three by Shell Oil Company of which one was offshore). With the exception
of very small amounts of gas and oil detected in the last Shell onshore well,
the drilling results were disappointing. Shell decided to relinquish its
exploration permits. With the termination of their activity in July 1981,
exploration reached a standstill.



2
3.          At the time of project preparation, YAR was consistently following
an "open door" policy with respect to exploration for oil and gas to encourage
private foreign investment. In the virtually unexplored eastern area, YAR
contracted a French company to undertake an aeromagnetic survey whose
interpretation was promising to the extent it established possible sedimentary
thicknesses of up to 3,500 meters; however, it did not cover the entire basin
due to lack of funds. Encouraged by the results of the survey, two US
companies, Hunt Oil Company and Dorchester International, made proposals in
June 1981 for exploration. In the western area, YAR's strategy was to
reactivate the Red Sea basin for exploration by private oil companies, but no
serious offers had been received. GOY then requested IDA to provide technical
and financial assistance to reevaluate the petroleum potential in the western
area and to promote it to interested oil companies for further exploration.
Geothermal Resource Potential
4.          The Yemen highlands show numerous geologically recent volcanoes
and several geothermal occurrences (steam, sulphur deposits, hot water). On
the basis of reconnaissance geologic mapping, the Dhamar-Radaa geothermal
prospect had been found to have encouraging geologic indications for
geothermal energy and was within easy reach (12 km) of the planned power
transmission network.
5.          GO  attached high priority to intensifying geothermal resource
exploitation and development as even moderate geothermal potential can
substitute for imported oil in power generation. The magnitude of investment
involved in further exploratory drilling to determine the feasibility of
development of geothermal potential was estimated betwec.a US$10 million and
US$20 million. Further development of the confirmed potential was estimated
to cost around US$30 million. Sinca YAP. did not have the financial resources
or the required technical expertise to undertake such investments, it embarked
on a policy to attract foreign investment to explore this potential and
requested IDA's technical assistance to promote geothermal exploration with
foreign investors.
Organization of the Sector
6.          The Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO),
established in 1978, was responsible through two of its departments (the
Geological Survey Authority - GSA, and the Yemen Petroleum Company - YPC) for
the development, distribution and marketing of petroleum products in YAR.
7.          In September 1985, YOMINCO was replaced by the Ministry of Oil
and Mineral Resources (MOMR), whose main function continues to be to implement
policies and carry out day-to-day operations in the sector.
C. PROJECT OBJMECTIVES AID DESCRIPTION
8.          The Project was designed to assist COY in intensifying petroleum
and geothermal exploration activities by supporting its efforts to attract
foreign investors, and to strengthen YOMINCO's capabilities in implementing
projects in exploration.



3
9.          The following project components were appraised in late 1981:
(a)   Provision of consultants' services to assist in: (i)
reviewing and interpreting data and preparing a geological
report on the Red Sea basin; (ii) reprocessing about 1,000
line-km of seismic survey to improve quality of data; (iii)
promoting the Red Sea basin for petroleum exploration by
interested enterprises; and (iv) preparing a report on
geothermal potential to promote its exploration, including
assistance in negotiating exploration contracts.
(b)   Strengthening YONINCO through provision of training abroad
of its professional staff and of equipment and materials to
improve its data reproduction and support facilities.
(c)   Completion of studies for the installation of an
economically viable system of supply, storage and
transportation of petroleum products.
The Credit was approved in March 1982 and became effective in September 1982
(See Part I1I, Table 2).
D. PROJECT DESIGN
10.         At the time of appraisal there was a clear conceptual foundation
for the Project.   YAR's strategy of oil exploration had always aimed at
attracting foreign oil companies to undertake exploration. GOY considered the
development of the petroleum and geothermal resources as one of its main
investment priorities (ranking second only after agriculture in the Second
Five-Year Plan), and repeatedly requested IDA's assistance in this sector.
Detailed meetings were held with YOMINCO and top GOY officials in iegard to
the proposed project approach, and agreements were reached both on GOY's
approach to exploration and the proposed exploration promotion and technical
assistance needed.
11.         Project preparation was thorough.  During appraisal, the status of
YAR's exploration activity was discussed with the parties involved. An IDA
mission met with the Shell Group in the Netherlands, and discussed their
exploration activities in YAR; the proposals made by Hunt and Dorchester
International for exploration in the virtually unexplored eastern area were
scrutinized, and the mission recommended several points for negotiation
regarding the Hunt proposal before its acceptance by YAR. With regard to
geothermal exploration, an IDA mission visited the Dhamar area where an
exploration survey had been carried out by an Italian firm, indicating that
further exploration to confirm the feasibility of developing the geothermal
potential was indeed Justified.
12.         The risks of the Project were also carefully assessed.  One of the
areas of concern was the oil glut in the world petroleum markets at the time
of project inception, and the impact this might have on investors' diminishing



4
interest in exploration activity in YAR. However, it was predicted that the
oil glut was only temporary and would be corrected either by increased demand
with global economic recovery or by production cuts. It was therefore thought
that this situation was unlikely to diminish interest in oil exploration in
YAR. firstly because oil companies wanted to diversify their sources of
supply, and secondly because YAR had a record of providing every incentive to
private investment that should continue to attract oil companies' interest.
13.         Another concern was that there were no specific indications that
oil companies would be interested in the western area after Shell had explored
it unsuccessfully. However, Bank staff felt that the negative results
encountered by Shell in their operations were not conclusive enough either to
totally "condemn' the area or to determine adequately the resource potential.
First, the lack of reservoirs encountered by Shell was offset by the presence
of porous sands foxind in a well drilled in Saudi Arabia not far from YAR's
northern boundary; the Shell wells were not drilled deep enough to reach this
geologic objective. Second, the high geothermal gradients found in that area
had been found in other basins, such as in Cameroon, where oil was discovered
at a similar depth of 3,500 meters. Third, a number of identified structures
on the continental shelf remained to be tested. And last, Shell's decision to
terminate exploration in YAR was also guided by the priority it was attaching
to investment of its resources in other more promising regions of the world.
E. CHANGES IN PROJECT SCOPE
14.         Two factors made it necessary after the Project had been approved
to change several of its original components. The first and most important of
these was Hunt's discovery, in 1984, of significant oil and gas resources
which caused a change in GOY's investment priorities; and the second the
creation of MONR in late 1985, and the technical and managerial demands placed
on the new ministry due to the rapid developments in the oil sector.
15.         The discovery of oil made it necessary for COY to focus its
attention on how best to derive full benefits from this find. A number of
investments needed to be carefully planned, in such areas as refining,
transportation and storage of crude oil for export, and in the infrastructure
for gas development. COY needed advice in these matters and as funds were
still available under the Credit, IDA agreed that these could be utilized
towards meeting some of the net'  emands.
16.         Consultant Services/Technical Assistance.  The scope of this
category was downsized from the original 25 man-months allocated for
consulting services to interpret past data on petroleum exploration, to about
10 man-months in light of additional processed data which became available in
March 1983. The original scope also included 10 man-months to assist YONINCO
in monitoring the activities of foreign oil companies and 12 man-months for
the promotion of oil, gas and geothermal development. Assistance for
monitoring foteign oil companies' activities and promotion of oil development
was not needed because, apart from Hunt, no other oil company showed an
interest in exploration in YAR. Similarly and since GOY did not want to
pursue the development of geothermal resources, technical services for
promoting private interests were no longer needed.



5
17.          New consultancies (see Part III, Table 6) not envisaged at the
time of appraisal were contracted for (i) legal and technical assistance in
preparing and negotiating agreements with oil companies; (ii) reviewing
mineral development prospects; (iii) developing LPG operations capabilities
and reviewing possibilities for an imestment project; and (iv) assistance to
MOMR in the establishment of a crude oil marketing department.
18.         Trainjjg. This component was greatly reduced in scope (para 30)
partly as a result of ample funding being available to GOY through bilateral
grants for this purpose.
19.         EcUiDment. Originally, the Project provided for equipment and
maLerials for improving YOMINCO's data reproduction and other support
facilities. However, in view of MONR's urgent need, IDA agreed for additional
items such as furniture, laboratory equipment, vehicles and computers to be
funded under the Cret-,t.
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
20.         The Project was to be implemented over a period of about three
years (1982 - 1984). The drastic changes in scope required IDA to agree to
three extensions in the Credit Closing Date (Part III, Table 2), wbich were
fully justified.    Project execution was the responsibility of YOKINCO
(through GSA) and later MONR, assisted by consultants.
21.         The Project took over six years to be implemented, nearly four
years longer than estimated (see Part III, Table 4). This was due in part to:
(i) the need to reformulate various project components; (ii) the slow and
cumbersome procurement and withdrawal procedures on the part of MOMR, the
Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Central Bank, which res.ulted in
delays to suppliers and contractors and consequent delays in their delivery of
goods and services; and (iii) slower then anticipated decision making in
general.
22.         Implementation of the main original project components fared
reasonably well. The geothermal consultants were selected with minimal delays
and their report was submitted on time. A one year delay was experienced,
however, in selection of the petroleum exploration consultants. Originally
IDA had waived the condition of eftectiveness related to appointment of these
consultants, since in 1982 Hunt, already active in the eastern region, had
shown interest in forming a consortium to explore western YAR's Red Sea Basin.
YOMINCO anticipated that formation of such a consortium would make preparation
of a promotional package unnecessary. However, due to the oil industry's
sharp cutback on new commitments at that time, particularly in developing
countries like YAR, Hunt's efforts to form a consortium were not successful.
Accordingly, YOMINCO decided to go ahead with the appointment of independent
petroleum exploration consultants. The selection was made in April 1983, and
that component was completed in March 1984, one year later than estimated at
appraisal.



6
23.         In July 1983, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended
to allow financing the preparatory phase of the subsequently approved
Geothermal Exploration Project (IDA Credit 1484-YAR); Following the oil
discovery this project was later cancelled by GOY. Since the funds were not
needed, by June 1985 there was a large unutilized balance of SDR 990,000. At
that time, agreement was reached on restructuring the Project components to
meet the requirements resulting from the oil discovery, and the new
consultancies mentioned earlier were contracted; these were completed by 1988.
24.         The Products Pipeline System Feasibility Study was completed In
March 1982. However, additional work was needed in light of changing
circumstances in the sector, resulting ln a revised study issued in 1987.
G. PROJECT RESULTS
25.         As mentioned earlier, the activities envisaged orginally under the
Project had to be changed, shifting the focus to meeting the growing demand
for additional studies and consultancies related to the management- L the oil
and gas sector. Nevertheless, it is worth mentioning that it was in part due
to IDA's initiative in designing and developing this Project, that several oil
companies were encouraged to undertake exploration in YAR, among them Hunt,
which entered into the exploration agreement for the Marib/Al Jawf basin and
discovered oil in 1984. The other main objective, namely to strengthen
YOMINCO/MONR's project implementation capabilities, was not achieved.
26.         The following are the main result. under the various components:
27.         Petroleum Exploration.  The work undertaken under this component
was fairly limited, mainly because of the changed circumstances in YAR's
energy sector. Only the 1983 Evaluation of the Hydrocarbon Potential of
Tihama Basin was prepared, concluding that the basin, in spite of considerable
surface and sub-surface work already carried out, was still insufficiently
explored. Considering the size of ehe basin, the number of wells drilled in
it was small, particularly since offshore drilling was limited to a single
well and all onshore wells appeared to have been drilled either off-structure
or on lithologically misinterpreted targets. Nevertheless, drilling and other
exploration data showed that the basin compared favorably with the hydrocarbon
bearing Gulf of Suez and Suakin basins of the Red Sea as far as the source
rock, reservoir rock and trap potentials were concerned. The oil and/or gas
indications encountered in most wells remained an encouraging factor. The
Tihama basin was therefore believed to offer chances, so far unconfirmed
however, for the discovery of both oil and gas in commercial quantities, which
justified continued exploration.
28.         Geothermal Ex2loration. The geothermal exploration promotion
effort financed by the Credit was unsuccessful in attracting private
investors. YOKINGO arranged for a presentation by its consultants in April
1983 of the studies on the geothermal potential of YAR. About 100
international firms were invited. Though about 10 companies manifested
preliminary interest, their willingness to explore at their own risk was



7
limited. The main reason was the marginai and locaitzed nature of resources
and a depressed industry investment climate. In view of the lack of private
interest, YOMINCO negotiated the above-mentioned follow-up credit (1484-YAR)
with IDA for the purpose of financing exploratory geothermal drilling in the
Dhamar-Radaa area; this was later cancelled as the 1984 oil discovery caused
GOY to revise its investment priorities.
29.         New CQnsultagcies. As mentioned earlier, IDA agreed to expand the
project scope, and several new consultancies were contracted tv address the
broad spectrum of technical, legal and administrative issues confronting MOMR
in the oil and gas sector. In particular, these consultancies successfully
provided assistance in:
(i)   preparing and negotiating agreements with oil companies;
(ii) assessing prospects for mineral development which has led to
defining two exploration projects currently funded under the
subsequent IDA Credit (1702-YAR);
(ii) developing a project to permit use of indigenous LPG for
domestic consumption whose implementation is planned to
begin in 1990; and
(iv) establishing within NOMR/YOKINCO a crude oil marketing
department, in operation s'.ice 1987.
30.         Training. The shortage of skilled manpower has always been an
overriding constraint in MOHER and in YAR as a whole. This is due to the labor
force being drawn from a population characterized by low levels of education
and training. However, training under the Project was limited to LPG
operations and involved only a small number of YPC technicians. Other
training was provided under several bilateral programs.
31.         Equipm . As mentioned in para 19, funding was provided for
urgently needed equipment, over and above what was envisaged at appraisal and
this was put to good use.
32.         Petroleum Products Pipeline System Feasibility Study. This study,
funded in part through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) preceding the
Project, was completed in different stages in 1987 and is expected to lead to
a project for implementation in the 1990's.
H. PROJECT COSTS
33.         The total cost of the Project (including physical and price
contingencies- see Table 5A of Part III) as estimated at appraisal, was about
SDR 2.2 million (US$2.4 million equivalent), of which about 82X or SDR 1.8
million (US$ 2.0 million ) represented the foreign exchange component; this
included the refinancing of the PPF of SDR 0.76 million (US$ 0.85 million).
34.       Actual total costs of the project are not available since GOY could
not provide the local cost of the Project's components, given the lack of



8
proper records in violation of Secticn 3.06 (a)(i) of the DCA. However, such
local costs are estimated to be minor since for example all studies were
undertaken fully by foreign consultants whose costs incurred in YAR were
charged in foreign exchange. Foreign exchange costs were slightly lower than
appraisal estimates (SDR 1.59 million vs. SDR 1.8 million, equivalent to US$
1.89 million vs. USS 2.0 million), in part due to GOY's inability to submit
all documentation to allow disbursement prior to the final closing date of the
loan account. As a result, part of the Credit had to be cancelled.
35.         The following Project components showed cost over- or under-runs
(Part III, Table SA, 2):
(i)   Consultants: though the consultancies required cost less
than envisaged at appraisal (SDR 207,500 vs SDR 1,125,700),
new consultancies (paras 17 and 29) made up for some of the
shortfall (SDR 354,600).
(ii) Training: this component was greatly reduced in scope (para
30), and actual funds spent on training amounted to only SDR
4,500 vs. the appraised SDR 125,600.
(iii) Library and Eguipment: the SDR 118,400 overrun in this
category was due to the purchase of additional equipment
needed by MOMR (para 15).
(iv)  Refinancing of PPF: Thie PPF was originally meant to finance
the total cost of the pipeline study, estimated at
SDR868,600. Since the study was delayed, only part of its
costs was so funded (SDR320,600), with the remainder being
financed directly from Credit 1216-YAR (SDR507,900). This
takes into account the additional work undertaken in later
years in view of changing pipeline requirements. The total
cost of the pipeline consultancy eventually totalled
SDR 828,500, essentially in line with the appraised
SDR 868,600.
I. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.         Despite the changes in scope, the Project was useful in providing
assistance in various sectoral development aspects, including a completed
feasibility study for the pipeline project, currently under consideration for
implementation. The follow-up project (IDA Credit 1702-YAR) is continuing
this and other efforts, including consultancies and training.
J. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.         As shown in Table 9B (Part III), from November 1982 to March 1987
six supervision missions took place at an average interval of about eight
months. A gap of about 15 months elapsed between the August 1983 mission and
that of November 1984. In countries such as YAR where implementation start-



9
up is usually a problem due to delays in recruitment of consultants, award of
contracts and resolution of issues with contractors, perhaps more frequent
supervision during the early phases would have been useful.
38.         During the latter part of the Project (October 1987 to November
1988), mission frequency was increased, since Credit 1702-YAR was also being
supervised at that time and project implementation was monitored closely. The
dialogue and rapport between Yemeni officials and Bank staff was always
constructive.
39.         Bank staff continuity was adequate and, except for the disruption
caused by the Bank's reorganization in 1987 which resulted in staff changes,
the composition of the team working on the Project was fairly constant and
adequate.
K. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.         YOMINCO was designated by GOY as its representative for
implementing the Project. Actions by this agency as well as its successor,
NOMR, were hampered by weaknesses in internal organization and administrative
and organizational capabilities, which resulted in excessive delays in
decision-making, inadequate reporting and faulty record keeping as confirmed
repeatedly by audit reports.
41.         MOMR made good use of several consultancies, particularly with
regard to legal, oil reservoir and other technical aspects, as well as of the
equipment funded by the Project.
42.         As summarized in Part III, Table 8, the Borrower's compliance with
covenants was only partially satisfactory in view of great delays incurred in
every instance.
L. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
43.         Relations between IDA and MOMR/YOMINCO and GPO, as well as by
these with consultants, were constructive and usually satisfactory.
M. SELECTION AND PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS
44.         Overall, the performance by consultants was found to be
satisfactory. The award of the geothermal consultancy had been considered by
some as causing a possible 'conflict of interest' and was questioned by one
Executive Director, as IDA had employed the Vice President of the selected
consultant firm during the appraisal mission to advise on YAR geothermal
prospects. Bank staff defended the choice on the basis that: (i) only one
other consulting organization submitted a proposal for the geothermal studies;
(ii) various other firms were requested to make proposals and refused on the
grounds that working conditions in YAR were harsh and they would prefer not to
work there; (iii) it seemed appropriate to use consultants with contacts in
the US petroleum and geothermal industry so that their interest in YAR might



10
be stimulated; and (iv) the very limited market for geothermal consultants
which would be further curtailed by eliminating consultants who carried out
even limited short term assignments for the Bank.   GOY was aware of this
issue and, with IDA's agreement, sought and accepted that of the two proposals
which was more relevant, better written and offered better qualified staff.
45.         The next issue was whether the selected consultants were permitted
to sell the promotional material they had developed on the project and, if so,
allowed to keep the proceeds. The firm had stated that reports had been sold
to various international firms after full discussion with YOMINCO and IDA.
Agreement was reached eventually that YOMINCO would deduct the proceeds of the
sale from the consultant's invoices.
N. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
46.         Bank supervision and back-to-office reports were satisfactory.
Between missions, follow-up letters and telexes on issues that needed to be
addressed, were frequent.
47.         On MOMR/YONINCO's part, however, IDA found reporting to be
unsatisfactory. The lack of adequate files and records made it often
impossible for MOMR staff to provide Bank missions with analyses of IDA-
financed procurement and disbursements under the Project, disbursement
projections, project cost analyses, or to trace Bank approvals and other
correspondence. Only one Quarterly Progress Report (April-June 1988) was
received by IDA, inspite of frequent reminders and specific instructions by
several missions in the preparation of these reports.
48.         The first audited accounts for MOMR prepared under the Project
were for 1985 (received in October 1987). This was in violation of the
covenant in Section 4.01 of the DCA, which called for such audits to be
conducted every year and in a timely fashion. This as well as subsequent
reports were critical of accounting and financial management within MOHR. In
the absence of proper documentation at MOMR, outside auditors were unable to
render opinions on the proper accounting for funds used from the Credit. IDA
informed MOMR on several occasions that the result of audits were not
satisfactory but recognized that in view of the relatively small amounts
involved and the nature of the disbursements, all of which were made directly
by IDA to beneficiaries, not much could or should be done to remedy the



11
situation. Only in the final years of project implementation did Bank
supervision efforts result in some improvement in KONM's internal record
keeping.



12
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1216-YAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II - REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE h
(a)  AdeguacX and accuracy of the factual information in Part III
We are unable to comment on the power and electricity projects
under Credits 837, 1102, 1361 and 1701 as these are beyond the scope of the
Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources.
With regard to Credit 1702-YAR, Technical Assistance for the
Petroleum Sector, we agree with the information stated.
The information and analysis in Part III are complete and correct
to the extent that they can be confirmed by records available at MOMR.
(b) Analvsis in Part I
The analysis in Part I is correct in stating that the project
achieved only some of its objectives. As pointed out, there were changes in
the COY's priorities and needs which resulted in sectoral demands and changes.
New consultancies were contracted for oil and gas, legal and technical issues.
(c) Bank Performance
Bank staff participation through successive stages of the
Petro±eum project was helpful in achieving healthy results. Bank initiative
assisted the COY in attracting foreign investment. As a result, several oil
companies undertook exploration activities in YAR, and Yemen Hunt was
successful in discovery and development of production of the country's
petroleum resources.
In its initial evaluation, the World Bank estimated three years
for implementation of the Products Pipeline/Storage Project. This was a
significant miscalculation due to delays which are common in developing
countries such as Yemen.
(d) Borrower Performance
Obviously, the project did not achieve all objectives envisaged at
appraisal due to institutional weaknesses at MOMR/YONINCO, inadequate
procedures and lack of proper staff training and background knowledge in
selected projects.
LI Prepared by MOMR in March, 1990.



13
In future projects it is of prime importance that individuals with
relevant experience and knowledge be involved from the inception through the
start-up and operation of the project. People who have project experience
should be involved in maintaining records and accounts and liaise on a regular
basis with the World Bank. Such people can be found only rarely in YAR.
(e) Project Relationship
The working relations between the Borrower/KOMR and the Bank are
very good.



14
YEMN ARAB REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL E%PLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Credit 1216-YAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits and Sector Reports
Project Title                                        Year of
,Credit No.              P'ro,s,e                   -Apiroval      Status
(Report Date)
a. Investment ProJects
Power Distrib.    To improve and expand                FY79        PPAR issued
Project           the urban electricity                            January 6, 1988
Cr. 837-YAR       distribution networks
in Sana'a, Hodeida and
Taiz, and improve
YGEC's organization
and effectiveness
Regional Zlec.    To improve distribution              FY81        PPAR issued
Project           facilities in 17 centers                         January 6, 1988
Cr.1102-YAR       outside the main cities
and for farmers' markets.
and consultant services
for engineering and
construction supervision
Third Power       To assist YGEC in extend-            FY83        Under Supervision
Project           ing its service, at least
Cr. 1361-YAR      cost, in the urban and
rural areas, facilitate
better utilization of its
generation and transmission
facilities, and strengthen its
staffing, management,
planning and finances.
Fourth Power      To assist YGEC in: utilization       FY86        Under Supervision
Project           of available generation
Cr. 1701-YAR      capacity by extending its
services in urban and rural
areas; achieving fuel savings
by operating its thermal plants
at higher efficiencies; and
contributing to YGEC's
institutional development



15
Project Title                                        Year of
Credit No.              PUrDoSe                      AproRyl             Status
Technical         To help strengthen                 FY86              Under Supervision
Assistance        the Ministry of Oil
Project for       and Mineral Resources
the Petroleum     in developing its
Sector            institutional capa-
Cr. 1702-YAR      bilities to manage
the commercial
development of the
country's recent oil
and gas discoveries.
b. Sector Reg2rts
Memorandum on     To review the situation            April 1977        Gray Cover
Power and         in the power and energy
Energy            sector, its problems and
prospects, and the scope
for possible BAnk assist-
ance in its future devel-
opment. The report
indicates the need to
move away from consumption
of traditional fuels, and
explores the possibility
of development of coal
reserves, geothermal energy
and solar energy potential.
Issues and        The report includes                December 1984     Gray Cover
Options in the    discussion and analysis
Energy Sector     of: (i) current and
projected energy consum-
ption patterns; (ii) energy
resource and supply options
including petroleum products,
geothermal resource devel.,
electricity generation and
distribution, fuel wood, and
animal waste and solar and
wind energy; (iii) the macro-
economic effects of projected
oil imports and investment
requirements in the sector;and
(iv) energy planning and insti-
tutions



16
Project Title                                        Year of
Credit No.              Purpose                      Approval          Status
Impact of         The report evaluates               February 1987     Gray Cover
Recent Oil        the impact of revenues
and Gas           on the economy, and
Discoveries       explores priories for
on the            new investments.
Macroeconomy
and Energy
Investment
Options
Energy Strategy   To assist the Govt. in analyzing January 19O        Gray Cover
Review            YAR's energy sector, address
issues related to its
development and formulating
an appropriate strategy. The
report includes analyses of
and recommendations on energy
investments, policy options
and operational aspects of
the sector.



17
Table 2. Project Timetable
Planned       Revisd        Actual
Identification                             -           04/81
Preparation                                -           06/81
Appraisal                                  -            10/81
Negotiations                               -            01/29/82
Board Approval                             -            03/16/82
Signing                                    -           04/09/82
Effectiveness             06/00/82       09/29/82      09/29/82
Closing Date               06/30/85      06/30/86       06/30/88
06/30/87
06/30/88
Completion Date            12/31/84         -           11/30/88
Issues Raised At Each Stage of Project Cycle
ADraisal: No issues requiring senior management guidance and no comments from the Loan
Committee affecting the proposed amount, terms and conditions of the Credit.
Effectiveness: Slight delay in effectiveness due to need to employ geothermal and
geological consultants, which was a condition of loan effectiveness. Geothermal
consultants were appointed in August 1982. IDA waived condition of effectiveness related
to appointment of petroleum exploration consultants.
Negotiations: During negotiations the YAR delegation stated that Government attached high
priority to the development of petroleum and geothermal resources and that it ranks second
only after agriculture ir. the Government investment priorities during the second Five-
Year Plan (1982-86).
Closing Date:
1st Extension (to 06/30/86): Undisbursed as of 06/30/85: SDR 990,000.
An amount of SDR 800,000 was allocated for the preparatory phase of the Geothermal
Exploration Project, Credit 1484-YAR which was later cancelled. Government requested the
postponement of the closing to allow the unutilized funds to be used for expert services
in the fields of legal, accounting, procurement and petroleum products refining.
2nd Extension (to 06/30/87): Undisbursed as of 06/30/86: SDR970,000.
Extension to allow use of funds for consultants (OTP) to provide further assistance in
negotiations and contract preparation/modification for the petroleum products pipeline,
and to procure equipment and materials (including a technical library) necessary to
strengthen the newly created MONR.
Third Extension (to 06/30Q88): ndisbursed as of 06/30/87: SDR810,000.
Extension to allow MONR to continue utilization of funds for urgently needed consultancy
services, equipment and supplies.



18
Table 3. Estimated and Actual Disbursements
.. . ............................................................ _
USS million
As of Jim  30               1982    198      1984    1985    1986    1967    1988    1989
.................    .... .    ....  .....    ----  .....    ....    .......
Appraisal Estimate          0.70    1.70    2.00
Actual                      0.00    0.53    0.69    0.76    0.89       1.0)    1.51     1.89
Actual as X of Estimate       OX   31.2K   34.5X    38.0S   44.5X    54.5X    75.5X    94.5X
Date of Final Disbursement      Aprit 27, 1989
Cancelled                       $0.23 million /1
/1 There is a slight discrepancy between the ammnt disbursed and the amount cancetled in US$.
The reason for this is that canceltations are shown at the original exchange rate vis-a-vis SDR
at Board approvalt but disbursements are show at the exchange rates applicable
on the transaction dates.



19
Table 4. Project Inlementation
(Principal components only)
Appraisal           Actual
Egliate
Invitation consulting firms             March 1982         March 1982
Selection of Consultants for:
- Geothermal Exploration            May 1982            July  1982
- Petroleum Exploration              May 1982           April 1983
Contract Award:
- G-othermal Consultants            June 1982           August 1982
- Petroleum Consultants             June 1982           May 1983
Start exploration review                Aug. 1982          Sept. 1982 (Geothermal)
June 1983 (Petrolsum)
Promotion package completed
- Geothermal                         March 1983          April 1983
- Petroleum                          March 1983          March 1984
Component Completion                    December 1984      November 1988*
* The two main project components were completed in 1984 and 1985.  However, due to
changes in GOY policy and which resulted in changes in project scope, other components
(such as Petroleum Products Pipeline Feasibility Study) and new consultancies contracted
were completed later, some as late as in 1988.



20
Table S. PROJECT COSTS AND FtIANCING
....................................
A.  Project Costs
.._..........
1. In USS'000
...........
Appraisal Estimates /1                       Actual /2
....,.._.................             ............
Local   foreign   Total               Local   Foreign   Totat
Petrol'w    Exploration            269.8    823.1   1,092.9                  NA     129.0         NA
Gaotherml Expioration               36.8    121.1       157.9                       117.0
Other Consultmncies                            -                                    905.0
Training Courses                    1a.4     121.1      139.5                       135.0
Library and Equipmnt                          84.7       84.7                       223.0
Refinancing of PPF                 115.0     850.0    965.0                         381.0
...........................           ........................................... *^*¢w6*^v*s*
440.0  2,000.0  2,440.0                   NA  1,890.0          NA
............... ................ ...... __w_~ ....................... ............. ............. .
. _...._._._ _ ... ...
/1 Physical and price contingencies prorated for ail categories except PPF
/2 Mission estimates from SDR records.
2. In SDR'OOO
3..........
Appraisal Estimates /1             Actual as Disbursed /2                   Actual per Category I
,_.........................           .............. ...............         ............................................... .e
Category                          'ocal   Foreign   Total               Local   Foreign   Total                Local   Foreign   Tot
1. COMNJLTANTS
Petroleus Exploration              242.8    740.7    983.5               MA         109.0    NA                 NA         109.0    NA
Geothermal Exploration              33.1     109.0      142.1                        98.5                                   98.3
.... ..... ......   .......                     .. ......                              ........ ............ ...
Subtotat                     2.9    849.7  1,125.6                            207.5                                  207.5
... ......   ......   .......                   .. ......                              ........ ............. _
Other Consultancies
P Pipeline <TP)                                     S.07.9                                                             507.9
Legal eU46.3                                                                                                          46.3
- Reservoir                     -          -                                    107.4                                  200.9
LPG                           -          .         .                           70.6                                   78.9
Minerals                      -          -         -                           28.5                                   28.5
Subtotal Consul.                                                               760.7                                  862.5
.....     ...... .....                       .........                                ..... .......... ........ ...
Total Consultants               275.9    849.7  1,125.6                          968.2                                1,070.0
2.  TRAINING                        16.6     109.0      125.6                       113.4                                    4.5
3.  LIBRARY AND EQUIPMENt            0.0      76.2       76.2                       187.5                                  194.6
4.  REFUDING OF PPF                103.5     765.1    868.6                         320.6                                  320.6
TOTAL                        396.0  1,800.0  2,196.0                        1,589.7                                1,589.7
...         .. _                 _                                          .. _
/1  USS in table A,1 (above) converted at a rate of SON I   US1  1.111, effective at tine of appraisal.
/2  According to IDA records (mm fotnte /2 next pag).
/3 Adjusted by mission to reflect correct classification of expenditures.



21
S. Finmncing
in USS 000
Appraisal Estimates                           Actuals
._ .....................                 .....................
Local      Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign       Total
.......        .................                        .....
Goverfnutt          440.0                     440.0             NA                         VA
IDA Credit              -      2,0O0.0      2,000.0                      1,890.0
440.0      2,000.0      2,440.0             A        1,890.0          VA
......_. .g* .......  .........  .......    _ .........   ...........  .......
C. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
.......................... ............................. .
In SDR '000
Revised /1     Actual as     Actual per
Appraisal     July '83      disbursed/2   category /2
;; ---........ -------. --........ ...... ;;;.... . ....  -- ..; ---
Consultant Services                    670.0       1,079.4         968.2       1,070.0
Training                                86.0         86.0          113.4           4.5
Equip. and Nateriats                    60.0         314.0         187.S         194.6
Refinancing of PPF                     730.0         320.6         320.6         320.6
Unallocated                            254.0
..........  ..........  ........,.  .......
1,800.0      1,800.0       1,589.7 /3    1,589.7
.........  .. . .. .     .. . . .     .. . . .
._. ...... ...........
/1 in July 19E3, the OCA was amended to alLow inereased ftunding of the preparatory phase
of the subsequently approved Geothermal Exptoration Project (Credit 1484-YAR).
This credit, however, mas later cancelled.
;2 Actual as disbursed" shais the mamouts as per formal Bank records.
This does not give an accurate picture of costs for each category, due to
mis-classlfication of disbursement applications by the Borrower. For example
in same cases payments for consultant services were disbursed against the
training allocation, and payments for equipment and materials disbursed
against training. The cotumn "Actuals per category" is a more accurate
reflection of the "true aLtLocations to each category, as determined by the mission.
/3 An amount of SOR 210,208.3 was cancet led on Jamuar 1t, 1989.



22
Table 6. Summary of Additional Consultancies
Under the Project
mineral Evaluation Consultancy:
Services of the consultant were required to make a preliminary assessment of:
(a) mineral and geological information developed since 1974; (b) whether satisfactory
geological potential exists to justify formulating and executing a supplementary mineral
exploration program; and (c) the necessary framework for preparing such a program
This work served as a basis for a Mineral Development Project, being implemented under
Credit 1702-YAR.
Lab naWlysis  oultancX:
At the recommendation of the mineral evaluation consultant, 47 rock samples of gold
and arsenic were sent for laboratory analysis.
Geological Assessment Consultaney:
A consultant was required to further assess the mineral resources at Sa'ada and Al
Nasna regions, prior to definition of a minerals exploration component financed from
Credit 1702-YAR.
-Reservoir Consultancy:
A USA-based firm was engaged to assist NOMR in the LPG project and in assessing
ongoing oil field operations (upstream and downstream, cost analysis etc.)
Legal Assistance Consultancy:
Consultants were contracted on retainer basis to assist MOHR in legal affairs
related to: (i) preparation of draft of petroleum law and regulations; (ii) negotiations
with Hunt and Yemen Exploration and Production Co. regarding Production Sharing Agreement;
(iii) review and comments on International Petroleum Company Production Sharing Agreement;
and (iv) review of dispute with geo-survey consultancy.
LPG Joint Venture Consultancy
A consulting firm of the Netherlands was engaged in 1987 to develop an LPG project
in YAR. Consultant services were required to: determine scope and project description;
cost estimates; economic aspects; project execution ; financing aspects; and assistance in
extension of Hodeidah bottling plant. This work served as the basis for a new LPG project,
appraised by the Bank in 1987. A project is expected to be implemented in 1990, with
funding from other sources.
Crude Marketing:
Assistance to MOHR in the early establishment of a crude oil marketing department,
and also in procuring computer equipment for that department.



23
Table T. Stu ie
Mae of Study                  Purpo   as defined et Appraisl          Statu                    Impact of Study
.............                 ........................ . .,*.....................  ......       .......... ..........
Potrol.. Products             To itutall in VAR an econo ically       Completed In    As a result of discovery of oil
Pipeline Feasibility Study    feasible infrstructure *ystem of        March 1987       and non-associated gas in YAR in 1984
suh ly storage and grud                                 the project scope was modified
tran  poetatien of petrotem  protdacts                  since needs and priorities have
to mast YAR's caoutxptin                                chnged. GOT Is revising the
requirement  In the next 25  ears.                      proJect in the light of findings
PIa=* t: Preparation of Study                            of the Wortd Sat's 1989 Energy
Phame If: Preparation of of                             Strategy RevieOW    it my be
basic project engineering nd                             imptemted in the 1990's.
preparation of bid dcacntts.
Evaluaticn of Mvdrocarbsn     To review and interpt data and         Caomteted in      The study conctuded that the tihast
Potential of tihas Bstin      prepar a geotogical report on           in Oec.1983      basin  offered further chans for the
(Red Sea Sasi.-)             the Red-Sea  ain; reproce  about                          discovery of both oil and gas in
1,000  tine km of sismic                                CeCiat quantities; and a resAmption
survey to iaove quality of                              of further *xploration ws conidered
data. and praeot                                         justified.  Further exploration has
the Red Sa Basin for petroleu                           not yielded rewlts so far.
poration by intere ted enterprises
Private Inveetmnt for         To premote exptoration of VAR's         CoWleted in      Tho study Indicated that the
Developuent of Geotherml      geetheml potential  and assist          Jan. 1993        geothermal alnies at Ohr had
Engy Resources in YAR         TO1Il1O in contcting companies                           lae   noh  potential to produce
and wgnization.                                         up to 250 SM  of electric polar
The prootionft effort, howver,
wasunsuccessful in attracting private
interest and was abandned following
a change in GOY priorities.



24
Table 8. Status Covnants
Development                                  Deadline for
Credit A4reement         SubJ2ct _           .Somu1ncea                 itamms
Section 2.04      Closing Date             June 30, 1985            Extended 3 times to
June 30, 1988
Schedule 2        Project Completion       December 31, 1994        Delayed to November 1988
Section 3.04      Furnish the names and   December 31, 1982         Delayed. Submitted in
qualifications of the                            in February 1983, but
candidates selected                              needed to be substan-
for training abroad                              tively reformulated to
and details of the                               conform to Geological
courses they will                                Survey Board's require-
attend.                                          ments causing further
delay.
Section 3.06      Maintain adequate        Continuing               Not complied with
(a) (i)           records
Section 3.06      Furnish Project          Quarterly                Not complied with except
(a) (iii)         Progress Reports                                 for June, 1988.
Section 4.01      Furnish audited          Not later than           Complied with in later
(b) (ii)          accounts to IDA          six months after        years only.
end of each FY
Section 4.02      Prepare and furnish      March 31, 1982           Complied. Report issued
(i)               to IDA report on                                 in December 1983.
petroleum exploration
potential in the
Red Sea basin and
strategy for pro-
moting exploration
and development.
Section 4.02      Prepare and furnish      March 31, 1982           Complied. Report issued
(ii)              to IDA report on                                 January 1983
geothermal explora-
tion potential and
strategy for provid-
ing geothermal energy



25
Table 9. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(staffweeks)
Stagp of              --Planned--    --Revised--    --- Total--
Project Cyce&         HQ   Field   HQ   Field   HQ + Field
Upto Appraisal         -      -      -       -        40.1
Appraisal Through
Board Approval        -       -      -       -        24.0
Board Through
Effectiveness         -       -                          a -2
Supervision           .       .      *       .         49.0
PCR (FY 1990)               9.0            9.0          3.5
Total                                                116.
...  ___...... .. .....__.... ._._. _
IL Information not available except for years after 1987.
it The MIS does not track time separately for Board Approval through effectiveness. Once
a project goes to the Board, time is recorded under supervision.



26
Stgp of                'thl      No. of  Das in Speielizatin              Type of
Projet Cycle          Year       Person   Field    Representd * Rating * Problem '
.............         ................. .,........  ............_, .............. ... ....  ............... ....... ....
Reo_mis e                0280        2       11   Ea, PG                  -
Idmoenfication I         06/80       2       6   EE, t               - P
ldtiffeation It         04181 /1    1       6   PLt
PrepeatiPappr.           061         2       8   UE, PG
AppraIsal                09/81       3       12   EE, P, OS
Appraisl to              10481 A    1         7   PE
Boad Appront
Sawd thru                06/62       2       9    EU, P
Effectivens
Suprvision t             11/82       2       7   EE, FA
Suevision it             02/83       3        7   DC, EE, FA         2        N
Partial Spn. 111    /3   03/83       2        3    EE, Os
Sups ioon IV             08m         2       6    EE, OS
Suprvisie V              11/4       2       6    FA, Pe             2        1
SupavisionVI             07/85       3        7   PG, PE, fA
Supwvsion Vll            06/86       1       5    fA
Spervision VIII          03/87       1       3   DC
Supevision IX            048         1       is   Ea
Supervision  X     /A    10/8?       3       10   EE, PE. PE
Supervisionl /I    01/8o             2       10   FA, EE             2        N
Supervision Xlt/Pll    /    06/88    1       5   FA                  2        N
Supwefsin XIII/PCR n      11/68      2       12   FA, PE             2        N
i.......................
* tpecializatios       Cs Division cief,       EE: En         Econaist,  PE: Petrola   Enginee
PCs Petroleau Geologist, fAs Fifrnial Analyst, GS: Geotherml Speialtst
- Ratings:            1   ProlAe  free or  iner Problem,  2 a lodarste Problem,  3 a Major Problem
TyWpe  of Problems   n a Managerial
/1   Mission to di soais Bank ass istance to finanea a feasibility study through the PPF
for white prodcits pipeline.
/2   ifssion to review bid docmunts prepred by consltants (Genr) and
feasibilfty study for White Produets Pipetine (Frnce).
/3   Partial supwrvisien. minly to review iaplp nt.tion of eppoiltmant of petrol.eL
conltants, and mist GSA with pomotionl pekag  to he preprd by consultants
/4  Utth supewvision of credit 1702-YAR, an preparation of LPG mottling Plant Project.
JS  Uith supvision of credit 1702-TAR



