Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                   ELE  COPY
Report No. P-3210-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
February 16, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                      December 1981
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YRI)             YRI
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/                4.50
YRI I =  $0.22                       0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January I to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO      Central Planning Organization
FAO      Food and Agricultural Organization
GSA      Geological Survey Authority
ELC      Electroconsult
PDRY     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
YAR      Yemen Arab Republic
YOMINCO Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton of crude oil of 0.85 specific gravity  =   41.5 x 106 BTU
I kilometer (km)                                       =   0.6 miles
I square kilometer (km2)                               =   0.4 sauare miles
I cubic meter (m3)                                     =   6.3 barrels (bbl)
1 barrel                                               =   42.0 US gallons
1/  No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF.  All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICI]AL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rights:  1.8 million
(approximately US$2 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Project Description:  The proposed project is designed to assist tlhe
Government in intensifying petroleum and geothermal
exploration activities by supporting its efforts to
attract foreign oil companies and providing assistance
for strengthening project implementation capabilities
in the petroleum exploration subsector. It includes
(i) geological and geophysical services; (ii) promo-
tion services to attract foreign investors; and (iii)
tecbnical assistance for training the staff of Yemen
Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO); and
(iv) refinancing of the IDA project preparation ad-
vance whicb was extended for undertaking a feasibility
study for the installation of an economically viable
system of supply, storage and transportation of petro-
leum products. The main benefit of the project would
be to detect prospects sufficiently attractive to
petroleum and geothermal companies to undertake ex-
ploration in YAR. The principal risk is that iden-
tified prospects may not be sufficiently attractive to
foreign oil companies. This risk is small for geo-
thermal exploration since several companies have al-
ready expressed preliminary interest.  As for petro-
leum exploration, the project is designed to minimize
this risk by undertaking a critical reevaluation/
reinterpretation of the Red Sea basin's potential.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                      Local   Foreign   Total
(Project costs are exempted                          -----($ tbousand)------
from taxes and duties)
A. Petroleum Exploration
Consultants                                     1l'O     350      500 1/
Promotion services                               50       150     200
Seismic lines reprocessing                       20      180      200
B. Geotbermal Exploration
Promotional services                             30      100      130 1/
C.  Training courses                                    15       100      115
Library and equipment                                -        70       70
D.  Refinancing the Project Preparation Advance    115           850      965
Base Costs                                         380    1,800   2,180
Physical contingencies 2/                             30        95      125
Price contingencies 2/                                30       105      135
Subtotal                                            60       200     260
Total                                                  440    2,000   2,440
Financing Plan
Government                                           440        --      440
IDA Credit                                                  2,000   2,000
Total                                              440    2,000   2,440
Estimated IDA Disbursements:  IDA FY                   1982   1983    1984
-----$ thousand-----
Annual                                               700    1,000       300
Cumulative                                           700    1,700   2,000
Estimated Completion Date:   December 31, 1984
Rate of Return;               Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:       None.
1/ Includes $25,000 for preparation of report.
2/ Excludes 'D' above.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 1.8 million (approximately USt2.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration
Promotion project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a
Country Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report
on manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; and an Urban
Sector Report (No. 2699-YAR), dated March 1981, bave been distributed to the
Executive Directors. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for rapid development of the public aind private
sectors.  A Tbree-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) was followed by
the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their wake, the foun-
dations for the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and
expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay
of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also
started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased, on a net basis, from around $40 million in 1969/70 to a level that
has fluctuated around $1 billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980,
but which seems to have dropped below this level in 1981 (on the basis of
tentative estimates by the Central Bank). Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over this
period, reaching an estimated $420 in 1978/79.
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the Fourth
Education and Sanaa Urban Development credits which were approved by the
Executive Directors on January 28, 1982.



-2-
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture.  Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. AgriculturaL land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force is
drawn from a population pool which is characterized bv very low levels of
education or training. Although the most critical shortages are in the
skilled and professional occupations, even the unskilled work force was under
strain during the height of the labor migration to neighboring countries.
However, it appears that previous shortages of unskilled workers have recent-
ly eased somewhat as the pace of migration has levelled off. The shortage of
manpower limits the capacity of the public administration to manage and
implement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small.
Most budget revenue is derived from import duties, while other sources of
taxation are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been
covered through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to
diminish in relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for
measures to broaden the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and
devise new schemes to tap the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission,
with IMF participation, addressed these and related issues, and its draft
report was discussed with the Government in November 1981. The Government
has already implemented some of the mission's recommendations.
Government Objectives
9.        The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81). It has endeavored to develop human re-
sources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Preliminary progress reports on the first four years of the
Plan indicate that, in aggregate terms, objectives have by and large been met
except in the agriculture sector where output has stagnated and actual growth
fell considerably below targeted levels primarily because of the abandonment
of marginal rain-fed areas whose income opportunities could not compete with
the opportunities of migration.
10.       The preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986) is cur-
rently underway. In this context, the Government had initially asked the
Bank for assistance in reviewing major development issues, and in evaluating
priorities in sectors in which IDA is involved so as to channel resources



- 3 -
into the most desirable areas. This work has been completed. More recently,
at the request of the Government, the Bank agreed to act as execul:ing agency
for a UNDP-financed project that assists in overseeing the inputs to be used
by the Central Planning Organization in the preparation of the plan.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
11.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is eszimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and
1978/79. 1/ Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflec-
ting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of governrnent ser-
vices, and of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid increase of
modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables,
fruits and poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most important eco-
nomic sector in YAR, was relatively stagnant and in some cases contracted.
12.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new mar-
kets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private invest-
ment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This coin-
cided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures. Ini-
tially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated form
through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the Government
increased its capital expenditures from close to YRls 60 million (l$13 mil-
lion) in 1972/73 to around YRls 2.5 billion ($555 million) in 1979/80.
Domestic and External Finance
13.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years bas led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79,
gross national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million, which
would be equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national sav-
ings are generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a large
part of these savings originated from remittances of workers, mosit of whom
are from rural areas. Savings are thus benefitting most regions of the coun-
try and different population groups.
14.       Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that
year). However, in the following three years tax revenue more than
trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases in
import duties. As a result, the current budget yielded surpluses, which in
1/  The Government, with United Nations/Economic Commission for Western Asia
(UN/ECWA) assistance, has recently revised the country's entire national
accounts series. A Bank economic updating mission visited Yemen in
November 1981 to look into these revisions. Its analysis will be
reported in a forthcoming country economic memorandum. The figures in
Annex I and the following discussion are based on the unrevised series.



- 4 -
1977/78 reached YRls 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates for
1978/79 have this surplus sbrinking to around YRls 315 million ($70 million)
as a result of the continued large expansion of expenditures. The recent
Bank mission to review domestic resource mobilization, as well as a subse-
quent IMF Article IV Consultation mission, expressed concern that the overall
budgetary position deteriorated rapidly as of 1978/79 and the overall deficit
has been on the order of YRls 2 billion-2.5 billion ($445 million-$555 mil-
lion) per annum.
15.        YAR's external financial position has also changed dramatically in
recent years. While at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange was
in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to request the
rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the country sub-
sequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of payments surpluses
and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for this change must be
seen in the large and growing amounts of workers' remittances and private
transfers, as well as in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations. However, the last two years or
so have witnessed a stabilization in the levels of remittances and transfers,
and since imports continued their rapid growth, the balance of payments has
also deteriorated sharply. As a result, there has been a significant run on
the country's foreign reserve holdings.
16.        YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the under,developed state of its
economy.  Imports, on the other hand, have risen slharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemeni rial,
and the absence of import restrictions.
Capital Flows and External Debt
17.        Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance.  Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to more than $1.5 billion by the end of 1980. The
principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, the Gulf States, IDA, China,
Germany and the USA.
18.        About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for
budget support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program
and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants
has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the ex-
treme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority
and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants,
YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans ancl credits. Drawings on
these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $417 million in 1980.
Most of the official loans and credits have been committed for the financing
of specific projects, with the main emphasis on roads; agriculture, including
irrigation; and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.



- 5 -
19.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 years.
20.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1980 was
estimated at $1603 million, of which $727 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, IDA, the Arab Fund, China, Germany and
the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits accounted for $201 million or about 13 percent
of the total debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrow-
ing, the debt service payments amounted to $18 million for 1980, equivalent
to around 1 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few
years, the burden of such payments would continue to remain small in relation
to YAR's exchange earnings.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       The proposed credit would be the twenty-ninth to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $271.3 million. 1/ Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA-credits, IFC investments and Bank grants, as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects, as of September 30, 1981. The World
Bank strategy in YAR has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the
basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequi-
sites for development, to develop production and income in the dominant pro-
ductive sector, agriculture, and to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA
has extended three credits for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million
credit for a port development project, four credits for water supply and
sewerage totalling $36.4 million, $22 million for two power distribution
projects and a $15 million credit for a Sanaa urban development credit. To
assist in the development of education, IDA has extended four credits for a
total of $41 million, in support of primary and secondary teacher training,
secondary technical and vocational education and training of public admini-
stration personnel, institution building and the Faculty of Engineering at
the University of Sanaa. To develop rural infrastructure and to support pro-
duction and distribution in agriculture, fisheries and agroindustrv, IDA has
made nine credits for a total of $106.4 million. To develop industry, IDA
extended a $2.3 million credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project de-
signed to stimulate investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide
a model for future industrial development and a $12 million credit in March
1981 to assist in the development of the Industrial Bank of Yemen as an
1/ This includes the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for th,e First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excludes the $7.0 million credit for
the Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was
cancelled at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



-6-
effective development finance company; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4
million by the International Finance Corporation was approved to belp finance
a dairy and juice project.
22.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on belping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture. In CPO, the World Bank (through three grants
totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a team of planning and
economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery.  The World Bank is
also currently acting as Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed project to
assist in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) (para. 10).
In the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Bank supplies the services of seven
advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and
now financed jointly by IDA (under the Second Tihama project), the EEC
Special Action Fund and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz,
which carries out agricultural research for the country as a wbole, is also
financed as part of this institutional support.
23.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and health, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
througbout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successful implementation. A first bealth project and
an agricultural researcb project have been appraised; a building materials
project, a fourth highways project and an agricultural credit project are in
the preparation stage. Future projects are expected to include power, water
supply and rural development activities.
24.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As
in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
bigher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we sball continue to co-
operate closely witb other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects bave led to about $294 mil-
lion equivalent of cofinancing from other aid donors.



- 7 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
25.       The Yemen Arab Republic is entirely dependent on petroleum imports
for meeting its commercial energy requirements. YAR's oil import bill
increased from about $3 million in 1973 to about $260 million in 1980. This
represents a rise from less than 2 percent of YAR's total import bill in
1973/74 to about 17 percent in 1979/80. YAR's energy strategy for the
eighties needs to focus both on increased conservation efforts as well as to
intensify the exploration of its petroleum and geothermal potential.
Energy Overview
26.       Consumption.  YAR bas no reliable data on its total primary energy
consumption. However, on the basis of a number of available UNDP studies and
brief field visits conducted by Bank missions, it is estimated that YAR's
total energy consumption increased at about 10 percent per annum during the
period 1975-80 and reached about 3 million tons of oil equivalent in 1981.
Non-commercial sources of energy constitute about 80 percent of YAR's energy
consumption. Most of YAR's rural population and nearly 60 percenit of bouse-
holds in urban areas still use fuelwood and animal wastes as a primary source
of energy. The UNDP has offered to provide funds for undertaking a study of
the potential use of YAR's renewable energy resources.  On the other hand,
the dependence on commercial energy, mainly in the form of petroleum pro-
ducts, has risen rapidly from about 5 percent of total energy consumption in
1973 to about 20 percent in 1980 reflecting both the growth in per capita
income as well as increased urbanization. With regard to commercial energy
use by consumers, the transport sector is the largest end user in YAR
amounting to about 42 percent of total petroleum consumption, followed by
industry, power and agriculture, 40 percent, and residential and other use
18 percent.
27.       Domestic Energy Resources.  Data on YAR's energy resources are also
limited. YAR bas no known conventional energy resources except for small
deposits of commercially unexploitable poor quality coals. There are, how-
ever, large areas with potential for oil and gas discoveries which have not
yet been adequately surveyed. The presence of oil in some wells drilled in
the Red Sea area of the country suggests the possibility of finding hydrocar-
bon resources in YAR.  Traditional fuels in the form of fuelwood, crop resi-
dues and animal wastes in the form of dung cakes, which are mainly used for
cooking and heating purposes, play a major role in meeting the rural popula-
tion's overall demand for energy.  YAR also has a good solar regime whose
exploitation for water heating and crop drying could be economic. FAO, under
its technical cooperation program, signed in 1979, has financed the introduc-
tion of solar pumping units to provide irrigation to the Anssifera farm pro-
ject. Preliminary surveys of the country's geothermal resources have been
completed and the findings from these surveys warrant further exploration of
geothermal resources in the Dhamar-Radaa area.



-8-
Sector Organization
28.       Overall Organization.  The responsibility for coordinating and
managing energy policy in YAR is shared among the (Central Planning Organiza-
tion, the Ministry of Electricity, Water and Sewerage, and the Yemen Oil and
Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO). The major operating institutions
are the Yemen General Electricity Corporation, which is responsible for the
power sector, and YOMINCO, which is in charge of petroleum and mineral
resources.
29.       YOMINCO, a Government-owned institution established in 1978, is
responsible, tbrough two of its departments, for the development, distribu-
tion and marketing of petroleum products and minerals in YAR. The Geological
Survey Authority (GSA) is in charge of the development of minerals, petroleum
and geothermal resources and it is funded by Government grants. The Yemen
Petroleum Company is responsible for the distribution and marketing of petro-
leum products. The other YOMINCO department is the Salif Salt Mining Com-
pany, in charge of the extraction and marketing of the salt reserves at
Salif. YOMINCO is relatively well staffed. Because of its autonomous status
it has not experienced major difficulties in attracting and retaining quali-
fied Yemeni staff.
30.       The Geological Survey Authority.  GSA handles mining, geothermal
and petroleum exploration activities including the administration of explora-
tion agreements. It is also entrusted with the functions of collection,
storage and use of the data obtained from the operations of oil companies in
YAR, as well as with the monitoring of their exploratory activities. To
carry out these functions, GSA has about 25 technical and professional
staff. Nearly one-third of GSA's staff, including tbree geologists and one
geophysicist, have been associated with petroleum and geothermal exploration
activities carried out by Shell and Electroconsult (ELC) respectively. How-
ever, although GSA's staff have the required education, they lack the in-depth
training to carry out geological investigations and to monitor exploration
activities effectively. The proposed project will tberefore provide these
staff both on-the-job training by associating them with the consultants, and
specialized training abroad. The project will also train two of GSA's quali-
fied staff in data analysis, reprocessing and its iinterpretation (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
Petroleum Sector
31.       Consumption.  YAR imported about 650,000 tons of petroleum products
in 1980.  Gas oil and gasoline together accounted for about 80 percent of
these imports. Kerosene, wbich accounted for 12 percent of total imports, is
mainly used in the household sector. The import oi petroleum products has
increased at an annual rate of 20 percent between 1973 and 1980. These data
exclude gasoline imported illegally from Saudi Arabia and which is estimated
to have reached about 30 percent of YAR's total gasoline imports in 1980.
Government efforts to control the smuggling of gasoline have been only par-
tially successful. The YAR Government has recently discussed with the Saudi
Government joint measures to halt the smuggling which should lead to some
positive results shortly.



32.       Despite the rapid growth in demand for petroleum product:s, which is
attributed to the low energy base and the significant rise in per capita GNP
during the seventies, per capita consumption of commercial energy in 1978 was
only 93 kilograms standard coal equivalent 1/ (kgce). This is amongst the
lowest countries in the world and compares with an average of 161 kgce for
low income countries. However, the increase in per capita consumption of
commercial energy is expected to continue, though at lower rates, as GDP is
expected to rise at about 5 percent per annum during the eighties., The rate
of growth of energy consumption is thus estimated to grow at an annual rate
of 10 percent during the same period.  Consequently, YAR's petroleum imports
are expected to reach about 1.6 million tons in 1990 as compared to 0.6 mil-
lion tons in 1980.
33.       Internal Transport.  Imported petroleum products are transported by
tank lorries from the ports of Hodeidah and Mocha to various parts of the
country. As the imports of petroleum products from these two port:s is
expected to exceed 1.0 million tons by 1983, the transport of such volumes by
road would become costly. Even at the present demand levels, pipeline
transport appears more economically viable as indicated from the preliminary
results of a feasibility study undertaken by YOMINCO and financed by an IDA
project preparation advance (paragaphs 45-46).
34.       Pricing.  Despite the continuous adjustments of petroleum products
prices since the beginning of the oil crisis in 1973, the average sale price
of a ton of petroleum products in YAR was $466 in January 1980 cormpared to an
average cost for importing, transporting and distributing petroleum products
of $576 per ton. The difference of $110 per ton was due to subsidies ex-
tended to consumers of diesel oil, LPG, kerosene and aviation fuel. While
the subsidies for diesel and aviation fuel were intended to assist agricul-
ture, industry and commercial transport, the low prices of LPG and kerosene
were partly designed to discourage the use of fuelwood as a major residential
energy source because deforestation has become a serious problem. The total
cost of the subsidy amounted between January and June 1980 to about $36 mil-
lion, of which $24 million was incurred by the consumers of the non-subsidized
petroleum products. The balance was covered from the Government budget.
35.       The YAR Government agreed in December 1980, during the negotia-
tions of IDA-assisted second power project (Cr. 1102-YAR), to elimninate the
subsidy for all petroleum products and announced this decision in January
1981. The average sale price of a ton of petroleum products increased to
about $580 in October 1981. The present price levels of major petroleum
products are summarized in the following table:
1/ 1 kg standard coal equivalent = 7,000 kilocalories.



- 10 -
Table 1: RETAIL PRICES OF MAJOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
(October 1981)
Sanaa      International
Sales price    Sale Price
Product           $/gallon        t/gallon
Gasoline            2.16            1.36
Diesel              1.54            1.25
Kerosene            1.72            1.34
Fuel Oil            1.39            0.82
36.       Petroleum Resource Potential.  YAR has no commercially exploitable
petroleum resources as yet. Two main sedimentary basins, however, with
petroleum potential have been identified within YAR: the unexplored Al-Jawf
basin to the northeast, and the Red Sea rift basin to the west. The Al-Jawf
basin, covering an area of approximately 200 km long by 60 km wide and
extending into the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), is known
only from surface geology and partial aeromagnetometric coverage; only
surface shows and a weak oil and gas indication have been recorded in this
area. Its petroleum potential is thus unknown and can only be ascertained by
drilling.  The other sedimentary basin of the Red Sea occupies a prospective
onshore and offshore area of about 156,000 km2. This is an extensive
tertiary rift basin where sedimentary deposits varied according to time and
relative paleogeographic conditions. Of particular interest for petroleum
generation is the marine-evaporatic cycle that developed in Miocene times
following the opening of the rift. The extensive salt deposits associated
with the evaporitic phase may provide an excellent seal for any petroleum
accumulation originating from the underlying (and interbedded) source rocks.
This salt also has given rise to numerous salt structures of possible
interest in terms of entrapped hydrocarbons in the overlying section.
37.       Past exploration activity in the Red Sea basin consists of about
8,000 line kms of seismic surveys (7,000 kms offshore of fair to good quality
and 1,000 km onshore of poor to fair quality). Eight wells have also been
drilled, five by an independent US oil company, with locations based only on
surface geology and gravitmetry, and three drilled by Shell Oil Company of
which one was offshore. With the exception of very small amounts of gas and
oil detected in the last Shell onshore well, the drilling results have, so
far, been disappointing. A high geotbermal gradient biases the pre-salt sec-
tion to gas accumulation, which could, however, contain condensate. Diffi-
culty in drilling througb the salt section and the lack of good reservoirs in
the section penetrated led to Sbell's withdrawal. With the termination of
their activity in July 1981, exploration has reached a standstill in the Red
Sea Basin.



- 11 -
38.       It sbould be noted that although the negative results encountered
by Shell in their operations in YAR were the major factors for Shell's exit,
they are not conclusive enough either to totally "condemn" the area or to
determine adequately the resource potential, for several reasons. First, the
lack of reservoirs encountered by Shell is offset by the presence of porous
sands found in a well drilled in Saudi Arabia not far from the nortLhern
boundary of YAR. The Shell wells were not drilled deep enough to reach this
geologic objective. Second, the higb geothermal gradients found in that area
have been found in otber basins, such as in Cameroon, where oil has been
developed at similar depth. In this respect, despite high geothernal gradi-
ents, it should also be noted that Shell recorded an oil show in one of its
wells at a depth of 3,500 meters. Furthermore, a number of identified struc-
tures on the continental shelf remain to be tested. Overall, the Limited
exploration carried out so far in YAR has been inadequate to determine the
petroleum potential.
39.       Petroleum Exploration Strategy and Recent Initiatives.  YAR has
consistently followed an "open door" policy with respect to exploration for
oil and gas by encouraging private foreign investment. In the eastern area,
where there has been virtually no exploration in the past, YAR conlracted the
Compagnie Generale Geophysique of France to undertake an aeromagnelic
(airmag) survey. The airmag interpretation was promising to the extent it
established possible sedimentary thicknesses of up to 3,500 meters. Encour-
aged by the results of the aeromagentic survey, two US companies, Hunt Oil
and Dorchester International, made proposals in June 1981 for exploration.
An IDA mission, which visited YAR in June 1981, provided technical advice to
the government on several points for negotiations and encouraged the govern-
ment to enter into an exploration contract with these companies. Thereafter,
YAR entered into an exploration contract in September 1981, with Hunt Oil
Co. The contract is a production-sharing type with 30 percent cost recovery
and 70-30 after tax production-sharing. It extends over 12,600 km:2 in the
eastern area that includes essentially all of the prospective zone. The Hunt
Oil program comprises two years of seismic surveys with a minimum expenditure
of $3.5 million for the first two years, followed by a drilling program for
several wells during the next three to four years, should the seismic results
be encouraging. Hunt Oil plans to start its seismic survey in early 1982.
40.       In the western area, YAR's strategy is to reactivate the Red Sea
basin for exploration by private oil companies. To this end, the preparation
of a comprehensive report on past exploration data, including a critical
assessment of the positive as well as the negative factors related to the
petroleum possibilities of the area, is recommended. This should be followed
by a distribution of the report to potentially interested companies. The
basis for this reinterpretation already exists in the form of base maps
prepared by Shell. Therefore, the project could be readily oriented to deal
with certain problems and prospects at a modest cost. The Government has
requested IDA's assistance under the proposed project to provide technical
and financial assistance to YAR to reevaluate the petroleum potential in the
western area and promote the area to interested oil companies for further
exploration.



- 12 -
Geotbermal Resource Potential
41.       The Yemen bighlands sbow numerous recent volcanoes and several
geotbermal occurences (steam, sulphur deposits, hot water). On the basis of
reconnaissance geologic mapping, the Dhamar-Radaa geothermal prospect (90 km
south of Sanaa) is found to have encouraging geologic indications for geo-
thermal energy and is also within easy reacb (12 kin) of the future power
transmission network.
42.       Exploration surveys within this Dhamar-Radaa prospect area were
begun in January 1981 by the Italian consulting firm Electroconsult (ELC)
with financing from a bilateral grant from Italy . ELC has already completed
geologic, geochemical and electrical resistivity surveys. The geologic
setting, measured surface and shallow sub-surface temperatures, and resis-
tivity survey results are encouraging and justify further exploration to con-
firm the feasibility of development of geothermal potential. If an ex-
ploitable reservoir exists, its potential should be in the range of 120 to
560 Mw. Geothermal power could be brought on line by 1988/89, when a new
increment of 120 Mw of base load power will be neeided for the network now
under construction.
43.       The Government of YAR attacbes bigb priority to intensifying
geotbermal resource exploitation and development as even moderate geotbermal
potential can substitute imported oil for power generation. The magnitude of
investment involved in furtber exploratory drilling to determine the feasi-
bility of development of geothermal potential is estimated between $10 and 20
million. Further development of the confirmed potential is estimated to cost
around $30 million. Since YAR has neither the financial resources nor the
required technical expertise to undertake further exploration and development
of its geotbermal resource potential, it has embarlked on a policy to attract
foreign investment to explore this potential and has requested IDA's
technical assistance to promote geothermal exploration to foreign private
companies.
IDA Lending Strategy and Role in the Sector
44.       IDA has already made two credits for electric power projects in
YAR. Under the regional electrification project (Power II; Cr. 1102-YAR) of
January 1981, revisions to the existing electricity tariffs are being studied
and the Government is expected to further improve the structure of the
tariffs based on the recommendations of that study.
45.       IDA's assistance to the petroleum sector began with a project
preparation advance of $850,000 to assist YOMINCO in procuring consultancy
services for undertaking a feasibility study, engineering designs and bidding
documents for the installation of an economically viable system of supply,
storage and transportation of petroleum products. In the event that the
feasibility study shows the project to be technically and economically
justified, this could result in a larger follow-up investment for which IDA
financing may be sought.



- 13 -
46.       The consultants were selected .n June 1981.  A Frencb firm, Omnium
Techniques des Transports par Pipelines (OTP) was awarded the contract. The
draft report was completed in December 1981 and is now under review by
YOMINCO and IDA. The preliminary findings of the study indicate that the
proposed pipelines investment is viable with an economic rate of return of
about 20 percent. The final report is expected to be completed by March 1982.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The proposed project was identified during a visit by an IDA
mission to YAR in April 1981 and appraised in October 1981. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from January 29 to February 1, 1982. The YAR
delegation was beaded by His Excellency Ali Al-Bahr, Minister of State and
President, YOMINCO, and included a representative of the Central Planning
Organization. No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared. The main
features of the credit and the project are summarized in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
intensifying petroleum and geothermal exploration activities by supporting
its efforts to attract foreign oil companies, and to strengthen YOMINCO's
capabilities in monitoring these activities. The project would be imple-
mented over the period 1982-84 and would consist of the following compo-
nents: (i) geological and geophysical services; (ii) promotion services to
attract foreign investors; (iii) technical assistance for training YOMINCO's
staff; and (iv) completion of the feasibility study referred to in paragraphs
45-46 above.
Geological and Geophysical Services
49.       Data Interpretation (25 manmonths).  A team composed of a senior
petroleum geologist and geophysicist would be hired to synthesize all
available existing data from past exploration activity in the Red Sea basin.
The team will produce a series of maps and cross sections describing the
potential prospects and petroleum plays in that area. Available exploratory
data on the Red Sea basin consists of gravity and magnetic surveys, about
8,000 line km. of seismic surveys, logs, well cuttings and cores from eight
exploratory wells. The consultant team would review such aspects as the
evaluation of geological temperatures, which vary widely in the offshore and
onshore areas and were neglected under previous operations in the area, and
will prepare a report that could be used for promoting exploration activities
in the Red Sea basin, as well as for internal YOMINCO use. The team will
also provide 10 manmonths of intermittent services to assist YOMINCO in
monitoring the activities of foreign oil companies' exploration in YAR.
50.       Reprocessing of seismic lines.  The project provides for reprocess-
ing of approximately 10 percent of the seismic lines (about 1,000 line km) to



- 14 -
improve data quality and interpretation, particularly the presalt section
where the prospects of finding oil are expected to be located. This will
also include velocity analyses on prospective structures.
Promotion Services
51.       Oil and Gas Exploration (6 manmonths).  Experienced individuals or
a firm will be hired to assist YOMINCO in reviewing the above and in devising
a strategy to reactivate exploration in the Red Sea basin to foreign oil com-
panies. The experts will also assist YOMINCO in negotiations with interested
companies.
52.       Geothermal Exploration (6 manmonths).  Experienced individuals or a
firm will be hired to prepare a report on YAR's geothermal potential in the
Dhamar-Radaa area and to promote this area to interested private geothermal
companies for further exploration and development. The experts will also
assist YOMINCO in negotiations with interested companies.
Technical Assistance
53.       To build up a modest technical and managerial capability amongst
YOMINCO's staff, the project provides for the training of 10 of them in
petroleum exploration techniques, management, legal and accounting through
intensive specialized courses abroad. YOMINCO agreed to furnish IDA, not
later than December 31, 1982, the names and qualifications of the candidates
selected for training abroad, as well as the details of the courses they will
attend (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).  The project also pro-
vides for improving the support facilities for YOMINCO's Geological Survey
Authority (GSA), particularly data reproduction and the library.
Feasibility Study
54.       The feasibility study and the preparation of bidding documents for
the installation of an economically viable system of supply, storage and
transportation of petroleum products (paragraphs 45-46) is expected to be
completed by end 1982. Since the proposed credit is expected to become
effective prior to end 1982, and the unwithdrawn balance of the project
preparation advance shall thereupon be cancelled (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 2.02(b)), the credit would, tberefore, provide funds for the
completion of the feasibility study and engineering designs, as well as
preparation of bidding documents.
Project Implementation
55.       The proposed project will be implemented over a period of about
three years. The execution of the project will be the responsibility of
YOMINCO tbrough its GSA department (paragraph 30). It would be assisted by
consultants with experience, qualifications and terms of employment accep-
table to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(ii)). The employ-
ment of the consultants in accordance with these provisions would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed credit (DeveLopment Credit Agreement,
Section 5.01).



- 15 -
56.       The review of petroleum potential in the Red Sea basin and the
preparation of an integrated report to be used for promotion would be com-
pleted by end Marcb 1983. The two petroleum and geothermal proraotional
reports and the proposed strategies for the promotion of petroleum and geo-
thermal exploration would be provided to IDA for review and comments. The
Government would also consult with IDA on the follow-up phases of its promo-
tional efforts (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). The key phases
of the exploration promotion activities are as follows:
(i) Invitation to petroleum and geothermal
exploration promotion consulting firms         March 1932
(ii) Selection of consulting firms                  May 1982
(iii) Contract award                                 June 1982
(iv) Start petroleum and geothermal
exploration review                             August 1'982
(v) Promotion package completed                    March 1933
Project Costs and Financing
57.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is
estimated at about $2.4 million equivalent, of wbich about 82 percent, or
$2.0 million equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. These
estimates, adjusted to reflect December 1981 prices, are based on prices
quoted in contracts of similar nature. The project is exempted from taxes
and duties. Physical contingencies of 10 percent per annum were assumed in
developing the cost estimates. Price contingencies of 8 percent per annum
have been applied to all items locally procured and for items slabject to
foreign procurement 8.5 percent per annum for 1982 and 7.5 percent per annum
tbereafter. The cost for about 31 manmonths of internationally recruited
experts have been estimated at about $20,000 per manmonth, including travel,
subsistence and overhead. These costs, which are based on the actual
quotations for similar consultancy services both in YAR and the neighboring
PDRY, reflect the high level of expertise needed and the premium required by
experienced professionals in the industry. Estimated costs by project
components are given in the Credit and Project Summary.
58.       A project preparation advance of $850,000 was made in May 1981 to
YOMINCO for undertaking a feasibility study for the installation of an
economically viable system of supply, storage and transportation of petroleum
products (paragraphs 45 and 46). This advance will be refinanced under the
proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
59.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 1.8 million (approximately $2.0
million equivalent) represents about 82 percent of total project costs. It
will finance the project's foreign exchange requirements including the
refinancing of the PPF advance. The Government will finance the remaining



- 16 -
local costs of $440,000 equivalent, or 18 percent of the total project
costs. The IDA credit would be made to the YAR Government under standard IDA
terms and conditions. The Government would provide the proceeds of the
credit as a grant to YOMINCO for the implementation of the project.
Procurement
60.       Consulting services (costing about $945,000, including contingen-
cies) will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for procuring such
services. Groups of items of equipment and materials, estimated to cost less
than $70,000, will be procured through limited international tendering, and
would include, to the extent possible, quotations from at least three manu-
facturers or suppliers.
Disbursements
61.       Disbursements will be made to cover 100 percent of foreign ex-
penditures for training, promotional services, consiultants' services and
material and equipment. In addition, the proposed credit will refinance the
project preparation advance and the related IDA charges. All disbursements
will be fully documented.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
62.       YOMINCO has an internal audit unit which carries out its activities
under the direction of its Department of Financial Affairs. Its annual
financial statements are audited by an established independent firm of
auditors and are satisfactory.
63.       YOMINCO would keep separate project accounts, which would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and would submit the audit
report to IDA not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01). YOMINCO would submit quarterly
reports on project implementation and would also prepare and furnish to IDA a
Project Completion Report not later than six months after the closing date of
the Credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06(c)).
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The primary benefits of the exploration promotion components would
be to attract foreign oil companies at the earliest date to undertake
intensive petroleum and geothermal exploration. The risk associated with
this project is that the companies may not be attracted to the areas of-
fered. Given that the land/offshore area of YAR belongs to the Red Sea
Graben and has certain similarities with the Sudan offshore where gas has
been found and, furthermore, that the geological conditions in YAR's northern
part are similar to the oil-rich Gulf of Suez, the risks of total failure to
promote the areas appear small. In the case of geothermal exploration promo-
tion, several companies have already expressed their preliminary interest.
All risks will be minimized through the use of experienced consultants who
will monitor quality and maintain flexibility in the methods of data acquisi-
tion and selection of seismic lines.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III. Employment of qualified and
experienced consultants with terms of employment acceptable to the
Association is an additional condition of effectiveness of the Credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 16, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-18 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
YEMEN. A "PUBLIC Of - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF             RSEFENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAES
LAUD  (THOUSANI SU,- MOST RECEN  ESTIMATE) 8
IUTAL            195.0                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      85.7                                MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIHATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA * CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$U                    ..          ..     420.0*                865,5                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTIUN PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF CUAL EQUIVALENT)       7.4        17.8      73.1                758.3                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  *
PUPULATIUN, MlD-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4039.0       4835.0   5693.0
URBAN PUPULAIOUN (PERCENT OF TUTAL)  3.4         6.0       9.8                  45,2                    64.2
POPULATIUN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIUNS)                       9.1
STATIONARY POPULATIUN (MILLIUNS)                        22.0
YEAR STAT1UNARY PUPULATION ;S REACHED                 2130
POPULATIUN DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       20.7        24.8      29.2                  36.3                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     48.0        56.8      65.1                442,,7                    94.5
PUPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.4        43.0      45.6                 44,2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                         54.4        53.9      51.2                 52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         3.1       3.2                  3.4                      4.0
POPULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         1.8       U.8                   2.7                     2.4
URBAN                              7.8         7.5       7.2                   4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     49.6        48.7      47.1                  41.,5                   31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     28.7        26.4      23.1                  12.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.5       3.2                   2.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
;UUU AND NUTglTIUN
INDEX UO FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-1OU)         119.0        84.0      95.0                 96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALURlES (PERCENT UF
REQUIREMENTS)                   88.0        78.0      91.0                 110.4                   107.6
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          69.0        57.0      68.0                  73.4                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        15.0       19.0                 17.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     53.9        47.9      40.6                  14.9                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9        38.6      42.1                  55.9                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY MATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..          ..        ..                   ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         4.0       4.0                  59.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..        45.0      30.0                  83.9                    79.7
RURAL                               *-         2.0       2.0                  40.8                    43.9
ACCESS To _XCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF PUPULAIOUN)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    30.4
PUPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN              ..     22126.1   12459.8                4174.5                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..          ..    5656.2                1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2901.0      1552.0    1994.3                 647.4                   471.2
URBAN                               ..          ..     255.6                 547.2                   558.0
RURAL                               ..          ..  30136.1                 3361.1
ADMlSSIONS PER HUSPITAL BED           ..          ..       16.2                 25.3
HUUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..       5.0
URBAN                               ..          ..       4.2c
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSUNS PER ROOM
TUTAL                               ..          ..       2.8
URBAN                               ..          ..       1./c
RURAL                               ..          ..       3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRILITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       56.5/c
RURAL                               ..           ..



-19 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAESGS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)--
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCO1ME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           NORTH EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         12.0      29.0                  85.1                     101.7
MALE                  14.0         23.0      50.0                  10t.5                    103.0
FEMALE                 0.4          2.0       7.0                  67.5                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.1.        1.0        4.0                  38.0                      35.3
MALE                    ..          2.0       8.0                  48.1                      34.9
FEMALE                  ..          0.1       1.0                  28.3                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0       5.0/d                11.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0        51.0       38.0/d                34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                           17.0        24.0       18.07W                23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          3.0         10.0/e    13.0                  43.0                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                  18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        14.0       18.3                 121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         11.6        ..                  35.9                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       1.0                   3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1225.7       1361.8    1439.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.7         4.5        5.2                  10.5                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0        79.0       76.3                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0         9.0       10.9                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.3         28.2      25.3                  26.4                      31.8
MALE                                  57.7         55.0      50.2                   47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.5       2.5                   5.7                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6       1.9                    1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 271.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      100.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                 400.8                     513.9
RUEAL                                 ..          ..       83.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithnetic means.  Coverage of countries
asong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   In the major cities of Sanaa, Tale and Hodaidah; /d 1975; /e 1973.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank atlas are $460 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5812
thousand.
May, 1.981



- 20 -
ANNEX :I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIOoNS OF tiCLted INbCA0TOR
Noose;  Although the detesIt. dosn frol       ore   aeol   ugd  h   oestotstesd  eibe.tsol   lct  ccs  otIr they ray tot bs uttr-
rattotllycoeerahlehaaus  o f the 1lak of Int Iadoddftttto   sod Iooet  usd bydIffretcutr iesIt .co lec g the dote. Ths data err, It00
The ref. erct  grup   reI) the sam  co-y group of the subject conryed (2) a cornaroup  ibb .orenhat higher-                           ero  toor   ththl .. troty group
ofteru fe t coutr  ...p. fr".    pe tupu   Ilipotr'  group oharet  "ideihtoe  North.. uflc  sod  tdlr  Eat:                      scosnhccs  faroa
sot-u Iuo   ffttt ).  totha rafrougop dam  the.trae  era populationriheda                           rtc   s    fora         tdt-t-  -od rh.-t only chat
rjonity of oh a cmmo ls1 to a group bee data fop that lodosr .            .tnc   the  oeaso.ntrr   no   h   n  rtr   eed  o hr the ann lblit~y Id data
on  itdi,tcao. t   trl      en  the country and ref-rto  groups.
LANT AREA lthhou...d sq.be.)                                                                               ...ulato  pa.r.H-1ptt..l tejd -ttl  .ht.tirc-Fpltm    itl
Ttota  - To tel surface are  -opnitglduWad.io    aer.ohn   o  rus-   d.idd  y    errepetvecobrilofhoPital. ed
fo   r ps,paturer, metie  eod kitohen gardens or to lri alcc  1978  aa                    hhitaoorTrr               ophlseaai art   emnnl   tfa
hy at Ieet co l-Phys idle-   Es-bltst-ent  Pror"dio  pritcipsllyo t-
GNP Ptt CAPITA dOff) - GNP par c-Plt   e Ise    t          rt -iatIreptosa  c-                      d. lul tr  Irr co_i lu de.  Octal hospitls.- h...re.  Itlude health
"uIedb  caecorr          1cehod ma World Omnk Aclca t-(977'-79 heaca); 1960,                      and rdi-yI ...r.onrscoe pe.r.atanti  ateffelhb      hsca   bth 
ig9-a0  W1979 data,                                                                               medical .a..     t    or.odef,rt)nthoro   tpttn    can
dortt an  proidaI lir lord roro    eia   aitta    o   tr
NtRtY COHSgTmrONPEKFT  CAPiTA - A-Ium  c..np.o focoroa  ergy (cccl                                   ticl  purpossubnhsiasI Iid   dfapt.yittgnrlhspltrsIs,k
sod ligrit. petrolsue, naturl -I r ed hydro-, nularcd ge-harra  e1ls-                             andrua  inn 1tab  local or rura  hospitals too medical sod mererIty
l tricun)t  itonr   f teal equinalent per-cpita; l9Af. 1970, cod 1979                             .et. re.    pacial asd hospitlsl er  included  -oly court total.
dat.-                                                                                           dLaiasbns Prr Hcentol  te   - Total t-h- of edriasi.r. tr on di-oh-rge
Once hospias didebythe oabsy of heds.
POPILATION cANl VITAL iTATISTICS
TtlPulat.Aid-Year (chrua..odst - A. of July 1: 1960, 1970. tod 1079                 L9P!jNl
Ulbha  Populettot (reroen  of total  - hotto of utht to ottul  opioc;A houeodIntt   fagopo   rttul  nhc ehat lintog  quatar
differrt dafin'tln   of. ..rh.oIr...  maIyffeco c .e...ahltty ofdati                            sodhotr  el  orls          bhrdee or lodgrr na   rny not he iocoded to
ameog cun          MOtlh. 10)0, rod 1070 doom.                                                  i hs hoeehel  foIl      tttyl   puryosee
PonuletionFrolacotom                                              oveRageturkey ofrerrons cr rocecoy  -'obo., sod rural- A-erega --
Poruleoon tn yrn 2000 - -Crr     PoPo1eclon  Irtcyor  o  hond cv 198)                    baro-ose   e   yrI   l   ra,ed ero-1 ocupe  ctotoa
tog lids anPectonoy at birth iocr...lrg   ith  -octoy' e par capita i-uor                 uAostllcrcro'aot  ofdtenns)-toa,ura. eudtna
level  rod femal  lIfe eryrteocy  -tbtltlog  at 77.5 Ysr.   The pete-                        Con-rocbil- dralliohe  -ih a1-orictytvlng    _urta I  Cs _~  8
metrs fofr tetilitY rate elan h.re theta. ...e.  arsurtog dacIisto                            of  tctsl , obso, and trel. d-sl1ioge       nr --tt-ely.
f-rtilitryacorl    t  ncme -ea  and past famIly plenrtt  perfoomate
Each coutr  is Obe th- algoad nor of theas nIna coohi-tobon  or mernalty                  tlDCO.TIOh
end fertility  _'edsI fot prjeIht,  Purposes                                                Adiu-ted EooanoOt1        o
Itittonro porullitte     t     tatoaY pplio   b               sn       ihatsPiaosho   -hoo, male sod fasalt - Iro.. totl,al  sed fees
thehrbntet   qa  to tOodeath rasIn loteaearouer-erlen   fatae   t cha prtsh.                                                              lerirathataotesof tapqth.
mair .....t rt.  This Is aettin-d  -oly Ift-r fernl"n   ae   sto   opiayshn-g    ouait;vral   oldscide   gd8l
th   altretlvlof uti  nrt nerodatrol rt, b-.hgra too                                   Ys_ra ho  adj-rtd for differet  enth  ofp Im ducton   o
of noe   eltsitefeuty   The eteotesry populatoats...u..eehh  oneel d.aio   t                                                                     Pl'otsY eo     f0 prcn
aoimetad 00 te hasir of theProj ated Ih otneno    f the populetior                      sic   oePuPils are brls.n1           oa h-fiil  colae
_to the I year   . 2fiad the rtofd Ins of fen"Itity rat   orpec-tooar   col ttota, mae tan                                                     ffile-oapte   ashd lshova;  ecodar
'fate 2ti 1ay    tcla -o is tesohad - The Yas   hnsainr  pouato                           onide  graloeeiul,rtshr ...raltt  tostroe  oefo 
strbehertshrd.                                                                         usuidlo of12t  17ycr  o  sa   _orsodoe   creraegeral
Par at. ka. - Mtd-ye-  popolacton per  dqrekluin(0  hcoe)o,Y___                                                         _________
totl  rea  1ff   oi ad "Ill data,    ki  .  .   10h        -)l             ~          ..Incuerorcl   nuotl   robtpopr  hc    orn   eas
Far s.   a. ca tculure  len  -Copuied osahbce for agicuro   o1rel   rc   epr et  cf secodar  tottu  ion.t                                                         - -..
onlY; 1960, 1970 and 1979  ed                                                                  cl-eehr`t      elrp,adecudr                           t  edudets enoledi
lat dn;  990,19),so  1079- cats.                                                          Adult iteray   rare    srusd t  -vdI btyeeaut   (so  to radan  wts)
year;  96  poplaton  foe t0-is  197   -0  and 197id0-79.p.                                                        1 1
latnefr lt-Al, 19801-70, Ic  197t-)N.                                                    Pe-erorCas  ne  tousodmocltitf-  esmbr  ar  trtis pt-
Crue trt  tue (ecthousand)-Al-ocl ltye births Per thoorso  of rtd-y,.cr.a,iglasta   ih    rsos   o  oe   solue,hoesu
P.yleic;1980, 1970, ro  1979 data.                                                              vtltbery.eh....                                                       I
Crude Death tR.r (re to__seo) -A ...o Idtoha per thousands of ri-errdi  seor  (eirr .hocaat  ococlaton)....                                        l t.re  ofoce      trafr  ai
p     1oaio    980, 1070, and 197t date.                                                  beadrtecgaealphlope   hoerdo  pplaIn;edlds  n
Grp   srdclc    atAearochro   ag tr      ne   ol  erItiese    eevr   oocnrn   n   n  er   horgRtatno   aI
brrnara  rprduoto  prId  f se  mprlmus pesntmg-src f o  ur      rte  s.trefet; dtefo  rcet yar  my  onhe  orarbl  snc
ofhtn-onorcl .de'etce  uriderciptf       eofnth ta.fmIyplnoogprgrr                             gnealpulc  err         turr  ppu- tomr       rcade  nlosed  O  etinr
FmlyiFaotg   gr   (ecroo  mrIe   onnf-Prenae  fr...dt   ounta   ndI  freinr    FneoeOo    fOhstsna-Yefat
tose  ofot dhalgeo(5ucyas   h   r   to-ooolOvctt                                               eeaa C19o7t0t  or    ooaodoou1to9    -Shveth  averaetr
all earned ocano to sear age group.                                             oulatior of "daily gareral totaraso tamepaper', deftued asapentodIitifal .l_  t:lll
E-MilY 11 ... 1.     A-Yp fi'  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      pulictten  drbtr1pi.         ty.6    ecriggrra   rs    tisteiee
P000 0190 otTiltIOt                                                                    to he "daily" If It anprare at leest four1 tobmesgr  amen.
ludfebrtof Food PrducIn  a  Ceta(9i- llt .. Indeml of pe.e..                   cnl               teouns Atnat   e  ConP'ite oard .pj.J.         nrsr- %asd        ,_dth  oushr to
ta en calendar yaso haste.    Pil. Cmo ltfsor    iter   od   r..egreoe                             I ottcta
te   r  eeued.Agogt  pect ucfto-       o  a        -c b  ou try t  bare  onti         LAi       c
enregy)utoelnt of  et foo   eup  e  ma'ateI   ooryprcFlucneomppIico   l  ages.1                                                           DSto ht-eO  varou  oo-trtt  err
prdy OcIal  roplr  torledorrt   routit  irpotsleo                                    co  ocprbe;1A,lO tf97   aa
omov,en   hoeei   rc,   e  opOtaeold   nml  sd   rea                egi  ooet)-Fmlrlbrftr   eptooeeofotl                                  ieo   cc
quetiteecad  o fodproreto,  nd  oaee  o  tatlhrlo.teqte-           erlclo - dretotort - l         lyhtn frce to i. fatng.oary    unigF n
vIny-    arF eat.    cnidPd-l   rym    vtnreo  rmecut   oytrg              .aeOdsr b drint -" LaPtor fcrr.. to   f-nog  controttr,I                               actetkt
hoceehold    1 fovl;  96-AS  170  ad  97 da.ta.190o                                                    A179Ioa
arlloec   fA   nm   fttlpoenpody  n   0gaso   nmlal16,17.ad 179dun.tre5rhslo   L'   ath  Iblpat  fee
pule   rorin  o  rhch10  ras  inod  e aiml  rotic   Theestnd-orlect              d.mr-en structure of th   oyltttdtllngtm t              rend-.    .   A
rived fro  anialssm   P,le int igotme par1day; 1970-65d 190a197 977d dens             IfTrel lbltPtclttpyu-1yo
Chil  (sss  -Alrorelit  tos (ec tousnd)- dmme  deaths per thousand it                 PretY fPtoeIcm    bt   tos   r   I1      eeodb   tbe
age grup 1-Ayears,to ofldra t- tIsae  rop;frdea  dneoid tur                                 proptllcee       Y2 pred, b       oat t      eren,ao  pors_0  pr-m
R   I."aLmh                                                                                  poot,iNIll TOIlET il                        d.-
Lietirtnerot atBrh(er)d              vrg     shro   arI             f diercsoin               h   blmn Itenisatlea ar       feyep.e..          eate   fpver   nae
at bit;18,107n ffle.sdaol   etteeodrt   osdrbecctm
Inst  anelin  at  irn  hoere)    ttui  dnoe o  ifere  oIe  ne  ea               Etimte  AsoltePoert  Ion   Leel010 rr o ite  -ohn sd  urlP
ofae Ie thusn  lIvebrths.                                                               About   oeryicoetoii  aepncmpevltre   hibarhtu
percyereges ofthe  -itdrsp  ine pouutn.`I  ouba bdeepulIopesonl Ioog                                             o  ther fcuntry.Iralel isdrve enth dua
foomesi  or studoostlocate  too ara th  R 200 meer  frm_hueryh_eelnt   dutetfrttottsto   lIg it_re  aer
iosio l ra hbogtithif res1voable eccssof  ha  hour _ In rua.            tra             frtaa   oueio   eo   hooePoet   coetet  ooet     o
re...nahld acesenc   mlyca  tetoemf   r  ehr  of61ohs h170ratodlandd torn -_ Percent-  . of ppotto  p--rbEc rod  rorl)1 etc - err,. ''9h60
do  not. ha    pl vstasttprccotv`2lccstdpor  ofPcyr.i lay7Or dtch1o79hedpote
and raste-natet bporter-borne ayerema or the usa of pIt petos  andIriot-trenomItrb..  Ana yeLr tol   p ..jein                                       ti .epor..en
tar ira Lato.              EOayd tOfOl
Ponolatlor ear Phortotet - PopulatIon divided by . n dh of FeAGticng. phyi-d-i..                                          .    .
otee   uaifid  ro    radical scoo  at dcotoerstay  ieort..  1   I  65..   -
Po Iulooto  errNr1n  PItd t P opultio   dIvie  by nrhtai  ofpl prcroo dg
ss   ...nlfsra tagnad Isee iorses    p    Pacoto yl  19ure 65, and 0 r1a7sdananonursse.UI



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                               ANNUAL RATE OF' GROWTH
1978/79 1/               (Constant P'rice)
(Current Prices)           FY1973-79       FY1979
GNP at Market Prices                  3810                     11           -4
GDP at Market Prices                  2800                      8            9
Gross Domestic Investments             900                     19           10
Gross National Savings                 524                     13          -40
Exports of GNFS                         56                     -3          -23
Imports of GNFS                       1441                    21            24
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
Value Added    Resident Labor Force 2/  V.A. Per Worker
US  MIn       %    Thousand         %        US$         %
Agriculture             1000       38        1450        76          690       50
Industry                 350       14         150         8         2330      170
Services                1250       48         300        16         4170      300
TOTAL/AVERAGE       2600      100        1900       100         1370      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Min)
% of GNP
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1978/79
Current Receipts                 1293      1985      2161      2692         13
Current Expenditure               841      1250      1847      2430         11
Current Deficit/Surplus           452       735       314       262          2
Capital Expenditure               603      1167      2618      2426         15
External Assistance, Net          606       691      1904       976         11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                     3516      5081      6273      7382
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -939         -990     -609       1199
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        1474      1555      2199      2830
------Percentages or Index Numbers --
Money Supply at % of GNP           30        33        37       n.a.
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                   73        45        23        18
Consumer Price Index           26        17        22        11
1/  Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accounts
series has recently been revised by the Government, and will be
reported on in a forthcoming CEM.
2/  Includes part-time female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (uS$ Mln)
1973/74  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob             14        12        19         7          3
Imports of Goods, cif           -194      -382      -730     -906    -1,405
Trade Balance                   -180      -370      -711      -899    -1,402
Non Factor Services,,net          14        21       -10       -21         19
Factor Income, net               117       479       896      1160       1007
Workers' Remittances, net   (112)    (457)    (842)   (1090)           (898)
Investment Income, net          (5)      (22)      (54)      (70)     (109)
Balance on Current Account       -49       130       175       240      -376
M & LT Capital, net               62       153       146       165        435
Official Grants                 33       114       104       103       312
Official Loans, net 1/          29        39        42        62       123
Disbursements                (32)      (42)      (46)      (68)     (133)
Repayments                   (-3)      (-3)      (-4)     (-6)      (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   10         -11       133       -32        144
Increase in Reserves (-)         -23      -272      -454     -373       -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 2/       150       520       974      1347       1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, 1979                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
Total Outstanding            1,603          Cotton and Cotton Products        31
of which disbursed             727          Coffee                            13
Hides and Skins                   14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1980 3/                  Biscuits and Confectionary         9
All Other Commodities            33
%                                               100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                    1
1/  Based on figures publisbed in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/  Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
_/  Includes workers' remittances and transfers.
EMIDB
January 1981



- 23 -
ANINEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of September 30, 1981 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower               Purpose                    IDA   Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed 2/                       55.2
465   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                   2.3       0.4
545   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                 10.0        0.8
559   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage          8.1        0.04
611   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Education II                       8.0        1.0
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2           1.6
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0           1.0
670   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage         10.0        3.4
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                   6.0        1.5
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Higbways III                      11.5        6.2
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II              10.5       6.6
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                10.0        5.3
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III            15.0       14.9
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                     10.0        8.2
950   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage         12.0       12.0
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV               5.5       5.5
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development              17.0      16.6
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                 17.0       17.0
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Elect.                   12.0       12.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Dev.                   12'.0      12.0
Total                                                242.3 1/  126.04
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                                242.3
Total undisbursed                                               126.04
1/  Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project which was
cancelled on October 31, 1979, and the Fourth Education ($12 million) and
the Sanaa Urban Development ($15 million) credits which were approved by
the Executive Directors on January 28, 1982.
2/  Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.



- 24 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products         2.4      -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4               2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                  -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4               2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July'1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly witb the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D.  Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority bave
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured.  Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates
in Taiz and Hodeidah are underway and the Government is seeking further
assistance in this area from the World Bank.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and witb understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation has been
encouraging.  Project implementation has been delayed by managerial, staff-
ing, and financial problems, some of which still remain. Nevertheless,
these problems are somewhat mitigated by the momentum and scope of the
agricultural extension and credit programs, and the progress in well drill-
ing, and completing the village water supply components. Problems of cost
escalation have been met by an increase in the contributions of the Govern-
ment and beneficiaries, a reduction in the number of loans that can be made
to farmers, and to the extent of the feeder roads component.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date; December 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the water supply and sewerage works is underway,
and the sewage treatment plant is complete. Transfer of the existing water
system assets from the Port Authority has been effected. The Government is
currently shortlisting consultants for the completion of the tariff study.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  May 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and equipping of project institutions is com-
plete. All twelve institutions are operational. Technical assistance and
staffing needs have been met by the appointment of expatriates from Arab
countries and some progress is now being made in the utilization of the
Basic Training Scheme.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of all project components has been completed; the
grain silo at Hodeidah and the bakeries at Sana'a and Taiz are in opera-
tion. Cost overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi ]Fund for
Development and the Government. The training program is underway.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  August 22, 1977; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without chang-
ing the project concept. One dairy farm has been completed, but the live-
stock fattening farm is facing some problems in the supply of irrigation
water. The other physical works, although progressing reasonably well at
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouse and animal
health components, in particular, are achieving their aims, and the live-
stock fattening, dairy production, and village development components will
provide valuable research information and development experience for the
livestock sector in YAR. The administrative and technical problems encoun-
tered last year are on the way to being resolved, and project implementa-
tion is making progress.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and iSewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been awarded. The draft report of the
tariff study has been reviewed by the Authority and is being revised by the
consultant.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Contracts for civil works bave now been awarded and construction
is expected to be substantially completed in October 1981, about nine
months behind appraisal schedule. The chief engineer and the electrical
engineer have been appointed. Other technical staff provided for under the
credit are still to be appointed. The Government is continuing its efforts
to recruit qualified staff in order to strengthen the technical services
department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 4, 1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance
to the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance
practices. Other objectives of the project include the implementation of
vehicle loading controls, planning future highway development and the in-
ception of an overlay program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project
implementation is underway and substantial progress is being made on all
project components.



- 27 -
Annetx II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $;10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for the agricultural development of Wadi Rima
by providing technical assistance in agricultural extension and research,
agricultural credit facilities, access roads, village water supply schemes,
and includes the construction of the Tihama Development Authority Head-
quarters at Hodeidah. The project also provides for gabion test struc-
tures, and funds for UNDP's institutional support to MOA and the central
Agricultural Research Service. Project implementation has been slow but
now shows signs of improvement. The agricultural extension service is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
January 1, 1983
Implementation is underway, and major contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials have been awarded. The rural electrification in-
terim study has been completed. Problems facing YGEC are managerial and
financial. YGEC has secured sufficient funds, from external sources, to
meet the foreign exchange requirements of its current development: program.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tibama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 2), 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date; September 30, 1985
The project includes the construction of irrigation works in Wadi
Mawr; equipping and operating Surdud Agricultural Research and Production
Farm; establishing extension, plant protection and animal health services,
and agricultural credit facilities; and provision of technical assistance in
managerial, engineering and aricultural fields. After a delay in declaring
the credit effective, implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
The project aims at constructing and equipping an agricultural
secondary school, a livestock secondary school and two regional bancbes of
the National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA). In addition, pre-
investment studies will be undertaken of regional basic health care services



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 7
and related training, and of post secondary educational development. Insti-
tutional support to the Ministry of Education and the school building unit as
well as related technical assistance bave also been included under the pro-
ject. Construction of the agricultural secondary school is completed.
Construction of the livestock secondary school and the two NIPA brancbes is
underway. Fellowship programs bave been drawn up and progressing
satisfactorily. The pre-investment studies relating to post secondary
education bave been completed.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project assists in the construction of' water supply and waste-
water systems for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar. It: would also provide tecb-
nical assistance and training to NWSA staff. Co-financing arrangements have
been finalized. Final designs bave been prepared by the consultants, and
bydrogeological studies for Ibb are completed.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourtb Tibama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation is underway. Contract documents for the construction
of the diversion weirs and canals have finalized. The forestry expert and
the sand stabilization expert bave been appointed, and about 800 ha of dunes
bave been selected for afforestation.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
After a delay in declaring the credit effective, progress on project
implementation is underway. Soil investigations at Hodeidah and Khawbah have
been completed. Contract documents have been prepared for construction of
fisheries facilities at Kbawbah, Hodeidah, Mokha, and Kokba.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is an expansion of the successful experience of the
first rural development project in YAR (Credit No. 545-YAR). It aims at
improving farm incomes and the quality of rural lif'e in the'rural highlands
of Ibb and Taiz Governorates, and at establishing the regional services of



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 7 of 7
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Credit Bank in the prj ect
area.  Co-financing arrangements have been finalized.  Project impleme ta-
tion is underway.
Cr. No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway.
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrification Project; $12.0 million Credit
of May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is underway.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM AND GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATTION PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare           about 4 months
project:                                 (June 1981-October 1981)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the            Government with assistance
project:                                of IDA
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:         April 1981
(d)  Date of Departure of appraisal mission: September 26, 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        February 1, 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             Jtne 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Effectiveness Condition:
Government to employ qualified and experienced consultants witb
terms of employment acceptable to the Association (paragraph 55).
B. Measures to be Taken by Government include:
(a)  The Government, with the assistance of a team of petroleum
exploration consultants, would prepare and present to IDA for
review and comments not later than March 31, 1983, a report on
the country's petroleum potential in the Red Sea basin and a
strategy for promoting the areas for exploration and develop-
ment to foreign oil companies (paragrapb 56); and
(b) The Government, with the assistance of a team of geothermal
exploration consultants would prepare and present to IDA for
comment, no later than March 31, 1983, a report on the coun-
try's geothermal energy potential and a strategy for promoting
the prospective areas for exploration and development to
foreign geothermal companies (paragraph 56).



IB RD  16194
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND GEOTHERMAL PROSPECT
SAUDI  ARABIA                                                                                 DR          - TH  D L SHOW
DSOP  -EP SEA OR L-GA PEO,-C
(It                                                                                                      Wili l FiL- *T'  C.ONTRA.T -REA  12600D
SAdA  <A         A                                         ________~~~~~~~~~~~I PR.R,R  ROADS
-                                                               A'                -'                                   OTHER    ARS
ELREAT 055 N DIETRS
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A A, SMY 1 S,                S                                                 .-                               6
ETHIOPIA         ---- }       ~                                                                                   A' /  -- -  ';'S                                       9J-,          R\
<&<A?$  'N                     P~~~RT-I -ONTOORS
'X~~~~~~~~~~4                                   I'TER-STIONAL ESI-EARIES
ED                                       0,1 , ~      I                 Al                             --MAdR '   
EA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
*/                            ')> B GLIZF OF ALIEN 2   S
/ DJIBOUTI                 t                               ' -- -~ T.                             , -, * 
42- / f . '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A. l_ _  _M _RSAR   RS,RRAI  _ IRA ARL ( 'RARS^E,AA,AL : 6                                                            '<<
-                                 IRAIRRELOASI A TIROISMARE-E5MSE SA
Al M,1,, ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     MI PlR E   lMA                                                                     E            R






IBRD 16195
81110*'  S8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  82   4$       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     4~JANUARY 1982
M>   N~~~~~~ME~~~~~~ ~YEMEN  ARAB IREPUBLIC
>    UD RA'                                                           SAUDI ARABIA                                                                GEOTHERMAL  PROSPECT
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRIC:ITY CORPORATION
1.18*0                7'N.                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STAGE Ill ELECTRIFICATION
*RMEN2  <               0.,,                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS Iln-  00*1
GO>S,/  6                      -------1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----*                                              0 ~~~~~~~  STEAM POWER9 STATION LINDER CON,STRUCT ON
-   9                                                                                    P00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100019.1 STAM POWE I STAT ON
0 E11H,OP                                                                           7I A                                                                        2          LONNEC FOTUSE GAS T*98 NE POWER STAT ON
-                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~102 kV SJBSTATION INOER CONSTRUCTION
N         (                             El                              18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!                      RICTR    S  1  -TT.
/        Soo,p                                                         P, ~~~~~~~~A\102 kV POWIER INIE UNDER CONSTOUCTION
N,,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ - 7PR80EC00D 102 I0 POWSER LINE
'1,  0                                                                                                                          P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LANNED EUTORE 120 IV POWER LINE
-   a                                                                                                __________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEIIMAII '0000
fN~~~~~         S,o                                 Vo                                    OTEE~~~~~~~~~~~~~-R ROlES
K  -                                                                                                                *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL ZAPITS,
-  /  J                                          NI,    U Moo2,                    (                      *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIT1ES AID TOWNS
A   oy,o1,                                                                -           .NTERNAOTNAI, BOUNEARIES
A HR,f
~lA G,0,
RS,                                                           Kh-~~~~~~~~~~~~183      ,                    AEO
ANI                                                     -9,-~~~~~~~AN  
A   I Y-,AI MEO
SFA ~    ~         ~ ~ ~ oN -d
(Al Ropo
61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 2   00
III,,                                                 oo8oboJ                 I                                                                                    8 LOMEAER
Ad 0,8,  ~ ~    ~         ~         ~        ~        ~       EOLES   EMCRTI0RPULI  O                                       YME
h  Al~~~~~
ETHIOPIA8*                                            \           o~N 
- - MO4~~~~~~~~~~~~~0&0                                       O 
DJIBOUTI ~        ~            ~           ~           8 Roo~                                    -
Sooo  -C111181  WSEI'                       V(' =         0






Etc C,P                      EMen RF  af                                                                                                                      Cu 
-rc>  'RSA I\ re    v        F,u P A   FFc
'ii'i AELI <4rme^             4-9                                                                                              YEMEN   ARAB  REPUBLIC
FORS.'    CH;SC-F S    Ft--e                                                 IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY  SECTOR
.,E, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                        ~P.. D-oh-
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
, -I LO_r B                      G                                                                  g , 5 h. ' ::  L  oA FROJ-T T O-7,, L
W.1..~~~~~~~~~~O
.  .   \   E ,     !3-                                      \                       SMALL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EISING GT   [[EATURENT AS4
, j   J.                                           \                     hLhFLOAWATFR Sllf E4d,&sFwF-A-y   IS1
I   ~           ~           ~                            ~~                                          Gre n IEnS~torg
bob sl                                        is                     ~~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~      ~~~~ELFVATIONG   S
'C  t    ir aou  I. ,!'                       Mone                                                                                     4u uDL\GOSCher lSh.E  G              17
f''                                                                                                                                    h:G 0AY  ,W7~ rIB
TF,   FIF                                                                                                                           FCE  O -TW  EU    A Fir Marer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   ~  mCrk ,SA Water Snf  pSp7
e   S   ~~~~~ I 1 7 ~~~F', I '  u.R                                                       Aun ,.                             , d v .  Re  OAhGhFG  N LECT tISTUIG FW TURE_
~~~a.oo..ou.......... . ,  27
HOD11DAHjloF                                                                     o
ALBvIeDAlondie
8.b I
KrambaSr   '"-  '7                                                                                300~~~~~~~~~DE
~~~  /                                      -~~~~~~~~~                              500~~~~~~
\  Srrojd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         5'- -   11



