Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14728
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
GAS UTILIZATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2592-AR)
JUNE 30, 1995
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FLscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units of Weigbts and Measures: Metric
1 kilometer (km)  =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)      =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)   =    2.20 pounds (lbs)
1 cubic meter (mi) =    264.2 gallons (gal)
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms
CDR         Campo Durin Refinery
CNG         Compressed Natural Gas
EOR         Enhanced Oil Recovery
GUTA        Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         International Monetary Fund
JEXIM       Japanese Export-Import Bank
LCR         Lujan de Cuyo Refinery
LPR         La Plata Refinery
MNTOE       Million metric tons of oil equivalent
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
YPF         Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Argentina
Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2592-AR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Argentina: Gas Utilization and Technical
Assistance project (Loan 2592-AR, approved in FY85) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
The project, for which the Bank approved a US$180 million loan to YPF (Argentina's national oil
company) in 1985, comprised a series of investments for: (i) the expansion of the country's northem gas
system, (ii) the upgrading of crude oil and products transport infrastructure; (iii) the expansion of enhanced
oil recovery (EOR) facilities; (iv) the carrying out of a pilot compressed natural gas (CNG) program; and
(v) the institutional strengthening of YPF. The scope of the project was substantially modified during
implementation, with, inter alia, the substitution of most EOR sub-projects by revamnping investments in
YPF's refineries and the redirection --and substantial expansion--of the TA component to assist in the
privatization of YPF and Gas del Estado (Argentina's natural gas monopoly). The CNG component was
only partially carried out. The other physical components of the (revised) project were successfully
completed, albeit with a two-year delay.
Implementation of the project took place, for the most part, i.e. through 1991, in an environrment of
severe macroeconomic crisis and inadequate sector pricing policies which adversely affected YPF's
finances and management, and prevented compliance with financial loan covenants. Nonetheless, in the
latter years of project implementation, the expanded TA funding under the loan helped lay the groundwork
for the radical restructuring and eventual privatization of the sector --supported by the Bank's Public
Enterprise Adjustment Loan (PERAL) of 1991--which has resulted in its financial rehabilitation .
Accordingly, the outcome of the project is assessed in the PCR as satisfactory, its institutional
development as substantial and its sustainabillity as likely. Both Borrower and Bank performance are
considered satisfactory. The PCR is generally thorough and informative but its coverage of financial
issues could have been more complete.
An audit of the project is ongoing.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- 11 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .              ....................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................... iv
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S
PERSPECTIVE   ..............................  1
Project Identity  ...............................  1
Background   .................................  1
Project Objectives and Description   ...................  2
Project Design and Organization .....................  3
Project Implementation   ..........................  5
Project Results   ...............................  9
Project Sustainability ...........................   10
Evaluation and Lessons Learned  ....................   11
Bank's Performance   ...........................   12
Borrower's Performance .........................   12
Consulting Services   ...........................   13
Project Documentation and Data ....................   13
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE   .............................   14
PART Im:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...............   16
Related Bank Loans   ...........................   16
Project Timetable .............................   16
Schedule of Disbursements  .......................   17
Project Costs   ...............................   17
Project Financing  .............................  18
Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Category  ..............   18
Summary Financial Statements .....................   19
Economic Impact .........                    ....................   21
Legal Covenants   .........                  ....................   22
Staff Inputs .       ................................   25
Mission Data   .          ..............................   26
Map IBRD 25826 ............................. 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Gas Utilization
and Technical Assistance Project in Argentina for which Loan 2592-AR in
the amount of US$180.0 million to Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF)
was approved by the Board on June 25, 1985, and declared effective on
September 30, 1986. Co-financing was provided by the Inter-American
Development Bank with a loan of US$59.5 million and the Export-Import
Bank of Japan with a loan of US$187.3 million. The Loan was closed on
December 31, 1993, two years behind schedule, with the last disbursement
made on May 25, 1993. An undisbursed amount of US$14.6 million was
cancelled on November 25, 1993. The loan was fully prepaid by YPF.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy
Operations Division, Country Department IV of the Latin America &
Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and II)
and the Borrower, YPF (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports, and
correspondence on the project including internal Bank memoranda.






- iv -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The project was designed to rationalize the use and pricing of natural
gas and petroleum products, to strengthen the sector by addressing several
sector issues, to eliminate bottlenecking in oil and gas deliveries, to enhance
hydrocarbon reserves, and to propagate the use of compressed natural gas
(CNG) in land transport. The project comprised expansion of the northern
gas delivery and liquid recovery systems, efficiency enhancing gas and oil
products transport, enhanced oil recovery facilities (EOR), infrastructure to
deliver natural gas to vehicles, and technical assistance to strengthen the
Borrower (YPF) and the Energy Secretariat (paras. 3.1, 3.2).
Design and Implementation Experience
2.    The project was first identified in 1981 but was approved (in a
substantially different form) in 1985. The delay was mainly due to the
uncertainty in energy policies, particularly after a new government took
office in 1983. The major issues related to administrated prices,
unsatisfactory framework for private sector participation, and YPF's
outstanding foreign debt. In addition, the evolution of new Bank guidelines
for lending in the oil and gas sectors caused the project to be reorientated
more towards "downstream' oil and gas operations (paras. 4.1 - 4.5).
3.    Even after the above conditions were rectified, the Bank approved the
project only after becoming convinced that the consequences of further delay
outweighed the concerns. After 1985, there was further deterioration in the
sector, which led to the Bank requesting further financial management
assurances prior to declaring the loan effective in 1986 (paras. 4.6, 5.1, 5.2).
4.    The Campo Duran liquid extraction and gas compression plant plus
the capacity expansion of the Northern Gas Pipelines to Buenos Aires were
built under the project. The pipelines in and out of the LujAn de Cuyo
Refinery (LCR) were installed and this enabled the LCR to operate at higher
rates and more reliably. Only one EOR sub-project was implemented while
ten refinery sub-projects, not originally envisioned, were carried out; these
required far less time and staff inputs than the EOR sub-projects and had
equally satisfactory rates of return. The CNG sub-project was carried out
only partially, but it spurred the conversion of vehicles from liquid fuels to
natural gas (paras. 5.1 - 5.7).
5.    The Technical Assistance (TA) component mushroomed from two
percent to nine percent of project costs (US$12 million to US$46 million).
The goal of the TA was to strengthen the sector and particularly YPF, but it
evolved into helping to develop the privatization of YPF and Gas del Estado
which was spearheaded by the Menem Administration (paras. 5.9 - 5.12).



-v
6.    The final project costs came in at US$519.5 million versus a Staff
Appraisal Report estimate of US$802.6 million, i.e., a decrease of 35%,
which was principally due to lower than estimated actual costs and a
reduction in the number of EOR sub-projects. The final funding included
US$175.7 million from the Japanese Export-Import Bank, not originally
envisioned (para. 5.14).
Results
7.    The infrastructure improvements helped overcome some of the
constraints to moving oil and gas supplies. These also contributed to
optimizing oil and gas production, while lessening the problem of flaring
large volumes of gas. Moreover, the project expanded the possibilities for
increasing production and recoverable reserves in the short-term and helped
advance the substitution of compressed natural gas for motor fuels
consumption in vehicles. The environmental impact of the project was
positive. The project was successful in contributing to the stated objectives
for improving Argentina's balance of payments and fostering the country's
economic recovery. In particular, the technical assistance components
contributed to the restructuring of YPF to such a level that it was
successfully privatized through a public share offering in the international
financial markets. The project was instrumental in establishing a free market
in oil and gas operations and privatizing Gas del Estado (paras. 6.1 - 6.3).
Sustainability
8.    The benefits of the resource improvements will accrue for the
remaining life of the facilities or until the oil/gas fields are depleted. The
sustainability of the institutional benefits seems assured since YPF has been
transformed into a well-managed, profit-orientated, largely private
corporation (paras. 7.1, 7.2).
Lessons Learned
9.    The project was launched when the direction of Bank policy turned to
lessened assistance to state oil companies. From this standpoint, the decision
to provide the GUTA Loan (instead of channeling assistance to the private
sector) may have seemed to be somewhat misguided. However, in
retrospect, this decision proved instead to be almost farsighted. The project
helped put the sector on a sounder footing, and rather than supplanting the
private sector, the project served instead to improve conditions for its
activity. The Bank's decision to maintain operational contact with YPF
therefore was well justified. The lesson learned is that continued, broad-
gauged Bank assistance to public agencies in the energy sector can usefully
play a role in ways which enhance economic growth (para. 8.3).
10.   From the difficulties encountered in obtaining an extension of the co-
financing loan, we learned that when co-financing is involved, it is desirable
to have identical closing dates for all loans, credits, grants, etc. (para. 8.4).



PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
PrLject Nam        Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance Project
Loan Number        2592-AR
RVP Unit           Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country           Argentina
Sector            Energy
Subsector         Oil and Gas
2.    Background
2.1   The Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance Loan (GUTA) to the
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) was an investment operation
designed to support the restructuring of energy supply and demand in
Argentina. The project was largely designed to enhance greater use of the
country's valuable natural gas resources.
2.2  In the early 1980s, the Government of Argentina requested Bank
assistance to counter the disappointing results of its nationalistic 'self-
sufficiency' policies in the energy sector. The latter for some time had
shown a limited capacity to meet internal consumption demands, despite the
country's abundant, well diversified resource endowment. There were
fundamental problems in the oil and gas sub-sector.
2.3   Argentina's oil sufficiency became increasingly questionable as
production remained far below potential over extended periods of time.
Crude oil output fell 14% in 1981-87, and oil reserves that had remained
virtually constant for some 15 years began to steadily decline after 1981.
These shortfalls resulted, inter alia, from problems in sector regulation,
Government interference, petroleum product pricing and taxes, the trade
regime, and the state enterprises' weaknesses as explained below.
2.4   Argentina then had considerable capability to ease this troublesome
situation through increased reliance on natural gas. The latter's reserves
(estimated at 2,089 MNTOE in 1982) were almost twice those of crude oil.
Natural gas had also risen substantially after large discoveries in the 1970s,
resulting in 1970-83 in gas' share of final energy consumption increasing
from 15% to some 24%. However, additional expansion of gas was limited
by the inadequate liquids extraction, the transmission infrastructure, and the
pricing system. There was also the technical problem that, since many fields
had high gas-oil ratios, the production of oil and gas had to be jointly
optimized. In several areas, oil production was restrained in order to avoid
flaring large volumes of gas for which there was no outlet into the pipeline
network.



2.5   Argentina's energy consumption growth was unusually high compared
to other countries of similar GDP level and structure-largely due to price
distortions. Income elasticity of final demand was 1.5 in the 1960s and 1.2
in the 1970s. Argentine consumption did not even decline during 1980-85
when GDP fell about 1.5% per year. Per capita consumption of oil was
almost twice that in reasonably comparable Chile and Uruguay. The
combined effect of accelerated consumption growth and shortages in supply
led to shortfalls. The economic effects of these shortfalls were pronounced.
2.6   Further, these trends appeared likely to accelerate unless investment in
exploration and development rose sharply. However, neither the public nor
private sectors were in positions to invest as much as needed; nor did they
have the incentives for efficient investment. The Govemment then realized
that if this situation persisted, it would rekindle the problems of the "oil
shock' periods in the 1970s when the cost of hydrocarbon imports severely
wrenched the balance of payments. They also appreciated that the precarious
balance between production and consumption could worsen ultimately into
the possibility of running out of crude oil.
2.7   The authorities consequently set about to reinvigorate the hydrocarbon
sector. The Government began to re-examine its policies and to mobilize
greater private sector involvement in exploration and production. However,
these efforts were sidetracked by the South Atlantic war and by the economic
crisis which President Alfonsin's Administration inherited when civilian rule
was reinstated in 1983. Subsequent macroeconomic setbacks resulted in an
even more drastic deterioration in Government management. This was the
setting for the GUTA Project.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The main objectives of the project were to rationalize the use of, and
further develop, domestic hydrocarbon resources while addressing several
policy issues which contributed to the sector's deficiencies. The project was
to help YPF eliminate bottlenecks in oil and gas deliveries; make more gas
available in industrial regions; expand enhanced oil recovery facilities (EOR)
to help increase reserves and production in the short-term; carry out a pilot
project for delivery of compressed natural gas (CNG) to converted vehicles;
and help strengthen YPF and the Government's Energy Secretariat.
Complementary policy measures were directed to reinvigorating YPF's
financial viability and rationalizing petroleum product pricing.
3.2   Gas field development and expansion of the transmission system in the
north would increase the production of gas and associated liquids. New EOR
facilities and more effective reservoir management would increase oil
production and reserves. Several oil and gas debottlenecking operations
would be undertaken to enhance efficiency in YPF's system. The
introduction of CNG would expand gas usage. Related technical assistance
would be aimed at upgrading YPF's organization, financial administration,



capabilities in investment planning and special operations (e.g., marketing) as
well as energy planning in the Government's main sector overseer agency.
3.3   The specific project components consisted of:
(a)   facilities for expansion of the Northern Gas Delivery System
including field development, pipeline enlargement, and Campo
Duran's liquid recovery system' (alongside of the IDB
financing for expanding the pipeline);
(b)   debottlenecking sub-projects concerning gas, oil and product
transport, including Lujan de Cuyo pipelines;
(c)   enhanced oil recovery facilities;
(d)   construction and modification of service stations to provide
CNG to converted vehicles, and a study of CNG's role in
transportation; and
(e)   technical assistance to YPF and the Energy Secretariat.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1   The project was first identified in 1981 but was not approved until
four years later, and only after considerable reshaping. Part of the delay
arose from uncertainties about Argentine energy policies associated with the
1983 change in government. A substantial element of this concerned the
widely swinging level and structure of the administered petroleum product
prices. A second factor contributing to the delay was the resulting disarray
in YPF's finances exacerbated by the Government's use of YPF's borrowing
capacity to acquire some US$4 billion of foreign exchange for balance of
payments purposes.
4.2   There was also an unsatisfactory framework for private sector
participation as a result of poor quality and unstable policies. The failure to
adjust producer prices in line with inflation was illustrative. Periodic
contract revisions also permitted reasonable profit margins but private
producers were unable to convert their peso earnings into foreign currency.
Basically though, private companies could only function as risk contractors to
YPF; they could not directly export product; and their investment
opportunities were generally constrained.
4.3   The project accordingly was delayed until there were suitable
revisions to contractual arrangements between YPF and private companies for
oil and gas exploration and development. In addition, the Bank held off until
the Government decided in 1983 to assume responsibility for much of YPF's
outstanding foreign debt, which was the basis of the company's financial
1. The estimate also included (tentatively) US$8.7 million for an ethane unit which was not
built.



- 4 -
recovery plan. There were also impediments resulting from Argentina's
difficulties in containing inflationary cycles and worsening the external
payments situation. No new Bank operations were therefore approved from
mid-1983 to mid-1985.
4.4   There also were uncertainties within the Bank over lending policy
towards the hydrocarbon sector. Internal discussions then underway
regarding planned new IBRD guidelines had produced substantial differences
of opinion concerning lending to national oil companies. Because of
reservations about such lending, the Bank had rejected YPF's initial
proposals for production-related support, and a second scheme also
floundered largely on this account. The new Bank guidelines issued in
November 1984 in fact narrowed the Bank's scope for petroleum lending,
particularly to state oil companies. They encouraged developing countries to
attract international oil companies in order to help accelerate exploration and
development. They also stressed confining Bank assistance to formulating
the legal and contractual framework to attract private investment. At the
same time though, the new rules indicated some latitude for gas development
support.
4.5   The proposed YPF operation was amended accordingly, transformed
to focus largely on the utilization of natural gas resources, as described
above. There were some limited provisions for petroleum-related activities
as well entirely in "downstream" areas (e.g., product transport) and in less
risky enhanced oil recovery activities. Moreover, the Loan included funds
for debottlenecking2 operations to recover marketable liquids from natural
gas, provided they were of high priority for oil-gas optimization.
4.6   However, even with this compliance with the new lending rules, the
Bank entered into this operation with some trepidation. This was attributable
to the numerous deficiencies in the sectoral framework (which were
weakening Argentina's performance under on-going energy loans), plus the
mounting severity of the macroeconomic problems. These constituted an
unfavorable "enabling environment," with only limited opportunities for
putting strong, preventive measures in place "up front." However, the
project architects persuasively argued that the consequences of further
delaying the Bank's intervention outweighed these concerns, i.e., without the
proposed activities, Argentina could not even maintain the already low ratio
of crude reserves to production. There were also doubts as to YPF's internal
improvement prospects, in view of the limited success in strengthening the
company's financial management and rationalizing its investment program
under the Refinery Conversion Project. But these qualms also were
overridden by the force of more pressing concerns. It became increasingly
clear that the state enterprises' ills (in which YPF figured prominently) put
such a severe burden on the economy as to make sound macroeconomic
management virtually impossible.
2. Debottlenecking means removing the capacity constraints imposed by one or more
components in a refinery or similar industrial process.



- 5-
S.    Project lmplementation
5.1   The Loan was approved in June 1985 but was not declared effective
until September 1986, after the Board approved several amendments. This
delay resulted from further deterioration of sectoral conditions at the time,
especially the fact that YPF's finances became even more precarious after
several years of operating deficits (US$ 1.3 billion in 1985). The Bank then
insisted on amending the Loan to incorporate stronger financial management
requirements. These included Government capital contributions to enable
YPF to service its debt and balance its budget, a requirement for annual
agreement on YPF's investment program, and the initiation of a study on
sector reforms and institutional restructuring.
5.2   Subsequently though, country conditions further worsened. Argentina
went through turmoil in 1988-90, marked by hyperinflation, recession and
repeated coup attempts. It is thus striking that the project proceeded
reasonably well under these conditions, which lasted during most of the
period of project execution. Admittedly, partly because of the late start,
there was a two year slippage in project completion, and disbursements
extended over seven (rather than the initially forecast four) years.
Nonetheless, as indicated in the following paragraphs, most of the major
physical objectives of the operation were substantially achieved. There was
far less success though with the parallel policy goals, particularly the Loan
covenants regarding product pricing and YPF institutional targets. However,
this was more than compensated for by later separate Government measures,
abetted by the project in unanticipated activities, also described below.
5.3   The natural gas component comprised production, reinjection and
gathering line installation, the capacity increase of an existing liquids
extraction plant, and the installation of a new liquid extraction plant at
Campo Durln plus the expansion of the Northem Gas Pipelines to Buenos
Aires. The latter was financed by the IDB.
5.4   Under the Refinery Project (Loan 2032-AR), YPF had undertaken to
build a new crude pipeline to assure the efficient supply of crude oil to the
LujAn de Cuyo Refinery (LCR), and to upgrade the system of white
products3 pipelines to transport the resulting increased distillates output.
Investments in the pipelines, however, were delayed because of lack of
foreign exchange to import parts and equipment. GUTA's Lujan de Cuyo
component overcame these problems by providing the missing funds for
debottlenecking LCR's crude and products flow.
5.5   Ten other sub-projects not in the original design were included which
consisted of revamping or replacement of refinery components, that had no
relation to gas production and utilization or petroleum and products transport.
YPF included these components in the project because compared to the EOR
projects, their lead time was much shorter and the required staff effort was
3. White products' include gasoline, diesel oil and jet fuel.



-6 -
much smaller. These new sub-projects enhanced operation or increased the
reliability of the refineries, and most of them exceeded the 15% rate of
return which was the threshold for debottlenecking projects.
5.6   Only one of the contemplated enhanced oil recovery (EOR) sub-
projects was built (Los Perales). The contributing factor for this reduction in
EOR work was the reallocating of resources towards privatization. Further,
an ethane recovery plant was not built, because ethane's then low price did
not justify this undertaking.
5.7   The Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) component changed during
implementation which resulted in an expenditure of only a quarter of the
funds allocated. The project called for conversion of 135,200 vehicles and
366 service stations. In the course of project execution, however, as
commercial interest in this new fuel source soared, Argentine private firms
and individuals took the initiative to convert over 220,000 vehicles and a
large number of service stations on their own. Consequently, YPF cut its
plans back, and only a small sum was used for several service stations. A
CNG study was also funded and completed under the project which proved
helpful in optimizing the use of CNG.
5.8   During project implementation, YPF used pre-qualification procedures
for supply and erect contracts in all but one of the infrastructure components,
pursuant to arrangements agreed with the Bank. All told, there were 26
different pre-qualification operations, the smallest of which was about US$1
million. Clearly, pre-qualification cost the project valuable time compared
with post-qualification which is generally used in Bank projects when the
project is not complex, the amounts involved are relatively small, and time is
critical. For the revamping of the Platformer4 at the Lujan de Cuyo
Refinery, YPF needlessly requested Bank approval to forego pre-qualification
in order to save time; the Bank agreed and post-qualification was used for
this sub-project, which was the last infrastructure sub-project during
implementation, and the only sub-project using post-qualification. The Bank
should have encouraged YPF to use this procedure more often.
5.9   Technical Assistance. Overall, the most distinctive feature of
GUTA's implementation record was its technical assistance (TA) component.
During appraisal, it was decided that this component, entailing only 2% of
base costs, would mainly include: reviewing YPF's organization structure;
strengthening its financial management systems; conducting a study on
automating YPF field installations' communications; and defining its
investment program. The TA program increased to almost 9% of project
costs, with significant changes in its composition and usefulness.
5.10  Well into the early 1990s, there were very rapid, dramatic changes in
Argentina. A score of stabilization programs were introduced with major
effects on economic conditions. Substantial reform movements were
4. *Platformers- enhance the octane rating of gasolines with the minimal addition of lead.



triggered to reduce Government's role, refocus it on core public functions,
deregulate economic activities and liberalize the economy along market-
oriented lines. In their first phase in 1987-89, Argentine officials engaged in
preparing a broad gauged program to improve the efficiency of their public
enterprises. Later, under the Menem Government, the orientation shifted to
formulating a full blown (and the now renowned) program for privatization
of the major parastatals, in which YPF figured prominently.
5.11 Throughout the latter endeavor, the Government sought the Bank's
assistance to help build the foundations for privatization transactions and to
see them accomplished. This entailed considerable technical work to identify
and analyze the substantive issues involved, as well as financial and
institutional analyses of the state enterprises' conditions. Still more help was
needed for the services of experts for advice on conducting the privatization
processes. The Government had neither sufficient funds to cover these costs,
nor the more important institutional capacity to mobilize and direct these
activities, many of which were performed on a "crash" basis. An estimated
US$1.1 million of Loan funds were deployed expeditiously for these
purposes.
5.12 This transformed the project's planned upgrading of YPF into a more
ambitious program for the preparation of its privatization, probably now the
most successful accomplishment of Argentina's public sector reform
campaign. The Loan funded one consultant team's study of restructuring the
company for commercially oriented operations, so as to facilitate the
privatization. The study led, inter alia, to a fairly quick reduction in the
number of employees, which the Govemment calculated was reduced from
some 40,000 to about 10,000, and still more cuts were scheduled to be made.
The GUTA Loan also financed a second team's assessment of YPF's assets.
This led to the strategy since applied in the sale of poorly performing and
ancillary functions, together with strengthening core functions. The disposal
of pipelines, refineries, storage facilities, etc. was estimated to have had
great weight in enabling YPF to replace chronic losses with profits exceeding
US$200 million yearly in 1991-92. Finally, the preparations for the
company's privatization proved to yield significant returns: the sale of the
majority of YPF shares on foreign stock exchanges in fall 1993 netted over
US$3.0 billion. The project's input thereby helped to create the basis for the
substantial govemment reform measures which the Bank supported under the
Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (No. 3291-AR). As noted in the
PCR on the latter, Argentine officials acknowledged that these ambitious
reforms would not have been launched without the Bank's continuous
technical and financial support.
5.13 Project Cost and Funding. Actual project costs decreased 35% from
the original estimates (US$802.6 million to US$519.5 million), chiefly from
implementing fewer EOR sub-projects. Increases in the scope of the
technical assistance ultimately brought its cost to US$46 million (of which
US$10 million went for planning the privatization of Gas del Estado via the
Secretariat of Energy) rather than the US$12 million planned. The final



project funding plan differed considerably from that originally envisaged,
mainly as a result of the entry into the project in 1988 of co-financing from
the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The latter provided US$176
million for the GUTA Project. JEXIM's involvement also helped fill a
funding plan gap caused by the Argentine entities' difficulties in mobilizing
their share of the total project costs.
5.14 YPF's accounting system was inadequate for managing a corporation
of this size. It did not provide timely and meaningful financial and
operational information. This problem was not attacked until 1991 when
consultants were appointed to design and implement a new, comprehensive
system in line with oil industry standards. This became operational in late
1993.
5.15 FInancial Performance. The Loan covenants called for YPF to: (a)
maintain a quick ratio of 0.6:1 and not to make any cash distribution if after
the distribution such ratio would be smaller than 0.8:1; (b) maintain a long-
term debt/equity ratio not greater than 40:60; (c) not incur any debt unless
projected revenues are at least 1.4 times the projected debt service; and (d)
not acquire any shares in its capital without the Bank's agreement. The table
below shows what YPF accomplished against these undertakings.
Forecast
Debit Service Covemge   -0.25   0.23   0.69   0.92   0.77   0.96
Quick Ratio           0.11   0.62   0.65   0.65   0.67   0.67
Debt:Equity Ratio   100:00 100:00  94:06  86:14  74:26  61:39
Actual
Debit Service Coverage    1.15   0.99   0.97   1.71   1.53   1.01   1.52  2.41
Quick Ratio           0.11   0.69   1.24   0.74   0.81   1.13   1.13  0.69
Debt:Equity Ratio    28:72  33:67  56:44  06:94  07:93  22:78  22:78  25:75
Sources: SAR forecasts and YPF audit reports.
5.16 These figures demonstrate YPF's erratic financial performance until
its run up to privatization. When hyperinflation hit in the late 1980s, YPF's
interest payments peaked and the company registered large losses. This
started to change in 1991, when the Government ceased its practice of
requesting transfers of funds, and YPF began its restructuring. YPF's new
financial strength became evident in the first dividend payment in 1992.
However, the company was unable in 1992 (and probably in 1993) to comply
fully with the stipulated quick ratio. This was a consequence of: (a)
substantial payments to the Government for settling tax disputes; (b) other
consequences of the September 1992 law authorizing YPF's privatization;
and (c) the completion of its restructuring activities which entailed costly up-
front expenses, e.g., staff severance outlays.



-9 -
6. Project Results
6.1   The project ccntributed to Argentina's success in moving forward in
the technical areas included in the objectives of the activity. Its key
infrastructure improvements helped overcome some of the constraints to
moving oil and gas supplies. These also contributed to optimizing oil and
gas production, while lessening the problem of flaring large volumes of gas.
Moreover, the project expanded the possibilities for increasing production
and recoverable reserves in the short-term and helped advance the
substitution of compressed natural gas for motor fuels consumption in vehicle
transport by greatly spurring the conversion of vehicles to natural gas; from
1990 through 1993, over 220,000 vehicles were converted.
6.2   The infrastructure portions of the project (other than EOR) met the
targeted goals. In 1984, 130 million cubic feet per day of natural gas was
flared while there were unmet industrial demand and rationing in Buenos
Aires during the winter. This gas is now being captured and used and an
additional 215,000 tons per year of LPG and natural gasoline are being
marketed. Further, natural gas utilization increased from approximately 24%
of total energy usage in 1984 to 39% in 1993. The refinery sub-projects
helped prevent the refineries from operating at less than full rates, thus
enabling them to produce maximum amounts of products and preventing
importation of additional amounts of refined petroleum products. The
Platformer revamping sub-project enabled YPF to increase the octane rating
of gasolines while largely eliminating lead, thus generating financial and
environmental benefits. While the international prices of these fuels have
fallen since 1985, the lower actual investment costs more than compensated
for the lower benefits.
6.3   The benefits of the EOR sub-projects were not as extensive as
envisaged at appraisal since only one was implemented. However, part of
the benefits will eventually accrue to Argentina because the oil fields are now
in the hands of private operators who will undoubtedly maximize oil recovery
by implementing future EOR projects. The single EOR facility built will
itself carry a high rate of return-as is typical of EOR projects-since the oil
production and transport infrastructure was already in place.
6.4   Finally, as described previously, the technical assistance laid the
groundwork for the successful restructuring and privatization of YPF (as well
as Gas del Estado). The results surpassed the goals set for the company's
institutional improvements. Similarly, the Govemment's complementary
liberalization of the oil market resulted in fully deregulated prices and free
imports and exports, well beyond GUTA's goals (a more balanced-but still
administered-pricing structure).
6.5   Economic Rate of Return. The project's economic rate of return
(ERR) for the expansion of the Northern Gas Pipeline System at 40% was
higher than the SAR estimate of 34%. This was mainly due to decreases in
costs. The Lujan de Cuyo pipelines also returned higher ERRs at 42% than



- 10 -
the SAR estimate of ;0%. These two components comprised about 75% of
the total project costs. The gas debottlenecking and EOR components were
not calculated or comoared in the ex post evaluation since no methodology
was given in the SAR. The remaining component, compressed natural gas
conversions had an estimated ERR of 50% in the SAR and an actual ERR of
20%; the decrease was mainly the result of reduced oil prices in real terms
which had originally been assumed to increase.
6.6   Environment. The net environmental impact of the project was
positive. As noted above, natural gas is now being flared in much smaller
quantities and is being collected, compressed and transported to users.
Further, the Platformer revamping enabled YPF to reduce significantly the
addition of lead in gasolines (a known environmental hazard) while
maintaining their octane ratings. The efficiency-enhancing debottlenecking
sub-projects meant that there were fewer product losses and hence less
environmental damage, but more importantly, the new and expanded liquids
pipelines largely repl,.ced truck transport which is more energy-intensive and
far more polluting than pipelines. It is difficult to quantify the environmental
improvements due to the absence of measuring practices and baselines. To
meet this need and thv need for further environmental improvements, YPF
has accelerated and expanded the scope of its environmental program.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1   In all likelihood, the resource improvements will be sustained over the
medium term. The increased output of gas, petroleum and products as well
as the lower operating costs derived from project investments will continue to
accrue benefits to YPF for the remaining life of the facilities-or until the oil
and gas fields are depleted. Since the depletion of the affected petroleum and
gas fields and the attendant declines in production were factored into the
original rate of return calculation, eventual depletion will not affect project
benefits. However, rL>servoir damage is always a risk in hydrocarbon
extraction. Therefore, the Government will have to monitor field operations
of the private firms Who now own and manage the oil fields to ensure
optimization of extraction for the country. If the new owners maximize
short-term profits by oroducing at rates which are beyond the maximum
recovery rate, the ultimate amount extracted would be reduced with negative
consequences for the country.
7.2   The prospects for sustainability of the institutional improvements
are also favorable. YPF is now a publicly traded company with a majority
of its shares in private hands, an independent board, substantial financial
strength and is subject to international financial market scrutiny. Its
transformation from a near insolvent state enterprise is quite pronounced with
efficiency gains and a new commercial orientation apparently firmly
implanted. Many of its loss-making activities have been sold. It is now
significantly less beholden to the interest groups (private and public alike)
whose past influences were often inimical to YPF's success. For these
reasons, barring a major reversal of Argentina's public sector reform



- 11 -
program or mismanagement by YPF's new (mainly) private directors, it is
likely that the company's improvements will stay in place.
8.    Evaluation and Lessons Learned
8.1   Most, though not all, Loan objectives were achieved and the GUTA
Project experience can be judged successful overall. With its help, there are
now promising possibilities of reversing Argentina's extended stagnation in
hydrocarbon output and decline in reserves. In 1991, petroleum production
reached the highest level over the previous decade, and there were also rising
petroleum exports (which totalled about US$800 million in 1992).
8.2  In addition, accomplishments in some important policy and
institutional areas far exceeded the original aims, and came about faster than
might have been considered feasible during project preparation. On this
point though, it bears underscoring that the beneficial outcome was mainly
due to purely Government initiatives and decision-making. These would
have been less successful without the Bank's considerable sector work,
technical analyses underpinning the privatization program, and guidance in
carrying it out. But all these were definitely supporting elements.
8.3   The project was launched when the direction of Bank policy turned to
lessened assistance to state oil companies for certain activities. From this
standpoint, therefore, the decision to provide the GUTA Loan (instead of
channeling assistance restricted to private sector beneficiaries) may have
seemed to be somewhlat misguided. However, in retrospect, this decision
proved instead to be almost farsighted. The Government's hydrocarbon
reforms, several of which were advanced by the project, have served to
stabilize the supply/demand situation, eliminate Argentina's past primary
reliance on a deficit-ridden state entity, and otherwise put the sector on a
sounder footing than might have been considered plausible. Rather than
supplanting the private sector, the project served instead to improve
conditions for its activity. The Bank's decision to maintain sufficient
operational contact with YPF therefore was well justified. CONCLUSION:
That continued, broac-gauged Bank assistance to public agencies in the
energy sector can usefully play a role in ways which enhance economic
growth.
8.4   The Bank helped YPF and the Government enlist the participation of
JEXIM in the project with the benefits indicated previously. This (alongside
of JEXIM's parallel co-financing of the Refinery Project, effected
simultaneously), served to establish a bilateral relationship which has grown
stronger over time. JEXIM's involvement throughout the project execution
period was quite positive and at low cost to the Borrower, with one notable
exception. This refers to the fact that, towards the end of project
implementation, JEX'M stopped disbursements when the closing date of its
loan (which preceded that set in the IBRD Loan Agreement) passed. It
subsequently proved difficult for the Borrower to obtain an extension because
of Japanese Government concerns about Argentina's external payments



- 12 -
arrears and status with the IMF. JEXIM also had to re-enlist private
Japanese banks' participation in its GUTA loan in order to amend the closing
date. To alleviate the situation, the IBRD increased its share of
disbursements until JEXIM's loan was reactivated. CONCLUSION: In
negotiating co-financing arrangements, it is desirable to obtain identical
closing dates (or the co-financing agent's agreement to no earlier date than
the Bank's).
9.    Bank's Performance
9.1   Among the reasons for YPF's successful changes, the Bank merits
credit for helping ensure consistency and continuity for the advancement of
the public enterprise reform program. This was especially helpful under the
turbulent conditions of Govemment management during much of this period,
under which there were constant changes in the decision-makers. Equally
important was the fact that the critical Government reforms in the
hydrocarbon area, notably regarding energy pricing and taxation, drew
heavily on the Bank's sector work. The Bank's approach was also marked
by considerable flexibility, as illustrated by its help in keeping the project on
track through the aforementioned decision to fund a larger share of project
costs in the absence of the JEXIM portion. In addition, the Bank's
appreciation of the frequently badly troubled project situation was manifested
in judicious decisions regarding interpretations of the Government's and
YPF's commitments under the Loan.
9.2   At the same time, the Bank's work was flawed in two respects. The
net environmental impact of the project is judged to have been positive. Yet,
although the Bank had been heavily involved in improvements at the La Plata
Refinery (LPR) since 1980, it is disappointing to note that GUTA's
supplementation of the original (Refinery Conversion Project) assistance to
LPR failed to address its pollution problems. The latter posed (and still
poses) the most severe difficulties among the refineries of YPF, which is one
of Argentina's poorest environmental performers. A second deficiency was
the incomplete presentation of the project's risks in the documentation
submitted to the Board. The risk assessment was restricted to a discussion of
reserve levels, market prospects, conditions surrounding CNG's initiation and
possibilities of project implementation delays. It did not take into account
the risks caused by the macro economic instability or the dire financial straits
of YPF. Fortunately, as the implementation record shows, these had no
material effect on the ultimate project results.
10.   Borrower's Performance
10.1  From the early stages on, the Borrower made significant contributions
to the definition of the project and put in a reasonably good performance.
This is credited to an exceedingly effective project unit, whose managers
have had extended experience with Bank-assisted operations, aided by an
equally sustained staff. This unit provided the continuity and the institutional
memory required to successfully execute the project under difficult



- 13 -
conditions. Their familiarity with the Bank's requirements and work-ways,
particularly affecting procurement and legal issues, was especially helpful.
The relationship between YPF and the Bank was cordial and based on mutual
understanding, a benefit of the close collaboration between the two staffs
since the early 1980s.
11.   Contractors and Consulting Services
11.1  All but one of the tenders were of a supply and erect nature, and one,
for the Campo DurAn Liquids Recovery Plant, was a turnkey contract. All
contractors were pre-qualified, except the contractor for the last infrastructure
sub-project who was post-qualified. All procurement was done in accordance
with Bank guidelines.
11.2 There were 125 contracts with consulting firms and individuals.
Many of the contracts were expanded a number of times; one of them had 14
revisions, and in one instance, the final cost of the contract with its
extensions was about ten times the cost of the original contract. Due to the
high number of consultant contracts and the speed of the operation, it was not
possible to supervise these contracts to the usual degree, and it is possible
that some of the prices were high and that some of the contracts duplicated
others at least in part. However, given the results, one can conclude that the
operation was successful.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1 Documentation for the project is generally good. The Staff Appraisal
Report was particularly comprehensive in explaining YPF's financial
condition and its underlying causes, and the technical and economic setting of
the project.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
Translated from the Original on File in LACIC
Buenos Aires, May 10, 1994
Note B.54.346194
Mr. Alfonso Sanchez
Division Chief
Infrastructure and Energy, Country Department IV
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Ref. Loan 2592-AR Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Sanchez:
We have received and reviewed Parts I and III of the Project
Completion Report, which merit no objections on our part, and we are
sending for your consideration Part II of the Report, as requested by your
office.
Project Summary from YPF's Perspective
Implementation of Loan GUTA 2592-AR has been satisfactory for this
enterprise, which will be reflected in greater benefits in the future.
Although not all objectives tackled during the initial phase of the loan
were fully achieved, such as the pilot projects for assisted oil recovery, the
general balance may be considered positive.
The project went through difficult economic circumstances such as
two hyperinflationary processes, followed by severe adjustment plans, which
made it necessary to renegotiate the contracts in force in order to complete
the job.
On the other hand, starting from the government decision to transform
YPF, as well as the petroleum market, implementation of Part D of the loan
experienced a complete change since the major portion of the assigned funds
permitted the financing of the transformation and reorganization of YPF and
Gas del Estado.
The preceding produced a series of reassignments of the loan funds to
allow a smooth flow of foreign exchange in order to endure the economic
conditions and at the same time maintain the continuity of the processes
under way. All this was possible due to the performance of the Bank's staff
who duly interpreted the needs of the Project thus making it easier to search
for solutions to the different problems arisen during its implementation.
Among the results worthy of special attention there remains for YPF
the excellent infrastructure of the oil ducts associated with the Lujan de Cuyo



- 15 -
Refinery, which allow the integral utilization of the incremental volumes
produced due to Conversion Increase (Loan 2032-AR).
It was also possible to carry out the infrastructure projects permitting
the production and eventual exportation of unleaded gasoline, as well as jet
fuel.
The use of compressed natural gas (CNG) as fuel for private cars was
also implemented, thus opening a new market which has already achieved an
interesting development and tends to expand. In this area we hired the
services of a consultant to study the possibility of using CNG in public
passenger transportation, with good results.
As to Technical Assistance, YPF received the services of Arthur D.
Little, McKinsey, Arthur Andersen, First Boston, and Merrill Lynch who
carried out, in their respective areas, the transformation and reorganization of
the company thus making possible the entry of YPF in the stock exchanges of
Buenos Aires and New York.
Finally for project implementation there were the funds from the loan
for US$187.3 million dollars granted by Japan's Eximbank, of which only
US$175.7 million were used due to the closing date of the loan. Once again,
the goodwill and competence of the Bank's representatives must be
emphasized, which helped YPF in all discussions and negotiations with the
Japanese institution.
In Conclusion
The project made it possible to achieve the following objectives:
1.    Carry out the transformation and reorganization of YPF.
2.    Technological transfer in the area of assisted petroleum
recovery, which will permit opening the potential of oil
reserves.
3.   Improved gas utilization, including its use as fuel for private
cars and public transportation of passengers.
4.    Utilization of the incremental volumes of products in the Lujan
de Cuyo Refinery through the Puesto Hernandez - Lujan de
Cuyo oil pipeline and the revamping of the Lujan - La
Matanza polyduct.
5.   Incorporation of new techniques for resources management
through the possibility of using advanced control systems.
(sgd) E. Moltrasio
Chief, Project Management Area
YPF



- 16 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
(US$ million)
Loa             ThI          A st-;ttt;-tXi        t - i;-  provaI of Loami Disbursed.   tatus  Comment -- 
1880-AR  Oil and Gas             1980       27      24.92    Fully   Seismic survey and oil reserves
Engineering                                       Disbursed  appraal of anistng reaexnira.
(PD)    Borrower: YPP.
2031-AR  Oil and Ga Credit       1981      100      76.86     PD      On-lending to private finrms
opeating in energy sector.
Borrower: BANADE (National
Developmcnt Bank).
2032-AR  Refinery Conversion     1981      200      199.77    PD      Borrower: YPF. Combined
operations with loan 2031-AR.
2592-AR  Gas Utilization and     1985      180      165.38    PD      Borrower: YPP
Technical Assistance
2032-1-AR  Refinery Conversion:   1986      116     116.00     PD      Borrower: YPF
Supplementary Loan
3416-AR   Hydrocarbon            1991       28       9.47  Disbursing  Hydrocarbon engineering
Engineering Project                                  (D)    project implementation during
tranition phae. Help private
entrepreneurs. Borrower: YPF.
Total                                    651      592.40
Sources: Staff Appraisal Reports, MIS data, and Statement of Loans (IBRD publication, Nov. '93).
Table 2: Project Timetable
Phase         Planned Date             .         Actual Date~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...........
Identification                            -                              10/01/81
Preparation                            07/01/84                          01/25/85 a/
Appraisal                              11/01/84                           11/12/85
Negotiations                           05/17/85                         5/17-24/85
Board Approval                         06/25/85                          06125185 h_
Loan Signature                            --                             05/22/86
Loan Effectiveness                     10/03185                          09/30/86
Loan Closing                           12/31191                           12/31/93
Project Completion                     12/31/91                           12/31/93
Sources: MOP, Loan Agreement, Bank memoranda and MIS data.
nI First Issues Paper was dated 3/12/83 and the Second Issues Paper, 1/25/85.
_/ First approved on 6/25/85. Amendment to GUTA approved by Board on 5/20/86.



- 17 -
Table 3: Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
11B) GCaI Yea         -    - -1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992    1993 jI   1994I
Eatinated                        25.0   80.0  130.0  180.0  180.0  180.0   180.0         180.0     180.0
Revised Estimate                 16.7   75.6  135.0  176.6  180.0  180.0   180.0         180.0     180.0
Actual                            0.0   10.7   15.3   41.0   76.5  100.0   137.9         169.9     165.4
Actual u % of Rev. Estimates      0.0   12.8   10.2   20.9   38.2   50.0    68.9          85.0      82.7
Sources: Estimated disbursements from Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and other disbursements from MIS data
as of 12/31/93.
A/ Formally revised closing date was 12/31193.
k/ US$4.52 million was reimbursed during the first quarter of 1994.
Table 4: Project Costs
(US$ million)
. .. .. . .. .....Esthmated Costs                                   Actual Costs 
Component                        Local  Fog    Tota         -    Lcal  Foreig   Tota        %    1- .
Expansion of Northern Gas Pipeline System
Field Development               91.1     11.8   102.8  12.8
Increae in Pipeline Capacity   144.8     51.4   196.2  24.4        I/        a/      5/
Campo Durin Facilities          80.4     60.5   141.1  17.6
Sub Total  316.3    123.7  440.0  54.8   170.4        80. 1   250.6  48.2   -43
Gs Debottleneckdng & Enhanced     73.7     45.1   118.9  14.8   53.4        26.5    79.9  15.4   -33
Oil Recovery
Lujdn de Cuyo Pipelines          135.8     33.1   168.8  21.0   110.2       14.9   125.1  24.1   -26
Compressed Natural Gas             6.0      9.9    16.0   2.0      2.0       2.1     4.1    0.8   -74
TechnicalAssistance&Training       3.0      9.0    12.1    1.5   12.3       33.6    45.9    8.8   281
Total Base Cost  535.0    220.8   755.8  94.2   348.3    157.2   505.5  97.3   -33
Interest During Construction      16.0     30.8   46.8   5.8       0.0      13.9    13.9    2.7   -70
Total Financing Required         551.0    251.6  802.6  100.0  348.3    171.1   519.5  100.0  -35
Sources: SAR for Estimated Costs and YPF information up to 12/31/93 for Actual Costs.
Note: Values include price and physical contingencies on a pro-rata basis.
&! YPF did not use the SAR sub-categories of the Northern Gas Pipeline Expansion in its financial reporting;
thus only the aggregate totals are shown.



- 18 -
Table 5: Project Fmancing
(US$ million)
uref -         0 i-Plann    ; %X: Revied   %    Actual   %           a-ComtI 
IBRD                 180.0   22.4    180.0  43.7   165.4  31.8 USS14.6 million
was cancelled
IDB                   59.5    7.4        -      -     42.8   8.2
YPF/Private          104.7   13.0        al             al
Producers
YPF/Government       319.6   39.8      44.9  10.9   39.8   7.7
Gas del              138.8   17.3        -      -     95.6  18.4
Estado/Government
Japan Export-           -       -     187.3  45.4   175.7  33.8
Import Bank
Total                802.6  100.0    412.2  100.0  519.5  100.0
Sources: Planned financing from SAR. Revised and actual from YPF reports and MIS data.
b/ An individual breakdown does not appear in YPF's reports.
Table 6: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Category
(US$ million)
Equipment, Materiab & Work              126.9          70.5         113.0      68.3
Consultants' Services                    15.5           8.6          38.5      23.3
Training Expenditures                     0.7           0.4           0.0       0.0
Interst & Other Charges                  18.9          10.5          13.9       8.4
Unallocated                              18.0          10.0           0.0       0.0
Total Allocations                       180.0         100.0         165.4     100.0
Sources: Loan Agreement and Bank disbursement data.



Table 7: Summary Finncial Statements
Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance Project
(Current US$ millions)
MR~~~~~~~~~~ :: A --iJ SAI iR :MtudIA1                                             19Pl   IiG   19
I INCOME SIATEMENT
INCOME
Gro  Value of Retil Sales A Expocsa                                                                                                                         __       __
Fuel Tax" ( *Onaaum                    (1,653)1  (3,613)  (1,944)  (1.664)  (I        (1.7"]   (1,945)    2,197)I  (I 945)   (2.'   1 (1,945   205'rF1,939)
Combustiles-)  I                I        I        I         II                          I                               _ _
Pod Taxes as a FofGr  o ax"-  fS&Wm                  m     mm.                           " t, ,                                                    w       r
|Natlet D...&  d. -Rale-ou- I..r) |2,956 | 7,258    3,839 |4,913 |4,771 |4,430 |5,605 |    ,O0  |  6,930 | 6,t35 |7,7t6 | 7,401 |6,251 | 4,226 |3,90-4
Iz5g bncom (if any)                        0 o                 0 o                0 o               0 0  0         0                       0 o  o                       327       35
OGber 1aomB (tol. R&6osd VAT)                                                              _       _ 
Reailor' Diucais (-Boolficackas)         (185)     (413)    (166)    (173)    (211)    (201)   (241)       (304)    (269)       (400)    (311) -    (433)    (321) 0              0
Ch   _T_rAL SUULES A_ aC_ INC_     _      2,971     8,221    3,t23    5,650    4,660    4,tU3    5,463       5,573    6,760      8,034    7,575     9,134    6,016      4,337    3,t97
EXPENSES 
Cogs of Goods Sold                      ,275)   (5,977)  (2,474)  (3,431)   2799)  (3,512)  (3,292)   (4,008)  (4,210)   (5,345)  (4,728)   (6,382)  (5,372)   (2,718)  (2,240)
Opemilag Cons (t87)   (1,177)  (1,141)    (663)  (1,184)    (466)  (1,241)                                  (620)  (1,340) (J07   (1,400)          (630)    (574)      (562)   (502)
_        _p_ _a_on                             1    (946) 1        1   (I8)          1  (619)1          1    (801) I       |   113) |4  (1,i                  9)
bffeges                                 (750)    (4,858)1   (990)  (2,668)1   (963)  (2,67S) 1   (994)   (1,297)  (1,042)1  (1,7s1)   (981)l  (3,135)1 (1,34t,1    (27)1   (76) 
TOTALEXPENSE                            (3.912)   (12,958)  (4,494)  (7,611S  (4,945E S7,272)1 (5,526)   (6,76)  (6,591    (9,446)  (7,110)  (11,420)  (8,7)   (4,216)] (3,451)
GRO_SSPR_ Fff_(I_ _ SS) _941)   (4,737_    (671)  (1961)    CM_)   2,3_ _)                         (631   (1153)       169     (1,412)    465    (2,286)  (2a25s)        122      446
Emradov__b__           ___-)                       4,500              1,258             2,158               1,235               1,086               1,193    2,528      (123)   (154)
NE tMONETARY &DFIATION                       0         0        0         0        0        0        0       242         0       460         0         0      (194)      257      (33)
ADWSMNT                                         __    I__I
NET PROFrr                               (941)      (238)    (671)    (702)    s285)    (230)      (63)      324       169        134     465    (1,093)       7         256      258
SOURCES & USES OF FUNDS
9OURCBS OFPFUNDS
Netl acOs                               (941)         0     (671)    (702)    (285)    (23        (63)      3241    1691        134      465'   (1,093)       79       257     25
Coowub ui to E*ky                        301         0       736        0      764   1,025       783      7,5731    9681 2,623           921       7070                  0    (14)
Su itaeal,lctessn NWadh i               (640)1       0 j    65       (702)        479 1o                   ,        1,136     2,758   1,386        (387)      79 w     257      2



1Dk pn Xc i io n5 X                    S45         0      65S4      0      3 20    (619 g)    9 73   (301)   1,127    (1,113)   1,21S0    (1,273)   (977)    (679S)   (634)
Dr.^mnnof loq-TmDoavEurizg             100         0    3,590   (1,295)     S5   4,163       50    (4,452)      30       649       0      3,070    (693)   (1,417)    125
Incmau  a. Cu- rmtw Li9ablth.        1,535             (2,533)  (4,630)    337   (4,35 1)    145     (687)    254       656      (m7)      530    (666)      (323)   (626)
113TAUL SKOUDCES OFFUlNDS             1,363         0    1,306   (6,621)   1,722    (512)   1,311     1,957    2,547    2,950    2,493     1,991  a(2,27)   (2,61)   (391)
USES OPPFUNDS_                                                                             =                                                                          =
IatmamhO* CburNi 9-J                     7         0      34   (1,921)     110       (5)    142       169      130      293      221       (66       30       169     376
Nehw Iruto.si                        1,171         0    1,351   (1,335)   1,372    774    1,527     3,434    1,531     1,711    1,530      535   a ,024)   (1,135)  (1,299)
Incmmasu  nTcsalCwunua Am               95         0     330    3,453      21S   (1,766)    191    (1,770)    307       674      206      1,323    (496)   (1,432)   (532)
Di= =d=a=a                                                                                                                                                   321
lapaynmuaof Priacih                     0          0      11      131       22     413       22       123     529        195     529       149     234       237      235
TOTAdLUXSES OFF11NIDS                  1,343        0    1,306    (6,623)   1,722    (512)   1,315    1,957    2,547    2,950    2,493     1,991   (2,257)   (2,162)   (391)
3AA~  _1E                             __
*    SEDUINKES IE
e9    Caub                                   110        157     120      124      132      74      147       167     163       197      1t0       35S     177       100      76
Accaxuzisflaciwwbb                    392      1,141     573    4,621      672    2,912     755     1,050     5SS      1,694     973     2,359    2,540     1,155     677
hwsgodsa ~  ~                 327         0      461       0      573       0      673         0      332        0 _934             0       0         0        0
TotalCkurreat Aus                      3 29    1,29     1,-      4,752    1,377   2,916    1,574    1,217    1,312     1,390    2,017    3,213    2,717     1,235       753
Ndt Fixed FAssb               _      5,722    12,222    6,419    7,090   6,970   3,434    7,524    12,719   7,923    15,620    5,175    17,473   12,S36     5,750    5,155
COherFaineia                          340      9,4fl     424      544      535     539      677       7097    357      1,001    1,0350     9 350    965     1,3     1,0
TO3TAL AUSSEIUS                       6,391    22,992    *,002   12,336   5,382   12,009    9,775    14,644   10,667    135,512   11,350    21,626   16,565  1, 161   7,413
LIUADU.YfES At NET WOB0Inn                                    
CQurrealiabWidea                     4,540    11,321    1,120    6,395    1,244    2,405    1,394   1,646    1,557     2,341    1,716    2,343    2,400     1,353     1,070
Cunoi FeaaPwioof Loag-Tcnn Dkex         11       111      22      483      22      123      529      19S      529       149      529       234      l l      2US     392
TtlaT eatknoliabiitihs               4,551    12,009    1,142    7,379    1,266    2,523    1,923   1,341    2,056     2,497    2,245    3,077    2,411     2,011    1,462
Cbber1..cagTermIab01si t uNe      | 2,396      3,105    6,151    1,623    7,123    5,303    6,644     732   6,236      1 ,136    5,375   4,107    3,130     1,526   1416
Ti3TAL UA3fEl1lTS                     6,947    15,114    7,993    9,007    3,394    7,336    3,567   2,573    3,322     3,633    7,620    7,134    5,591     3,614 |2,573
NEUrd0tiH (exd. UadiubmrsdoGbv          (56)    7,373       9    3,379      411   4,174    1,203    12,071    2,344    14,329    3,730    14,442   10,977   4,555| 4,540
C-^
TOZrALIABBIrIIES a SaxrbHDgrK         6,191    22,992    3,002   12,33    3,352   12,009   9,775    14,644   10,667    13,512   11,350    21,626   16,563S    ,6      ,1
.... ....                                 m--                                           m  Y              -        *                  -        -
Sor..e.....   ... and ..F  annal udi rort



- 21 -
Table 8: Economic Impact
ICw" "''Nt"'       '                                 ER.R "'"''"'ERR;'
..~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~T mtd ..  ..                          ..
1. Expansion of Northern Transmission System          34            40
2. Gas Debottlenecking & Enhanced Oil Recovery        80            1/
1 and 2 Combined j/                              37            _/
3. Lujin de Cuyo Crude & Products Pipelines _/        30            42
4. Compressed Natural Gas                             50            20
Sources: Estimated from SAR and Actual calculated from information sent by YPF.
I/ Estimated ERR - 37 % without physical contingencies and 34 % with them.
b/ No methodology given in SAR. Combined in the SAR with other components.
f/ Calculated in 2032-AR Refinery Project SAR.



- 22 -
Table 9: Compliance with Legal Covenants
Overall Project Rating at Loan Closing: 1
: S e' 'c' ::0;-'0 " i;-''tl:0-ion00-00X030:$:i::;f$0;'t:t:7t                                                       tit; Subject.  Sft ' a07l'l ';; C tus:
LOAN AGREEMENT                             Prqject Execution
3.01 (b)     The Borrower shall for purposes of Part E of the project, transfer the proceeds  Subsidiary
of the Loan allocated to categories (1) (e) and (2) (e) of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement signed
Agreement, to the Guarantor under contractua1 arrangements to be enter into
between the Borrower and the Guarantor under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank.
3.02 (a)     The Borrower shall employ consultants for the carrying out of Part D and shaU  Okay
assign in sufficicnt number qualdied staff as counterparts.
3.03 (a)     The Borrower shaU not later than sixty days after the Effective Date establish  Okay
and maintain a projects unit to coordinate and oversee the execution of Part C of
the Project.
3.03 (b)     The Borrower shall not later than sixty days after the Effective Date establish  Okay
and mraintain a projects unit to coordinate and oversee the execution of Parts A,
B, and D of the Project.
3.03 (d)     The Borrower shaU participate through staff of the CNG Project Unit in the  Okay
review of the CNG Conversion Plan referred to in Section 4.07 (c) of the
Guarantee Agreement.
3.04 (a)     The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by November 30 each year (i) an     YPP S.A. was
investment program covering the next three fiscal yean and (ii) after approval by   restructuring its
the Guarntor, a detailed program of the Borrower's investments for the    operation and was
following fiscal year.                                                    seUing off non-core
assets
3.04 (b)     The Borrower shaU not later than December 31 of each year exchange views  See 3.04 (a)
with the Guarantor and the Bank on the adequacy of the aforementioned
programs.
3.05         The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on the progress of  Reoeipt of reports
project execution compared with the implementation schedule in the annex to  was irregular
Schedule 2.
3.06         The Borrower shall: (a) prepare not later thn December 31, 1986 a draft term.    Okay
of reference for the study of the program to replace usage of liquid fuels and
prepar an implementation plan for the study; (b) not later than September 30,
1987, carry out such study; (c) furnish to the Bank upon its completion, resuls
of this study; and (d) exchange views with the Bank on the recommendation of
such study and put the recommendation into effect.
3.07         (a) The Borrower shall, when presenting a sub-project to the Bank for approval,   Okay
furnish to the Bank: (i) a data sheet containing the description, estimated costs,
summary work and financial plans; (ii) an evaluation of the expected benefits and
rates of return; and (iii) all such other information as the Bank requests;
(b) The Borrower shall present for Bank approval only those sub-projects that  Okay
meet eligibility criteria.
lfManagement and Operations of the Borrower
4.01         The Borrower shaU carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance    Okay
with sound administrative, financial and petroleum engineering practices.
4.02         The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery and  Okay
equipment in accordance with sound engineering, financial and petroleum
industry practicea and make aU necessary repairs.



- 23 -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  .. ..                                         . .
&ct1o~~~~~~~ ~SubjetSau
4.03         The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make  Okay
other provisions satisfactory to the Bank, insurance against risk and in such
amounts u shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
Fnacial Covenants
5.01 (a)     The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in   New system was
accordance with sound accounting practice its operations and financial condition,   fully opertional by
including records and separate accounts for the Parts of the Project.     end-93
5.02 (a)     (i) The Borrower shall have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited   Okay
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furmish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of the fiscal
year, certified copies of its financial statements and a copy of the auditor's
report.
5.02 (b)     For all expenditures made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the  Okay
Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and accounts reflocting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit and
contains a separate opinion as to whether the statements of expenditures together
with the procedures and internal controls can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
5.03         The Borrower shall (a) not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value any    Okay
shares in the Borrower's capital;
(b) (i) maintain a quick ratio of 0.6:1; (b) (ii) not pay dividends, make equity  Waived for FY '92
investment or prepayment of loan if after such payment the quick ratio would be    and '93
smaUer than 0.8:1;
(c) attain a debt/equity ratio not greater than 68:32 in fiscal year 1987, 66:34 in    Okay
fiscal year 1988, and 60:40 in fiscal year 1989 and thereafter; and
(d) not incur any debt unless the projected net revenues are at least 1.4 times the   Okay
projected debt service unless to the Guarantor a guarantee fee of 0.89% per
annum on the amount outstanding of the loan allocated to category (1) of
Schedule 1 is paid.
5.04         The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantors a guaantee fee of 1 % per annum on  Okay
the amount outstanding of the loan allocated to category (1) of Schedule 1.
5.05         (a) The Borrower shal have PESA and FESA audited annualy and forward      Okay
within four months after the end of the fiscal year certified copies of each Audit;
(b) the Borrower shall cause the Account Bank to furnish to the Bank, each  Okay
month, certified statements of PESA and FESA.
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT                          Provision of Funds
2.03, 2.04   The Guarantor undertakes to make capital contributions to the Borrower in order   Okay
to allow the Borrower to balance its budget for each fiscal year and to enable the
Borrower to make debt service payments on its external and internal debt.
Execution of Part E of the Project
3.01         The Guarantor shall carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and  Okay
efficiency.
3.02         The Guarantor shall procure consultants services for Part E of the Project  Okay
according to provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
3.05         The Guarantor shall not later than October 31 of each year furnish to the Bank  Okay
progress reports.



- 24 -
3.06        The Guarantor shall: (a) by December 31, 1986 prepare a detailed lit of all  Okay
tudies to be carried out under Part E of the Project; (b) carry out such studies
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (c) promptly upon completion
of each study (i) fumish to the Bank a copy of the finding and
recommendations, and (ii) exchange view with the Bank on the results of such
studies.
Other Covenants
4.01 (a)(b)   The Guantorr shaU take aU actions so that the net price of the Borrower.  Not applicable
products are adequate to cover all costs and to achieve a rmte of return of 6% of
the revalued net fixed assets.
4.02        The Guarntor shall charge and collect from the Borrower a guarantee fee of 1%    Okay
of the principal amount of the loan outstanding.
4.03        The Guarntor shall maintain its policy of increasing the rektive retail price of    Not applicable any
diesel oil, fuel, and other distilla tes                                longer with price
liealztion
4.04        The Guarntor shall undertake aU actions so that rtail prices of CNG are at  Not applicable any
levels th t provide adequate incentives for converting vehicles for use of CNG.    longer with price
liberalization
4.05        The Guarantor shall not later than October 31 of each year exchange views on  Not applicable any
the appropriateness of energy prices                                    longer with price
liberalization
4.07        The Guarntor shall: (a) prepare a plan for the execution of the pilot CNG  Okay
distribution project; (b) cause such project to be executed; (c) review with Bank
the execution of the pilot project.
4.08        The Guarantor shall appoint a steering committee to oversee and coordinate the    Okay
execution by the Borrower of Part C of the project.
4.09        The Guamntor shall: (a) provide appropriate incentives for the acquisition of  Okay
conversion kits; (b) provide appropriate incentives to encourage private
ownership and operation of CNG filling station.
4.11        The Guarantor shall: (a) carry out an oil and gas sector study; (b) furnish to the    Under execution as
Bank the recommendations of such a study; (c) allow the Bank to comment on  of loan closing
the findings and recommendations of such a study.
Sources: Lamn Agreements and Guarantee Agreement.



- 25 -
Table 10: Staff Inputs
(staff weeks)
::i~ M te                                                 V .::-:--:: -:-:- ::.-.:  -Y . --
Prt4JectCyde    -82   ::        '84  : S:   '86 .       87:    8:   -9 :W '91    '9~   '93 '94
Identification to   11.3   29.2   81.9   92.1    -        -       -      -      -      -      -     -     -
Appmiual
Appmisalto Board    -       -      -       n/a    n/a     -
AppralI
Board Approval to   -       -      -       -      n/      -
Effectiveness W/
Supervision It      -       -      -       -      36.3   25.3   29.8  38.4    23    19.5  29.3   8.7  11.2
Total               11.3   29.2   81.9   92.1   36.3   25.3   29.8  38.4    23    19.5  29.3   8.7  11.2
Sources: MIS and Forms 590.
/ Breakdown wa not available from MIS. The value is included in ldentification to Appraissal.
h/ Eight saff week were added in FY94 for the PCR.



- 26 -
Table 11: Mission Data
, ,.w1 !R....  ...                   1E., E   1                   .w.             ,   .   r.    .-  ,i-.  ..I||   ...F-  
1. Through Board Approval
Preparations    Nov 8-26, 1982      n/a       n/a               Discussions and preparations of the new project.
Preparation   late Dec 1983         n/a       n/a               Discussion on restructuring the original YPP loan
to gas-oriented operations.
Appraisal     late Nov-early         7        Engineer,         Discussions and appraisal of the new project.
Dcc 1984                       Economist, and
Financial Analyst
II. Supervision
Supervision    May 1-14, 1987        2        n/a               Project implementation and task force strengthening
suggested.
Supervision    Nov 9-Dec 4,          4        n/a               Review conversion status of Lujan de Cuyo.
1987                                             Assessed delays at La Plata Projects. Costs were
found to exactly matched the appraisal costs.
Supervision    May 18-27, 1988       1        Engineer          The project started moving smoother after YPP put
in a managemcnt unit. Most project components
were on schedule. YPF presented in updated
financial plan including the Eximbank loan.
Supervision    Aug 15-Sept 2,        5        Engineering and    The mission concentrated cfforts on: status of
1988                           Finance           Pctroplan (plan for attracting private sector
investment in petroleum production operation).
Initiation of a Natural Gas study. Review of YPF
and GdelE operations and investment requirements.
Supervision   Nov 23, 1988           3        Engineering and    Supervision and review of Petroplan, YPF
Finance           evaluation activities, diagnosis of operations,
strategy definition, recommendations on above
issues and investmcnt program developed for YPF.
Supervision    Nov 13-Dec 3,         2        Engineering and    Awaiting income statements, more work on S-year
1989                           Finance           financial model, more upward adjustmcnt needed
by YPF in price compliance since prices for crude
oil, natural gas, and petroleum products not at
international levels.
Supervision    April 23-May 4,       3        Sr. Pctrol.       Disbursement lags, satisfactory implementation,
1990                           Engineer and two   reaUocation of loan funds to other components since
Sr. Financial     pipeline Lujan de Cuyo-La Matanza still
Analysts          outstanding, awaiting unaudited reports for 1988
and provisional cash flow 1989.
Supervision   May 13, 1991           1        Sr. Financial     Discuss non-compliance with audit.
Analyst
Supervision    Aug 15-16, 1991       1        Financial Analyst   1988-1989 Audit of project easentially correct
exccpt for complementary financial information
from 1990 which was found to be incomplete.
FY91 satements required opening figures which
would bc providing by FY90 closing balances.
Special Account audit not received.



- 27 -
Sta.e or                      Number of.  Specal        s  --       .--.
PNoject Ccle     - Date           Persons       Represented                       Comments
Supervision   Oct 24-Nov 2,          1        Sr. Petrol.       Satisfactory implementation. Long Eximbank
1991                           Engineer          disbursement suspension (since Oct 1989) lifted.
The disbursement pereentage was revised with a
new allocation of funds, disbursements behind
schedule, and new closing date of 12131/92.
Supervision   March 16-21,           1        Sr. Petrol.       Actual costs are higherthan e timated costs having
26-28, 1992                    Engineer          a beaing on work financed after 12131/92; LA Plats
and Lujin de Cuy Refineries affected.
Supervision    June 1-5, 1992        1        Financial Analyst   The closing date was extended to 12131/93.
Souwces: Forms 590 and Bank memoranda.



I



) SEDIMENTARY BASINS BOlI   56!
2. N-1c.s                                                  co\    
3.1.6-ns\.(4        ;                                o13 Duron                                r 
5. Curn                              S n ovdo...p*,<<                           PARAGUAY'',t
7 L-11.                                                               J  0+                                                          vs}>  BRAZIL 2
M-_i                                               A AT A2  RC A % G O 
De S.i.d                                                                     2AC 
W C.6;                                                         nuF,.d.ORE                                s/,//)
Ni,ih.UUUA.2 2
Sm Mi.e d                                           t       )   58k 
6 M.6  A,!I                 ATA AR  Id                 S      IAG       Rp.i /Jz               X
~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                         F ,t XS j / A TLZTO N
s    2      -   R 1 0                  */8 , <   t    >' ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE P3OJEC
c 0  bB                      I ot tsa      U      Cld OlSn
LL X        Jt                       fv5           nx}   w                            ___    rds  i ie
M;   N'OZ                  SA             7 So m no n  iii;*                               xotSnRu
1)YStW~~~~~_ .e             Li I           g S                                 1 3nlufodnPr
wL  ' ,Sr,  ,2^D   st,olc*^elii^/s                             I              X       Moo/AnIHRoE
4~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                     TECHNICAL ASISKIANCE PROJECT 
-AO,                                 N E            ' G R? 0                                                                                              AOI
kaiosl72                                                                           lE             56        5CC,d Oil                                        OPm









IMAGING
Report No:       14728
Type: PCR



