Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Lo . 259 2 - fl
Report No. P-4059-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INLERNATIONAL BARK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$180.0 MILLION
TO
YACINIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
GAS UTILIZATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 3, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Pe80 Argentina ($a)
US$1.00  -  $a 270
$a 1.00  -  La 0.0037
(March 1, 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Bbl                   -  Barrels (42 US gallmns, 159 liters)
BCF                   =  Billiccn Cubic Feet
BD                    m Barrel per Day
CFD                   =  Cubic Feet per Day
m3                    -  Cubic Meter
MT                    =  Metric Tcc
TOE                   =  Tcns cf Oil Equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNG                   =  Ccnpressed Natural Gas
GdE                   =  Gas del Estado
LPG                   =  Liquified Petrcleum Gas (propane/Butane)
YPF                   =  Yacimient s Petrolifercs Fiscales
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
"M" preceding any unit indicates thausands.
"NM" preceding any unit indicates millioms.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
GAS UTILIZATION AND TECKNICAL ASSISTANCE
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPP)
Guarantor:             Republic of Argentina
Amount:                US$180.0 million-equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Guarantee Fee:         1 percent
Project
Description:         The project is part of the YPF's 1985-89 investment
program for increasing the production of gas and
associated liquids and expanding the use of gas. The
proposed loan would finance the expansion of liquid
recovery facilities, compression and other units to
optimize gas production; two pipelines for crude and
petroleum products transportation; enhnnced oil
recovery pilot projects; equipment for compressed
natural gas (CNG) vehicle refilling stations; and
consultants' services for technical assistance to
YPF. US$2 million of the loan proceeds would be
transferred to the Energy Secretariat of the Works
Ministry for technical assistance to improve energy
planning. The project will help (a) substitute
natural gas for petroleum products; (b) reduce gas
wastage; (c) increase oil production from declining
reservoirs; (d) eliminate bottlenecks in the transport
system for liquids; (e) improve the basis for
potential natural gas exports; and (f) strengthen
YPF's finAnces and improve its financial management
and control.
Beneficiaries:         The project would generate foreign exchange savings
by permitting the extraction of larger quantities of
liquids from increased production of natural gas and
reducing the potential need for costly imports.
Greater gas use would also lower the cost of domestic
energy use. Benefits would accrue to the economy at
large.
Risks:                 The risk in the implementation of the liquid recovery
facilities is considered low because of YPF's
substantial experience in these kinds of projects.
While CNG operations would be new in Argentina, an
experienced foreign firm would assist in carrying out
I This document has a reswitd disrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their offiial duties. Its contenis may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
this component, which would be done with frequent
reviews. The economic justification of the Campo
Duran component would not be affected materially even
if there were difficulties in completing funding
arrangements for the related expansion of the northern
pipeline.
(US$ million)
Estimated Project Cost                      Local        Foreign        Total
lorthern Gas System:
- Field development                     71.5           9.4         80.9
- Pipeline expansion                   113.7          40.6        154.3
- Campo Duran                           63.1          47.8        110.9
Debottlenecking & Enhanced Recovery           57.9         35.6          93.5
Pipelines                                   106.5          26.1         132.7
CNG Facilities                                4.7           7.9          12.6
Technical Assistance                          2.4           7.1           9.5
Base Cost:                    419.8        174.5         594.3
Physical Contingencies                       39.2          16.2          55.5
Price Contingencies                          76.0          30.0         106.0
Total project cost                  535.0         220.8        755.8
Interest During Construction                 16.0          30.8         46.8
Total Financing Req7i.rement        551.0         251.6        802.6
Financing Plan
IDB                                      -            59.5         59.5
IBED                                     -           180.0        180.0
YPF/P:ivate Producers                   92.6          12.1        104.7
YPF/Government                         319.6           -          319.6
Gas del Estado/Government              138.8           -          138.8
551.0        251.6         802.6
Estimated Disbursements              Bank FY    86    87    88    89
Annual                                     25    55    60    40
Cumulative                                 25    80   140   180
Economic Rate of Return:             Campo Duran, 30 percent; CNG, 50 percent
Appraisal Report:                    5053-AR dated June 4, 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT'_-ON AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TH3 PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$180.0 MILL'.:OB
TO YACINIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENTINE REP JBLIC
FOR A GAS UTILIZATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) with the guarantee of the
Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$180.0 million to help finance a
Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank standard variable
interest rate. The Government of Argentina would charge YPF a guarantee fee
equivalent to 1 percent of the interest charged on the Bank loan. US$2.0
million would be transferred to the Government's Energy Secretariat for the
energy planning compouent of the proposed project.
I. THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Argentina in June/July 1983 and its
report (4979-AR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1984.
This report reflects the mejor findings of that mission and subsequent
updating missions. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina has rich natural resources, a highly literate population
organized in an export-oriented and diversified agriculture, and a large
industrial sector. The economic performance of the country has suffered,
however, from the policy instability and distortions of incentives introduced
by frequently changing governments. Public sector participation in the
economy is high, industrial production is largely domestic market-oriented,
and the economy does not use the resources at its disposal efficiently. A
large public sector deficit contributes significantly to the country's
currently very high inflation level.
Economic Developments of the Last Decade
4.        Over the last decade, abrupt shifts in economic policies weakened
Argentina's productive capacity and exacerbated structural imbalances.
Changes in policies produced large and rapid fluctuations in the real
exchange rate, real interest rates, and real salaries. The rate of inflation
was over 400 percent in 1976, fell to 100 percent in 1980 and accelerated
again to about 600 percent in 1984; the external trade balance as a share of
GDP has fluctuated between positive 4.8 percent and a negative 4.3 percent,
while annual GDP growth has ranged from plus 6.7 percent to minus 6.2
percent.



- 2 -
5.        With the exception of agriculture, which has fared well during the
current crisis, the productive sectors are beset by increasingly thorny
structural and financial problems. More than 40 percent of capacity in the
construction industry, artificially inflated during the construction boon of
the late 1970s, now stands idle. Capital equipment is also idle in many
manufacturing industries and is becoming increasingly obsolete; most firms
lack sufficieut working capital. Financial intermediation is costly and
inefficient, and financial institutions are suffering severe difficulties.
Argentina's self sufficiency in oil has deteriorated as the ratio of oil
reserves to annual output has declined. Proven reserves of gas have
increased, but the processing and transport infrastructure to exploit them is
deficient, resulting in extensive flaring.
.
6.        The public sector is simultaneously overstaffed and seriously short
of managerial and technical expertise. Ineffective tax admirniBtration,
together with inadequate budgeting and investment planning processes has
contributed significantly to the large public sector deficit. Cuts in public
investment to curb the public sector deficit have led to a deterioration of
social infrastructure, have jeopardized the reliatility of power supply, and
forced reductions in petroleum production and gas exploration and
development.
7.        High and rising inflation, erosion of the country's productive
capacity, major dislocations in industrial production and huge external debt
service requirements have produced general economic stagnation; such that the
real 1983 per capita GDP was 14 percent lower than its 1974 level. Heavy
borrowing in the late 1970s multiplied the country's external debt as a share
of GDP sevenfold (from 10 percent to 68 percent). Today, interest payments
on the external debt absorb nearly half of gross domestic savings compared to
less than 5 percent in the early 1970s.
Policies for Adjustment
8.        Economic mismanagement and the consequences of the 1982 South
Atlantic crisis hastened the departure of the military government and led to
a democratically elected Government taking office at the end of 1983. Among
the economic difficulties to be faced was the severe liquidity problem of
private industry, which obstructed economic recovery and threatened the
solvency of the financial system. Other pressing difficulties were riaing
inflation and the worsening external payments situation.
9.        The new Government entered into a 15-month stand-by agreement with
the Fund in September of 1984 and rescheduled its external debt with official
creditors, covering interest and principal up to 1985, and with the
commercial banks, covering principal up to 1985. It also obtained the
commitment of US$4.2 billion in fresh money to finance the current account
deficit and to eliminate arrears accumulated through 1983-85 by the end of
1985. The principal objectives of the stabilization program underlying these
agreements were to lower the rate of inflation from an average of about 20
percent per month in the last quarter of 1984 to about 8 percent a month by
the end of 1985, and to achieve a balance of payments position that would
enable Argentina to meet its external obligations while satisfying the needs
of domestic recovery.



10.       The main performance targets under this progrAm were to reduce the
cash deficit of the non-financial public sector and the operating losses of
the Central Bank to 5 percent of GDP in 1985 (compared to a peak of nearly 18
percent in the fourth quarter of 1983); hold monetary growth several
percentage points below the targeted rate of inflation; achieve an external
resource surplus of US$4-3 billion in 1965 (compared to a surplus of US$3.7
billion in 1984); and eliminate arrears to commercial banks towards the end
of 1985. The program also stipulated that public sector tariffs would not be
reduced in real terms below their level at the beginning of 1984; that the
exchange and trade system would be liberalized; and that regulated interest
rates on deposits would be approximately zero in real terms, while
intervention in credit markets would be reduced. The program implied a
depreciation of the peso in real terms and a reduction in real salaries.
11.       The Government moved to comply with these conditions, despite a
deepening recession. The fiscal deficit was reduced to 13 percent of GDP
during the last quarter of 1984. Monthly wage indexation was reduced to 90
percent of the previous month's inflation, from 100 percent earlier, and the
real exchange rate was improved by 3.3 percent on an end-year basis. Prices,
however, rose by 19.7 percent during December 1984, compared to 17.7 percent
in December 1983. Output and employment in all productive sectors dropped
severely towards the end of 1984. The value of exports fell, as both
domestic output of exportables and the international prices of most of
Argentina's exports declined. Thus, the 1984 balance of payments resource
surplus fell below its target level, as did tax revenues.
12.       Because of shortfalls from the agreed targets, the Fund suspended
the first conditional draw-down under the stand-by until the completion of
the 1985 first quarter review of the program. The acceleration of price
increases in early 1985, fueled in part by stepped-up real devaluation,
eliminated the possibility of compliance with the nominal limits of the
program set for the first quarter of 19B5. The resurgent inflationary
pressures were partly the result of the elimination of the freeze on
industrial prices and of real increases in public tariffs. They also
reflected the difficulties of reducing the public deficit in a situation of
declining incomes and high debt service requirements and of reversing
inflationary expectations.
13.       The Government is presently renegotiating the targets of the
stand-by with the Fund. It has stated its intention to adopt more stringent
demand management policies while at the same time strengthening its external
sector policies to offset the negative effects that stabilization produces on
growth. Although reducing inflation will take somewhat longer than had been
intended originally, the revised targets should enable Argentina to get back
into formal compliance with the Fund, move to eliminate external payment
irregularities, and gradually restore incentives which foster investment and
production. To this effect, the Government has increased petroleum prices
and transport and power sector tariffs, initiated a 12 percent cut in public
expenditures this year, frozen employment in the public sector, and
reorganized major state enterprises to reduce costs and improve operating
efficiency. It has also relaxed regulations to reduce capital markets



- 4 -
segmentation, freed some regulated interest rates and moved to increase real
interest rates on other credit lines still regulated. Another major package
of initiatives is expected with regard to the external sector in the near
future. In addition, a tax reform proposal has been presented to the
Congress.
Policies for Growth
14.       The Government has formulated an overall policy framework that
links the stabilization program to development goals. The strategy for
achieving a GDP growth rate of 3 percent per annum over 1985-90 is based or
raising productive investment and expanding exports. The proposed policy
measures are closely in 'line with the recommendations of the 1984 CXK, viz.,
improvement in public sector finances and efficiency; overhaul of the tax
system and tax administration; reduction in the number of public enterprises
and reform of government-enterprise relationships; improvements in incentives
for the private sector; enhanced export promotion, including a scheme for
temporary admission of imports needed to produce exports, and elimination of
most subsidized investment incentives. Real per capita consumption is
projected to rise only 0.6 percent per annum on average during 1985-90, s0
that domestic savings rise sufficiently to finance the projected average
increase of about 6 percent per annum in fixed investment. The Government is
now in the process of giving this strategy concrete operational content and
in defining the instruments for its achievement. It has proposed a freeze on
the relative share of wage income in GDP during 1985; a mechanism under which
industry contains its price increases while Government price controls are
phased out; real increases in the overall tax burden and in public sector
tariffs; and a new and less heavily subsidized industrial incentive system.
At the same time, the Government has promised to improve public sector
management; reform labor legislation, enhancing collective bargaining;
introduce a national health insurance system; and provide greater equity
through profit-sharing mechanisms.
Development Prospects and Policy Requirements
15.       Argentina's growth performance in the next five years will depend
heavily on the Government's success in sharply cutting the public sector's
fiscal deficit, reducing inflation and restoring domestic and overseas
confidence in economic management. High inflation and general uncertainty
have produced a paralysis of private sector investment decisions. Thus,
stabilization is a sine qua non for the country's future growth and
development.
16.       At the same time, external interest payments absorb almost 50
percent of Argentina's gross domestic savings. Until this burden is reduced,
investment will be limited largely to improving the efficiency of existing
capacity and completing unfinished projects. The Government has stated that
it will give priority to those ongoing and new projects which alleviate
immediate bottlenecks, have a high rate of return, can increase foreign
exchange generation and stimulate domestic production.
17.       Argentina's key development objectives are: to strengthen and
expand the growth of exports, in order to reduce the country's external debt
relative to GDP and exports, and to resume medium-term growth as the



- 5 -
stabilization program takes hold. The Government's economic program and
policies are being designed to achieve these objectives. In particular,
special emphasis is being given to the elimination of distortions to produce
a rapid output and export response. A faster recovery of per capita
consumption can take place only once medium-term growth has resumed.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       With a successful implementation of the adjustment program during
1985-86, the rescheduling of the country's external debt by its commercial
creditors and continuation of their agreement on modest involuntary lending,
Argentina's growth prospects for the rest of the decade would be reasonably
good. Under these assumptions, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments is projected to average about US$2.2 billion per year during
1985-86, equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP, to be financed largely by
increasing disbursements of existing and projected loans from private and
public sources and with a modest amount of direct foreign investment. This
should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP of 2.2 percent
during 1985-86, led by an increased production and an expansion in exports of
agriculture and industry. Beyond 1986, real GDP growth could resume at about
3.5 percent per year as a result of the expansion in exports and of
increasing agricultural and industrial production. The current account
deficit would also decline rapidly from 1987 on as a result of increasing
export proceeds from grain and manufacturing exports. Thus, the current
account deficit of the balance of payments is projected to amount to only
US$0.5 billion by 1990, equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
1g.       At the end of 1983, the total public sector external debt of
Argentina was US$33.2 billion. From US$12.5 billion at the end of 1978, it
had grown almost three-fold. The structure of the debt also had changed
radically during the 1978-1980 period. At the end of 1978, the debt to
commercial banks constituted 38 percent of the total, but this ratio rose to
60 percent by the end of 1980, and 84 percent by the end of 1983. Total
debt, including private, was US$46 billion at the end of 1983. Total debt
service requirements were 79 percent of exports in 1983. The external trade
surplus, although large, could not meet fully this obligation resulting in
interest arrears of US$1.2 billion by the end of 1983. Following the
agreements with the Fund and its commercial creditors, Argentina initiated a
program to eliminate payment arrears. The commercial banks completed the
subscription to the US$4.2 billion of fresh money in late April 1985.
Pending the revision of the targets of the IMF agreement, the banks are
expected to release the first tranche of their additional financing. This
should enable Argentina to resume the payment of arrears. Total external
debt is projected to reach US$58 billion by the end of 1990. However, as a
percent of GDP the debt is projected to fall to 44 percent in 1990 from 65
percent in 1983. The debt service ratio is projected to decline to 63
percent in 1990, with the trade surplus covering 94 percent of projected
interest payments. Provided that the arrears are eliminated by the end of
March 1986, as the current program calls for, and that the debt amortization
payments due in 1986 are restructured with a modest increase in the
commercial banks' exposure, Argentina should be able to meet the servicing
requirements of its external debt, including new borrowing for high-yielding



projects which would support increased foreign exchange generation, efficient
import substitution and increased domestic resource mobilization. At the end
of 1983 the Bank's share of Argentina's total debt outstanding and disbursed
was 1.6 percent and its share of external debt service payments was 1.1
percent.
PART II - BARK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
20.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties. In the period 1980-84, the
Bank made loans for eight projects amounting to US$805 million. Since July
1983, no new operations have been presented because of the drastic
deterioration in Argentina's economic situation and the uncertain state of
ecor-omic management.
21.       Bank lending since 1980 has focused on major infrastructure
projects and the provision of credit for the development of the industrial
and hydrocarbon sectors. The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project is intended to
channel the enormous potential of the Parana River to provide base-load
electric energy for Argentina in the 1990's. The Second Industrial Credit
project supports the modernization and expansion of export-oriented
industries. A highway sector project is helping to augment and maintain the
road network. In parallel with these projects, the Bank has suppoz4ted
Government efforts to exploit Argentina's energy resources; for this purpose
four loans were approved during this period: an engineering loan, to help
Argentina assess its hydrocarbon reserves; a Coal Exploration loaL, to
i.mprove the basis for rational exploitation of coal resources; a line of
credit to the National Development Bank, to facilitate private sector
participation in exploration and production of oil and gas; and a Refinery
Conversion loan, to alter the country's two major refineries so as to meet
changing demand patterns for petroleum products. In the process, the Bank
has assisted the Government in gathering and interpreting the infcrmation
required to design a primary energy use strategy that would reflect t'.
relative prices of energy sources and take into account the link between oil
and gas production. Following on previous work in developing a long-term
power expansion program, a Gas Optimization study identified policy options
for the greater use of natural gas vis-a-vis oil. Ways to save energy in the
industrial sector are being studied, and price adjustments in retail
petroleum products have been encouraged so as to assure the economic use of
hydrocarbon products.
22.       Execution of Bank-assisted projects in Argentina has suffered in
recent years from policy reversals and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, as
well as from curbs on public investments stemming from the need for fiscal
austerity and from the private sector's reluctance to invest in an uncertain
environment. The authorities share the Bank's concern about this situation,
which has resulted in unexpectedly slow disbursements and consequent negative
resource transfers. In response, several existing projects have been
restructured to improve their execution. The Bank also has instituted
procedures for monitoring monthly disbursements and for periodic project
implementation reviews. Disbursements of Bank loans in 1985 have been
more than double the rate in 1984.



23.       The promising prospects for political stability and serious efforts
of the new Government to tackle Argentina's thorny economic problems provide
the Bank with an opportunity to play a key role in the country's economic
recovery and future development. The Government has requeated the Bank's
help in implementing a stabilisation program and in preparing the way for
renewed long-term economic growth. Over the short-term, the Government is
seeking help with economic analyses and expanded lending operatione designed
to enhance domestic resource mobilization and increase the availability of
foreign exchange. Economic sector work already under way includes a major
public sector investment review and comprehensive export-oriented
agricultural and industrial studies. The Bank is also supervising a
UNDP-financed project to prepare a technical assistance loan for reforming
public sector management. These activities are expected to lead to
subsequent Bank assistance in strengthening the international competitiveness
of the economy and making the public sector more efficient. The proposed
loan would help Argentina expand its capacity to make effective use of its
hydrocarbon resources and to increase utilization of natural gas and its
by-products. The Bank is reviewing the appraisal of the proposed Bahia
Blanca Port project, which would reduce shipping costs for grain exports,
along with a proposed agricultural sector project linked to the elimination
of agriculture export taxes. A water supply and sewerage project under
consideration would help improve sector finances and develop provincial
agencies. Further support for the power sector, directed at distribution and
transmission requirements, is also being studied.
IFC Operations
24.       IFC has made 25 investments in Argentina, totalling US$236 million,
of which US$121 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold. A summary of its
investments is shown in Annex II. Promotional efforts are geared to export
or import substitution-oriented projects with emphasis on oil, petro-
chemicals, and i,lated sectors.  IFC will also continue to seek investments
in projects where its presence would facilitate the formation of joint
ventures with foreign participation, and act as a catalyst to attract higher
levels of commercial financing.
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
25.       Argentina has a substantial and diversified energy base.  The
exploitable hydro-electric power potential over 25 years is estimated at
1,430 million tons of oil equivalent (MNTOE); the proven and potential
reserves of gas amount to 2,080 MMTOE and of oil, 1,093 MMTOE. The country
also has uranium and low-quality coal deposits as well as some potential for
vegetable fuels, geothermal, wind and solar energy. Argentina has been
self-sufficient in energy since 1981, largely because of falling demand
during the economic recession, but energy resources and demand are not
balanced. Hydroelectric power, representing over half of energy resources,
supplies only about 9 percen'. of domestic energy demand. Likewise, natural
gas meets somewhat less than one-third of demand, but has the potential for a
substantially larger share. Conversely, crude oil, whose proven reserves
account for only 12 percent of total resources, meets 56 percent of demand.



- 8 -
26.       Accordingly, the Government intends to shift energy demand and
supply away from oil, and toward reliance on hydroelectric power and natural
gas. Efforts in this direction have already begun to alter the pattern of
energy production and consumption. Natural gas has replaced fuel oil in
industry and electricity generation, increasing its share of final energy
consumption f..m 15 percent in 1970 to about 33 percent in 1983. Meanwhile,
the shares of electricity increased from 8.5 to 12 percent, fuel oil fell
from almost 20 percent to less than 8 percent, and other petroleum products
decreased by about 2 percent.
27.       Past exploration and development investment by both the private and
public sectors have been sufficient to permit Argentina to replace yearly
consumption of crude oil with new discoveries. As a result, oil reserves
have remained essentially constant over the past 15 years, even though rising
consumption has reduced the ratio of reserves to annual production from 16:1
to 14:1. Gas reserves have increased, however, from approximately 7 to 25
trillion cubic feet principally as a result of several important new
discoveries. Despite substantial increases in consumption, known gas
reserves would be sufficient to meet demand for over 45 years at current
production rates. However, substantial gas resources, 3 billion cubic meters
in 1983, were wasted by flaring. Approximately 35 percent of this volume,
equivalent to 5 percent of total primary energy production, was flared
because of lack of gathering and compression facilities; this gas could have
been economically recovered with more adequate infrastructure.
28.       Because the production cost of gas, which is mostly associated with
oil, is extremely low at the wellhead, the substitution of gas for liquid
fuels has been actively promoted, and a 10,000 km network of gas trunk lines
has been built. This network now operates at its design capacity of 44
million cubic meters per day, and can no longer meet demand. Limitations in
system capacity in turn constra-.n further substitution of natural gas for
higher-cost petroleum products. Gas could economically replace a greater
volume of fuel oil, which still accounts for approximately 18 percent of
industrial energy consumption (largely because utilities and industrial users
of gas must switch to fuel oil during the peak winter months). Gas could
also replace liquid petrol:um gas (LPG), kerosene and fuel oil which together
account for one-third of residential energy consumption. Compressed natural
gas (CNG) could replace gasoline and diesel in transport. Also, natural
gas-fired plants compare favorably with other types of power plants and their
share of electricity generation could be increased from the present 35
percent, displacing other fuels and more capital-intensive hydroelectric
projects. The Government intends to remedy the situation by improving gas
transmission infrastructure and facilities and has requested Bank help for
this purpose. In addition to aiming at meeting existing and potential
domestic demand for natural gas, the Government is now considering gas
exports to Chile, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay. Recent discussions with the
Brazilian and Chilean authorities suggest progress in integrating the use of
gas on a regional basis. Export projects based on methanol and liquified
natural gas have also been considered but appear less likely because of their
large capital requirements and limited international market demand.



-9-
Development Strategy
29.       Argentina's main objective in the oil and gas subsector is to
maintain the current self-sufficieLcy by promoting the more efficient use of
available energy sources, and by further developing domeatic oil resources.
Without a major effort to reverse the declining trend of the reservos-to-
production ratio for crude oil, the country could easily revert to the status
of a net oil importer, especially when energy demand again increases with
economic recovery. To avoid this, current Government rolicies aim at:
(a)  encouraging the exploration and development of new hydrocarbon
reserves by both private and public sectors;
(b) encouraging further substitution of natural gas for liquid fuels,
and correspondingly adapting refinery yields to changing demand
patterns (i.e. reducing the production of fuel oil); and
(c) adjusting the prices of petroleum products and gas so as to enhance
their rational economic utilization, promote energy conservation,
and ensure the financial viability and investment capacity of
public and private enterprises in the sector.
Institutional Setting
30.       Energy Secretariat.  The EnergF Secretariat in the Ministry of
Public Works is responsible for the establishment and implementation of the
Government's energy policies. In the past, the absence of an overall energy
development plan and frequent changes in the administration have caused
energy policies to be implemented erratically. To remedy this situation, the
present Government created a Planning Subsecretariat whose main task was to
prepare a national energy plan. One of the priority tasks of the
Subsecretariat is to ensure that the investment plans of the sector
enterprises are integrated into a comprehensive nationwide energy strategy.
The proposed project provides for technical assistance to the Planning
Subsecretariat for this purpose.
31.       In addition to energy planning and policy development, the Energy
Secretariat is directly responsible for overseeing the activities of the
public enterprises operating in the sector. In the oil and gas subsector,
the Subsecretariat of Fuels oversees: (a) Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
(YPP), the national oil company which produces crude oil and natural gas, and
refines and distributes petroleum products; (b) Gas del Estado (GdE), the gas
utility, which purchases natural gas from YPF and transmits and distributes
gas to final users; and (c) Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales (YCF), which
operates the southern coal mines. The Secretariat is also responsible for
overseeing the activities of private companies in the energy sector.  These
include the holders of a few petroleum exploitation concessions granted
directly by the Government to private comparnies before 1958; the companies
exploring and developing hydrocarbon resources under contract with YPF, which
account for the vast majority of privately produced oil in Argentina; and the
owners of private refineries and the Center-West natural gas pipeline.
YB?
32.       The state-owned Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF), which
began exploration and production of crude and natural gas in 1907, operates



- 10 -
in virtually every branch of the petroleum and natural gas seotor excep, for
the marketing of natural and liquefied petroleum gas. It is ttie largest
single enterprise in Argentina, as well as one of the largest oi' companies
in Latin America. The taxes it collects and pays typically prov4.1e
approximately 15 percent of Government revenue. YPF is directed by a nine
member Board, all appointed by the Government for three-year teems and
eligible for reappointment. Total employment fell from 51,700 in 1976 to
32,800 by end-1983, partly reflecting the sale of the company's retail
..ervice station network to private owners.
33.       YPF accounts for approximately 70 percent of Argentina's output of
crude oil and 60 percent of development drilling. YPF also operates 4,600 km
of crude oil and petroleum products pipeline, a fleet of tankers, and six
refineries which account for 65 percent of installed refining capacity. The
two principal refineries are being modernized with Bank assistance to raise
their conversion capacity and increase the share of lighter distillates
vis-a-vis heavy fuel.
34.       Lack of foreign exchange has impaired YPF's ability to finance
essential imports and has required the use of makeshift substitutes with
some loss of efficiency. Similarly, financial constraints have forced the
company to cut all but its most essential expenditures. Despite these
constraints, YPF, together with the private sector, has been able to add new
reserves each year approximately equal to production.
35.       Most of YPF's investments have been traditionally allocated to
hydrocarbon exploration and development (US$710 million or 87 percent of
YPF's total investment in 1983). These expenditures have maintained a
reasonable balan:e between new exploration (especially in relatively
well-known basins, where the success ratio is high) and development and
maintenance of producing fields. The balance of YPF's present investments
consists largely of the completion of the Bank-supported Refinery project.
36.       YPF's principal aims are:
(a) to ensure the continuation of an adequate level of exploration and
development drilling at least until the private sector responds to
the new incentives offered by the Government (described in paras.
44-45);
(b) to increase gas substitution by altering the composition of
refineries' output and making more natural ga. available, mainly by
reducing the amount of flaring of associated gas through better
reservoir management (which the proposed project addresses); and
(c) to promote energy self-sufficiency by investigating enhanced oil
recovery methods unlikely to be pursued by private investors
(another goal addressed by the proposed project).
37.       While YPF's investment program appears basically sound and
appropriate, it reflects a relatively short-term approach rather than a
consistent, long-term investment strategy. The technical assistance
component of the proposed project would include provisions for improving
YPF's investment planning, especially for optimizing the production of both
gas and oil. In addition, at negotiations, assurances were obtained that



- 11 -
YPF, together with the Government, would periodically review with the Bank
YPI's investment program and financial plan for the mubsequent three years
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Finanoes.  Since 1980, the company's financial situation has been
very seriously tamaged by a combination of lover real prices, higher taxes,
high foreign borrowings incurred on behalf of the Government, and rapid peso
devaluations. As a result, YPF's US$2.3 billion equivalent net worth at
end-1980 deteriorated to a negative US$1.1 billion equivalent at end 1982.
The company has not met the financial covenants agreed under the Refinery
Loan. In order to reestablish YPF's financial integrity, the Government is
committed to contributs the equivalent of US$3.3 billion to YPF's equity by
meeting this amount of its foreign debt service obligations; and to increase
YPF's earning power by allowing net-of-tax prices to increase more rapidly
than excise taxes on products. Implementation of these measures is further
discussed in Part IV (paras. 63-64).
39.       Financial Management.  The Refinery project includes technical
assistance to modernize YPF's planning, budgeting, cost accounting,
management information and inventory control, mainly in the area of refinery
operations. YPF has asked, and the Bank has agreed, that the scope of this
assistance be widened to cover planning and financial management throughout
the company. This assistance will extend the introduction of financial
controls over a broad range of activities, as well as provide automated
systems to monitor investment outlays and operating expenses. The proposed
project would also provide technical assistance to strengthen the management
structure and organization of the company to allow for quicker and more
efficient decision-making; enhance its investment planning; and improve
selected aspects of technical and commercial operations and
telecommunications systems.
40.       Pricing.  Over the past few years, different administrations have
applied inconsistent policies to petroleum products, ranging from sharp
increases to deliberate delays in needed price adjustments (and consequent
deterioration of real prices) in efforts to curb inflation. The present
Government has made major progress in raising petroleum product retail
prices, in terms both of their absolute level and the relative pricing of
various energy products at different stages from production to consumption.
However, most of the proceeds went to the coffers of the Treasury. At
present, the retail price of gasoline in Argentina is significantly above
international levels; prices for middle distillates (diesel) are comparable
to international values; and heavy distillates (fuel oil) prices are slightly
below comparable FOB values.
41.       The Government announced in February 1985 that it intended to raise
the prices of diesel and other middle, and fuel oil and heavy distillates by
2 percent per month on average in real terms over an 18-month period relative
to regular gasoline prices. This would eliminate the implicit subsidy on
fuel oil, by increasing its price to international levels; and raise diesel
prices relative to the price of regular gasoline. The result would be a more
balan_ed interfuel pricing structure. The Government has been implementing



- 12 -
the new policy. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would continue price adjustments designed to bring (a) diesel to
53 percent and 70 percent of the prices of gasoline by September 30, 1986 and
January 1, 1988, respectively; and (b) fuel oil to 33 percent and 40 percent
of gasoline prices by the same dates (Section 4.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
42.       The economic cost of gas in Argentina corresponds to the long run
marginal cost of transmission because excess gas is expected to be produced
in the coming decades and itB production cost is extremely low at the
wellhead. While the consumer price of gas (US$1.57/MCF) is set at about its
production cost (US$1.10-1.40/MCF), GdE purchases gas from YPF for
approximately US$0.78 per MCF and for approximately US$4.50 per MCF from
Bolivia, resulting in an average cost of approximately US$1.40/MCF. The
Government has indicated its willingness to compensate GdE for the higher
purchase price, as well as to assume a substantial part of GdE's dollar-
denominated debt. In order to ensure its financial viability and make a
reasonable contribution to investment, GdE would have to sell gas at about
US$2.50/NCF. The Government is planning on increasing the price of gas to
consumers to US$1.70/MCF and to industrial users (from US$1.71/NCF) to
US$1.88/NCF, both by January 1, 1986. These and other measures will improve
GdE's finances while still keeping natural gas competitive with fuel oil, and
will preserve strong incentives for conversion to gas use. The IDB is
presently discussing these issues with the Government in connection with a
proposed loan for the expansion of the Northern Gas Transmission Pipeline.
The Bank w-ll review gas pricing and GdE's financial viability in conjunction
with a planned future operation with GdE.
43.       Role of the Private Sector.  The private sector has played an
active role in Argentinars petroleum exploration and development efforts
since 1916. Private companies have typically produced about a third of the
country's total output. About 50 local private oil companies, together with
several foreign ones, are engaged in 30 production contracts in known fields
and 15 risk contracts for the exploration of new areas; YPF awards these
contracts through international competitive bidding.
44.       As a result of repeated devaluations since 1980, the US
dollar equivalent value of payments to contractors under many of the
contracts has fallen much more rapidly than international crude prices. By
mid-1983, production fees to some contractors were estimated to be below
their lifting costs. Many contractors stopped new investment and production
fell. In June 1983, the former administration established new terms for most
production contracts and for several risk (exploration) contracts, raising
the reference prices of crude oil and unifying the mechanism for calculating
fees. The present Government confirmed these changes last autumn. The new
provisions, which had the effect of doubling average 1982 prices, satisfy the
contractors and are comparable to those in other countries.
45.       The Government also has recently taken other initiatives to
encourage private investment in oil and gas exploration offshore. For
example, it proposes to offer contractors annually opportunities to bid on
new exploration areas, with contract conditions reflecting the extent of
exploration risk. It will also permit joint ventures, among other new forms



- 13 -
of association, and will allow "seismic options" which would enable
contractors to review the potential of the areas considered before comMitting
drilling expenditures. This should provide an additional incentive to
companies to explore in high-risk areas. In another departure from past
practice, the Government has offered that payments to contractors for oil
produced be made in products which could be exported; this vould provide
essential assurances to investors regarding foreign exchange revenues. These
measures are likely to promote new private sector investment, and should thus
help to accelerate disbursements under the Bank's USS100 million Oil and Gas
Credit.
46.       In the early 1980s, a consortium of private (mainly foreign)
companies built the 1,500 km Center-West pipeline and gas treatment system
which it now owns and operates under a service contract that is unique in
developing countries. A dispute has arisen between Argentina and the
contractors over technical and related contractual differences, mainly
regarding the operations of a gas treatment plant. Negotiations for the
settlement of this dispute and the arrears in the Government's payment of
transmission fees are underway. At the request of the Governments of
Argentina and the Netherlande, the Bank is providing technical assistance to
the parties for resolving some of the remaining issues; this should expedite
settlement of the dispute and thus further improve the climate for private
investment.
47.       Experience with Past Lending. The proposed project would serve as
a basis for continuing the Bank's energy policy dialogue with the Argentine
authorities, particularly concerning sector planning and investment
priorities; rationalization of petroleum product pricing; gas utilization;
and the contributions of the public and private sector companies. The Bank's
three loans to Argentina's oil and gas sector have totalled US$327 million,
and have been assigned to support the integrated development of Argentina's
energy resources. They have also helped the Government and a number of
public enterprises to gather and interpret the data required to design an
appropriate mix of primary energy utilization--one that would reflect the
relative economic price of both fossil energy sources and hydroelectric
power, and that would take into account the link between oil and gas
production. So far, the Bank has been concerned with resource assessment and
energy sector planning under the Oil and Gas Engineering Project (Loan
1880-AR); conversion of low-value fuel oil into higher-value products under
the Refinery Project (Loan 2032-AR); and appropriate incentives to private
sector companies under the Oil and Gas Credit (Loan 2031-AR). These projects
have proceeded satisfactorily, notwithstanding some delays and financial
difficulties, most of which have been associated with the severe recession
and economic uncertainties in Argentina.
48.       Through this involvement, the Bank has suppcrted important policy
decisions in the oil and gas sector over recent years. These relate to
revisions of contractual arrangements between YPF and private companies for
oil and gas exploration and development, and the restoration of average
petroleum prices to economic levels after their erosion in 1982. The Bank
also participated in discussions leading to the Government's capital support
commitment to YPF, which is the basis of the company's financial recovery
plan.



- 14 -
49.       The proposed project is part of a major effort to rationalize the
use of, and further develop, Argentina's domestic hydrocarbon resources and
addresses these issues. It includes priority investmento identified by the
Gas Optimization study needed to meet domestic gas demand and prepares the
ground for further gas substitution and potential exports. Furthermore, the
proposed loan is designed to support efforts by YPF to promote a better
balance between liquids and gas production in the development of the sector,
and establishes the basis for annmual reviews of the sector investment program
with the Government. It addresses the issue of interfuel pricing and the
distribution of the proceeds of petroleum product sales. Its technical
assistance components would strengthen YPF's accounting, evaluation, and
control system, which should help to increase the company's efficiency and
cost effectiveness.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The project was initially formulated by YPF during 1982 as an oil
exploration and development operation. It was delayed by uncertainties about
energy policies associated with the change in Government after the November
1983 elections and was later modified in the light of revisions in the Bank's
lending policy towards the hydrocarbon sector. The new project, oriented to
gas development, was appraised in November-December 1984. Negotiations were
held in Washington from May 15 to 17, 1985. The Government delegation was
headed by Ing. Jorge Lapena, Subsecretary of Planning, Energy Secretariat. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "ARGENTINA - Gas Utilization and Technical
Assistance' Project (No. 5035-AR dated May 24, 1985) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the Project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
Objectives and Approach
51.       The proposed project would help YPF undertake priority investments
in gas field development, expansion of the northern transmission system,
augmenting the use of gas, and producing high value liquid hydrocarbons from
natural gas, for which no alternative sources of foreign exchange financing
are available. The project also includes operations designed to introduce
new technology for increasing the total amount of oil recoverable from known
fields and to improve the transportation of petroleum and petroleum products.
52.       The project components would include:
(a) Expansion of liquid recovery facilities at Campo Duran as part of
an increase in the capacity of the Northern Gas Pipeline system;
(b) Gas debottlenecking projects (new compression facilities, liquid
separation operations, gathering lines);
(c) Enhanced oil recovery pilot projects;
(d) Two pipelines for the transportation of crude and refinery
products;



- 15 -
(e) An initial group of refilling stations for the beginning of a pilot
program of CNG use for vehicles; and
(f) Technical assistance to YPP for improving its financial control
systems, management structure, investment planning and selected
operations, and to the Energy Secretariat for energy planning.
53.       Campo Duran.  The expansion of the liquid recovery system at Campo
Duran is an important part of an integrated plan to expand gas delivery from
fields in the north and in Bolivia to Buenos Aires and other high-demand
areas along Argentina's main industrial corridor. Gas del Estado is now
negotiating a loan with the IDB to expand the capacity of the pipeline. YPF
has included provisions in its 1985 budget and made contractual arrangements
for private operators to assist in the development of the fields which would
supply gas to the system. In conjunction with this expansion of capacity,
the proposed project would finance the enlargement of the existing gas
processing plant at Campo Duran, raising its capacity from 250 MNCFD to 575
MMCFD.  This component comprises:(a) installation of a new liquid recovery
plant; (b) construction of new oil and gas gathering lines; and (c)
installation of new compressors to reinject excess gas in the summer. The
Campo Duran topping plant would separate significant volumes of propane,
butane, and natural gasoline for export. The greater volume of gas produced
would permit production of approximately 4,500 barrels a day of additional
condensate oil. Disbursement of funds for this component would be contingent
upon the completion of satisfactory financing arrangements for the pipeline
capacity expansion (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). YPF
would establish a project unit to carry oat this activity, and would employ
consulting process engineers to design and warrant performance of the liquid
recovery plant. The engineers' recommendations would be approved by the Bank
before tender documents were issued.
54.       Gas Production Debottlenecking.  YPF has identified and prepared a
number of relatively inexpensive but high priority projects to remove
bottlenecks which prevent it from obtaining optimum joint production or use
of oil and gas from existing fields, as well as to eliminate transmission
constraints in the system. These include (a) installation of compression
facilities to reinject gas during off-peak seasons, permitting increased oil
production; (b) facilities to separate liquids from natural gas streams
before injection of the latter in transmission pipelines; and (c) gathering
lines and compressors to collect gas now being flared. The project would
include financing for several of these activities which were among those
identified by the Gas Optimization Study. Those selected for financing would
have to be justified by an economic rate of return of at least 15 percent and
would not individually exceed US$10 million of loan financing (Schedule 5,
para. 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Lujan de Cuyo Pipelines.  YPF plans to construct a crwde supply
pipeline to the Lujan de Cuyo refinery from neighboring fields (present
supply arrangements are by rail and truck) and to increase the capacity of a
product pipeline from Lujan de Cuyo to the Greater Buenos Aires area. The
additional capability to process heavier liquids will facilitate disposal and
utilization of fuels substituted for by natural gas and is consistent with
integrated improvement in Argentina's production, processing, refining and
consumption system. Lack of foreign exchange has prevented this work, which



- 16 -
is important for the successful completion of the Refinery Project (scheduled
to begin coming onstream in 1987).
56.       Enhanced Oil Recovery.  An increasing share of YPF's future planned
production is expected to come from enhanced oil recovery projects, as
existing fields are being pressed to their limits from primary production.
The average rate of oil recovery is relatively low (17 percent), offering
considerable opportunities for recovering large reserves by secondary or
tertiary methods. YPF has identified ten fields as candidates for pilot
enhanced oil recovery proiects. With the help of consultants, YPF would
undertake feasibility studies of each of the fields. For those adequately
justified, YPF would proceed with specialized studies of core samples and
reservoir characteristics, followed by laboratory simulation studies.
Projects financed under the loan be limited to those cases in which
production costs based on field-wide application would not exceed import
costs for comparable crude petroleum (Schedule 5, para. 1 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Individual project funding would not exceed US$10 million.
57.       CNG.  Transportation accounts for one-third of total energy
consumed in Argentina and 60% of petroleum consumption; and over 40% of the
nation's vehicle fleet are in the capital city (70% in Greater Buenos Aires
Province). Given the abundance of natural gas, the Government has decided to
proceed with the use of CNG for transport on a pilot basis. If the pilot
project is successful, the Government's objective would be to convert about 3
percent of the total fleet, some 135,000 vehicles, over tLe next 10 years, a
goal that is considered feasible based on experience elsewhere. If
implemented at this level, CNG would substitute for approximately five
million barrels per year of gasoline and diesel.
58.       The technology for vehicle conversion and filling stations is well
established ana is available from several manufacturers of different
countries. Over 350,000 converted vehicles are driven in Italy, and the
system has been installed in Canada, New Zealand, and the U.S. The safety
record of the system is excellent. A successful CNG conversion program
depends on: (a) adequate price differentials between CNG and gasoline and
automotive diesel; (b) the reliability and availability of equipment and
spare parts for conversion kits and refilling stations; and (c) an adequate
distribution network for refueling. The Government has already decided to
set the retail price of CNG at 45 percent of the corresponding price of
gasoline.  This would stimulate conversion from gasoline and assure adequate
profit margins for refilling station operators.
59.       The proposed loan would finance imported components for an initial
pilot group of approximately 20 stations and the services of consultants
experienced in establishing sugh networks.   The consultants would help YPF
to define the pilot program for implementing the conversion system, which
would be jointly reviewed before initial disbursement of funds for the CNG
activity (Schedule 1, para. 3(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank
would participate in a steering committee representing both the public and
private sectors, YPF, and the consultants, meeting regularly to review the
results of the execution of the program. Gas del Estado will exercise
quality control and monitor compliance with safety standards (Schedule 5,
para. 3 of draft Loan Agreement). Loan conditions include the Government's
commitments to ensure the maintenance of adequate relative pricing of CNG and



- 17 -
liquid fuels, as well as appropriate incentives to facilitate the acquisition
of conversion kits (Sections 4.04 and 4.09(a) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would provide appropriate incentives to encourage private ownership and
operation of all refilling stations deriving from the execution of the pilot
program (Section 4.09(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
60.       Technical Assistance.  US$2 million would be allocated for support
for the Energy Secretariat. This would finance consultant services focused
on the optimization of the development of the oil and gas sector, and
defining a strategy to balance private and public enterprise investments in
the sector.  The work program was discussed during negotiations; itu final
version would be presented to the Bank by December 31, 1985 (Section 3.06(a)
of draft Guarantee Agreement). The other institution-building segment of the
proposed loan concerns several proposed improvements to YPF's administrative
and financial management referred to in para. 39. These encompass: (a)
review of YPF's organization and management structure; (b) review of YPF's
accounting, budgeting, financial control and management information systems
and installation of improvements; (c) review of automated and centralized
control systems for field operations, including implementation of systems;
(d) review of YPF's investment planning and programming; (e) review of
selected technical and commercial operations (including exports
merchandising); and (f) training. Timetables for each area have been
established; consultants will be contracted prior to December 31, 1985
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       Costs and Financing.  The proposed US$180 million Bank loan would
finance 21 percent of the total cost of the project 'including contin-
gencies). The Bank, however, would not participate in financing the
expansion of the capacity of the Northern Pipeline or the related field
development, which IDB, YPF and "&s del Estado together with private
companies would handle. The proposed loan would finance 100 percent of the
estimated foreign exchange costs of the remaining project components over the
period 1985-89. Because of YPF's financial circumstances, as well as
Argentina's arrangements with its commercial creditors for servicing its
external payments, YPF is not currently in a position to arrange external
commercial financing for the project. Therefore, the proposed loan includes
US$18.9 million to finance interest due on the Bank loan during the
construction period; this will help to reduce the heavy financial pressures
on YPF. Peso funds required to finance the balance of project costs are
expected to be generated from ongoing YPF operations. The cost estimates
(calculated in December 1984 prices) include a physical contingency of 10
percent, and price escalations of 5 percent for the remainder of 1985, 7.5
percent for 1986 and 8 percent for 1987-89.
YPF's Finances
62.       YPF's financial situation has been very seriously affected by
Argentina's persistently high rates of inflation and the large differential
between rates of domestic and international inflation and the value of the
Argentine peso relative to the US dollar. The worst damage has been done by
foreign exchange losses resulting from the fact that much of YPF's debt was
being contracted in dollars, whereas the company's assets (and earnings) were
in pesos. Adjustments to YPF's capital account necessary to reconcile the
differential impact of monetary and inflation adjustments upon asset and



- 18 -
liability accounts net of revaluations of assets--particularly during
1981-83--have been very large, making it difficult to undertake a meaningful
financial analysis of the company's operations.  Based on these adjustments,
YPF sustained significant losses during 1984, as well as 1981 and 1982.
63.       In order to reestablish YPF's earning power and financial
integrity, it will be necessary to increase the company's income by raising
net prices after fuel excise taxes and other taxes and also to recapitalize
the company. There have already been significant adjustments in retail
petroleum product prices: gasoline and fuel prices, for example, have doubled
in dollar terms since end-1982, and diesel prices have risen by 60 percent.
Taxes have also been raised, however, and net of tax revenues remain
insufficient to meet YPF's cash needs. In addition to the commitments
regarding increased prices of middle and hsavy distillates (para. 41),
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the revenues YPF receives
(net of taxes and royalties) and after financial costs are adequate to earn
YPF at least a 6 percent rate of return on revalued net fixed assets (Section
4.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Recapitalization would be achieved
through the Government's debt support measures (ref. para. 38). Through
legislation passed in November 1983, the Goverament made a formal commitment
to meet much of YPF's payment obligations on foreign debt. This commitment
is equivalent to an equity contribution. A Presidential Decree to implement
this commitment has been signed by the Ninister of Public Works. The
President's signature constitute a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Section 7.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The contribution by the
Government, together with the price increases and measures committed for the
future, will simultaneously increase YPF's net worth and reduce the burden of
debt service payments on the company's cash flow.
64.       Given the aforementioned measures, financial projections prepared
by the Bank indicate that YPF would be able to move progressively towards
compliance with its commitments under the Refinery Loan covenants. The
projections show that YPF would be able to meet the covenanted minimum debt
service 1.4:1 ratio from 1985 on. The covenanted quick ratio of 0.6:1 would
also be met from 1985. The 60:40 debt:equity ratio, the most difficult
criterion in view of YPF's present negative net worth, would be met by 1989.
During negotiations, the Government and YPF representatives agreed to commit
YPF to these financial targets. Further, YPF would make no cash distribution
which would reduce the quick ratio below 0.8:1 (Section 5.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
65.       Loan Administration.  YPF would administer the project (except for
the technical assistance to the Energy Secretariat) with the services of
consulting engineers for the Campo Duran liquid recovery plant, an
experienced CNG operator and consultants for the enhanced recovery
operations. Detailed justification of each enhanced recovery and gas
debottlenecking subproject proposed for Bank financing would be reviewed and
approved by the Bank prior to loan disbursement. For the energy planning
component, YPF would transfer to the Energy Secretariat the funds allocated
for this purpose; and financing for the individual studies agreed to as part
of the work plan for this component would be approved on a case-by-case
basis.



- 19 -
Procurement and D4sbursement
66.       The proposed loan would finance (a) equipment, spare parts and
materials to be procured for the liquid recovery plant and associated
facilities for reinjection at Campo Duran, subprojects for debottlenecking
and enhanced recovery, the two pipelines and CNG refilling stations; and (b)
consultant services for the YPF's financial management program, the enhanced
recovery pilot projects and for the Energy Secretariat planning component.
YPT plans to employ, prior to Board Presentation, process engineers who will
determine the detailed design of the liquid recovery plant. The contract for
this work will be awarded on the basis of procedures consistent with Bank
guidelines. It is recommended that retroactive financing be permitted for
this purpose, subject to an aggregate maximum of US$1 million. Goods and
services eligible for financing will be procured under ICB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (ref Annex IV). The liquid recovery plant will be
procured under a turnkey contract after prequalification, on the basis of
tender documents prepared by the process consultants referred to above, which
will be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. Construction of the
two pipelines will be subject to ICB. Bid packages for goods costing less
than US$500,000 or for goods available from only a limited number of
suppliers, such as equipment for the CNG component, will be procured under
limited international bidding, involving at least four qualified suppliers
from three different countries, pursuant to the Bank guidelines.    Goods
estimated to cost less than US$500,000, not exceeding in total US$10 million,
will be procured under local competitive bidding, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The loan is expected to be disbursed
within four years.
Project Benefits and Risks
67.       It is estimated that the execution of the Campo Duran component
will result in increased production of 165,000 tons/yr of LPG and 74,000
cubic meters/yr of natural gasoline; and will eliminate the flaring of 100
NMCFD of excess gas. The economic analysis indicated an ERR of 22 percent.
If, as planned, the ethane recovery unit included in the project is installed
(pending a more detailed market assessment), 270,000 tpy of ethane would also
be produced. If so, and without considering the benefits of field
development and the pipeline expansion, the ERR would be 30 percent. The
economic return on the two pipelines is estimated at 30 percent. The
economic return on the CNG component is estimated at 50 percent (over a
10-year period), reflecting the replacement of higher-value liquid fuels by
lower cost natural gas. A preliminary evaluation of several candidate gas
debottlenecking projects has produced ERRs exceeding 80 percent. Because of
its experimental nature, no economic return was estimated for the enhanced
recovery program; it has, however, been estimated that YPF may be able to
raise its average oil recovery rate from 17 percent to up to 30 percent while
still producing at costs less than import equivalents. Pilot projects would
be undertaken on a least-cost basis.
68.       The Campo Duran and CNG components of the project would generate
substantial foreign exchange savings estimated at some US$375 million, by
averting the cost of crude imports which, in their absence, would likely have
to compensate for any production shortfall. The project would also provide
imnortant unquantifiable technical and institutional benefits, helping YPF to



- 20 -
increase the efficiency of its operations and the Secretariat of Energy to
strengthen its policy and planning capability.
69.       The project involves minimal ecological disruptions.  The technical
risks of the project are moderate in view of YPF's established record in
successfully managing large scale exploration and production programs. The
adequacy of oil and gas reserves upon which the Northern Pipeline expansion
is based has been confirmed by independent consultants. There is a risk of
delay in the project because of difficulties in domeatic resource
mobilization and/or securing external financing for the Northern Pipeline.
However, the economic justification of the component would not be materially
affected even if there were a one-year delay in its construction. The CNG
technology is well known and the market estimates are considered
conservative. YPY's management would be assisted by an experienced foreign
firm and the project would be implemented with frequent reviews. Analysis of
the prospective financial return to station operators indicates that there is
an adequate margin both for sufficient returns to distributors and for
appropriate revenue-raising taxes required by the Government.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Yacimientos
Petroliferos Fiscales, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Argentine
Republic and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
proposed loan are listed in Section II of Annex III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachm Ats
June 3, 1985
Washington, D. C.



-21-                                           ANNME I
Page 1 of 5
IITNA                  - SOCIAL INDICATRM  ATA SHT
LACNIENA                             RZFREN   GROUPS (JEIGWMD AVUAIS) /a
N9UT                (HOST 3tC10    MSTIA) h
CUZIT         KllDDLt UICIII          KIDOUlolICOI
19i6.!    1970kLb-    mw.i/Txb      LAT. ASICA A cAR             oUmip
mu mama  s.  . MR)
TOTAL                              2766.9      2766.9      2166.9
AGRICULTURAL                       1740.2      1777.0      1t18.0
Mrw    cwin  tsu)                      700.0      1230.0      2520.0           2105.6                    Z345.3
-  aw . Mnac arnn
(KILOGRAS OF OIL EQUIVAL.tirr      506.0       1211.0      1t45.0            995.5                   1122.5
mOUAnom aD VITL 5STSICS
POPULATION.NID-YRAR (TUASADS)   20C16.0    22962.0        28432.0
UltNU POPULATION (t o0 TOTAL)       73.6        78.4         83.3             66.5                     46.5
POPULATION POECTIONS
POPULATION IN YA  2000 (KILL)                              36.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (HELL)                               53.7
POPULATION IOENTtI                                          1.5
POPUIATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ml.                         7.5         6.7        10.2             33.7                     S2.9
PER SQ. It. ACRI. LAND            11.8       l3.5         15.8             92.6                    155.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (I)
0-14 YRS                          30.1        29.1        27.9             39.9                      31.6
15-64 YRS                         b3.7        63.7         63.7             56.0                     61.1
b5 AND ABOVE                        5.5         7.2         5.9             '.1                       7.1
POPULATION GRWITH lATE il)
TOTAL                               l.o         1.5         1.4              2.4                      1.6
1U11A                               3.0        2.1          1.9              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE 31113 RATE (PER IIOUS)         23.u        22.9        2S.0             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEAT3 RATE (PER TOUS1)          8.7        9.4          9.0              5.1 -                   5.
GROSS REPOODUCTIO  RATE               1.5         1.5         1.3              2.0                      1.6
FAMILY r.-'NtC
ACCEPTOS*. AIUUtU     l 'M ).S)
USERS (Z OP MARRIED NWCiI.          ..          ..           ..             4.3
FOODii AMI NUrMa
INDEX OF FWD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       96.0        101.0       122.0            114.3                    114.5
PEER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREMENTS)      126.0       L29.0       125.0            110.6                    128.6
PROTEINS (CRtAS PER DAY)          107.0      106-0        107.0             67.3                     89.7
OF VHt1CR MEDIAL AND PULSE       66.0        68.0        69.0 /c          34.1                     34.5
OCILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           5.0         4.0         2.2              5.7                      5.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIEN (EARS)          65.1       66.6         *9-.             *4.7                     67.4
IXFANT !WET. RAZE (PER DOUS;        6O.6        53.9         63.6             60.6                     54
ACCESS TO SAFE 114WATEt C2P)
TC-AL                              47.3        56.0        73.0             65.4
UIRSAN                             5B.9       09.0           ..             78.1
RISAL                              9.o         12.0          ..             46_2
ACSS TO EFlETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              62.0        85.0        77.0      5 : .9
UAb                                  ..       87.0           ..             67.0
RA                                   ..       79.0           ..             245
POPULATION PER PIIYSICIAN          7J0.C       5ZO.0        430.0 Ic        1917.7-                  1065.8
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON             7$0.0  d    590.0          ..            815.8                    764.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BES
TOTAL                            1to00        ISO O                        367-2                     326.3
n334                              190.0 /d   200.0           ..            411.5                    201.5
RURAL                            "690.0 Id    OLO.O          *-           2636.3
ADIXSSIOIS PER NOSPITAL BED            2. ..                   ..              7.3                     20.0
WCleIINZ
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOOSE) L.
TOTAL                               3          3.3           ..               ..
URIN                                3.3         ..           ..               -
RUR2AL                              - 3
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOSIIROIr
TOTAL                               i.          ;. -         ..               ..
RURAL-'-
ACCESS TO ELECT. t: OF DWELLINCS,
rOL%                              69.2       76.0         87.0
I:RI                              B4.:.
RURAL                             1a.-          .            .



ANNEX I
-22-                                                Page 2 of 5
AU;SNTIIA              - SOCIAL IDIC        DATA    T
AURGlUINA                            LZ1RRLJCR 0F00l a   (WRlSlTE  AYRAGER) f
MOST                (HOS U       NNTCED   SSTZAU l) /b
LISOLt 1370t     RECR           MIDDLE INacUS            ILCCW
LOGOLb.   197d-b  0ESIDIATEb    LAT. A512A4A CAR                 1U501F
ADJUUTZ ZUIOXLUUII RAtIOS
PimnrtS  TOTAL                     9B.0      .106.0        119.0           105.4                     101.1
MAUL                    36.0       106.0        120.0            106.3                    1053.5
136.                    39.0       107.0        119.0            104.5                     36.7
suCONDAI, TOTL                     23.0        45.0        59.0             43.2                      59.1
mu                      23.0        42.0         54.0             42.3                     65.9
73*.                    24.0        44.0         63.0            44.5                      50.6
VOCATIONIL (S O  SZCONMAY)           30.3        55.4         61.3            33.6                      21.6
lUflL'-UEACRER AImO
YiRA                               22.0        19.0        20.0             30.1                      23.1
SECOIIDAL                           7.0         7.0                         16.8                      20.5
ADLT LITERACY  ATZ (1)               91.'        92.6         93.0 If         79.5                      75.6
commmg
PASSAa CuRS/ToUSaAN POP              23.0        60.1          ..             46.0                      5S.7
ADIO REMITERS/TIOCSAND POP          L69.8       375.6       375.7 If         225.6                     164.9
TV REmEIERS/THOUSAJD POP             21.8       146.1       L14.2            101.2                     123.8
5SPA51611  (-DALMY GIENUAL
ZTrEZZSTf) OUZULTION
PER THOUSAND POPULATOM            154.5       177.2         94.2 If         63.5                      96.3
CINLEq 'NMAL AXTEDAICE/CAPIA          7.0         2.2          2. ;W           2.5                       2.9
TOTAL LABO FORC  CTICUS)           6L36.0     9299.0      11017.0
IDOL! (PERCENT)                     - &        24.7        26.7             23.2                      34.5
AGRICULTRZ (PERCENT)               20.0        16.4         13.1            31.5                      40.7
IN1SRtY (PE1CENT)                  35.9        32.1        25.0             Z3.9                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENIT)
TOT                                39.5        38.8         38.7            32.2                      42.9
MALE                               61.0        58.1         57.1            49.3                      54.7
mEKAL                              17.2        19.3         20.6            15.2                      31.0
ECOOMIC ECPSCNCr RATIO                0.9         0.9          0.3             1.4                       0.9
Oim   IS!RIRUTZUU
PERCM OF ruIVATE INCME
REEVD NY
UiGES  5S OF BOlSELUS              Z7.5
hiSS? 21m or  BOUSUOLS             50.9        50.3          ..               .. 
LOWEST 20S OF B      tOSZUOLDS      6.9         4.4
LOVEST 40S OF  WUSELDS             16.6        14.1          ..               ..
nozuzr ZAS  eaorn
E5n ant  o  sa
LEVEL 0158 PER CAPITA)
umaS                                 ..          ..          ..            Z6B_-2.
RURA  -  -I-  -  .164.0
z rIXD XU7           OERnU
LEM  (US5 E  CAPITA)
URInE                                ..         ..        653.0 A          522.9
SAL                                  ..         ..        577.0 1g         372.4
anA MrO. BLs  ABLsE
POVERTY SECtS LVE. (-I)
OT AEILABLE
N 0 T E 5
La  Mm grap emragm  far nub IMitAcor are papaUtim-aiubaed arithtic nun. Covargi at coutrie _ng the
-inators dpeds on anablty of data ad La not  leam.
/b lnias. abanwLse mcad  bas for 1960 -afar to any year betas. 1959 an  1961; -aza for 197r between 1969 ane
1971; ad data far -eac lacmut Eactuacc  between 1960 ad 1982.
ic  1977; /d W2; /a 1979; 1f 1978; jL 1975.
JUNE. 1;98



- 23 -                                                                                     ANNEX I.
Page 3 of 5
015    llbi  *ftdecal  15    -ea   istel, 1-.5   bIt -b  sgleq`&tslfLL - i -ibefl 4.'gIbeS. Snb Is eae 51 AIsc -t   d   -   be ltetteeleetg
ttattttk   be-.'      III 5. d sscsleqilal iwtitltlee m addati"   fipd  diftIlele   laa                  i."ddA  ellesstq1.  sAt do... lb  isle a. -askemdgad.  -asEel 5
dd-etk tlIlI  fla.                   lb    dfl. -   eeebelfl   -.t.bSI  a3. &illbtcs ballbbed  ddeIqSs.
Its ,s*ebe  geee   Ill 'b                  A515 bts   C0 ""t ""5"' fll    -  Ill I "I'blt9teeei """                              5551  st-          Ia  shit- k  tIdasty  stee it lbc
et.ee . l  A -1i-Ie   ' P idat             its .aiI    lbd tsttletteta -As1eA-   AtIlbeul    -lI    s.0  lItts   .5              a     u    a ailI,   ci st  adddl,Ie   sI
q..  -  date tC  *19t 555t*t.  utte  IS elIte  et tt sl   tO  ISkat   isPelit -  I   talleblsbs  st be.  a  I  -l , stee.  ettLI          s     n-,       .
.eenla  s.sestelue.at          4-a ft sea.      qp. .k*    fleeI&  din.let emd Laly        "vt  II   beslt   te    -a SLASWA La ada LilIs d st, .                             0    -
settee.  set  ee.         , t'C  l     ttW   ALINIleS  alett   550.   Q.,=eital                    Ias     Ii1t-T.a ae na Las    1- eSIel  leve.    '
sues let.                                                          kuhSA..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ha.fl-t&eeAdd6_   dla  Ise   ddidm'stI.-I.tliSt
ASetel z .r- k5s15             tt.c    tt.5l                i     r ataItdsel-ele   yileavel rsettles a.awlALL. salsd set  .-t                                                    I...
"10Ate  sits dtt*.d`Id                                                                                -dLtietm.      SiJlu        tts"I      etk'te Id  Idd-l1  bp4aeb.9 (Cd.l
I-m IM     C4 a...    sas   ets               e e1st            e.t                                It.I  05..   paessa1 peebs   ete  ad A4.
u..ltU     at lest.                                                                           It -  tale.  `aAA`ilte    qttet "lb it g lIttlIid plb"sIplI AAmiSel
t  - "-Intt                IA S   CD utt    mat f t "ee   tlItIAL Idt " . ttelk-                         alo   elIeet                 t      sel   I           stt  1b1eam
ttlatl bawls    t   55.   stla    est   e    141.el.eete                                                             at..abt.    T.M laid ela   tea"lebttbs stiLAfeete  .0
- t  .1sa AL sdeel. m.o. - sat
itfieses  etlulIl'  eq   rta   ea -    - l tIe.  ddip5les Ilt, 55 itt.                          55  IkitIa. Addtl. .I kdaitl  I  lIes  me , - W b e                   -11kdialle     I
4st   s=bls. tee, sItuCS            15 e. dlW    A5  fa i                                                                N. s A ntlSl  crestsd.
flSIEfl2EIUS                                                                                   SSIS.atMUSS.tSIM- =II-l. llt tlb5 a-l
A   Ad5ty .Iii      951a         ted'les'a lttl  .as ttIstl .et.W   Ieltll                                                           letAdtis.siete. 
ilae   temletn  tleeat-   its   uttelg   il                lY   -                     tne .e l....t.Is                     Ide   tLbIbes   ~     L~.a . n
'tit   te   tl.ales   tt  et,tIdltat   ulbItsl-t.                                             C    S -ltt  bg  Ic- lit    Od"tLLtc .   mll.  uttt   - teAddpIt,.
tleiaif leatt.   tchtIeIl  I  su   cisc   a   55 IkIusa:USMI
ItelsItI. entA.ite  - 5.  It sI6_  .-  aAdestti                                                       ft.ets  I. t        It tlr        t.  dla  sees.dd    Idale  A.  la-s
9-ti ta c  ~bstid  -. Ctaut t           Ad. SIt    5- -telil  lesI-lelsl.Iil itttItlalta    aLI tsttt-it  uf1spt1
tate    lllsselItuetal  -setdeataleel  lut                             tlittf   tee.-ettttt.tlstt; tss'.l.el1.. Mili=t=sVI-I
ttt..tfisutei-Il  .1.1.  esllts. 9kbltb tll  I Iabbesal  15  te.ss   letIlitees  l.r-                              sI. flay  Stte    1s
-   uti  ulu    al .   9    btesle  I   taeael.        il                   tbtta   51  aatel'S.lIstitsIaay.                                mWpsau
etlI   tleI  1I~  ltIlesl,   blit  le  II             sltii-  15.If  tee IttIed`   It    el,.tee                                     -b  s    lebl .tl  e
bteb   It  b ltjelle 'bltItlIttte   f ge  .s*ii.- Is9..                              tec  beS-ssiat  Iele..4is                                      k1tts
A.         s,..    el    Clclitstgt.es.    el                                                       eclatcla- et    a    ene   eelIstllIl.
~~gtta   aett - 1  seta~. t.  geetlis-  tese  e teellse                      te.s d elaas    teat           11,0 Wteel. sI Ilek     -tttS ,,iest .e e  PsI.
.5  mu  .tllssi*ieeLt*fllt  5   ble lcfla       t  det                      t.tlll_add    ilst_       lftt.I  p.sttss.  efa
tlt..ll It. StIn                                                                              trlat  a  etS-,  leI.    l-a It A                t.c    Met.    It  .915        I
919 5. a.- 'Is-ett eea.eta ttt su.ett sllete. 11.  battIe                          ttttSs15  Iteste.
.ttttl.   55   .tl,eiHee  lt..elLl  llte. rt  ttt.IJd-Ulte   es -.-l. I.,t   c  ell 
et.  .-.  ste  at  its .e.t. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ IA  .                                          .Id          A  It
IIeas,  a    e1t'  ml  tw, *al  e  tse~   I   Ita                                    ..s     9  t.  ellkaeqsetelAl.    Pcpaflt l,   teeptId                   e  be.,K s
,eeltiA..  Ii  .d 1   itClt                                                                            i-sa.    Al  e    I .- u-L             . - uele, A-- tts.  Atdeu   a4-
ttttllu   rbslee  reel    gle  -t l   ruuile'  C  teel e-                                 Atget  nI.,It s.
ea  iitele   lt  51ee.lee.'.        slte                                                Iel  1.t.teta  . et  eeele   -tI Ase  e  tt.vt.Ia'tl
e.d.t 5e maeeit  tt. Ietedl - cIes - eas  19sf I tettt  l etkt             badtteltit Stutt-    elsIet.. -  eeta.   tI  tI.iclte.   sti-b
eticll   9  ult.lit',att~5.J                                                          tlsett  rtis-Added                     e   I   av          rcltal .Att
--tea:mtt  .q, aa  iue I                                             ...I.                   ftatat                   doltve   s.  tset. .a          allese ta.1   LI  154 ft'.t
A9 seastel.,..lieIF                 tget   lI- Ie             tt-t19eutls    ltjleseine                                                stint.I     lIt tAddl4"..
last tIelsus - ttettn.   eetl *t.ti.9     a-telC.t.9 At.e                                tb   lttlt   slt   t..       tst  ee   Ie     as
tlesia.                                                                                        bleed. .L   t-t   -AA-   Il.  11 s   St.-19m .k - .f .1 Mi   fl e d tI dAA-tIt
el cell-etts*e  5  as*tItu lteuc-1  ttdA   Seut                                                                    t".           Id_   III   I   1Il                 A
Icelad-    .tefefIn-e . a- s-rt,  -In  l                   zel5   it.                                 fee  t        laer        e     eL           m ett.-.01.e.m- e
Ice to ct.! It.                                                                                     .eee._sIIIet  se_, 59155       sit? R Mc 
Imlk uttit  ttdteieee9  .sle'Ifl.less 5  -lbS.ii  t.   els!rna..nzr5L -tea. llertete  -ttltled 5'iett,lkt  et.
eerIest  Calta  itatett is1f. alt..*.  getl-tt~  lull,  sues-a 'SI   at.. dtl c                             d    9t-W           dbd
a   .0  mu e..e  ettsh;.a. e    sesa i. lttflttetle    keltt  is te.siaa-ga ate teae Iett.tileedfte-
a   A ttscei -d:IA         - epseAttes  AN LA ..  wbest                                  11ei1e !                         etee    sIfI    et.i    ltae.le
elf Is IIas teIfI  ease-tit   ttta   ,es  alteI           e   st..                                                           Iel-       '~
ei  a   II  tftkit..  iIcasI..- I.0   ll-le          - eta  NeOst
te ,efe.e.eIfse.st  els  eldas-  leee   aet       ttesfIJi   t-itf.t  I.e    15*Idtlta,Ise                                                                t-ftttk 
as It-fusdtle 1 - tlee    9tttaiaIet.a                                                           '.lt
..-ne    I.t  "da.l Atiitetli   ttitS                    Zt  Ia  t  eteId
ieietu'tie  .t  5thilletaseket b           Ralasd pieicu      Adia.
eesea ittatte   es  qIIt AseL            .a  tt.t        SIs telsic .i ta s aacaet.aa                                                           tsele ttat. I
.9 i al-  i..Lst A-Cs ~ I                  kat.istl1   1   ttt.e1b   sleseatllt5                                                                      t.



-24-                                       MMr
hIuC ICU4T ETA
SUlUL          ho.hmalkmthlaot.                                            l hPecmIm d t
lataoril kct.te
30             I190/4 171 111111113   341   91791                      111111    14U     19O
1IIIS*  of 19113 U0 3                      IPunmotaql                                      I
mrn   bmtr c Prauct                         7014               3.17     2.      -1.1e     2.11     4.12            9.12   100.3l  33.0
Torn of Trade Effect                            0                                                                   Lb       0.0      0.5E
mroe a bmtic  ain                            1074              4.       1.10   -3.39      1.74     4.2             1013.00   I00.U0   300.0
Imports Impurto dls  mS  NSF                 b592              1.14    12.41  -310.10     1.11     5.2             15.4!    9.32      9.12
6ipwts of h Ia and Vml                       93                0.,   24.09       4.34    6.14      4.N              3L3.    11.41    14.95
purt. hCinted by T4rm of Trait               93                3.16   II3.      -5.03     3.29     5.45             33.94    13.41    34.42
Henrse Gup                                  -2946
Cusotin                                     5769               t.5l     1.47   -3.44      0.93     3.5            0*.93    33.55    02.52
lavnt.ut                                    l006               2.09     4. 10   -13.02    1.79    7.02             11.61    14.2     12.11
botic Saving                                13452              2.47     2.74     2.41    6.31       6.9             17.07    20.0    17.48
latouol Savings                              7660              3.04     .11    -6.33    3.74    12.14               12.2    20.03     9.52
NEC2IYE TIWE                                 1911     32       193      194      39                                  lb Fer. tt d  To)
1N1ll3u  lF Curret Wmlbb s1
Elmwts [e a.1.1                              9430    5337      455      4718   S520                                33.0    20.4   200.0
Captal  oodES                              203 n5      0      70       120      09                                21.4    17.1    17.2
Interdiate hod.                            4R1I   M3         304      3280       9                                5.1    IL2        60LI
Petrulm  Prduts.l263                                 672      453      471      so                                 30.1    3.        9.6
fwgaptim  1O                               1IU2      3        29       2n0      240                               17.3      4.6      4.6
Ei.-ort  11.0..                              9143    7624    7036       un       944                              I20.6     3 II.LO    13.0
Primary Pruimts m655    463                                  55       674    679                                  66.2    73.       69.0
llamctored Soft                            31       29       205      265      MM                                 33.1    26.2      31.0
Ouc)udiat Trade Indicn                               tlbrwa  3970 * I300
Exprt Price lIn                           329.4   270.0   241.9   251.0   260.4
lpwt Price  aden                           99.3   292.2   213.4   20.1    200.4
hem  of Trade  Esdn                        b.7    92.4         S      109.4    I0.3
V4IE AI I3   SEEM                         6t lls d  US S at II  3Prtcc   I ErAeg_l                                        Ih I dof UW
kricaltere                                   S7A5    9177    30754    1322    31309                                 32.0    15.2        5.5
Iuastry                                     2220     237135   2523      D       251113                              35.3    3L9       3L1
ervices                                     32247   312017   3459    35170   36392                                  531.9    41.9     4.4
TtOU                                        71265    4779    70749   7247    7359                                  13.0   1430.0   lOa.0
PULIC F132                               (blioul s of Argentme Pneol                                                 ite Permnt f BP)
Itmilidated Pelic Siftar)
arrelt b ipts                               19013    n1647   23429                                                  34.0     3.2
Carrent EipndLtern                          22119    614K   2311i0                                                  41.0    39.9
Siege                                       -3116   -13341  -490                                                    -7.1    -6.
Inmtmte                                      4746    112t7   61312                                                   1.7      L7
Shrplsteficite                              -05C2  -25101  -102112                                                 -35.7   -15.4
W, CNIIT AG  EWIES                        (lillian ad as bJtstadiq EM Period)
Amey and bus  Hoy                            136.0    30.3   19.6
Credit to Hllic Sect.'                       3.0    34.0   212.3
Credit to Private Sect.r                     22.2    60.9   290.
HNm    beast ton  as
l ef WP                               21.20    25.14   27.47
olaue Price.lndow
(3970 * 1002                              4369    15si3   71954   416531
bril pecetag   changes in:
elmalne Price lofkt                         1O.9   257.3    30.9    53.4
hat Creit te  MitC SKttr                    205.7   222    510.1
Ifak Grdit to Private Sectcr                167.5   210.4   32L2I
UD FUEl 90 PICTIV1I                        2903     (Il       Vaula Add  hr brt4r
__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _    (-100b0    pum me)
A4riuttw                                    t1194     17.1     907
ink5tr3 2552    365                                            9153
l245    4L64    101ow
towabt}                                     -    1|1. SOI



ANNX I
-25 -                                  Page5 caf 5
Estimate      Projected
1978     197      1990     1932     1932    I1U        1904     3935     3936
DALECE OF PAtBIETS
Exports lintI. IIFS                          7714     9603    10763    1150      955       9537    10519    11644    12314
Imports tincl. IFS)                        -524      -253   -14024   -12537      7115   -ffY       -677    -73K      -139
Rmosrce Balace                               2466      348    -325      -992      2330     29        32      426      4675
Net Factor Service Incom                     -I       -920   -1531    -3700    -4719    -540S    -595   -f184    -6793
llt Cmrret Tranfers                            43       35       23      -22        32       16        9       13        0
Blance m  Current Accoit                     i33      -537    -4767    -4714   -2357    -2446   -2154   -2232    -2116
Direct Invstment                              274      265      7K       927      257      103       224      400      200
Net Public  LT Derrcvimn                     -332      123     2511     7098     512Z      2204     1730     1233     1110
Net Private ILT Borrouing                    1239     1825      3r9    3469       2219      653      B5      239      1116
Use of Inf Rnwrces                                                                                   235      940        0
Short Term Capital Transactioms             -1215     1635    -1730    -B093    -5446    -1270         0        0       5s
Capital Transactins n.e.i.                    I9       431     -437    -4S4       -506     -190    -511    -2601         3
Change in Rsrves I- * increase)             -1913    -4442     2796     3307       651     -244     -352     -139     -360
lWIAT AD LOI M 17NTHIIETS
Public ILT Loans                             2419     3362     2037     3703      012
18R0                                        165      306       27      369      IN0
Other Nhltilateral                         231       320       44      321      1i
Bilateral                                   91        52      115        9       42
Suppliers                                   372      5B5      216     1637       113
Firnncial Institations                     1560     2313     2495     1363      49
EBT tll DEBT SEvICE
leds and Long-Term Debt *                    9172    1502?    21300    23556    35976    4300    46005
Public Debt outstading and Disbrsed          5033     6743     35r7    10177    1052    31392    33176
Interest o Public Debt                     503       569      041     1063     1272     34        4251
Repaymnts -  Public Debt                   1613     S35      1146     IM3      1070      1100     1100
Toal Public Debt Services                 2116      1463     1`17     2156     2342     4994      5351
Private Debt outstanding and Disbursed       4139     9074    12703    1337     25414    12206    12079
Interest on Privat Debt                    450      50      1360     1540     3447     1514      264
Repaymts on Private Debt                   1200     00 0     1700     1500      200      300       500
Total Private Debt Services                1550     2050     3060     3040     3647      1314     2144
Total Debt Service                           3ui    3513       5047    5196      59S9      650      7495
E N IN EXPORT EUIDSS (l)
Total Debt Service                           47.5     36.6     46.9     45.0    6L2        71.4     71.3
Public Debt Srvice                           27.4     1512     19.5     10.7     24.6     52.4      50.9
Private Debt Service                         20.1     21.4     23.4     26.3      3.       19.0     20.4
AVERE TEENS E    PUlltIC DEBT
Interest as 2 Prior Year BDM                 20.0      9.4      9.9     10.4     12.0    12.4       122.
Aortization as 2 Prior Year 3010             320     13.3      13.3     10.7      10 .      3.5      3.3
EXTERNAL DEBT BY SREUITR tdisursed oly)
Total N * LT Public kbt                                                                      133*
Other flaltilateral                                                                           98
-                         Bilatca!l53
Suppliers                                                                                   2no
Financial lrkets                                                                            27725
leD EIPOSiRE                              kcember 31, 193
IBR'D Dbt OD3
IBID Debt as I of Public D21D                          1.6
IRD Debt Service                                       74
IBRD Dtt Service as I of Debt Services                121
5 Beginning of period; frk 192 _ards
includes reschedling and mationlizatie
of short tere debt
larch 11, 1995



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BARK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of Narch 31, 1985)
Amount less      Undis-
Loan No. Year    Borrower            Purpooe       Cancellations    bursed
(USs million)
Fully disbursed loans                                   596.0
1384      1977    Argentina          Highways           104.7         26.5
1463      1978    Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo     Credit            100.0           1.4
1521      1978    Argentina          Grain Storage       87.0         70.7
1677      1979    Perrocarriles      Railways
Argentinos S.A.                      96.0         41.4
1761      1979    Argentina          Yacyreta Power    210.0         182.9
1880      1980    Yacimientos
Petroliferos     Oil and Gas
Fiscales          Engineering        27.0          2.3
1905      1980    Argentina          Vocational
Training         58.0          57.5
S-020     1980    Argentina          Coal Exploration   10.0           4.6
2(31      1981    Banco Nacional    Oil and Gas
de Desarrollo      Credit           100.0         80.0
2032      1981    Yacimientos        Refinery
Petroliferos       Conversion
Fiscales                            200.0         121.8
2063      1981    Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo      Credit II        100.0        100.0
2296      1983    Argentina          Highway            100.0         88.5
Total                                      1,788.7
Of which has been repaid                     419.3
1,369.4
Amount sold                12.8
Of which has been repaid  12.8            -_ _
Total now held by Bank                     1,369.4
Total undisbursed                                          777.6



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor                   Type of Business  Loans  Equity  Total
1960    Acindar Industria            Steel Products       3.7     -       3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.   Pulp and Paper        3.0     -       3.0
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.
1961    Fabrica Argentina de        Automotive            1.5     -       1.5
1962    PASA, Petroquimica          Petrochemicals        3.0     -       3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.    Pulp and Paper       12.5     -      12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.       Steel Products       17.0      -     17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and
Publishing           5.0    2.0      7.0
1971/
1973   Calera Avellaneda, S.A.     Cement                5.5      -      5.5
1977/
1984   Alpargatas S.A.I.C.         Textiles & Fibres   14.5    2.0    16.5
1977    Soyex S.A.                  Soybean Processing
Plant               25.0      -     25.0
1978/
1985   Massuh, S.A.                Pulp and Paper       13.5    2.0    15.5
1978/   Juan Minetti, S.A.          Cement and
81/82                               Construction
materials           74.0     -      74.0
1978/   Ipako-Industrias             Chemicals and
79/82  Petroquimicas                Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A                                   20.0     -      20.0
1979/   Alpesca S.A.                Fisheries             5.2    1.6      6.8
1983/84
1984    Petroquimica Cuyo SAIC      Chemicals and
Petrochemicals      21.0    4.0    25.0
Total Gross Commitments                                 224.4   11.6   236.0
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                            118.9    2.0   120.90
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               105.5    9.6   115.1
Total Undisbursed                                32.8    8.0    40.8



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of April 9, 1985)
Ln. No. S020     Coal Exploration ProJect: US$10.0 million loan of Bay 13? 1981'
Effective Date: April 7, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 19
Procurement of all equipment is completed and all project-financed
consultants are now in Argentina. Drilling operations are underway.
Ln. No. 1384     Fourth Highway Project:  US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: Deqcsnbor 13, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1985
The civil works component is about 80% completed. However, ten contracts
were rescinded because of financial difficulties of the contractors. These works
have mostly been retenderod but will require until early 1986 to be completed. The
Bank agreed to finance under the loan emergency works caused by the unprecedented
1983 floods, and most contracts are underway. The loan was extended through
end-1985.
Ln. No. 1521     Grain Storage Project: US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978;
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1986
The amended loan is now effective, a Special Account has been opened and
tenders have been evaluated for procurement of specialized railcars. Contracts for
Government grain silo construction are expected to be let in September 1985 after
eomoletion of detailed design work. For the nreparation of the proposed Bahia
Blanca Port project, the first phase study was reviewed in November 1984 and the
second phase study was expected to be completed in March 1985. The Banco de la
Nacion has received an initial application under the line of credit for the private
sector, covering investments in grain storage facilities and equipment, and expects
others shortly. The new Project Committee and Implementation Unit are operating
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1677     Second Railway Project: US$96.0 million loan of November 8, 1979;
Effective Date: May 6, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The loan was closed on December 31. i98g4 because of delay in receipt of
bid evaluations from the Argentine Railwayis and lack of progress in the uneconomic
lines studies. Recent trends show further deterioration of financial performance
with operating deficit of over US$1 billion in 1984. Only about US$75 million in
loan funds were committed by the closing date.
Ln. No. 1761     Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project: US$210.0 million loan of November
6, 1979; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Construction began on a limited scale at the end of 1983 after the
contract for the main civil works was signed in October 1983. The project is now
expected to be completed in 1994-1995 although further delay is possible because of
financial constraints. There is a lack of definition, up to the moment, by the new
authorities of a power sector tariff policy.  This impedes the availability of
local funds to finance this (and other hydroelectric) projects. The investment in



2 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
1984 was less than originally planned. A mission is scheduled in June 19B5 to
review the power sector's finances, the implications for Yacyreta and the
Government's p-'icy regarding Yacyreta.
Ln. No. 1880     Oil and Gas Engineering Project: US$27.0 million loan of October
3, 1980; Effective Date: December 2, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The auditing of reserves and seismic surveys are now finished; the
contractor has submitted the draft final report of the gas optimization study. The
Bank recently agreed to extend the Closing Date to the end of 1985 in order to
permit YPF to obtain audits of hydrocarbon reserves in selected basins, which are
expected to lead to new acreage offers to private firms.
Ln. No. 1905     Vocational Training and Technical Education Project: US$58.0
million loan of October 2, 1981; Effective Date:  February 22,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The lack of adequate counterpart financing which originally caused delays
no longer impede project exerution. However, progress in procuring equipment and
technical assistance, as well as in launching civil works, has been extremely slow;
e.g. only one third of the scheduled work in building seven technical centers in
1983 is undervay. CONET has failed to establish an effective project unit and to
provide it adequate support for project objectives, as evidenced in extended delays
in obtaining Government decrees, deciding on contract awards, etc. Following the
Bank's expression of concern over these problems, the Government has agreed to
revised targets for project accomplishment and support.
Ln. No. 2031     Oil and Gas Credit Project: USS100.0 million loan of October 2,
1981: Effective Date: December 30, 1962; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
An approximately US$18 million project has been approved for the first
project sub-loan. Other investments have been delayed by private investors' poor
financial conditions and reluctance to assume the exchange risk. The Bank and
Government are now negotiating remedial measures.
Ln. No. 2032     Refinery Conversion Project:  US$200.0 million loan of October 2,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
The project has moved more satisfactorily after initial delays in
completing the basic engineering with the contractors who are supervising the
conversion works now advancing successfully. A significant amount of civil works
has been completed and YPF has placed orders for some 40 of the equipment for this
project.
Ln. No. 2063     Second Industrial Credit Project:  US$ 100.0 million loan of
December 1, 1981; Effective Date: Febrnzary 16, 1983;  Closing
Date: March 31, 1986
No commitments have been made. The investment climate remains weak. The
Bank is negotiating proposed loan changes which would allocate, for a limited time,



- 30 -
ANNIE II
Page 5 of 5
aome of the loan proceeda for working capital finanoing. The new authorities have
oontraoted the consultants to carry out the study on the development of
non-traditional export.
Loan No. 2296    Hihvay Sector Projeot; US$100 million loan of Kay 31, 19B3;
Effective Date: August 17, 1984; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The loan became effective in August 1984 because of delays in issuing an
exemption from the "Buy Argentina" Law. The loan is now proceeding smoothy and
three contracts, exceeding US$10 million each, have been approved by Bank.
However, the Government has failed to meet the target date for submission of an
action plan based on the road user charges study.



Annex III
-31 -                    Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
GAS UTILIZATION AID TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: 3 months1/
(b) Agency which prepared project: YPF
-              Cc)  First presentation to Bank:  October 1984
(d)  First mission to reviev project:  November 1984
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: November 1984
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 17, 1985
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: October 31, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Assurances would be sought during negotiations that:
(a)  as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the
Government will make satisfactory arrangements to ensure the
timely implementation of its support commitment to YPF (para.
63);
(b) YFF will meet the following financial covenants: debt:equity
ratio not to exceed 60:40 (by 1989); quick ratio not to fall
below 0-6:1 in any year in which new borrowings take place (and
no cash distribution would be made which would reduce the ratio
below 0.8:1); and debt-service ratio to be maintained above 1.4
(para. 64);
(c)  the Gov.rnment will increase the prices of diesel and fuel oil
relative to gasoline in order to improve the interfuel pricing
structure (para. 41);
(d) the Government will ensure that YPF's net revenues will permit
the company to earn net profits after taxes and financial costs
sufficient to yield at least a 6 percent rate of return on YPF's
net fixed revalued assets (para. 63);
1/   As noted in para. 50, the proposed project has replaced YPF's initial
proposal. The timetable only treats the revision.



- 32 -                    Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  the Government will set retail prices of CGG which assure
adequate incentives to convert motor vehicles for CNG use (para.
59);
(f)  YPF will transfer to the Government US$2.0 million of the
proceeds of the proposed loan for the energy planning component
(para. 60);
(g)  YPF will design a program for implementation of the CNG
conversion system; obtain technical assistance from consultants
experienced in the developmeut and use of CNG networks according
to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and will encourage
private sector ownership and operation of refilling stations
(para. 59);
(h)  YPF will annually review with the Bank its investment program for
the next three years (para. 37);
Ci)  as a condition of disbursement for the CNG component, the
Government will submit an initial implementation program (para.
59); and
(j)  as a condition of disbursement for the Campo Duran liquid
recovery facilities, the Government will complete arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for financing of the expansion of the
Northern Gas Pipeline (para. 53).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Surmary of Procurement Procedure
(US$ Million)
Procurement Methods         Consultant   Total
Project Element                   ICB    LIB    LCB   YfF 1/  Guidelines   Cost 2/
Expansion of the Northern Pipeline System:
Field Development:              YPF Procurement Procedures                   104.7
Pipeline Expansion              IDB Procurement Procedures                   185.8
Campo Duran Facilities:
Production Separators, Oil   16.7    2.0    2.0   16.6                     37.3
and Gas Gathering Lines:  ( 3.0)  (2.0)  (2.0)                           ( 7.0)
Plant and Reinjection        106.6                                         106.6
Compressors:               (55.2)                                       (55.2)
Gas Debottlenecking and           37.2    5.0    4.0   74.9                    121.1
Enhanced Oil Recovery (est):  (37.2)  (5.0)  (4.0)                           (46.2)
Lujan de Cuyo Pipelines:         162.8   10.0                                  172.8
(25.0)  (9.2)                                (34.2)
Compressed Natural Gas:                   9.0    2.0    5.1                     16.1
( 8.0)  (2.0)                         (10.0)
Technical Assistance:                                                11.3       11.3
(8.5)     (8.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank,
excluding interest during construction.
1/ YPF procurement procedures have been reviewed by the Bank and are acceptable
in terms of assuring economy and efficiency in project implementation.
2 2/ Includes contingencies.



RE.                                       J     -n
-32"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETA o12  30    - iw
%   r  {gii     >      U I S     n     n         le  &   X      WEST214              21           oEN;as
R.adc..a                        SQITH       UW3   E0            N     O 'S  A
IWL AM\ PA CAAA  LCA
E   7  H  C-. r 0    0    0*t      2      30 FTR          r'T4a n
^~~~~~A                      N_                                              YA:C Fx                     D    D         CS ^ 
.~ ,!I                                                                        --_   .' -:, NTR.LJSLNnS
iJiArgJ ,Rv    i                                                                   R
O                 r,
S~~~~'                  0        r          I                           AL                         ^ .d-ws- , .Oloo   hD0^
|  '- Ne -  *IWh . -; Sw                                                      i                                                               l            wiF
'''                 7                                                to       zooN      aoo 'J  9I' _=*_
eSse.u. tw  So-o 7swod OTIPE1 t
* ~    ~      j wtes-              77s    .nd o                  :                           _o                        FTR
S;  l N l A 1 ,r _ _ l~~~~ronolIJou.wdf.- oblnb_~~A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXADD                                                                         DZ    C__oj_  l& ._ 
_  __t   _st                                           b        aoo      zio       300       400      yio      /L  A  A        TATICD
iai tel   a                                                                                  5D 



