Document of
The World Barnk
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10 7 8(0
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICkTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2165-IN)
JUNE 26, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
R{eport No. lo0780-IN   Type:  (FC'R)
DE WEILLE,J X:31708 / T'102/ OEDID.
Fnergy Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At time of appraisal (1981):  1 US$ = 8.0 rupees
At time of completion (1988): 1 US$ - 140 rupees
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ERR   -     Economic Rate of Return
FRR   -     Financial Rate of Return
GOI   -     Government of India
LRMC  -     Long-run Marginal Cost of Electricity
OA    *     Ordinary Advanced Group of Villages
OB    -     Ordinary Backward Group of Villages
PB    -     Project Brief
PCR   D     Project Completion Report
PPAR  -     Project Performance Audit Report
RE    -     Rural Electrification
REC   -     Rural Electrification Corporation
Rs    -     Rupees
SAR   -     Staff Appraisal Report
SEB   -     State Electricity Board
SI    -     System Improvement Schemes
SPA   -     Special Project - Agricultural Pumps
SRI   -     Special Project - Rural Industry
FISCAL YEAPR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFCIL1 USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice of Directo,wGenwal
Opantiomn Evaatimn
June 26, 1992
MEMORENDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India Third Rural Electrification
Project (Loan 2165-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-
IN)" prepared by the South Asia Regional office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
2~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2165-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREPACE . . . . .              ..*...
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . .. ..... .. .. .. ...... .. .. ..   *  ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FRDOM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .  .*
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . .  . . . ..  1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Project Implementation and Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                .  8
Borrower Perforance  .                             . .  . . . .                          9
FART II:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 9   9 9......... 9   11
Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 12
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 13
C-onclusions .. ... .. . . . . . . 0            . .. . . . . .                         20
Annexes .*. .  . . . . . . . .  . . . .             .... .. .                     21 -37
PART III:  STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1.  Related Bank loans  ...................... 38
Table  2.  Project Timtable   . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. ...39
Table  3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . 40
Table  4.  Project Implementation Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Table  5.  Project Costs  . . . * * 9a * **   * . . . . . .  . .  . . *  .42
Table  6.  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Table  7.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 9 . . . . . . 44
Annez  1.  Economic Analysis  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . 45
Table  8.  Status of Covenats   . .   o . . .   *.   .   o . .     . .  .  . . *    *   .49
Table  9.  Staff Inputs . . . . 9 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Table 10. Major Project Missions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMELETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2165-IN} _
PREFACE
Thls is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Rural
Zlectrification Project in India, for which the Bank approved Loan 2165-IN, in
the amount of US$ 304.5 million on June 1, 1982. The loan closed on June 30,
1988, two years behind schedule. The Bank disbursed 97Z of the loan,
cancelled the undisbursed portion (us$ 9 mili_on) and made the final
disbursement in January 1989.
The Bank's Energy Operations Division of the India Country
Department of the South Asia Regional office prepared the Preface, Evaluation
Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR. The Borrower, the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC), prepared Part II.
The Bank based its portions of the PCR on the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), the Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements, supervision reports,
internal BDank documents and discussions with the Borrower held in Hay 1990.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2165-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.          Over the past two decades, the Government of India (GOI) has
promoted rural electrification (RE) to: (a) raise agricultural output by
harnessing groundwater through electrified pumpsets; and (b) enhance the
quality of life and employment opportunities in village areas. It created the
Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) in 1969 to administer COI expenditures
on RE, provide technical guidance to the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) in RE
project implementation, and make RE loans to SEBs. To date, the Bank has
supported three rural electrification projects (Part I, paras. 1 and 2).
Proiect Oblectives
2.          The Project under review, Rural Electrification III (RE III),
received a Bank loan (US$304.5 million) to finance, in part, 3,480 RE schemes
in 14 states, electrify 18,700 villages and energize 543,000 irrigation
pumpsets (Part I, paras. 10 and 14). The Project also specified financial
objectives for strengthening the participating SEBs. In order to participate
in RE lending under the Project, SEBs were supposed to satisfy stated
eligibility criteria. These criteria concerned attaining a self-financing for
investments at a ratio of 20Z by a specified date. Furthermore, States were
to gradually reduce subsidies for eligible SEBs to *reasonable proportions' of
sales revenues, through action programs acceptable to the Bank (Part I, para.
11).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.          The delays of SEBs in establishing their eligibility for REC
onlending of the loan proceeds slowed the disbursement of the loan. By the
initial loan closing date (6/86), disbursements amounted to only 59Z of the
total loan amount. A two-year extension of the closing date led to
disbursement of 97Z of the original loan amount and cancellation of the
remaining US$ 9 million. The physical achievements of the Project far
exceeded SAR estimates -- financing 9,322 RE schemes, electrifying 83,000
villages and energizing 1,960,000 irrigation pumpeets. The achievement of
higher targets for the same loan amount resulted from the extension of the
loan closing date and favorable developments in materials prices and exchange
rates, which increased the number of projects the Bank loan was able to
support (Part I, paras. 13 and 14). However, except for the introduction of
commercial accounting systems in the SEBs, the Project did not meet its major
financial objectives. GOI believed that the targets set for achieving self-
financing ratios were not attainable in practice. Although a new amendment to
the Electricity (Supply) Act required SUBs to generate a surplus of at least
3Z on their net fixed assets, there was no viable mechanism to enforce it.



- iii
SustainabilitZ
4.          Agricultural electricity tariffs have fallen in real terms during
the la8t decade and now cover less than 10X of the long-run marginal cost and
less   an 202 of the averege financial cost of supply of the state electriclty
boards. Partly as a result of this heavy subsidization, agriculture's share
in total electricity consumption in India has grown from about 171 in PY1982
to 222 in FY1990. Compounding the problem is the poor bill collection from
farmers, high technical and non-technical system losses estimated to be well
over the average 22Z system loss level, leading to a heavy and increasing
financial burden imposed by agriculture on the power sector. Most state
governments have not allowed electricity tariffs to be adjusted nor have they
paid subsidies to compensate SEBs for the financial losses caused by their
pricing policies. As a result, most SEBs have not met even the minimum
statutory financial requirement and they make no contribution at all from
internal cash generation towards future capital investment. In this
environment, the PCR has to conclude that the rural electrification program
(including the investments supported under the project) is not sustainable.
Lessons Learned
S.          During later years of project implementation, it became evident
th-t the Bank should give considerable thought to what it realistically may be
able to achieve through financial covenants given the existing institutional
structures. Setting targets without a viable enforcement mechanism is likely
to achieve vcry little. Furthermore, having set realistic targets, the Bmnk
should be prepared to cancel funds if the beneficiaries fail to comply with
the basic financial objectives of the loan and the status of compliance is
unlikely to change (Part I, paras. 3q and 31). These lessons had an important
bearing on the design of the January 1992 Bank loan to the Power Finance
Corporation (PFC).
6.          Zconomic and financial evaluation (Part I, paras. 19-25)s
(a) concluded rural electrification as currently practiced to bB unsustainable
and a financial and an economic burden; and (b) highlighted the potential for
improving its economic viability and reducing its financial burden with load
management, realistic pricing and electricity conservation in agricultural
pumping, the main load of rural electrification schemes in India.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFIC4TION PROJECT
_   (LOAN 2165-IN)
PART I_ PROJ9A T REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Names            Rural Electrification (CII)
Loan No.s                2165-IN
Vice Presidencys         South Asia
Country:                 India
Sector:                  Energy
Sub-sector:              Electric Power
Backaround
1.          The Govsr:.ant of India's (GOI) main objective in rural
electrification (RE) has been to increase agricultural output by providing
rural areas with rely. P. economic power for irr±.ation pumps, mainly
groundwater pumping for   dr -rsuu1 .gsm*. At the same time, GOI has
endeavored to provide el1 vr        for domestic, comiercial and small
industrial use to expand  .^  A,loyment possibilities and the general
quality of life in rural           In 1969, GOI established the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) to administer GOI's Plan expenditures of the
Union (central) Government and make loans to the State ElectrScity Boards
(SEBe) and rural electric cooperatives.
2.          REC has developed and produced standards, guidelines and manuals
covering most aspects of rural electrification, which the SEBs have adopted.
In addition, REC appraises and approves most of the RE projects proposed by
the SEBs before lending funds. From REC's inception thrcough March 1989, the
number of electrified villages rose from 13Z of total villages to 79Z and pump
electrification amounted to 7.8 million. The Bank's three RE projects have
supported these developments.
Pro1ect Design and Organization
3.          Previous Rural Electrification Projects.  At the time of project
appraisal, the first IDA credit to REC (Loan 572-IN, for US$ 57 million) was
approaching its closing date (Part III, Table 1). The Second Credit (911-IN,
for US$ 175 million) was in the initial stages of implementation but the bulk
of its proceeds had been comltted. Both Credits supported REC's lending
program, financing major materials and equipment for various categories of
schems (sub-projects) in eligible states.   In order to avoid the creation of
a financing gap in the RE program, REC and GOI requested a third RE project.
At the time, Bank rural electrification strategy was focussed on (a)
productive allocation of resources, (b) the monitoring of SEB eligibility in
relation to financial performance and (c) evaluation of past and ongoing rural
electrification !nvestment.



-2-
Issues
4.          The main sector-related issue that the Bank and ¢01 needed to
resolve, as stated in the Project Brief (PB), was the 'proper form and content
of agreements that should be sought with regard to satisf.rctory performance of
SEBs.0 The PB drew attention to the substantial investment and recutgent
costs imposed on SEBa by rural electrification projects, while full recovery
of costs was difficu3lt in light of the politically-sensitive irrigation pump
tariff levels prevailing in India. The possibilities for reducing losses from
rural operations proposed were (a) cost savingo and efficiency improvements,
(b) tariff increases, and (c) subsidization of remaining losses by State
Governments.
Financial Condition of SEBs
5.          Under the previous two RE credits, the means for ensuring the
financial health of SEBs in the legal documents were an undertaking by State
Governments to subsidize their SEBs' rural losses (according to an agreed
definition) either fully or until the SB33' overall rate of return on assets
reached 9.52. However, at the time of RE III preparation, a report of a high-
level 'Committee on Power' contained reconmendations on financial performance
that differed from this criterion. The Bank PB recommended that consultations
with GOI focus on whether (i) the old criteria should be maintained for RE III
until GOI takes a firm decision on financial policy or (±i) new criteria
should be formulated to allow their inclusion in the agreements for RE III.
Concerning project organization and implamentation, the PB pointed out that
the system of onlending to REC, established under the previous two Bank -
supported RE projects, had been successful and should be continued under RE
III.
Financial Accounting Practices
6.          The RE IlI Project issues paper expressed concern about the
financial accounting practices of the SEBs. There had been amendments to the
Electricity Supply Act of 1948 to enable SEBs to reorganize their financial
structures along coimercial lines. These amendments included introducing
financial policies and accounting practices providing for full debt servicing
of long-term borrowings, full depreciation of fixed assets, and a reasonable
self-financing capability. The amendments introduced new options to reduce
the debt orientation of capital structures through the conversion of State
Government Loans into equity share capital and/or refinancing of future
expansion by State Governments through equity rather than debt. State
Governments had made little attempt to put them into practice and the Bank
appraisal team tried to encourage steps toward their implementation. However,
any progress in this direction appeared unlikely until the recommendations
were published by the Committee on Power and dialogued on their
implementation.
Discussions on Financial Covenants
7.          During project preparation, the Bank opposed basing financial
covenants on a rate of return on unrevalued assets. GOI found a rate of return
formula based on revalued assets unacceptable, at least until they were able
to apply the concept to other sectors in India. Consequently, discussions
between the Bank and GOI focussed on self-financing capability.   The Bank



-3-
expressed concern that negotiation of the Pruject vas premature, because the
Bank did not have enough specific inforsation to evadluate whether a shift from
an eligibility criterion from a 9.5Z rate of return on assets, to a 20Z
contribution to investment, would imply higher tariffs. At the same time,
within the Bank, there were recomendations that the Bank should negotiate a
specific schedule of actions to onsure the introduction of commercial
accounting systems. The Bank and GOI reached agreement that an adequate level
of self-financing might be acceptable ,o them and to the States as a
satisfactory measure of financial performance.
8.          Finally, there was agreement that SEBs should provide a
contribution to investment of not less than 20Z. This arrangement was to
ensure Ca) satisfactory capitalization of interest during construction, a
practice not followed under previous credits, (b) satisfactory arrangements
for disposal of arrerrs of interest on existing state government loans, and
(c) full provisions for depreciation of fixed assets. Under the eligibility
criteria for the first and second rural electrification projects, State
Governments were permitted to subsidize the RE operation of SEBs in arriving
at the 9.5Z return on net fixed assets. In negotiations for RE III, there was
*greement on the principle of limiting the RE subsidy from FY84 onwards to a
greasonablel proportion of an SEB's sales revenues based on programs for the
progressive reduction.of the amount of the subsidy provided to SEBs.
roi ect Ormanization
9.          The Bank, in designing RE III, did not intend to deal with
individual RE schemes. Since it was not feasible to determine the physical
quantities of materials required, the Bank instead, indicated monetary
allocations under various categories of materials. The Bank accepted REC's
criteria for evaluation and monitoring of RE schemes as adequate and
comprehensive.
Project Obiectives and Description
10.         The Project was to assist GOI, during the Sixth Plan Period, in
the expansion and improvement of rural electrification in a number of States.
It also included expansion of training facilities for rural electrification.
To attain these objectives, the Project had three major components. The first
component was the financing of 3,480 electrification schemes in categories
defined as (a) 'Ordinary Advanced" (OA) group of villages, (b) 'Ordinary
Backwardg (OB) group of villages, (c) '-icial Project -Agricultural Pumps'
(SPA), and (d) *Special Project - Rural Industry" (SRI). The second component
consisted of 100 distribution system improvement schemes and the third was the
strengthening of REC's Central Training Institute. The appraisal mission for
the Project evaluated the material requirements of items such as conductors,
transformers insulators, switchgears, lightning arrestors and poles and
recommended that the Bank loan cover about 90Z of the purchases and 70Z of the
construction and equipment costs of the Central Training Institute.
11.         In addition to the various RE schemes and training, the Project
had certain financial objectives. No state would be allowed to participate in
RE III unless the concerned State endorsed the principle that the SEB would
contribute at least 20Z from its internally-generated funds to its investment
program, to begin in PY83 or a specified later year. Furthermore, the SEBs
were to introduce commercial accounting systems by FY 85. Tho State



-4-
Governments were to begin a gr&dual reduction of RE subsidies to a 'reasonable
portion ' of SEB sales revenues based on a program approved by the Bank.
Successful implementation of these objectives was to strengthen the finances
of the SEBs and result in reasonable tariff Increases and rationalizAtiou of
the electrlcity tariff, particularly in the agricultural sector.
Proiect Implementation and Results
Overview
12.         RE III achieved itt  physical targets but experienced major
problems in Its implamentation, resulting in the closing of the Project two
years behind schedule (Part III, Tablas 2, 3, and 4). Majar implementation
problems were a very slow rate of disbursement, delay oi S4.:s in meeting
eligibility criteria, delay in compliance with certain finmcial covv'nants and
non-compliance of sEne with the principal financial covenants concerning
eligibility and reporting requirements. The major financial objective the
Project achieved was the introduction of commercial accounting systems in the
financial operations of the SEBes.
Pace of Disbursements
13.           By the origiua: closing date of the Project, disbursements
amounted to only 592 of the original loan amount. The Bank extended the
closing date and the Project closed two years behind schedule. Final
disbursements amounted to US$ 295 million, 971 of the original loan amount of
US$ 300 million and there was a cancellation of US$9 million. Part 111, Table
2 gives the project timetable and Table 3 gives the disbursement schedule.
Physical Program and Project Cost
14.         According to the Project SAR, the 3,480 RE schemes originally
envisaged for Bank assistance would have electrified 18,700 villages and
energized 543,000 pumpsets. The Project exceeded these targets considerably,
completing 9,332 schemes, electrifying 83,000 villages and installing
1,960,000 pumpsets. The cost of UE projects related to the Bank loan was US$
1,808 million compared to the USS 795 million estimated in the SAR. (See Part
III, Tables 5 and 6). The association of the original Bank loan with physical
achievements and Project costs significantly greater than those of the SAR
resulted from the two-year extension of the Project's closing, a lower cost of
materials than originally experted and a favorable fluctuation in the exchange
rate between the US dollar g d the rupee.
Procurement and Training
15.         Part 1I of this PCR, prepared by the Borrower (REC) expluins the
procurement process within the monetary allocations under the various
categories of materialz and how the renovation of the Central Training
Institute has facilitated staff training. One procurement problem delayed
implementation significantly. REC specified a price variation clause in its
bidding documents and subsequent contracts for ACSR conductor. However, it
limited the price variation with a ceiling percentage. During the procurement
period of several batches of conductor, aluminum prices increased drastically
and it became cheaper for suppliers to forfeit their performance bond than to
supply the conductor at a loss. Implementation was delayed as contracts had
to be negotiated.



-5-
Financial Obiectives
16.         Except for the establishment of cowmercial accounting systems i1
the SE8s, a signlficant improvement in SEB financial operations, the Project
was not successful in attaining its finAncial objectives. All SEBs involved
becam' eligible for onleading by REC. However, during the course of the
Project, 001 advised the Bank that the self-financing targets agreed to at the
outset of the Project were not workable in practice. In spite of the
statutory obligation of SEEs co ensure a 32 rate of return after interest,
taxes and depreciation, most SEBs have not complied. For example, on analysis
of accounts for the FY 88 indicates that all SEBs except Gujarat and Madhya
Pradesh had a net revenue loss. Furthermore, if the latter two SEBs were to
treat the RE subsidy due but not paid by the State Governments as a bad debt,
they too would have had a revenue lose for FY 88. Project. At the same time,
many SEBs did not pay interest due to State Governments on the loans they had
received.
17.           A working group of the Department of Power, comprising
representatives from the Central Electricity Authority, the Department of
Power, the Power Finance Corporation, REC, the Planning Comission, State
Governments and SEBs aualyzed the problema of the SEBs in a report of May
1989. This report discussed several options for restructuring SEB finances:
(a) tariff rationalization; (b) revision of the -ery low agricultural tariffs;
(c) essential institutional arrangements such as che formation of State-level
Tariff Advisory Cozmissions; (d) annual review of tariffs; (e) possible means
of reducing expenditures as well as transmission and distribution system
losses; and (f) improvements in electricity generation. GOI's intensified
pressure on the states to adjust electricity tariffs has yielded encouraging
initial results: since 1990, most SEBs have been allowed by their state
governments to increase their tariff rates. In addLtion, in September 1991,
the State Power Ministers agreed to have a minimum agricultural tariff. In
their April 1992 meeting, the Ministers reconfirmed this decision and set the
minimum rate at Re. 0.50;kWh. The tariff reform procesa has at best only just
started and the challenges ahead are formidable: regular tariff adjustments,
starting with but going well beyond the implementation of the agreed minimum
agricultural tariff, would be needed to restore the financial viability and
enable satisfactory internal resource mobilization in the power sector. As
discusased in paras. 19-26 below, agricultural tariff adjustments are critical
also for the viability and susteinability of rural electrification.
Financial Performance of REC
18.         The financial performance of RSC (the Borrower) was satisfactory.
REC fulfilled most financial covenants by remaining within the p,escribed
operating ratio and debt service indicators. Annex 14 of Part 11 piovides the
details of REC operations for FY 84 to FY 89.
Eronomic Mact
19.         Ecoatomic re-evaluation was first undertaken by adopting the
methodology and assumptions used in the SAR to estimate the viability of a
representative sample consisting of 15 schemes from 14 states. The analysis
used as costs investments by the SEBs and consumers (detailed in Annex 1,



-6-
Table 7 of Part III) and, in line with the SAR, used the estimated average
long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of electricity as the economic cost of supply at
high tension to the schemes. This implicitly assumed the load profile of the
schemes to be broadly in line with the overall system load profile.  Several
appreaches were used in the SAR to estimate the benefits (value of rural
eleccrification) as det&iled in Annex 1. The SAR Base Case valued benefits
assuming that: (a) 50? of demand reflects fuel substitution (replacement of
existing energy alternatives), which for economic analysis can be valued at
the resultivg economic resource cost savings; ar4 (b) the balance 50? reflects
demand induced by rural electrification, and assumed 50? of the estimated
maximum consumer surplus (difference between the estimatedl maimum of the
consumers' willing-.ess to pay for rural electrificatiou arid what they actually
pay), i.e. assumed a linear demand curve. Four of the 15 schemes yielded
attractive returns of over 2OZ, another four sctemes yielded low but still
positive returns of less that 10Z, and six schemes yielded negative returns
(Annex 1). The weighted average ER of the nine schemes with positive returns
was about 152, compared to the 53Z EUR given in the SAR. The major reasons
for the lower returns weres (a) increase in the cost of supply; and (b) lower
cost of alternatives, primarily due to lover cost of diesel fuel than
estimated in 1981 (immediately after the second oil crises). Adjustments in
some of the assumptions used in the SAR resulted in further reductions in the
SRs9, as outllued below.
20.         The SAR benefit estimation is considered to be somewhat over-
optimistic. First, the assumed 502 share of replacement energy is much higher
than what REC's experience and the Bank's price elasticity estimates suggest.
REC's empirical experience is that the introduction of electricity generally
results in a five-fold increase in the number of pumps, corresponding to 20?
share for replacement load from diesel pumps to electric pumps. This ratio
was adopted for the PCR and 20? of demand (instead of 5OZ in the SAR) was
valued at economic resource cost saving. The Bank's Long Term Issues in the
Power Sector study estimates price elasticity for agricultural electricity
consumers to be -0.25, confirming agricultural electricity consumption to be
relatively insensitive to price. Given the wide disparity between the price of
agricultural electricity (typically below Rs 0.20/kWh) and the cost of
electricity at which the costs of electric pumping would equal the costs of
diesel-driven pumps (estimated to be close to Rs 5/kWh), even using this low
price elasticity, consumption of electricity in pumping at tariff rates
approaching Re 5/kWh is estimated to be only a small fraction (even less than
20S) of the current consumption. Second, although low price elasticity has
been observ4d, again given the wide disparity between the costs of diesel and
electric pumping, the PCR analysis assumes a strongly convex demand curve and
accordingly takes consumr surplus benefits at 30? of the estimated maximum
(instead of 50? in the SMR).
21.         In many rural electrification schemes, load is dominated by
residential use, which typically takes place during the morning and
particularly in the evening, during system peak periods. In such cases the
SAR assumption would not be appropriate as the adverse impact of rural
electrification load on the power system is not adequatelf reflected in the
average LRMC. In the case of India, load in rural electrification schemes is
heavily dominated by agricultural pumping. It represents about 85Z of
electricity consumption in the sample schemes. Such load has a very low
annual load factor, due to its seasonal nature, but it iNas a much higher daily
load factor during the irrigation season. Pumps are used 6-12 hours per day,



sometimes even 24 hours per day. Such high daily load factors do not,
however, justify the SAR assumption, even in the absence of detailed hourly
load profiles for rural electrification schemes. This is because of two
reasons: (a) pumps are typically turned on early in the morning and turned off
in the afternoon or early evening, as farmers do not normally work during the
night. Therefore, while contributing only partially to the evening peak load
in the power system, pumping load coincides with the 6 am to 10 pm peak load
period and is low to non-existent during the 10 pm to 6 am system off-peak
period; and (b) pumps are naturally primarily used during the dry season, at
the time when the availability of hydro-electricity is at a minimum and system
supply capability is reduced.
22.         The PCR Base Case, therefore, valued power supply to the schemes
at LRHC during the 6 am to 10 pm system peak. This increase in the cost of
supply and the reduction of benefits due to adjustments discussed in para. 20,
results in all 15 schemes yielding negative returns (Annex 1). Sensitivity
analysis was undertaken to examine the impact on the ERRs of changes in the
cost of electricity supply to the schemes. One sensitivity case assumed that
rural electrification load would be concentrated to system off-peak periods,
from 10 pm to 6 am. The weighted average ERR increased to over 17 per cent,
some schemes yielded highly attractive returns (Annex 1). Such strong
variation is explained by the differences in the cost of power supply, which
during system peak is more than twice the cost of supply during off-peak
periods. The second sensitivity case considered a situation where half of the
rural consumption took place during peak periods, the other half during off-
peak periods. Such a load profile reduces the cost of supply significantly
from the Base Case, but half of the schemes would still yield no returns, the
other half a marginal 42 as a weighted average (Annex 1). The third
sensitivity case, using system average LRMC, resulted in a weighted average
ERR of about 2X for five schemes, the remainder of the schemes yielded
negative returns (Annex 1).
23.         PCR Base Case results and sensitivity analysis demonstrate the
substantial potential benefits of load management. It may not be feasible to
limit pumping exclusively to off-peak periods, as pumping may be required for
more than 8 hours per day. It should, however, be possible to actively shift
pumping loads towards off-peak periods. Load shedding during system peaks has
this impact as electricity is simply not available in sufficient quantities to
fully meet the potential load, forcing farmers to pump more in the night-time.
A substantial portion of pumping load would need to be shifted to achieve
economic viability of rural electrification in the absence of other measures.
Load management could, however, be combined with efforts to make the pumps
more efficient. Surveys have shown that pumps are generally highly
inefficient users of electricity and that consumption could be cut
substantially with highly attractive investments.
24.         The use of pricing to promote load management and conservation
should also be considered. Electricity could be made available to agriculture
at low rates (e.g., at Re 0.50/Kwh, the new minimum national agricultural
tariff target, para 17) without deviating from efficiency objectives, during
system off-peak periods in the night time. Supply during system peaks should,
however, carry rates much closer to the full cost of supply. Time-of-day
tariffs and metering of electricity consumption would be required. In the
longer term, this approach would encourage farmers to install higher capacity
pumps, so as to be able to shorten the daily pumping period in order to be



-8-
able to take full advantage of the low cost night-time supply. In the absence
of realistic tariffs and time-of-day pricing, the incentive of farmers to
conserve eloctricity or shift loads towards system off-peak periods is
limited.
Financial Impact
25.         The financial rate of return, in view of the low agricultural
electricity tariffs and domination of agricultural pumping load, is negative
for all 15 sample schemes. The adverse financial impact is aggravated by the
failure of many state goveruments to adequately and in a timely manner
compensate their SEBs for the financial losses resulting from low agricultural
tariffs. Load management would, in addition to its economic benefits, be
discussed in para. 24, also yields substantial financial benefits: it would
enable SEBs to supply a higher share of their agricultural load at a lower
cost of supply during off-peak periods and would release additional units of
electricity for supply to the financially more lucrative consumer categories
during system peak periods. Electricity conservation in pumping, pending
realiseic electricity pricing, would primarily be financially attractive to
the SEBs, not to the farmers. SEBs might therefore consider, along with (due
to political and social considerations necessarily gradual) introduction of
load management and pricing measures, direct involvement in electricity
conservation in pumping, by actively promoting the use of high efficiency
pumps and related equipment.
Pro1ect Sustainability
26.         Agricultural electricity tariffs have fallen in real terms during
the last decade and now cover less than 10? of the long-run marginal cost and
less than 20? of the average financial cost of supply of the state electricity
boards. Partly as a result of this hear- subsidization, agriculture's share
in total electricity consumption in India has grown from about 172 in FY1982
to 22? in FY1990. Compounding the problem is the poor bill collection from
farmers, high technical and non-technical system losses estimated to be well
over the average 222 system loss level, leading to a heavy and increasing
financial burden imposed by agriculture on the power sector. Most state
governments have not allowed electricity tariffs to be adjusted nor have they
paid subsidies to compensate SEBs for the financial losses caused by their
pricing policies. As a result, most SZBEs have not met even the minimum
statutory financial requirement and they make no contribution at all from
internal cash generation towards future capital investment. In this
environment, the PCR has to conclude that the rural electrification program
(including the investments supported under the project) is not sustainable.
Bank Performance
27.         Bank supervision of REC initially concentrated on the number of
scheme sanctions, the number of connections and other details related to the
physLcal program. Later missions focussed on the delays of some SEBs in
satisfying eligibility criteria and, from time to time, obtaining the
necessary endorsements from the state goverments. The frequency of
supervision diminished over the life of the Project, perhaps due to its
unwieldy nature and inherent constraints to achieving the Project's financial
objectives. The first supervision report recommended an interval of six
months. However, according to reports available in project flles, the Bank



- 9 -
did not prepare another supervision report until a year later. Between the
second supervision report on file and the third one, there was a gap of about
two years. During this period, the overall project status deteriorated from a
rating of *2', citing moderate problems, to a rating of 04' indicating major
problem inhibiting the achievement of the project's objectives (see Part III,
Table 10). However, given institutional constraints, it is not very likely
that more frequent supervision would have resulted in SEB achievement of self-
financing ratios or tariff increases aimed at limiting RE subsidies to a
,reasonable, portion of sales revenues.
28.          The Bank indicated its concern about the financial performance of
the SEBs both during the design and implementation phases of the Project.
Although the establishment of coammercial accounting system in SEB operations
was an important achievement given the previous state of SEB operations,
serious financial problems remain. The Bank was overly optimistic that the
SEBs could attain the financial objectives under the loan. A major impediment
in this regard is the lack of a mechanism for monitoring the enforcement of
statutory requirements for financial performance.
Borrower Performance
29.         The performance of the Borrower, REC, was satisfactory in overall
project execution and compliance with the specific financial covenants related
to its own operations. REC's lack of authority over the SEBs rendered it
powerless to take actions necessary to ensure the achievement of important
financial objectives contained in the Project.
Maior Lessons Learned
30.         The primary lesson learned from RE III is that there is a limited
extent to which the Bank may be able to influence financial policy through
loan covenants. Although the covenants improved the accounting systems of the
SEBs they were less successful in improving the actual financial conditions
required for project eligibility. The 'eligibility problem' that prevailed
throughout the Project delayed its implementation significantly. The Bank
devoted considerable resources to monitoring and analyzing the financial
condition of SEBs. It extended the closing date of the loan twice based on
the submission of action plane by SEBs to improve their financial condition.
However, the finances of many SUBs remain precarious due mainly to Government
policies on tariffs and subsidies which inhibit the performance of the SEBs.
31.         In designing future projects, the Bank should give considerable
thought to what it realistically may be able to achieve through the loan
covenants given the existing institutional structure. Setting targets for
financial criterSa without a viable enforcement mechanism is likely to achieve
little, especially in an environment where central and state governments share
responsibility for electricity generation and distribution and the Borrower
has little impact on the policies of the sub-borrowers. Thus, any further
projects of this nature should include only covenants that can be enforced.
Having set realistic covenants the Bank should be willing to enforce them
promptly, if the beneficiaries fail to comply with them.
These lessons had an important bearing on the design of the January 1992 Bank
loan to the Power Finance Corporation (PFC).



- 10 -
32.         Economic and financial evaluations (a) concluded rural
electrification as currently practiced to be unsustainable and a financial and
economic burden; and (b) highlighted the potential for Improving its economic
viability and reducing its financial burden with load management, realistic
pricing and electricity conservation in agricultural pumping, the main load of
rural electrification schemes in India.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2165-IN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PREFACE
This a is the Project Completion (PCR) for the Third Rural
Electrification project, for which IBRD Loan 2165-IN the amount of US$304.50
million was approved in June 1982. The loan was closed on June 30, 1988, two
years behind schedule. An amount of US$295.5 million was disbursed, which
represented 97Z of the loan amount. The last disbursement was in January
1989.
The PCR was prepared by a senior officer of the Projects Division
of Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) who was intimately involved in the
operation of the loan from 1982 to 1988, under the supervision of higher
officers.



- 12 -
Overview
1.       The Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-IN) envisaged a
loan assistance of US$300 million (excluding Bank's front-end fees) towards
financing of major materials and equipments required for selected REC's
financed _chemes in selected states during 1983-84 and 1984-85 against a
total estimated project cost of US$795 million. The project period was
however extended up to June 1988 and, till the closing of the project,
US$291 million was utilized.
2.       As the project period was extended, the total investment by REC
during the said period for the selected states and schemes has gone up to
US$1,808 million, out of which Bank's contribution towards purchase of
material was US$291 million. The direct result of REC's operation during
the period was electrification of 83,000 villages, 1,960,000 pumpsets,
1,792,000 domestic/commercial connections and 87,750 LT industries. During
the said period, the number of eligible schemes sanctioned by REC in
selected states increased from 5,128 to 9,332.
3.       It may be difficult to quantify the direct impact of rural
electrification on the economy. However, as per rough estimate it may be
considered that with an energisation of each irrigation pumpset, there is
an increase in food production of 3.5 MT per annum and in case of small
industry, there is an employment generation of 968 man-days per connection.
4.       The performance of the REC and the Bank in implementation of the
project was very satisfactory as the project was implemented with good
coordination between the Bank and the Borrower. The delay in completion of
the project was, however, beyond the control of both the parties as there
was an abnormal increase in prices of aluminum in the international market
and also there was substantial appreciation of the exchange rate between
the US dollar and the Indian Rupee.



- 13 _
Project Implementation
1.01     The Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-IN) was
approved by the World Bank in June 1982 to assist the Government of India
in the expansion and improvement of the rural electrification program. The
project as appraised was for providing finance for procurement of major
materials required for the implementation of five eligible categories
(Ordinary Advanced (OA): Ordinary Backward (O): Special Project
Agriculture (SPA): Special Project Industries (SPI); and System Improvement
(SI)] of REC schemes during 1983-84 and 1984-85. The schemes which were
sanctioned by REC between 1st April 1978 and 31st January 1982, and also to
be approved by REC between 1st February 1982 and 31st March 1984, were
eligible for availing financial assistance from the loan. In addition, an
amount of US$1 million was provided towards the cost of building, furniture
and equipment for the Central Institute for Rural Electrification (CIRE) at
Hyderabad. Financing of REC schemes, as mentioned above, was designed to
provide electrification of about 18,700 new villages and to energise about
543.000 irrigation pumpsets besides providing electricity for domestic and
comercial consumers, small industries, etc.
1.02     The total base cost for the project, i.e. expenditure of all
project components during 1983-84 and 1984-85, considering the normal
disbursement pattern of REC in respect of the eligible category of schemes,
was estimated to be Rs 5,176.6 million, or US$647.1 million equivalent, on
the basis of prices as in early 1982. With the provision of physical and
price contingencies, the total project cost was assessed at Rs 6,326.4
million, or US$790.8 million equivalent (excluding front-end fee on Bank
loan). This loan amount of US$300 million represented about 38Z of the
total project cost.
Category of Items To Be Financed
1.03     The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the loan, the allocation of amounts of the loan to
each cptegory, and the item-wise actual expenditure at the time of closing
of the project.
Table 1.1
Utilization
Amount of          As Per Actual
Category                      Loan Allocated        Reimbursement
(USS)
1. Conductors                      195.OO,G000          176,933,000
2. Transformers                      70,000,000          74,163.000
3. Switchgear                        5S000.000           20,360,000
4. Insulators                         9,000,000           8,207,000
5. Galvanized Steel Wire              5,000,000          10,356.000
6. Equipment and Furniture for
Part C of the Project             500,000              253.000



- 14 -
7. Civil Works under Part C
of the Project                     500,000             730,000
8. Fee                                4,500,000           4,500,000
9. Unallocated                       15,000,000                 -
304,500,000         295,502,000
1.04     The category-wise utilization of funds was in general at par with
the allocations made for each items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan. There was, however, a shortfall of US$9 million in the
utilization of the loan, mainly because of the failure of the conductor
suppliers to supply materials even during the extended period of the loan.
It may be mentioned here that during the years 1986 and 1988, the
international prices for aluminum ingots and rods went up abnormally high
and it was beyond the control of the supplier to execute the contracts as
financed in the years 1984 and 1985. Another main reason for shortfall in
utilization of the loan was due to the high appreciation of the US dollar
against the Indian rupee. While at the time of approval the exchange rate
was considered as US$1.00 equal to Rupee 8.00, the average exchange rate
for the loan worked out to be US$1 equal to Rs 12.57. Because of the
appreciation of US dollar, more quantities of materials could be procured
to utilize the loan, all within the requirements of the project.
Eligibility and Utilization of Loan
1.05    *As a condition for participating in the loan financing, State
Electricity Boards (SEBs), as agreed by the respective state governments,
were required to achieve at least a 20Z contribution to investment from
FY1983. They were also required to introduce, from April 1, 1984, a
prescribed system of commercial accounting. The state governments agreed
to limit rural electrification subsidies to their SEBs to a reasonable
proportion of SEBs' sales revenue. Initially, ten SEBs fulfilled the
conditions, and four more SEBs, viz. Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and
West Bengal, were subsequently permitted to be endorsed by the state
governments to achieve the percentage contribution to investment by the
year 1986. Therefore, all 14 SEBs participated in the project and the
amount utilized by each SEB under the loan is given in the table below.
Table 1.2
SEB                            Amount Utilized by the SEB
Rupees             USs
(Million)         (Million)
1.  Andhra Pradesh                   727.504          56.938
2.  Bihar                            189.516          14.707
3.  Gujarat                         257.082           20.477
4.  Haryana                          134.412          10.740
5.  Karnataka                        268.661          21.346
6.  Kerala                            63.662           5.185
7.  Madhya Pradesh                   446.122          36.416
8.  Maharashtra                      338.300          27.269



- 15 -
9.  Orissa                           60.333            4.715
10. Punjab                          285.955          23.102
11. Rajasthan                       185.963          14.834
12. Tamil Nadu                       32.559           2.590
13. Uttar Pradesh                   573.6i8          45.270
14. West Bengal                      82.417           6.430
15. CIRE Hyderabad                    12.918          0.983
Total                    3,659.054         291.002
The eligibility criteria for the SEBs were, however, amended during the
implementation of the project and the revised criteria were as below:
ofrom such Board, which shall have been endorsed by the state in
which such Board is established, to take from time to time all
such measures as may be necessary including, if necessary,
adjustment of tariffs of the Board to ensure that the Board's
revenues are sufficient to cover: (1) all expenses properly
chargeable to revenues, including operating, maintenance, and
management expenses; (ii) taxes on income and profits; (iii)
depreciation; and (iv) interest payable on all debentures, bonds
and loans, and to produce a surplus of not less than 32 of the net
fixed assets of the Board in service at the beginning of such
yeart.
1.06     The categories of schemes eligible for funding under the loan are
known as (i) Ordinary Advanced (OA), (ii) Ordinary Backward (OB), (iii)
Special Project Agriculture (SPA), (iv) Special Project Industries (SPI),
and (v) System Improvement (SI). All schemes sanctioned between 1st April
1978 and 31st March 1984 (between 1st April 1984 and 31st March 1987 for
SI) under the above-mentionud categories were eligible for assistance. Due
to the extension of the loan period. scitomes sanctioned during 1984-85 were
allowed to be covered. The number of schemes, by category and by states,
eligibit  under the loan is given in Annexure I.  The achievement under all
REC schemes in terms of villages electrified, HT and LT lines constructed,
capacity of distribution transformers added to the system, pumpsets
energised, agricultural, industries, domestic and commercial services
commissioned during the period of the loan is given in Annexure II.
Similar achievements during the same period under the eligible category of
schemes is given in Annesure III.
Identification and Utilization of Materials
1.07     In order to identify items such as transformers (both power and
distribution), capacitors, switchgears, etc., it was stipulated in the
bidding documents that the manufacturers should punch the order number with
the legend 'IBRD Loan 2165-IN'. This identification mark helped, to some
extent, to keep track of the materials procured under the loan. However,
in cases of conductor, GI wire and insulators, as the same specifications
are used by all SEBs for procurement of materials for other REC schemes
outside the loan also, any inter-change of material/equipment did not
affect the performance. However, since the duration of the eligible REC
schemes did not coincide with the period of the loan and also because the



- 16 -
total materials requirement for completion of the eligible scheme under the
loan was more than the materials procured, it was inevitable to have a
mixture of both IBRD and non-IBRD materials, specification being the same.
Annexure IV gives the quantities of various materials required for the
completion of the remaining works under eligible schemes during the loan
period and the quantity of materials received under the loan. From the
statement, it can be seen that with the exception of Bihar state, the
material procured under the loan was, in general, within the actual
requivement. The excess material procured by any SEB was, however,
utilized within the loan period for specified schemes sanctioned between
1st April 1985 and 31st March 1988.
1.08     In order to strengthen the electrical dI.stributio. system to cater
to the increase in power demand, to reduce losses in the tLansmission and
distribution system and to improve the quality of supply, provisions were
made under SPA and SI schemes f9r creation of new power substations
(132 kV, 66 kV, and 33 kV), installation of modern equipments like switched
capacitors, auto voltages boosters, auto reclosers, sectionalizers, and
aerial bunch cable, etc. Annexure V indicates the quantities ordered as
per requirement of the schemes sanctioned by REC, and the materials
received by the SEBs. Orders for all this modern equipment were generally
placed on foreign firms and tney have supplied the equipment in full.
Human Resources Development
1,O09    The Central Institute for Rural Electrification (CIRE) located at
Hyderabad. was meant for imparting training to the personnel of state
electricity boards, state government departments, rural electric
cooperatives, commercial banks, and other organizations having a link with
the rural electrification program. Under the Third Rural Electrification
project, a provision of US$1 million was made for construction of an
administrative building, teaching and residential facilities, and for the
purchase of equipment and furniture required for the Institute. The new
Institute complex has already been built and the Institute started
functioning in January 1989.
1.10     During 1988-89, the Institute conducted six training courses of
four weeks' duration for junior executives of the SEBs, government
departments, and rural electric cooperatives. These courses laid special
emphasis on techniques of project formulation, project appraisal, project
implementation, and project evaluation relating to programs financed by the
Corporation. CIRE also conducted, during the year, special training
courses/programs on *Conservation of Energy in Agricultural Pumpsets* for
senior/middle level officers of the SEBs, goverrment departments, rural
electric cooperatives, commercial banks, and other concerned organizations.
These programs were sponsored by the Department of Power (Ministry of
Energy), New Delhi, in which 784 candidates were trained.
Procurement
1.11     All materials supplied under the loan (excluding Part C of the
project, i.e. equipment, furniture, and civil works for the Central
Institute for Rural Electrification at Hyderabad) were purchased through
international competitive bidding. REC prepared the standard bidding



- 17 -
document as per guidelines issued by the World Bank for procurement of
materials, got the standard bidding document approved by the World Bank,
and circulated it among participating SEBs for invitations to bid.
1.12     International Competitive Bids were invited by individual SEBs for
its estimated two-year requirement under the project, using standard
technical specifications and the general conditions of contract approved by
the Warld Bank. REC assisted the SEBs in preparing the bidding documents
and also in the evaluation of bids. The basic procedures and the time
schedule to be adopted were finalized at a meeting of all the participating
SEBs covered by the REC. After finalizing all these procedures, the first
round of tenders could, however, be opened only tn November/December 1982
and orders could be placed in another 3-5 months' time.
1.13     As the total requirement of materials could not be ensured under
first round of orders due to cancellation/non-fulfillment of commitment by
a few suppliers, two more rounds of tenders were invited between November
1983 and April 1985 to ensure full utilization of the loan amount.
Invitations to additional round of tenders were all the more necessary as
more materials were. to be procured to cover the schemes of 1984-85 and
because of appreciation of the US dollar against the rupee, additional
materials could be procured within the total loan amount.
1.14     At the time of appraisal, the details of materials to be procured
with the loan for the works to be carried out in two years (1983-85) on
1,780 REC schemes and 110 SI schemes were listed. The project, however,
continued for four years and schemes sanctioned in 1984-85 were also
included under the project. Hence, the actual cost of works carried out
cannot be compared with the estimated project cost. At the time of
appraisil, it was estimated that 640,450 km of conductor, 59,800
distribution transformers, 1.993,000 HT insulators, and 8,400 MT of GI wire
would be required. Against that, the actual procurement was 1,193,502 km
of conductor, 121,669 distribution transformers, 4,384,200 HT insulators,
and 25,776 MT of GI wire. Similarly, achievements for village
electrification and pumpsets energisation were 37,972 and 1,180,863
respectively, against the targets of 18,700 and 549.
1.15     Annexure VI gives the number and value of orders placed by each of
the 14 SEBs. In all, 478 orders were placed covering 1152 of the loan
amount at an average exchange of US$1 to Rs 10.97. The value of orders
placed were kept higher, anticipating that some of the suppliers would fail
in their commitments as had been the experience in the RE-II project. Even
so, due to abnormal increase in the prices of aluminum ingot/ro s in the
international market during 1986 and 1988, the loan amount could not be
utilized in full. Most of the bids were won by Indian suppliers and only
ten orders, aggregating to US$8.961 million, were placed on firms outside
India. It may, however, be noted that though the value of orders placed
with foreign firms is only 32 of the total loan amount, the actual import
value was of the order of 40Z of the loan. This was because most of the
Indian suppliers imported raw materials, like aluminum rods, CRGO sheets,
steel wire rods, switchgear items, voltage boosters, etc., from the
international market/foreign forms.



- 18 -
1.16     In view of the fluctuating market conditions, it was agreed during
negotiations that bids be called for major items like conducvor,
transformers and GI wire on price variation basis. The price variation
clause adopted was clearly spelled out in the bidding document and was in
line with the international practice. Consequently, the actual payments
made for supply of these materials was worked out applying the price
viriation formula. Annexure VIII gives a statement of range of price
variation paid by the various SEBs for (i) conductor, (ii) transformers,
and (Iii) GI wire. The price variation ranges from 02 to 302.
IRlementati'%n and Disbursement
1.17     The project came into effect from October 1982, after all the
formalities were completed by the SEBs, state governments, REC, and
Government of India (GOI). All the participant state governments and the
SEBs accepted the eligibility criteria stipulated by the World Bank though
there was some delay on the part of West Bengal state government in
agreeing for its SEB to achieve the specified percentage contribution to
investment. The first round of bids were opened during November/December
1982, and disbursements commenced as per schedule. Tble 3 below indicates
the targets and achievements of cumulative disbursement for the loan.
Table 3
Cumulative Disbursement Target and Achievement
Bank Fiscal                         Disbursement (US$ Million)
Year                Qua-ters        Target         Achievement          Z
1983                    IV             7                 1.7           24
1984                     I            21                 9.3           44
II           49                20.4           42
III           88                25.5           29
IV          141                33.9           24
1985                     I           188                51.0           27
II          221                68.3           31
III          247                84.0           34
IV          267               103.8           39
1986                     I           285               132.3           46
II          294               146.6           50
III          297               161.7           54
IV          300               176.6           59
1987                     I            -                211.4           70
II           -                222.4           74
III           -                240.3           80
IV           -                255.0           85



1988                     X           .                267.3           89
I:           -                274.5           92
III           -                282.3           94
IV           -                287.1           96
1989                     I           -                291.0           97
1.18     The utilization of the loan amount was however much behind the
targeted schedule.  One of the main reasons for this was that while at the
time of signing the agreement, the dollar exchange rate was assumed to be
US$1 as Rs 8.00, but at the time of zeimbursemenE average exchange rate
worked out to be US$1 equivalent to Rs 12.57. Appreciation of US dollar
against Indian rupee has slowed down the utilization of the loan and more
materials were to be procured in subsequent years to utilize the loan
amount. By the end scheduled loan period (i.e. December 1986), nnly about
592 of the loan amount could be utilized and up to the closing of the
account in January 1990, out of US$300 million, an amount of US$291 million
(i.e. 972) could be utilizedo
1.19     Annexure IX gives the statement of utilization of the loan by the
participating SEBs and the reimbursement claimed by them year-by-year. It
may be seen that maximum reimbursement claim made by almost all the SEBs in
the years 1985-86 and 1986-87.
1.20     As agreed during negotiations, REC sent quarterly progress reports
to the Bank in the format accepted during the negotiations. These reports
were found to be comprehensive and satisfactory reports were sent to the
World Bank generally within the scheduled time.
REC's Role in Rural Electrification Program
1.21     For the accelerated development of agriculture in Indian. an
increasing program of rural electrification was found essential in the
later part of 1960s for which REC was set up in July 1969. At the time of
inception of the REC, only 12.82 of the total villages were electrified
which has gone up to 78.72 till the end of March 1989. Similarly, the
exploitation of ground water potential by energisation of electric pumpsets
stood at only 9? of the total potential at the time of formation of REC
which rapidly rose to 65.2? by the end of March 1989. Annexure X indicates
state-wise villages electrified during the last six years. and Annexure XI
indicates the percentage the achievement for each state as on March 1989.
From Annexure X, it may be seen that the achievement in village
electrification has always exceeded the envisaged target. Similar
statement for pumpseet energisation are given in Annexure XII and XIII where
achievements are always well above the target fixed. Higher achievement
both in respect of village electrification and pumpset energisation could
be achieved only because of REC's entry into the field of rural
electrification which ensures continuous flow of funds to the SEBs on an
even increasing scale. Better management and discipline insisted upon by
REC for its own projects have brought about improvement in the
organizational, financial and technical management of the entire rural
electrification program in the country.



- 20 -
1.22     REC's own performance as a financial institution right from its
creation has been commendable. REC has been making profits and maintaining
dividends evsr since its inception. Annexure XIV indicates the debt
service coverage and operating ratio during the last six years. From its
financial statements, it may be seen that REC, on the one hand, has been
maintaining the debt coverage ratio more than the minimum of 1.2 specified
by the World B&nk; on the other hand, REC's administrative expenses and the
interest payments are maintained within the 902 of the total interest
income as per requirement of the loan agreement. Thus, REC's performance
in enhancing the rural electrification program in the country has always
been outstarding. At the same time, the financial performance of the REC
has always oeen more than satisfactory. -
Conclusions
1.23     Some of the sectoral objectives the Bank group had, are in the
process of being met. The response has at times'been rather slow, but all
the same positive. The introduction of commercial accounting systems for
the SEBs has been fully implemented with the introduction of the Indian
Electricity (Supply) (Annual Accounts) Rule, 1985. The two major movements
in the right direction are being made to (a) limiting rural the
electrification subsidy by a state government to its Board, in respect of
rural electrification operations, to a reasonable proportion of the Board's
gross revenues from the sale of electricity, and (b) a capital structure
which is less debt-oriented through the conversion of part of the state
government loans into equity share capital.
1.24     There has been some enhancement in tariffs including agricultural
tariffs in most of the states. However, the increase in tarirf is not
adequate to pull all the SEBs out of red considering their accumulated
losses. The position is, however, constantly reviewed at various forums
both at state government level as well as the central government level.
1.25     The rural electrification sector has, however, grown at the pace
anticipated and has generally fulfilled its objectives. By the end of
March 1989, about 78.72 of the total villages and 7.8 million agricultural
pumpsets have been provided with electricity. It is expected that before
the turn of the century, the country will have 10OZ village electrification
and maximum utilization of ground water potential.
1.26     During the loan period, the Bank group was able to visit some of
the SEBs and evaluate the works done in the field. The Bank group's
evaluation and the discussions held with the staff of the SEBs and state
government has been found useful and has improved the performance of the
SEBs. It may be desirable to plan a visit by a Bank mission to each SEB at
least once during the life-time of the future projects.



- 21 -
Annex 1
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Category Scheh. Sanctioned REC Under The Project
(From 4.1.1978 to a.31.1986)
Si.
No% State/Category    O.A.       0.0.      S.P.A.    S.P.I.    S.I.0      Total
-                               flflfl~~~----    --         ------- - -----
1.         2.            3.        4.         S.        6.        7.        8.
1.  Andhra Pradesh       36        64       464         13       110        687
2.   Bihar                2        90        287         -         3        382
3.   Gujarat              -        19        170         3        20       212
4.   Haryana              -        S1         93                  44        198
S.   Karnataka            a        44        269         4        18       341
6.   Krerla              22         4         91         2         -        119
7.   Madhya Pradesh      22        91       486          3         4       806
8.   Maherautra          73        .33       Sif        21        11       653
9.   Orissa               9        76        127         a         8       226
10.  Punjab             108         -       240                    -       348
11.  Rajasthan            7        64       186         27                 283
12.  Tamil Nadu          14         -       344         22         6       386
13.. Utter Pradesh      143        88       311          -        50       692
14. West Bengal          30        62        74                    4       170
-_ -                   _______________________________________---------------
Total:      472       685     3,646       101        278     6,182
_ -                  ___ _             - ---_____________________-----
_ Sch emes sanctioned between 4/1/84 to 3/31/87.



- 22 -
Anne% 2
THMRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Achievemnt Under All REC Schemee
1.                        VIlla.s   Puapeta    H.T. Linoe  L.T. Line-
NO.         Ya.r           Noe.        Nos.        Kuo.         Kos.         D.T.C. KVA   Doe/Coa      L.T. Ind.
1.           2.               3.          4.           5.           6.           7.           8.          9.
ACHSZVEMSNT
1.  1.4.78 to 3X.1.83        69,066     860,636      151,441      224,420     4,701,078    1,359,780     63,461
2.  During 191a - 84         16,751     279,923       38,971       60'o,      1,096,477     278,022      18,202
S.  During 1984 - 06         16,368      334,877      42,067       73,100       975,116     331,924      13,493
4.  During 198S - 86         16,844      384,681      26,713       63,042     1,451,067     376,164      16,477
S.  During 196 - 67         17,455     418,810       30,410       62,271     1,607,474     344,828      22,064
6.  During 1967 - 88         17,626      542,615      31,576       62;148     1,609,778     4e0,697      23,524
Total:    152,130    2,821,244      321,178     545,976    11,340,979    3,161,916     151,211



- 23 -
DOZA
THIRO RNUAL ELECEaRtiCATION III PROJECT
Achievemet Under Eligible .Sceme
(Sanctioned beftee 1.4.76 to 31.3.8s)
St.                        VIllget     Puupet.    H.T. Lines  L.T. Line
No.         Y"r              o.        M.           Km..         Km.          D.T.C. KVA    Ooe/Ce        L.T. T mnd.
t.           2.               6.           4.           S.           6. 4         7..                       9
Total Coverage           71,629    1,7$4,966     235,93       519,741      S,007,S91    1,667,089      82,835
ACHIEVEMT
1.  Up to March 31, 1913     16,676      484,443       68,668      106,"3      2,575,376      654,061       24,713
2.  Ouring 1963 - 64         11,213      276,006        6,902       62,0641      96,184       133,140       6,463
3.  During 1984 - O6         10,526      327,384       19,212       71,750       941,673      273,841        8,137
4.  DOring 1965 - 66          7,416      316,407       24,229       6 ,463     1,314,723      240,593       9,841
5.  During 1966 - 67          6,200      186,137       22,210       52,182       979,674      220,646       9,021
i.  During 1967 - so          2,616       74,666       10,796       39,361       507,996       107,194      4,384
Sub-Total:      37,972    1,160,661      66,346      274,331      4,732,149      975,313      37,836
During 1963 - ")                                                                               ------
G3rand Total :    63,64     1,645,304      1S4,016     392,934      7,307,652    1,629,374      62,549



INDIA
IHIRD R$AAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Uat.rials Required And Materials Procured
Undr IBR1  Lean for Eligible Schee
Conductor (Kne)              Diatribotiom Trans (ICY)             0.1. Wire (I.T.)                N.T. leenleter
State       Required    Received    U       Required    Recelved      X        Requlred   Received    I       Required    Recelved      3
2.            S.           4.       6.        4.           7.         *.        9.          10.      11.       12.          13.       14.
Amdbra Prmadb    260,304      1U1,160    65       734,942      760,076      102       0.,0        2,145     32     866,768       712,80    lP9
liber             90,076        51,090    64      192,464      820,401      166       2,236       3,123    104      260,104      322,000    129
Gujarat            93,027       S,093    65       33a,97r7      16,906       94       2,153       1,004     s0      333,972      607,150   154
Hary...            55,921       39,075    70      243,607      1609,163      a        1,410       1,207     66       74,700       11,060    Is
Kereataha         134,116      161,60"     2      246,721      146,0C0       69       4,326       1,100     27      404,644     317,060    36
INerala            61,26        139,49    39      163,666       62,490       60       1,200           -      -      124,144            -      -
MIdbhy Pradesb    240,624      203,942    as    6s6,*06        623,263      111       6,394       8,163     69      162,132      06,560       9
Uahersebtra       314,029      101,709     34     9066,69       360,611      *0       1,330          60      1      793,317      070,210    04
Otris.             92,160       10,016    20      212,606       90,602       43       2,060          a6      a      292,176      206,916     i1
Punjab            110,266      136,775    30      8133,673     31,650       I33       4,118       1,766     44      860,136      300,060    20
Rasi]@Usa         124,068       72,960    59      304,606      221,260       is       2,572       3,130    146      516,334      353,146    6s
Teah  Nadu        104,286            -     -      30,U32        63,213       27       2,69            -      -      167,724       47,000     20
Ultar Pradesh     2$1,061      133,237    49      922,240      939,775      102       0,07        46,630    106    1,041,444     521,460     51
West Benal         47,544       20,060    42       373,597     129,000       14         906       1,734    376      190,670      261,500    127
Total:   2,146,356    3,193,502     66   5,60,901    4,78,6099        34      49,240      26,770     52   6,021,646    4,163,050      69
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- _   -_ -------------- --------------__



INDIA
THIRD AURAL ELECTIRIFICATION III PROJECT
Materials Ordered and Materials Procured
for Power S/SR under SPA sad St Schemes
-.--------------------------------------
11 KYV 1-h. Auto.         11 KV Switch-Capaciter
Poser Transformer                  Swltch-Goers         Voltage    leoster                000 WAR
Ordered           Recelved          Ordored  Recelved       Ordered   Recelved        Ordered    Recelivd
So.                     _________________________     -----
No.      State          No.       WA      no.       WA
I.         2.            S.       4.       6.       0.         1.         3.           9.          10.          1I.               12.
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__------------------------------------------------
1.   Andbhe Pradesh   8lb        906.0    315      966.0        909       690          300          800        1,000            I.m
2.   Bihar               s0       96.0    s0        90.0        240       240            -             -            -               -
S.   Ourstat             22      185.0     22      155.0        529       129            -             -            -               -
4.   Meryona             69      420.0     09      480.0        433       433            -            _             -                -
S.   Kernstahe           14       70.0      14      70.0        114       114            -             -          100              100
e.    oralte              -          -       -         -          -                                    _-  -        -                -I
1.   Madhya Pradesh      32       90.2     52       90.0         40        40            -            -             -                -
3.   Maharashtra         22       60.4      22      30.4        0t        621            -            -             -                -.
9.   Orissa              63       90.3     43       U.1         1081        2            -             -            -                -
30. Puajab                -          -      -          -          -         -            _             _        .
Is.  Rejeslhen           43      03.2      49       38.2          -         -            -            -             -                -
12.  Tall Nodu          22       39.2     22       39.2        335       336            -            -             -                -
13.  Utter Pradesh      180      779.1    106      779.1        642       542            -             -            -                -
14.  West Bengal          -          -       -         -0                  03            -            -             4                4
Totrl:      600    2039.5    640    2367.3        3416      3236          J00           W00        1.10j            1,104
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________             ----______ __________
I9



- 26 -
Annex 6
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELSCTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Number and Valu- of Orders Placed (Indian)
No. of Orders Placed            Total Value of Orders Placod
SI. _                          __               _ _ __ _                   ----------------
No.  Name of S.E.B.   Original    Subequent    Total          Rn. Million    3 Million
1..  Andhra Pradeeh         54            10         64         716.0           62.6
2.   Bihar                  22             -         22         229.3           21.6
3.   Gujarat                21             -         21         243.8           22.3
4.-  Haryan.                22             -         22         162.1           13.6
5.   Karnataka              37             -         37         31,.8           28.9
6.   Kerala                  7             -          7          64.4            6.1
7.   Madhya Pradenh         74            13         87         450.5           42.1
S.   Maharastra             23             -         23          84.8            7.9
9.   Orissa                 48             -         48  -      329.4           30.6
10. PunJab                  26             -         28         318.6           30.1
11.  Rajo than              26             -         28         162.0           16.0
12.  Toall Nadu             14             -         14          34.0            3.3
13.  Uttar Pradesh          44             -         44-        676.2           51.9
14. We.t Bengal             21             -        '21          99.2            8.9
16.  C.I.R.E.         Building construction of training          12.9            1.0
Center including Hostel A Equipment
furnitures.
Total:        443             23       466         3791.1          346.6
_ _ _ _______ _ _ ___ _ ___________ _ ___________________



INDIA
THIRD RUAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
List of Orders Placed o Foreign Suppli-rs
------------------------------------------
Amount of Order Placed
No.  Nam  of S.E.B.                   MVterial                    Order Placed On             (as Millie.)         (3 Millioe)
1.   Andrs Pradesh       (1) 11 KV Pole Mousted             V/S Toepl Electric                     16.418 )            1.313 )
Automatic Switch Capacitor    Mrs. Co. Japan                                 ) 28.066           ) 2.248
a phase, 60 Hl                                                               )                  )
(11) 11 NV Capacitor Donk                                                 11.008 )            0.933 )
S phase, 60 HZ, O00 KXVR
11 XV Autereclosnrn            M/S Brush Switcheomrr                 17.008              1.330
Eanland
LT Aerial BuacedK Cables       N/S Maki* Cable.
Corp. Fialsad
(1) I X 16 * 26 Sq I                                                        .777             0.302) 
(11) 2 X I  * 26 Sq MM                                                     3.9-996  30.279    1.619   2.421
(111) a X Is * 26 Sq Mu                                                      7.606              0.5W
2.  Mar-tons             (i) 132 KV SF O  aso               U/S Sprecher A Sehub Ltd.               2.226 )            0.139)
Circuit Breaker                Switarl                                       )                  i
}  2.862           } 0.200
(1i) I set of Spres o.io }                                                                     0.009)
(li) I Ca asillies cart                                                    0.027 }             0.002 }
3.   Karmatabs           (1) 31 KV NO MVAR                  U/S Togmi Electric                      1.766 } a          0.145 )
Capacitor Bash                 Mfg. Co. Japan                                }  8.099           ) 0.670
(I ) 11 XV topecitor BInh                                                   1.068 )            0.137 }
(Ii) 33 NV Autoreclosers                                                    4.68               0.3  )
4.   Tasil Nadu          (I) It KV SF-O Gas                  M/S Sprocher A Sehub Ltd.              0.90 )             0.10[ )
Circuit Broeker                Switzerland                                   )  1.406 6           0.149
(it) I set of Spares                                                        0.407 }            0.048 }
6.   Maharashtra         (1) 1IKV Pole Mounted Vaccum        M/S Togami Electric                    4.386              0.301 31
Drealer Sectionalizer          Mrg. Co. Japan                                )  6.860           ) 0.080
(Ii) Control Waly                                                           1.201 )            0.0 9 9
(iii) Fault Indicator                                         *              0.206 )            0.017 )
(IV) I got of Spares                                                        0.0   )            0.006 }
(i) 1I IY YVeccum Bre&k            U/S McGraw Edison. Co.                 6.687               0.642 )
Autorclosers                   U.S.A.                                        }  8.32            } 0.688
(ii) 1 sat of Spares                                                        1.776 )            0.146 }



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Amount of Order Placed
SI.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                         _
No.  Name of S.E.B.                       Material                      Order Placed On               (Rs Million)            (I Million)
6.   Utter Pradesh         (i) 11 KY VYccus Type                  MIS McGraw Edison, Co.                    6.881                0.466
Autoreclosers                     Creece
7.   West Bengal           (i) 11 KV Automatic Line               M/S Togr-l Electric                       2.833 }              0.227 }
Sectlonliz.ore                    Mfg. Co. Japan                                   )
(I) 11 KV Autorocloser                                                            0.66}               d.o46 }
(O .D  Type)                                                                       )  3.e03             ) 0.289
(Illi) 11 KY 8 phase 600 KVAR                                                      0.139 )             0.011 )
switch copecitor                                                                   )                    )
(IV) 11 KY Single Phase                                                           0.074 }             0.006 O
100 KVAR Capacitor
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__------------------------------------------------
Grand Total:              110.992                8.071
!fl



-29 -                                            Annex 8
SNDSA_
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Range of Prieo Veriation (Percent) Paid
by Boards for MaterieTl for which Price
Variation Clause was Provided
Materiel
No.      S.E.D                 Conductor        Trano  rm.rs
1.   Andhra Pradesh            6.7 to 30         8.3 to 20
2.   Bihar                      18 to 30             20
3.   Gujarat                     4 to 30           3 to 16.7
4.   Haryana                     2 to 30             -
S.   Karnataka                   4 to 30             20
6.   Korala                    9.2 to 80         8.2 to 12
7.   Madhya Pradesh            8.7 to 30         8.1 to 16
6.   iahsrahtr                  18 to 30           7 to 20
9.   Orissa                      3 to 30         8.3 to 20
10.  Punjab                    9.2 to 30         2.6 to 20
11.  Rejasthen                   8 to 30           6 to 10.6
12.  Tamil Nadu                                      16
13.  Uttar Pradesh               9 to 30           2 to 20
14.  Weet Bengal               8.4 to 30           2 to 11.2



lINDIA
I161RD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Statement Showing Yoer - Wise Uti Iitetlo. of IBRD Loan 1.. 2166-IN
1982-S3  393  -  04       i984  - 86        195   -  86         19i0   -  *? i       - 19  - as       in00    - *0              Total
So.                  - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -    -- - - - - -  ---  -- - - - - - ---    -- -------.--     ----------__--_--__--.__ ---------------  _________ ________-
. 1Nam  of S.E..  Re. 3  Re.             *      as       9       Re          S       it         I        Re        2       Re .       0       as         2
1. Andhr Pradesh    -   -  28.129   2.619    64.234   S.313   203.167  16.643    124.004   9.770   166.380  12.063   162.59  10.626    727.604   56.093
2.  ther              -   -        -       -     4.01   0.3 0      44.131   *.581      36.916   2.822    61.032   5.232    31.108   2.004    189.651    14.707
S. Gujart                 -        -            31.063   2.684    06.822 *.430         04.426   0.011    64.117   4.s60    11.156   0.7186    261.0s2   20.47J
4.  Hary.n.               -   0.65  0.036    16.830   1.442        12.120   0.900      65.937   4.436    46.6aC    3.676     8.472   0.260   134.412   10.140
5. Karattaks          -   _     .13   0.64    19.200   1.067        71.S3l  0.386    100.4086   7.12    6a.964   4.406       8.437  0.442    26e.66    21.84
S. Korb a             -   -        -       -     2.31   0.211       43.436   *.666     10.490   1.020      1.099   0.066          -       -      0.6"2    6.103
7.  I   Ndho Prdh    -   -         -       -   126.219  10.606    176.0"6  14.860    111.482   8.603       7.932   0.026    24.603   1.162    446.122  3a6416
S. meh arhtrs         -   -  21.478   1.094    00.612   6.011      90.401   0.080      54.140   4.275    04.408   6.622    19.241   1.407    330.600   2J.209
9. 0    .                                        3. 64   0.206       1.161   0.631     16.009   1.203    29.140   2.260      3.100   0.222      60.633    4.116
10. PeIab-                    11.706   1.606    40.821   4.064     19.240   6.444    90.162   7.717    36.306   2.743        8.631   0.459    286.065   20.102
i1  Re tthn           -   -        -       -    24.490   2.207     41.029   3.427      81.024   4.766    40.224   0.671    12. A"   0.064    105."03   14.034
12. l.a11 NHdu        -   -        -       -     2 083   0.179      9.319   0.783       0.622   0.670     0.480   0.663      4.066   0.306      32.669    2.690
13. Utter Pradesh     -   -        -       -    60.329   6.483    136.618  11.064    220.189  13.002   109.973   0.48?    31.569   2.234    1O3.660   4S.270
14. Wet Bengal                     -       -     8.662   0.640     10.401   0.648      14.726   1.180    29.039   2.265    21.510   1.509       02.417    6.430
16  C. IR.E.                  0.103   0.010         -       -      0.562   0.045           -       -      9.404   0.730     2.849   0.193      12.910    0.903
---------------------                          - -- --  - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - --  -- -----------       --  -- - ----  -- -     -- - - - -- - - -
Total:     -     - 76.026   7. OOi419ii.636  40.861   1006.i64  02.242   1010.468  79.474   750.756  56.1is    33i.722  2i.131   3669.202 291.000
ti



1lAl
THIRD RURAL ELEC1UIFICATION III PROJECT
Villa1e Electriflcatloa mudr 6EC Pfroa
-----------------------------------------
1983-14              1984-86              1966-SB              1904-87              1987-3*               1911--9
So.       State/                      Achieve              Achieve              Achieve               Achblve              Achiev               Achieve
No. Union Territory        Target    amto       Target    mets       Target      mete    Target       ments    Target.    memnl      Target    meets
l.          2.               a.         4.        S.         6.        1.         6.        9.          10.       1t.        12.       13.        14.
---_-------------------------------------------------------------------__----__-------------------------_.-_-------------------------------------------
1.  Andhro Prndesh            812        961     1,100      1,144       640        804       700         906       O1C      1,070       600      1.260
2.  Arunachal Pradesb           -          -         -          -         -          -          -          -                   71        i0         9C
3.  Asses                     960      1,919     2,000      2,190       966      1,620     1,150       1,408     1,186      1,190     1,066      1,010
4.  Oiber                   2,500      3,461     1,500        001     1,976      2,117     2,076       3,120     2,200      2,307     3,342      2,706
6.  GuJarat                   000       065        720        963       764        799       760         6f9       17J        410         -         26
6.  Hlryaa                      0          -         0          0         -          0          -          0         -          0         -           0
7.  Hlarchal Pradesh          700        769       636        "01       400        701       600         026       440        634         -         45
O.  Jame Kashmir              315        264       171       11        300         so        100        117       110        101       120          69
9.  Karnataka                 29         703     1,030      1,455       413        913       442       1,226       648        746         -         313
10. Kerala                      0          -         -          0         -          0          -          0         -          0         -           0
11. Madbys Pradesh          3,100      3,J74     2,900      3,030     2,608      3.279     2,700       3,709     2,060      3,929     2,700      4,3a7    U
12. Mabar.shLtr               160        822       81        s10       500        601       460         602       500        787       460    .1,060
13. Milpuor                    60         76        50         61       100         36         77         is        91         98        108        112    a
14. Ileghalaya                195        141       16         124       146         69       212          76       224        225       200         315
16. Vizoras                     -          -         -          -         -          -          -          -         -         49         66         CC
10. Magoland                   27         43        23         74        37         06         *1         85        41        170          -         26
17. On.ss                   1,210      1,121     1,210      1,240     1,616      1,108      1,359.     1,303     1,380      1.,16      1,200      1,341
11. Punjnb                      0          -         -          0         -          0          - ,        0         -          0          -          0
19. Roieathan                 800      1,206       900      1,244     1,000      1,127        872      1.126       980      1,097        932      1,442
20. Sikkim                      4         36        62         35        46          32        26         20    , 29           40         2e         S1
21. Taml NEadu                 24         28        10          8         9           -         -          4         -          0          -          0
22. Tripura                   300        206       180        t6o        110        160       141        169       146         155       t60        123
25. Utter Pradesh           3,200      8,329     2,900      3,420     4,002      3,676      3,610      3,604     4,080      4,196      2,300      2.483
24. West Bengal             1,780        706       960        II6     2,180       1,318     2,304      1,342     2,376      1,573      1,800      1,649
Total:      17,716     20,186    17,206     19,046    17,799    13,696    10,120       20,289    18,072     20,369    15.000      13,529
I Sag achievement
over target             114                  111                  104                   112                  113                   124
0 *11 villagee have been slectrified.



- 32 -
.  .  .. .               ~~~~~Anaci  11
INDIA
THIRO RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Progross in Electelfication of tiltages
(As of March 31, 1909)
_______________~~-----                     - -__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ -  _--- ___________-- ---- _- _ _
Total No. of                AchIvoement up to
SI.       States/                 villgeso                       $1.8.1969
No.  Union-Territories          (1931 Census)                (S age covered)
1.   AndhrsPrde'sh                    27,379                  27,030 t 985.  )
2.   Arunachal Pradesh                 3,267                    1.179    36.2  )
3.  Asses                             21,995  9                19,545 C 6.9 
4.  B3har                             07,648                   43,740 (64.5 )(s)
S.   Coo                                 3M                      J77 (100.0 )(e)
6.  Gujerat                           16,114                   17,192 (100.0 )(.)
7.   Haryans                           0,746                   0,745 (100.0)
.   Hilmachal Pradesh                 10,807                   10,761 (100.0 )(.)
9.   Jauin a Kashmir                   0,477                   0,074 ( 93.8 )t-)
10. Karnotaka                         27,023                  26,43 (100.0 
11. Koerls                             1,219                   1,219 (100.0)
12. Madhya Pradesh                    71,362                   55,965  ( 76.4 )(e)
13. Maharashtra                       39,364                    9,1lo6 (100.0 )(.)
14. Manipur                            2,036                    1,067 ( 61.9 )(.)
1s. Meghelsy.                          4,902                    1,937 ,( 39.6 )(5 )
1a. tdizorom                             721                      307 C42.0 
17. Negrland                           1,112                    1,087    9.7 )
13. Orison                            44,663                  29,180 ( 62.7 )
19. Punjab                            12,342                   12,342 (100.0 )
20. Rajasthan                         34,963                   24,373   0 3.7)
21. Silkki                               440                      333 ( 76.7 )
22. Tamil Nadu                        i6,097                   15,513 C 999 )
23. Tripurs                              866 (4,727 as per      2,464 ( 61.9 )(e)
1971 Census)
24. Utter Pradegh                    112,666                   78,026 (686.  )-
21. Went Bengal                       26,024                   24,866 ( 65.1 )
Total (States)                578,008                 454,402 t 76.6 )
Total (U.Ts.)                  1,123                   1,088 ( 97.0 )
Total (All-Indl)               579,132                 466,491 ( 78.7 )
() - 1981 census was not hold.
(-) - As per 1971 census.
.) - Baaonce village* non-feasiblo.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Puspoet Energiaction Under REC Program
1913-94              1984-86               1986-8                19O-U7                1937-S0  .            198-09
;1.      States/                     Achieve               Achieve               Achieve               Achieve               Achlevw                Achieve
lo. Union Territories    Target      sento    Target       ents      Target      meent     Target      mante     Target      set.      Target      meats
i.         2.                3.          4*       B.          6.        7.          S.        9.         10.        it.         12.       13.         14.
Andhra Predeab        24,200      45,050   44,200       66,380   06,120       79,810   63,000       94,203    70.000     117,135    90,000      97,071
A 1runachal Pradesh             -          -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -            -         -
Asss                         9n0        228       900         126       500          74       4J4         114       600          119       300          T0
hliar                     26,500      3,Sb     6,000        3,236    12,000       9,733   20,000       12,646    10,000       *.268   20,000        16,002
Oujerat               21,950      10,42?    10,000      17,638   25,000       23,008    20,000. - 11,194    23,000        40,296    40.000      29,150
Harysas               16,000      10,006    11,000      10,351    10,740       9,962    9,110       16,746    18,620      26,313    10,000       6,420
Hi,schel Prdesh          100         13J       100         106        60          a6        60         Ito        70         269        00          174
J_ u& Kashmir             69          69        70          74        60          36        60          69       100         114       100         IN3
Kernatee F17,620                  34,396   20,810       40,424    37,000      46,093    38,730      46,403    39,600      40,"06     5,600       44,000
0. Kerats                  9,690       0,506    10,300      11,443   10,000       11,941   16,000       13,096    16,000      18,304     5,600      165004
1  Madbys Predesh         31,&90      34,437   26,000       38,657    36,000      40,200   36,000       43,345    40,000     65,116    61,600       .99,303
2  Mbsersshtra            31,000      33,770   32,000       63,049   63,000       63,053    40,500      61,039    43,500     106,000     5,o000    120,003
3  Manipur                                 9        10          12        15           6 
4. ehee|                                   - _       _3s                  s 20                   _ -                   _           _         _           _
6.  Muonsr                     -           -         -           -         -           _         _           _         _           _         _          
N. NlaouSed                    _           _         -                                                                            t o -  -  -    -  -    -
7. 0r es                   7,900       2,962     4,230       0,101     7,075       2,415     4,723       2,050     4,746       2,39      7,120       3,773
. .Punjab                 25,000      47,646   26,790       26,378   26,000       34,600    20,000      50,150    00,000      22,241    17,336      21,300
0 .Rlajatha                9,000      11,120    8,460       17,671   10,000       10,600    9,400        9,014   1O,O00       12,2n0    11,000       1S,379
0. SlIkim                      -           -         -           -         -           -         _           _         _            _
1 .las  made              15',30      13,067    7,600       32,164    27,760      31,740   27,750       $2,026    30,760      61,104    45,000      611435
2. Triprea                   200          07       100          19        60          30        90          91        43         0de        656
3  Uttsr Pradesh          31,000      17,657   20,250       20,133   61,000       26,239    27,000      25,560    15,000      20,190    20,000       22,047
4  West Bongal             0,S0        4,110    9,600        7,323    15,000       0,295    17,000       4,029    10,100       7,553    165000        0,n97
Total:     216,439    230,434   240,270      335,237   336,378     384,806   147,97      419,262   360,920      643,097   426,000    652,924
iage achievement
ever terSet.             301                  I1s                    100                   120                   130                    Igo
.___________ ____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ ___________ ____________ ____________ ____________ _______---_-_     ------------_________



- 34 -
Annex 13
INfIA . -
THIRO RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Progrss in tho Energization of
Electric I.P. Sets
(As of March 31, 1989)
Eotimte Ultiate             Achiovement
SI.       States/              Potential in Toro           up to 31.3.1989
No. Union Territories          of Eloctrie I.P seto        (3 age covered)
1.          2.                      3.                         4.
1.  Andhra Prndeh                 1,600,000                1,044,067 ( 69.6 )
2.  Arunachal Pradesh                                    -         -
3.  Assae                           200,000                    3,333    1.7 )
4.  Bihor                         1,000,000                  241,247 ( 24.1 )
S.  a"                                  (-)                    3,471
6.  l4arJew                         600,000                  406,289 ( 61.7 )
7.  l4aryan                         250,000                  332,176 (132.9 )
6.  Himchal Prodesh                  10,000                    3,100 t 31.1 )
9.  Jam_  A Kashmir                  15,000                    1,76 ( 12.5 )
10. Kernataa                        600,000                  632,116 (106.4 )
11. Keraol                          160,000                  191,261 (127.5 )
12.  Madhya Pradesh               1,300,000                  711,436 ( 54.7 )
13.  Mahorashtra                    900,000                1,388,50k (164.4 )
14. Manipur                          10,000                       46 ( 0.45 )
15. Meghalaya                        10,000                       66 ( 0.65 )
Is. Mizoram
17. Nagalond                         10,000                       22 ( 0.22 )
16.  Orisa                          500,000                   42,409 ( 6.6 )
19. Punjab                          600,000                  535,601 (107.1 )
20. Raj athan                      600,000                   326,202 ( U4.4 )
21. Sikkim                            5,000                        -
22. Tr.il Nadu                    1,000,000                1,235,941 (123.6 )
23. Tripura                          10,000                    1,240 ( 12.5 )
24. Utter Pradesh                 2,400,000                  016,014 ( 25.7 )
25. West Bengal                     600,000                   69,401 ( 13.9 )
Total (Stats.)            11,97p,000                7,786,546 ( 865.1 )
Total (U.Ta.)                30,000                   30,503 (101.7 )
Total (All-India)           12,000,000                7,319,049 (  65.)
. - Potentiel of Ga  State Included in total (UT*).



- 35 -
Annex 1
TNIRD RURAL wiCTRSinCAToN S1S PROJiaCT
De" Service Coveesge ond Operating Ratio
(Rs in million)
I.  Debt Service Coverage                      193-84    1904-8       19os-so     1938-67     1987-8S     1988-89
(a) nterqa l ly.Q.norsted Funde
I) Total (interest) income          97.5       1152.9     1342.2      1715.0      2223.7      2864.7
ti) Repa)mnt of loan by S903         552.0      G".0        623.6       641.0       9e5.4      17l3.6
ii) DOpreinCtion                       1.7        2.3         2.3         2.2         1.7         1.7
Sub-Total:   1532.2      1301.2      1973.0    2a56.2        3160.9      4619.9
Less
AdInistrtive, expenses                      42.7        62.4       74.4        55.1       60.9         74.2
Dividnd                                     13.0       -14.1       16.1        19.7        21.6        24.7
Income-Tex                                  32.5       66.9        70.5       102.8       137.3       194.0
Sub-Total:    138.2       163.4       161.0       176.6       228.2       292.9
Net internslly gnerated funds             1394.0      1647.6      1812.0     2831.6      2952.6      4327.0
(b) Debt Service Reqiremnt.
i) Repayment of Ie no by REC        207.4      311.7       449.3       *13.4       582.2       747.8
Interet charge. reayable            729.5      678.1      1033.1      1316.9      1716.5      2183.5
by NEC
Sub-Total:    934.9      1229.3      1482.4      1830.3      2296.7      2931.3
itt) Ratio of (a) to (b)               1.49       1.34        1.22        1.30        1.21        1.48
iv) Requirement as per project      .................................... .1.......................
agreement
ii.  Oporating Ratio
t) Administrativo expene                 42.7        $2.4        74.4        55.1        68.9        74.2
ii) Interest chages on loans             729.5       376.1      1033.1      1316.9      1716.5      2183.5
Sub-Total:    772.2       030.5      1107.5      1372.0      1785.4      2257.7
Ill) Ratio (II) to inter"t                 0.79        0.81        0.62        0.80        0.80        0.79
charges received
iv) Requirement as per project ................... nor netr than              0.90 .
_greemet



- 36 -
Annes 15
THIRD RURAL ELECMRIFICATION III PROJECT
ProJ ect Cost Et imate
(Re in millions)                   (USS in millions)
Normal   SPA Scheme         Foreign      Local        Total       Foreign      Local        Total
1..                   2.          5.            4.          5.          6.           7.
Conductor                     2,019        5,010        6,547       206.5        312.5       520.8
Dist. Transmision               640        1,630        2,132        43.4        180.2       173.6
H.T. Insulator                     -         S4"          546           -         48.4        43.4
C.?. Wire                       164          491          n6E        15.0         59.1        52.1
Pole                               -        ,274        5,274           -        260.5       260.6
Other Materials                   -        4,268        4,256 -i        -        33.6        883.6
Labor A Transport                 -        2,019        2,619           -        208.4       206.4
Overheads                         -        ,74          1,74S           -        136.9       138.9
Total:           5,329      16,406        21,026       264.7      1471.6       1756.5
S. . Schems
Conductor                       106         10           266         6.5         12.7        21.2
Transformer                      44          153          177         5.6         10.6        14.1
Sw. Gears                        16           26           44         1.4         2.1          3.5
So. Capacitor                    44            -           44         3.5            -         3.5
Other Cost                        -          355          356           -        28.3         2.83
Total:             212         675           say        16.9        55.7         70.6
Training Facility                 -           16           t6           -          1.4         1.4
Total Project Cost            3,541       19,171       22,712       281.6      1525.3       1606.9



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION III PROJECT
Program-wide Disbursement of Funds to Eligible SEBr
---------------------------------------------------------------__-
--------------------------------------------------------------------------__-__---------------
Eligiblo
Nam  of Program   1983-84  1984-85  1986-06           1980-87         1987-88        Total      Cost
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---------------
Normal               1,101      S18    1,366           1.547           2,611         7,333      6,818 *
SPA                 2,044    1,898    3,200            2,814          6,591         15,607    16,607
SI                       -        -        o0            346             481          8so         887
-----------_---------------------------------------------------------__-----
Total     8,146    2,676    4,016            4,707           6,6s3        23,727    22,712
* 85X of the normal program Is eligible.
Coat Breoaktp for REC Scheme
Norml SPA Scheme                                                                Si Schem
X of total       Amt. In Millions                 St.                    X of total        Amt. In millions
Itoas         cost            Re             US *              No.         Items        cost             Re        US J                    -4
1. Conductor                   30.0            6,547           520.6            1. Conductor                30.0        268      21.2
2. blot. Tranamiaslon          10.0            2,162           173.0            2. Transforomr              20.0        177      14.1
3. HNT.  Insulator              2.6               646           43.4            S. So. Gear                  6.0         44       3.s
4. 0.1. Wire                    J.0               665           52.1            4. Sw. Capacitor             6.0         44       8.6
6. Poles                       16.0             3,274          260.5            6. Other Cost               40.0        356      28.3
6. Other MaterIal              19.5             4,26           836.6                            --
7. Labor and                   12.0            2,019           208.4                       Totsl:          100.0        687      70.0
Transportation                                                                                               I
S. Overhoad                     8.0             1,746          138.9
Totol:        100.0           21,826         1736.3



3 g8 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2165-IN)
PART III: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1
Related Bank Credits/Loans
Amount
No.         Year         Borrower    ObJective                              (US$)
572-IN      1975        GOI          Rural electrification                  57.0
911-IN      1979        GOI          Rural electrification                 175.0



- 39 -
Table 2
Proiect Timetable
Original Date           Actual Date
Appraisal Mission                   05103/81                 05103181
Negotiations                        04/16/82                 04/16/82
Board Approval                      06/01/82                 06/01/82
Loan Signature                      06/22/82                 06/22/82
Loan Effectiveness                  10/21/82                 10/21/82
Closing Date                        06/30/86                 06/30/88
Date of Last Disburs.               02/03/89



- 40 -
Table I
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
Year              Estimated                 Actual             2 3st./Actual
FY 1983 IV            7                       1.7                    24
1984 I            21                       9.3                   44
II           49                      20.4                    42
III           88                      25.5                    29
IV          141                      33.9                    24
1985 I           188                      51.0                   27
II          221                      68.3                    31
III          247                      84.0                    34
IV          267                     103.8                    39
1986 I           285                    132.3                    46
II          294                     146.6                    50
III          297                     161.7                    54
IV          300                     176.7                    54
1987 I                                  211.4                    70
II-                                 222.4                    74
III                                  240.3                    80
IV                                  255.0                   85
1988 I                                  267.3                    89
II                                  274.5                    92
III                                  282.3                    94
IV                                  287.1                    96
1989 I                                  295.5                    99



- 41 -
Table 4
Prolect Implementation Indicators
Indicator                 ADpr. Est.                     Actual
Expenditures on rural   1780 previously approved         1780 previously
electrification          schemes and 1700 new schemes   approved schemes
schemes                 by FY 85                         and 6220 new schemes
until June 1988
Expenditures on          110 schemes by end of           332 schemes until
system improvement      FY 85                            June 1988
schemes
Purchase of equip-       Eqa4pment to be purchased
ment for the Central    by FY 86                         Purchased by 1988
Training Institute
Coenntary                Due to slow disbursement with 59Z only disbursed until
end of FY 1986, project completion date was extended
by two years. As a result many additional new schemes
could be covered.



. 42 -
Table 5
Proiect Costs
(in mllion Rt or US$)
Appraisal get.
For.      Local       Total        Total
(Re)        (Rs)         (Rs)       (US$)
RBC Scheme.                       695.0      4070.0      4,765.0        595.6
SI Schema                          55.0       345.0        400.0        50.0
Training Facility                  --          12.0         12.0          1.5
750.0      4427.0      5177.0        647.1
Physical Contingency               --           1.0          1.0          0.2
Price Contingency                 166.0       982.0       1148.0       143.5
Total Project Cost                915.0      5410.0       6326.0       790.8
Front-end Fee                      36.0        --           36.0          4.5
TOTAL FINNCIN
RzQUIUZD                          952.0      5410.0       6362.0       795.3



- 43 -
Table 6
Project Financin&
(USS mllion)
Source           ADraisal Est.                  Actual
IBRD                        300.0.1                  295.5 a/
COx                         495.3b/                 1517.8 b/
*j To cover the purchase of 902 of the conductors, distributors.
transformers, high-tension insulators. GI wires, power transforers and 70 S
of the construction and equipment costs of the eC training center.
b/ MWstly local expenditures.



- 44 -
Table 7
Protect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Eat.                                  Actual
Lower energy cost to consumers              As anticipated in the SARL
relative to energy alternatives to          -lower energy costs in rural areas
electrLcity.                                -increased food production
-better quality of life and employ-
Growth in the rural economy,                ment opportunities
particularly.                               -growth in the rural economy.
B. Economic Impact
ERR              Apraisal Est.                    Actual
53Z                       Negative
C. Financial Impact
FRR             At Appraisal                      Actual
Negative                      Negative
D. Studies
None required.
Z. Training Facility
The Project renovated the Central Training Institute, which held a number of
training courses, as detailed in Part II of the PCR.



- 45 -
Annez 1
Page 1 of 4
Economic Analysis
The PCR selected 15 RE scheme In 14 States for a sample study of the
economic  impact of the Project.   Pages 2 and 3 of this Annez give the basil
data for the scheme. Long-run marginal cost estimates have boeen adjusted on
the basis of the Bank's report 'Long Term Issues in the Power Sector Study*.
Page 4 details the results.
Power consumption In village pumpsets is about 86Z of total rural power
consumption. A typical village has an Installed capacity of about 75 kW and
the level of utilization Is about 93,400 kWh annually. A representative user
profile may be 20 domstli/comercial consumers, 16.6 electric pump owners
and one industial consumer.



U46-                                   Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
REC III   BASIC DATA SHEIT (in 1988/89 prices)
............................
1        2        3         4        5         6         7        8
State                                                       Bihar Gujarat  Andhra Pr Karnatak KaraLe       MP      Maharash Maharash
Type                                                         a9       PA       SPA       09      oA       o0         SPA      QA
Cod.                                                        30199    40362    10695    80154    90101   10063?   110542   110633
Year of sanetfon                                          1980-81  1984-63  1984-85  1981-82  1982-83  1982-83  1983-84  1983-84
No.of consumers  Omestic & Commercial:                        578       71       189     1778      1300      325                 111
Cansuuer cap cnt: Rs./per eapfta                            471.5    629.0    471.8    314.5    786.3    314.5                314.5
No of Agriculture.(pwps) consumers:                           137      400       592      148       120       81       568      250
Consumer cap cost:                                          11043    13200    13200    13200    11043    11043    11043    11043
No of LT fndustries:                                           73                  1       31       30         6                  4
Per Industry cap  ost: Res.                                 21244              21244    21244    21244    21244               21244
oDrCor consvmer        kw                                   0.30     0.40      0.30     0.20      0.50     0.20               0.20
Agrfculture            kw                                   2.24     3.73      3.73     3.73     2.24      2.24      2.24     2.24
Industrfes             kw                                  7.46      7.46     7.46      7.46     7.46      7.46               7.46
Om/Con conuoars        hra                                  1051      425       800      700       900      700               1300
Agrfculture           hbs                                    876      450       750      800      800       876       876      876
Industries             hre                                 1314       400     1300      1051     1700       800               1051
Da/Cor conpiners   teriff                                  0.68S    0.733    0.700    0.921    0.575    0.493                0.596
Agrfiulture          tarfff                                0.094    0.277    0.045    0.116    0.220    0.232    0.090    0.090
Industrfes           tarfff                               1.682    1.138    0.830    1.005    0.600    0.870                 0.760
lCom consuors Rs/on lnrps            Fuel alt             346.S    462.0    212.4    231.0    177.5    231.0                 231.0
Agriculture        Rs/par pAW       Fuel Olt               15008    11508    15508    15508    15508    15008    15008    15008
Industrfes:       Is/per PW         fue lIt               28100              20880    28100    28100    28100                28100
Fuel cost: Oo/Com           * lttrs                           279      150       266      124      398       124                230
*s./litre                        3.1       3.1      3.1       3.1      3.1       3.1                3.1
Agrfeulture Rs. eonur                            3145      2702     3503     3736      2872     3145      3145      3145
Industries  Rs. consuer                         13232              13091    10584    17119      8056              10584
LRNC (NT stply to the *chamns)                               1.98     1.47      1.43     1.22      1.38     1.63      1.41     1.41
Cap cost  State ilectiffty Boards                          Rs. MN
Year 1                          7.84    36.36    19.71    24.56   30.297    10.69    25.14    2.495
Yer 2                           6.49    21.81    19.77       9.68    5.025      7.49    11.94      7.83
Tear 3                         12.05               9.60    12.08      1.99    14.35    14.01    9.607
Year 4                          8.00               0.18      6.29               3.72     1.47    4.574
Year 5                          2.87                         S.99               3.15
Year 6                          8.19                         S.99
Year 7                                                      2.52
Year 8                                                      6.79



Annex  .
PaSe 3  of 4
AEC III BASIC DATA SHEET (in 1988/89 prfces
............................
8        9       10       11        12       13       14       15
State                                                   Mahareah Orisa   PtnIab   Rajustan  TamU N   UP          we     Haryana
Type                                                      CA      PA        CA       0         OA      0U       OA       $PA
Code                                                     110633   150180   160205   170301   18040?   200324   Z10220  050151
year of sanction                                        1983-84  1981.82  198128  1982U83  1983-84  190-81  1981-82  198283
No.of consumers  Domestic & Commercfal:                     III       15      954      627      1876      337     n7        1153
Consmur cap cost: Rs./per capita                          314.5    393.0   943.5    393.0    629.0    471.8    629.0    314.5
No of Agriculture (pumps) consumers:                        250      170      732      132       216      137      165      850
Consumer cap cost:                                        11043    11043    13200    13200    13200    17776    13200    13200
No of at  Industri.s:                                         4        1       25       17        48       18       39        11
Por tndustry cp cost: Rs.                                 21244    21244    21244    21244    21244    21244    21244    21244
DoamCam consumers    ku                                   0.20     0.25     0.60     0.25      0.40     0.30     0.40     0.20
Agricutture           kw                                  2.24     2.24     3.73     3.73      3.73     5.60     3.73     3.73
IndLstries            kw                                 7.46      7.46     7.46     7.46     T.46      7.46     I.46     7.46
com/Can consumers     hrs                                 1300      880      876      701       900     1000      963      964
Agriculture           hrs                                  876     1050     1750      876      1000      800     1050      964
Industrf4s            hrs                                 1051     1050      613      876     1000      1000    1139       613
DOm/Coa consumers   tariff                               0.596    0.584    0.761    0.730    0.683    0.714    0.700    0.691
Agriculture         torfff                               0.090    0.221     0.092    o.m      0.112    0.227    0.269    0.280
Industries          tariff                              0.760    0.533    0.726    0.537    0.954    0.966    0.759    1.000
0oWCa  consuners Rs/on laps Fttl *tt                     231.0    289.0   693.0   289.0   462.0    346.5    462.0    231.0
Agrfculture       Rs/per pusp      Fuet at               15008    15008    15508    15508    1S508    21571    15508  . 15508
tnrdstrfes:       Rs/per pLOp      Fuel alt             28100    28100    28100    28100    28100    28100    28100    28100
4    Fust cost: Com/Cam         9 litres                         230      195      46S      155      319       266      341      171
RS./littr                       3.1      3.1       3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1       3.1
Agriculture Rs. c     r                        314       4904     8173     4091     U70      5752      4904     4502
Industrfes  Rs. consumer                      10584    10584     6173       21    10070    10070    11470       6173
LIWC (MT supply to the smes)                               1.41     1.42     1.54     1.55      1.7?     1.42     1.58     1.n
Cop cast State ltecticity Boards
Year 1                        2.499     4.77     8.04    13.10    26.32    20.67    25.14    31.52
Year 2                         7.83     4.90     6.00      8.57     7.24    11.27    23.53      7.05
Year 3                        9.607     3.46     5.73    10.15      2.46     8.04     5.17    37.23
Yiar 4                        4.574     3.59     5.60      7.09     8.47     7.98    10.19      2.4
Year 5                                  0.97     2.79      5.67                       5.01     6.66
Tear 6                                           2.39                                 3.18
Year 7                                                                                4.96
Year 8



48  -                                  Annex  I
Page 4 of 4
RE lli- PCR
ERRs of the 15 Schemes, for each Case plus sensitivity analysis of Case 6
State          Type of   Total   Case I   Case 2   Case 3   Case 4   Case 5    Case 6   Case 6   Case 6   Case 6,
scheme  number                                                   Average    Peak  Off-peak    50/50
t Bihar             cO         13      9.3%      neg      neS       teg      neg       neg       neg     21.8%    -3.4%
Z Gujarat            SPA        7     20.1%      nag       nog      neg       9.5%    -2.3%      nog      9.7%      1.6%
3 Andhra Pradesh    SPA        18     34.5%      neg       neg      neg       7.5%     new       neg     12.1%      neg
4 Karnotaka          09        In      15.9%     nag       neg      nag       8.2%     neg       neg      9.4%      1.7%
S Kerala            OA         13     86.2%      neg      10.0%     n"a     33.4%      7.1%      nag     32.4%    13.3%
& Madhya Pradesh    03          3       nag      ng        ng       ng        nag      neg       neg     -0.7%      neg
t Maharnsthra        SPA       12      76.5%     nag       1.9%     neg     21.7%    -1.4%       neg     16.5%      4.3%
l Maharasthra        OA         6      78.6%     neg       2.7%     nag      22.9%    -0.4%      neg     18.1%      5.
9;Orissa             SPA        4    100.0%      nag       9.7%     nag     33.9X      6.8%      neg     23.6      11.
t Punjab             OA         59    100.0%    ne         ng        neg      na        nag       neg     23.3%
tt Ralastan          08          8      9.4%      ng       nag       nag      nag       neg       nag      6.8%      neg
IZ Tamil Nadu        OA         20     34.3%      neg       neg      nag      8.4%    neg         nag     21.5%      ne
t3 Uttar Pradesh     08          9      14.5%     neg      neg       nag      3.9%      nag       nag      9.0%      n-
4 West Bengal        OA         13      8.7%      neg      neg       neg      nag       nag      neg       6.6%      neg
tS Haryana           SPA        36     22.6%      neg      neg       nag      neg       neg       neg     14.2%    neg
231     51.2%               5.9%              14.7%      2.0%     neg      17.4%     4.4%
Case 1: Energy demand Is inelastic with respect to price, or the area haU reached saturatfon by using
alternative energy. The demand for the project output is fully due to conversion of existing or expected
alternative energy users. Maximua value of benefits.
Case 2: Energy demand is due solely to first time users of any form of energy and the observed value of electricity
to these consumers is their total cost of running the electric alternative. Minima value of benefits.
Case 3: The demand curve is linear, with tne upper value limit represented by the full cost of alternative energy
(Case 1) and the minimun value by the cost of electricity (Case 2).
Case 4: The demand curve is concave, with the same upper and lower limits as in Case 3.
Case 5: 50% of the demand Is due to replacement (value as In Case 1) and the balance Is represented by a linear
demand curve. Load profile of pumipng In line with overall system load profile. SAR Base Case.
Case 6: 20% of the demand is due to replacement (value as In Case 1) and the balance is represented by a concave
demand curve. Pumping during system peak (6 am to 10 pm). PCR Base Case.
Case 6 sensitivity tudies on the timing of pumping:
Average case: uses average long-run marginal cost of supply (in line with SAR).
Peak case: uses long-run marginal cost during system peak (6 am to 10 pm). PCR Base Case.
Off-peak case: uses long-run marginal cost during system off-peak (10 pm to 6 am).
50/50 case: average of long-run marginal cost during peak and off-peak periods.



- 49 -
Table 8
Status of Covenants
Source &            Original  Revised
Section     Status  Date        Date       Description
LN
3.01B       OKI                            !orrower to make available
US $25 million equiv. of loan
to states.
LN
3.02B       OKI                            Borrower to relend funds equi-valent
to USS 275,000 to REC.
LN
3.03        OK                             REC to assume full responsibility
for scheme related
activitLeslinformation to Bank.
LN
3.04A       P                              To recieve loan proceeds, board
carrying out scheme must meet
eligibility crlteria.
LN
3.04B       P                              Each board carrying out SI
scheme to comply with pro-
visions in Schedule 3.
LN
3.05A       OK                             Borrower to grant prowpt per-
mission to suppliers outside
IndLa.
LN
3.05 B      OK                             Borrower to take specified steps
re contracts awarded to Indian
suppliers.
LN
3.06A       OB1     6.30.83                Borrower to formulate model com-
mercial system of accounting and
furnish it to Bank.



- 50 -
Table 8
(continued)
Source &             Original   Revised
Section     Status  Date        Date       Description
LN
3.06B       Ox                             Borrower to finalize uni-
fonm comuercial accounting
system.
LN
3.06C       OX       4.1.84                Borrower to cause each board
to introduce uniform comer-
cial accounting system.
LN
3.06D       OK       8.31.84               Borrower to establish/maintaLn
special unit adequate to assist
with accounting system.
PR
2.09        OK                             REC to assume full responsibil-ity
for schceme-related activi-
ties/information to the Bank.
PR
4.02        N                              Audit accounts report due to the
Bank not later than 6 months
after end of each Y (EREC).
PR
4.03A       OK                             RIC to ensure that for any nY
debt-related costs do not exceed
90 X of loan-related income.
PR
4.03 B      OK                             In any PY, REC's internally
generated funds not less
than 1.2 times the debt ser-
vice requirement.
Ox          covenant complied with.
01         covenant complied now but was revised in past.
P           partial compliancee.
ACT         needs use of forml remedies to bring about compliance
UNK         status of covenant unknown
N           non-compliance



- 51 -
Table 9
Staff Inputs
(in staffweeks)
Total
Through Appraisal                               74.g
Through Board Approval                          24.8
Supervision                                     90.2
Total                                          189.3



- 52 -
Table 10
Maior Proiect Missions
Actlvity          Date      Duration  Composition    Overall Prolect Status
Appraisal         5/81      15 days*  Eng./EC           N.A.
Supervision
1               11.82    20 days    Eng./FA           (1) Problem free
2               12.83    15 days    Eng./FA           (2) Moderate Problems
3               00.85    n.s.        Eng./FA          (4) Serious problems a/
4               02.86    n.s.        Eng.IPA          (3) Major Problems
5               1-2.87   10*         FA Cons.         Not rated. b/
6               02.88    n.s.        Eng.IPA          (3) Major problems
n.a. Not applicable
n.s. Not specified in supervision reports.
a/ Project not likely to meet objectives.
b/ Consultant -eview of SEB finances.
SC   - Economist
Bug. - Engineer
YA   - Financial Analyst
*Estimate



