Document of                   FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3316-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank suthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1982)
US$1             =     Rs 9.365
Rs 1             =     US$0.1068
Rs 1 million           US$106,800
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made
at US$1.00 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC   -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CEA    -   Central Electricity Authority
GOI    -   Government of India
NHPC   -   National Hydro Power Corporation
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation
REB    -   Regional Electricity Board
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -   State Electricity Board
SI     -   System Improvement
kV     -   kilovolt  =  1,000 volts
kWh    -   kilowatt-hour  =  1,000 watt-hours
MW     -   megawatt  =  1,000 kilowatts
Gwh    -   gigawatt-hour  =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
HP     -   horse-power



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
Amount:                US$304.5 million, including capitalized front end fee.
Terms:                 Repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace,
at 11.6% interest per annum; front end fee of 1.5% of
base loan amount.
On-Lending             Government of India (GOI) to REC (US$275 million):
Terms:               An interest rate of 7.75% per annum, with repayment
over 20 years, including 5 years' grace.
REC to State Electricity Boards (SEBs): Interest rates
from 7.5% to 10% per annum, with repayments over
15-20 years, including grace periods of 2-5 years.
GOI to SEBs, through State Government fund allocations
(US$25 million): As part of Central assistance to
States for financing development projects, under terms
and conditions applicable at the time.
Project                The project is designed primarily to assist the Govern-
Description:         ment of India in the expansion and improvement of rural
electrification in about 14 States, in accordance
with its Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85).
The project would help finance equipment and
materials for about 3,500 rural electrification
schemes meeting specific eligibility criteria in the
participating States, about 100 distribution system
improvement schemes, and additional buildings and
equipment for a rural electrification training
institute. The risks involved are no greater than
can normally be expected with operations of this
type.
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipints only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Item                     Local      Foreign      Total
Rural Electrification Schemes  508.8          86.8       595.6
System Improvement Schemes        43.1         6.9        50.0
Training Facility                  1.5          -          1.5
553.4        93.7      647.1
Physical Contingencies             0.2          -          0.2
Price Contingencies              122.7        20.8       143.5
Total Project Cost               676.3       114.5       790.8
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan         -           4.5         4.5
Total Financing Required         676.3 1/   119.0        795.3 1/
1/  Including about US$32 million in taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
(US$ millions)
Local     Foreign      Total
Bank                             185.5       119.0       304.5
GOI loans and equity             490.8         -         490.8
Total                        676.3       119.0       795.3
Estimated                                            (US$ millions)
Disbursements:    Bank FY               FY83         FY84       FY85        FY86
Annual              11.5 1/      134.0       126.0       33.0
Cumulative          11.5         145.5       271.5      304.5
1/  Including payment of front end fee of US$4.5 million.
Rate of Return:   About 53%.
Appraisal Report: No. 3612b-IN, dated May 7, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR A THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$304.5 million (including a capitalized
front end fee of US$4.5 million) to help finance a Third Rural Electrifica-
tion Project, designed primarily to assist the Government of India (GOI) in
the expansion and improvement of rural electrification in about 14 States, in
accordance with its Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85). Amortization
would be over 20 years, including five years' grace, at an interest rate of
11.6% per annum. About US$275 million of the loan proceeds would be onlent
by the Government to the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) for
20 years, including five years' grace, at an interest rate of 7.75% per
annum. REC would in turn onlend the major part of these funds to State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) to finance rural electrification schemes included
in the project. The balance of US$25 million of the loan would be made
available by the Government to participating SEBs through State Governments
in accordance with its standard terms and arrangements for financing develop-
ment projects, to finance distribution system improvement schemes under the
project. The exchange risk for the proposed loan would be borne by the
Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
701 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is
not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land. Conse-
quently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of existence.
Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over the past
30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per
annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices) from 60% to
about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In
the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to
increase agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating



-2-
persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled
from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment
rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a
few years in the late 1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time, for-
eign savings are about 10% of investment. External assistance has been low
both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance
has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end of the
1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the early
to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly
constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum
for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain
output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production
in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst
drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices
and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a
decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe infla-
tionary pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price
stability. The impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian
economy, particularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be
needed for some years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is
almost completed and the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.       In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear
evidence of a deceleration in inflation.
8.       1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well
and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power, coal



-3-
and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively. As con-
straints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities continued to
ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend in
inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average annual
basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less than
2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions, combined
with a more restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp decline in
the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided 4
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous
record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer
consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite substan-
tial price increases. Recent performance and probable future trends suggest
that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the balance
remains delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to time.
Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being felt in
1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild depleted
stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively low import requirement, the ability of
the Government to delay imports for as long as two years after the production
shortfall, and the decline in foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the
flexibility and resilience provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high inflation
in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectors such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output in these sectors, due mainly
to greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of
coal output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of
rail freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features
of the 1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy
production which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have
also been reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for
improving efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will
become increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy continue to outstrip
the availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment
exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at 26% of GDP, are already high and
further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be increas-
ingly difficult to obtain. However, over the last two years, the Government
has taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the public
sector. Principal among these were price and tax increases, and subsidy
reductions, on a range of commodities produced mainly in the public sector.



-4-
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign sec-
tor. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL
imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled with
domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors
caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in
1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit
rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in
export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse outcome. However,
the much improved performance of basic import-substituting industries and a
resumption of healthy export volume growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance
this gap in the face of inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government
drew down a record US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew
almost US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund
Facility, and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of
finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new commitments for commercial
borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were contracted for major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth.
In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation
and other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide
range of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response
to the present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not
reacted by placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has main-
tained and extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several
years. Recent improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint
facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export and industrial
policy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need for
additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
reasonable access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objec-
tives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now about
halfway completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy develop-
ment, the growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where



-5-
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall perfor-
mance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of continued
bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is growing. Moreover,
fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an acceleration of domestic
savings rates. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resources have
so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the
financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan investment,
if inflation can be kept in check. However, a significant shortfall in
savings is likely to occur in some states unless further measures are intro-
duced. There will be a need also for continuous efforts to maintain and
raise further the already high level of private savings. Recent increases in
interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits should stimulate such
savings. The further dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects
for which look bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not matched
the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As demon-
strated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors can
be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to higher
productivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the same
time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of trade-
able commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and transporta-
tion, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of
the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
prospects. At present rates of development, however, an adequate balance
between supply and demand in these sectors will be difficult to sustain.
Performance in the power sector to date suggests that India's power deficit
will continue into the early 1990s, although more rapid project implementa-
tion and efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For railways, real
investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections and will need
to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if serious
bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects
for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite
bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price
increases for petroleum products. On the production side, scheduled expan-
sion is expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current 46%
to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of
exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake
from known fields offer much encouragement for India's longer term energy
prospects.



-6-
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a
record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by
the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of the IMF
Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable debt service
profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial capital markets at
favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high underlying rates) and in
the last two years commercial borrowing has been stepped up. These sources
will be important in the future since India's current account deficits,
though not large relative to the size of the economy, will nevertheless be
large in absolute terms and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels
expected to be available from normal concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and exter-
nal balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth. In
the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings, for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-
substituting industry to realign the balance of payments. In the short-term,
significant external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequen-
ces of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase
borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are
limits to India's creditworthiness in world markets. Maintaining an adequate
rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the Indian economy to a more
open and efficient environment as intended by the Government requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to
India. Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher levels of investment to
support an adequate rate of growth is a key element in maintaining India's
recently improved creditworthiness. India is still a very poor country with
a large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human develop-
ment and basic infrastructure. The fact that India has been able to maintain
over the past seven years a rate of growth above the long term trend, despite
the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends substance to the hope that a more open
trade policy and concerted efforts to remove constraints on the growth of
productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of savings both
foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth closer to 50% per annum
than the long run trend of 3.60% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the
rate of population increase to below 20% per annum, a 50% growth rate would
mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income of less than
1.40% per annum. Success in these efforts could make difference to the
prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.
The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or about 12
million higher than official projections. The fact that there was no decline
in inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2% per
annum, is a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this rate
of growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable
decline in the population growth rate has not materialized. Until full



-7-
details of the Census are released, firm judgements about the reasons for
this outcome are not possible. However, the results re-emphasize the need
for continuing efforts to strengthen the family planning program in a broad
range of activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in
the Sixth Plan which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in
the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to
over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living stand-
ards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the
economy, particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment,
in non-farm rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban
areas. These developments will have to stem in large part from market forces
which, however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government
policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The
declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from
India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost
programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 65 loans and 148 development
credits to India totalling US$3,571 million and US$10,633 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,232 million has been
repaid, and US$5,254 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1982 totalled US$858 million, representing an increase of about
28 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary
statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 25 commitments in India totalling
US$176.5 million, of which US$24.5 million has been repaid, US$42.6 million
sold and US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$101.9 million,
US$94.0 million represents loans and US$7.9 million equity. A summary state-
ment of IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, is also included in Annex II
(page 5).



-8-
24.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
25.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1981/82 and is projected to



-9-
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1982, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$2,433 million, of which US$1,062 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,371 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in
1981/82.  On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US$1.0 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1981/82, about
16.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
29.     The performance of the Indian power supply industry and the economy
as a whole are closely related, and economic growth and improvement of the
standard of living depend to a large degree on the development of the power
sector. Since alternative sources of energy are not readily available in the
amounts needed, shortage of power has an immediate impact on virtually all
activities of the economy. Indeed, the direct loss of value added to the
economy attributed to power shortages has been estimated at about 3% of
GDP. 1/ In recent years, energy matters have been receiving top priority
consideration in Central and State Government policy planning, and the power
sector now takes the largest share of India's public investment resources
(12% of the Sixth Five-Year Plan outlay). In spite of this emphasis, demand
for power has continued to outstrip supply.
Power Supply and Demand - India-Wide
30.     In the 1950s and 1960s, installed capacity and power generation
managed to keep pace with the nation's demand for power, both growing at an
average annual rate of 10%-12%. Since 1970, the situation has deteriorated:
delays in commissioning new power projects, operating and maintenance
problems, and insufficient investment under severe budget constraints have
led to a critical situation in which demand for power consistently outstrips
supply. This situation was exacerbated by below-average monsoon rains
(particularly in the early 1970s and in 1979) which affected hydro-electric
power generation, and an unstable coal supply caused by disruptions in coal
mining and transport, as well as the poor quality of the coal itself.
Between 1970/71 and 1974/75, growth in power generation averaged only 5%
annually. The situation improved considerably over the period 1975/76
through 1979/80, with growth in both generation and capacity averaging 7%-9%
annually. This improvement was brought about as the result of successive
good monsoons in 1975/76 and 1976/77, improved coal supply, and a concerted
1/ India: Economic Issues in the Power Sector (World Bank Report
No. 2335-IN, April 1979).



-10-
effort to improve project implementation, thermal capacity utilization and
overall power system management. In 1979/80, however, generation increased
by only about 2% in spite of a 7% increase in capacity, due mainly to lower
hydro plant availability than normal and longer periods required for
commissioning new plants. Data for 1980/81 indicate an increase of about
6.5% over the previous year for both power generation and capacity. Power
shortages have persisted in many parts of the country, particularly in the
Eastern Region. Total installed generating capacity as of March 1981 was
about 33,000 MW, including non-utility plant. Of this total generating
capacity, about 62% was conventional thermal, 36% hydro, and the 2% balance
nuclear. Although additional new utility generating capacity of about 3,212
MW is expected to have been commissioned in 1981/82, power shortages will
continue.
31.     Industry consumes about 60% of all electricity sold, while
agriculture (mainly irrigation) accounts for another 17%, and domestic use
for only about 11%. As a result of accelerated agricultural development
programs, there has been a marked growth of power consumption in the rural
areas where more than 80% of India's population live. The number of
electrified villages, for example, grew from just over 3,000 in 1950/51 to
some 279,000, or about 48% of all the villages in India, by October 1981.
CEA projections indicate that during the ten-year period 1980/81-1989/90, new
utility generating capacity will grow at an annual rate of just under 11% to
total some 79,000 MW, of which about 46,000 MW (58%) would be thermal, 31,000
MW (40%) hydro and 1,800 MW (2%) nuclear. The construction of an additional
15,000 km of 400 kV transmission is planned for this period to distribute the
power output through integrated grid transmission systems.
Sector Institutions
32.     The institutional structure of the Indian power sector is complex.
Under the Indian Constitution, the responsibility for supplying power is
shared between the Central Government and the State Governments, and full
agreement between the Center and the States is required for the
implementation of most actions. With the rapid expansion of the power
sector, there has been an increasing need to coordinate the activities in the
power industry beyond State boundaries, and various agencies have been
established with a view to promoting integrated power development in the
country. The principal agencies in the sector are: (i) the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs); (ii) the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs); (iii) the Central
Electricity Authority (CEA); (iv) the two Central power corporations - the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power
Corporation (NHPC); and (v) the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
33.     State and Regional Electricity Boards (SEBs and REBs).  The SEBs were
established by the State Governments under the Electricity (Supply) Act,
1948. Their major task at the time of establishment was to bring together
the small, privately-owned power plants and facilities within their
respective States. The SEBs continue to promote the coordinated development
of the generation, supply and distribution of power within their respective
States and to control and regulate other power supply undertakings which are
private licensees. At the present time, the States own or control over 90%
of India's electricity supply facilities. While the SEBs are corporate
entities in their own right and enjoy basic autonomy in the management of
their day-to-day operations, they are under the effective control of their



-1 1-
State Governments in such policy matters as capital investment, finance,
tariff changes and personnel. As a means of improving collaboration between
the SEBs and establishing power systems on a broader regional basis, four
Regional Electricity Boards were established between 1964 and 1966 to help
develop integrated power systems in their respective regions, and thus
prepare for the transition from separate power systems at State level to
regional systems and finally to an interconnected national grid. The
chairmanship of each REB is assumed in rotation by the Chairman of the SEBs
in the region, and the REBs are staffed by engineers seconded from the
constituent SEBs. At present, the REBs function in an advisory capacity for
coordination of maintenance programs, generation schedules, interstate power
transfer and pricing. The potential role of the REBs in the light of the
progressive integration of Indian power sector operations is being reviewed
by the Government of India.
34.     Central Electricity Authority (CEA).  The CEA was set up in 1950 to
be responsible for developing a national policy for power development, and to
coordinate the activities of the various planning agencies involved in
electricity supply. As a result of the amendments to the general provisions
of the Electricity (Supply) Act, which became effective in November 1976, the
scope of the CEA's functions was expanded. In addition to the general
responsibility outlined above, CEA was made responsible for the formation of
power development plans, optimization of investments in the power sector,
training of personnel, interconnected system operations, and research and
development. The SEBs are required to submit their investment proposals to
the CEA for technical and economic appraisal. With the rapid growth of the
power sector, greater emphasis is now being placed on regional planning, with
the ultimate objective of developing an integrated national planning system.
35.     National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and National Hydro Power
Corporation (NHPC). In order to cope with the persistent inadequacy of power
supply to meet the growing demand, GOI has undertaken to supplement the
efforts of the States by constructing large-scale, Centrally-owned thermal
power stations at coal fields and hydro stations in four regions, as well as
associated high-voltage transmission lines - a step to interconnect the
systems beyond State boundaries. This would lead ultimately to an integrated
national power grid. Accordingly, the National Thermal Power Corporation and
the National Hydro Power Corporation were established in November 1975 under
the Companies Act, 1956, as public corporations wholly owned by GOI, with
authority to design, construct, own and operate generating and associated
transmission facilities and supply power in bulk to the States. The
Centrally-owned generating stations are designed to supplement the States'
activities and add new power generation capacity effectively within the
shortest period of time. These stations will be integrated in the national
power system and will initially supply bulk power to the States within the
regions in which they are located.
36.     Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).  To help SEBs undertake the
task of rural electrification, the REC was established in 1969 under the
Companies Act, 1956, as a public corporation wholly owned by GOI. Its main
institutional objective is to finance rural electrification schemes prepared
by SEBs throughout India, functioning as a financial intermediary with
technical expertise, and ensuring the efficient on-lending of funds drawn
primarily from GOI. In undertaking the task, REC is directed to coordinate
its lending operations with the activities of other agencies, such as the



-12-
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), which provide
financing for rural development. Although the amount of REC financial
support is small in relation to total SEB operations in the power sector,
REC today finances more than half of the total rural electrification
expenditures, and supervises schemes accounting for about 70% of the total
expenditures (para 47).
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
37.     Since 1954, the Bank has made eleven loans to India for power
projects amounting to US$658.5 million and IDA fifteen credits totalling
US$2,096 million. Of these amounts, US$2,120 million is for generating
plant; US$23 million for construction equipment for the Beas hydro-electric
project; US$380 million for the provision of high voltage transmission; and
US$232 million for the support of rural electrification schemes. Fourteen
loans and credits have been completed: nine for generating plant, the Beas
Project, the first three Power Transmission Projects, and the First Rural
Electrification Project. The Fourth Power Transmission (Credit 604-IN of
January 1976), First Singrauli (Credit 685-IN of April 1977), First Korba
(Credit 793-IN of May 1978), Third Trombay (Loan 1549-IN of June 1978), and
First Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN of February 1979) Thermal
Power Projects, and the Second Rural Electrification Project (Credit 911-IN
of June 1979), are in an advanced stage of implementation. The first unit of
the Singrauli project was commissioned on schedule in February, 1982. The
credit for the Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project (Credit 1027-IN) and
the credit/loan for the first stage of the Farakka Thermal Power Project
(Credit 1053-IN and Loan 1887-IN) were approved in May and June 1980,
respectively. The credit for the second stage of the Korba Thermal Power
Project (Credit 1172-IN), and the loan for the second stage of the Ramagundam
Thermal Power Project (Loan 2076-IN) were approved in July and December 1981,
respectively. The First and Second Singrauli, First Korba, and Trombay
projects are on schedule. The Farakka and Ramagundam projects and the Fourth
Power Transmission Project are proceeding satisfactorily after initial
delays. The First Rural Electrification Corporation Project was closed in
December 1980, and a completion report was submitted to the Bank in December
1981. Thirteen SEBs participated in the project. Although some delays in
disbursement were incurred as a result of shortages in 1978/79 and 1979/80
of aluminum for conductors, a slower than anticipated introduction of ICB
procurement procedures, and the timing of the SEBs' participation in the
project, the project has been successfully implemented. Under the Second
Rural Electrification Project, safeguards were introduced to streamline the
procurement process and provide for priority allocations of conductor-grade
aluminum. Implementation of the project to date has been smooth, with
disbursements running ahead of schedule: US$115 million had been disbursed by
March 31, 1982, compared to the appraisal estimate of about US$110 million.
38.     A project performance audit was conducted in 1980 for the Second
Power Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN). The project was considered to
have been successful in assisting the nine beneficiary SEBs in extending
their transmission systems to help meet their growing power requirements.
Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the appraisal
forecast. Institutional objectives mainly concerned the rehabilitation of
the finances of the SEBs, and this improvement effort is continuing under
subsequent projects. In 1979/80, seven of the nine SEBs reached their target
rate of return of 9.5%. The audit also highlighted the difficulties of



-13-
adequately supervising a project of this nature which consisted of many
wide-scattered sub-projects, and the absence of a close working relationship
between the Bank Group and the beneficiary SEBs, which complicated the
process of effecting institutional improvements. With the assumption of
increased responsibilities by the CEA in the power sector, a considerably
more effective relationship with the SEBs is envisaged.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
39.     The Bank Group has had a continuing dialogue with the Government in
seeking solutions to a number of complex and politically sensitive problems
which have confronted the Indian electricity supply industry since
Independence. The sensitivity of Center-State relations and the political
constraints arising from the fact that electricity supply is within the
concurrent jurisdiction of the Central and State Governments have dictated
a policy of seeking progress through cooperation. Specific aspects of this
dialogue, including some of the results achieved and particular areas of
concern, are discussed in the following paragraphs.
40.     Some noteworthy results already achieved include: (a) the
establishment of the REBs and later of the Centrally-owned power companies,
which mark the first important steps towards nationwide power operation;
(b) amendment of the Electricity (Supply) Act in 1976, to strengthen the role
of the CEA; (c) amendments to the financial provisions of the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, which provide for the development of SEBs on a more
commercial basis, with the objective of financing from internal sources a
reasonable proportion of their investments; (d) implementation of action
plans by the weaker SEBs, which were designed to improve their financial
performance through tariff increases, rationalization of manpower
requirements, improved maintenance management, and the introduction of other
cost-effective measures; (e) tariff studies by thirteen SEBs with a view to
reassessing tariff policies; and (f) satisfactory progress of NTPC's
generation/transmission construction program with Bank Group assistance.
41.     In 1978 the Indian authorities recognized that all aspects of the
sector nee-ded to be reviewed in depth and that satisfactory solutions had to
be found for outstanding sector development problems. Consequently, GOI
established in November 1978 a Committee on Power whose purpose was to
examine all aspects of the power industry and make recommendations for
improvements. The Committee completed its task and submitted its conclusions
to GOI in September 1980. These conclusions refer to all major aspects of
the power sector - power planning, project formulation and implementation,
operation and maintenance, organization and management, finance, financial
management and tariffs, rural electrification, and research and development.
Implementation of some of the Committee's recommendations is already
underway: for example, better planning procedures and improved operations
and maintenance management, such as plant breakdown procedure and spare parts
procurement. However, other important measures require due deliberation by
GOI and the State Governments and their joint agreement before they can be
implemented. These measures include sector development, organizational
structure, and sector finances, an aspect on which some results have recently
begun to emerge.
42.     Two areas of specific concern to the Bank Group in the past have been
the lack of a nationwide long-range plan for power development, and the weak



-14-
financial position of some SEBs. With regard to the first of these, first
chapters of the long-range national power development study have been
submitted for Bank review, in compliance with an undertaking given during
negotiations for the Second Korba Thermal Power Project. The full report
will be submitted within three months. The study assesses the future power
demand in India based on the country's expected economic development and
develops a least-cost sequence of generation and transmission plant
installation which will assure most economic power supply. After the Bank
has reviewed the plan and discussed it with GOI, the Indian authorities will
finalize the plan in detail and will draft a power development strategy on
the basis of the plan, as revised from time to time. With regard to the
financial performance of the SEBs, there has been considerable improvement in
the overall performance during 1978/79 and 1979/80: ten out of fourteen
major SEBs reached or exceeded the target rate of return of 9.5% on net fixed
assets in these two years, compared to seven in 1977/78. Average payments
for electricity by consumers are rising appreciably (para 66). GOI is keen
to improve performance through the introduction of financial policies that
would enable the SEBs to operate more along commercial lines and enhance
their self-financing capability (para 62).
43.     During negotiations for the Second Korba Thermal Power Project in
May 1981, GOI agreed to prepare by April 1982 an action plan for improvements
in five major areas 1/ within the power sector that continue to be of
particular concern. The plan was provided to the Bank during negotiations for
the proposed project, in compliance with the agreed delivery date, and is
presently under review by Bank staff.
Rural Electrification
44.     The primary objective of GOI in its drive for rural electrification
is to ensure increased agricultural output by providing reliable and economic
power for irrigation pumps. Secondary objectives are the provision of
electricity for domestic, commercial and small industrial consumers in the
villages, and to improve employment possibilities and the quality of life in
rural areas.
45.     The demand for electricity for agricultural pumping accounts for
about 17% of India's total demand, up from about 9% ten years ago.
Consumption for agricultural pumping has been growing at a rate of about 13%
per year, reflecting the rapid increase in the connection of irrigation pumps
to the grid. By October 1981, almost 4.5 million irrigation pumps had been
electrified, most of these in the States of Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttar
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh. A continuing high growth rate
in the numbers of irrigation pump connections, amounting to about 10% per
year, is projected by GOI for the coming decade; the emphasis on rural
electrification as a vehicle for increasing agricultural production is to
be maintained and intensified, a desirable development.
1/ Improvement in performance of thermal power plants; coordination of power
development with other sectors of the economy; intensification of
hydro-electric power development; strengthening of role of the Central
sector in power generation and transmission; and establishment of
appropriate financial objectives and policies.



-15-
46.      By October 1981, about 279,000 (48%) of the 576,000 villages in India
had been electrified, the percentages of villages electrified in each State
ranging from about 15% to 100%. The number of villages connected to the grid
has grown at a rate of about 10% per year since 1970. The Sixth Five-Year
Plan, 1980/81-1984/85, provides for the connection of about 100,000 new
villages to the grid.
47.     The Plan also provides for a continuing high growth rate (10% per
annum) for pump connections. About 2.5 million additional pumps are expected
to be energized by 1984/85. Of this total, 90% of villages and 63% of pumps
are to be connected with REC finance or supervision. All rural
electrification investments and operations in each State are carried out by
the SEBs. The SEBs finance their rural electrification expenditures from a
number of sources, the major sources being ARDC and REC, both of which
utilize GOI funds. ARDC's contribution is used primarily to refinance
commercial bank lending to SEBs for irrigation pump connections. Commercial
banks themselves also provide funds. Total expenditure on rural
electrification under the Sixth Plan is expected to amount to about Rs 23,000
million (US$2,900 million), of which REC's direct financing share is about
51%.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.     The project was prepared by REC and appraised by a mission which
visited India in May/June 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1982.  GOI and REC were represented by a delegation with
Mr. S. C. Jain as coordinator. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Description
49.     The proposed project would assist GOI, during 1983/84 and 1984/85,
in the expansion and improvement of rural electrification in a number of
States in accordance with GOI's Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85).  It
would also contribute to the expansion of training facilities for rural
electrification. Specifically, the project comprises the following
components:
(i) financing of about 1,800 rural electrification schemes approved
by REC between April 1, 1978 and January 31, 1982, and for about
1,700 new schemes approved or to be approved by REC in the period
February 1, 1982 to March 31, 1984;
(ii) financing of about 100 distribution system improvement schemes;
(iii) buildings, furniture and equipment for REC's Central Training
Institute for Rural Electrification.
50.     The project will be implemented over four years, from 1982/83 through
1985/86. For the first two components, the project will finance those
expenditures incurred in the two years 1983/84 and 1984/85.  Rural



-16-
electrification schemes financed under the project would be those in REC's
standard scheme classification categories determined as eligible for Bank
financing, l/ in States eligible to participate in the project. The eligible
categories are those in which schemes are likely to have economic rates of
return well above the opportunity cost of capital. States eligible to
participate in the project are those which have (a) endorsed undertakings
given by their SEBs to meet certain financial performance criteria;
(b) endorsed undertakings given by their SEBs to introduce systems of
commercial accounting; and (c) agreed to provide limited subsidies for their
SEB's rural electrification operations (paras 62, 64, 65). Fourteen States
are expected to be eligible to benefit under the proposed project. States
proposing to participate in the project have indicated to GOI their agreement
in principle to accept these financial requirements on behalf of their SEBs.
51.     System Improvement (SI) schemes are concerned with rural distribution
system improvement and reinforcement. This component of the project provides
for a number of separate distribution system improvement schemes which would
be designed to upgrade the grid, rather than provide new connections.
52.     GOI has decided that the activities of the REC-operated Central
Training Institute for Rural Electrification, located in Hyderabad in Andhra
Pradesh, should be expanded to include workshops and seminars for the SEBs'
upper- and middle-level officers in non-engineering disciplines. Funds have
been provided under the project to construct, furnish and equip buildings for
the Institute, including a hostel which would replace existing rented
accommodation.
Project Implementation
53.     The project will be implemented primarily by the SEBs under the
supervision of REC. REC is headed by a Board of Directors, presently
consisting of eight members, appointed by the President of India. The
Chairman and Managing Director, who is assisted by several Directors, is
REC's chief executive. REC's staff strength at the time of project appraisal
was 798, of which about 260 were employed in eleven regional offices. A
planned increase in staff of about 2%-3% per year over the next few years
will be adequate to handle increased loan commitments and greater involvement
in scheme appraisal and monitoring. Strengthening of regional office staff
in States such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and West Bengal, with weak
implementation performance, will be emphasized. The overall quality of
management and staff is satisfactory, and the staff structure is appropriate
for REC's function. REC's connection with the SEBs is maintained through
staff secondment, involving mainly senior-level staff, to REC. Special
importance is placed by REC on the training of SEB staff who will be involved
in rural electrification schemes.
1/ Eligible categories of rural electrification schemes are as follows:
Ordinary Advanced (OA): Electrification of groups of villages in economi-
cally advanced areas; Ordinary Backward (OB): Electrification of groups
of villages in somewhat less advanced areas; Special Project - Agricul-
ture (SPA): connection of irrigation pumps in groups of villages,
co-financed by other institutions; Special Project - Industry (SPI):
connection of small and medium industry in rural industrial estates.



-17-
54.     The rural electrification component of the project will be
implemented as part of REC's ongoing rural electrification lending program.
REC will appraise, approve, and monitor all rural electrification schemes in
the eligible categories and will onlend the required funds to the SEBs for
their implementation. System improvement schemes will be appraised and
monitored by REC (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement), although funds for
these schemes will not be lent by REC but will be provided to the
participating SEBs by GOI through State fund allocations under the Sixth
Five-Year Plan. This arrangement is in accordance with a recent GOI decision
to limit the financial involvement of REC in system improvements to those
directly associated with electrification schemes.
55.      SEBs will design rural electrification scheme proposals for the new
schemes according to well-established REC requirements. REC has prepared
pro forma procedures and manuals to assist SEB staff in this endeavor.
Schemes will then be appraised by REC for technical, financial and economic
feasibility, and, provided they meet the necessary criteria, will be formally
approved by REC's Board of Directors. REC recently introduced discounted
cash flow methods and economic rate of return criteria into its scheme
feasibility analysis, replacing the previously used measure of financial
return on investment. The new methodology has been in use since June 1981,
and will be applied in the analysis of all schemes submitted to REC for
approval in the future.
Project Cost and Financing
56.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies and about
US$32 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$791 million
equivalent, of which about US$115 million represents the estimated foreign
exchange costs. A capitalized front end fee on the proposed IBRD loan adds a
further US$4.5 million to the financing required. The project cost estimates
are based on early 1982 prices and include price contingencies of 8.5% for
1982/83, 8.0% for 1983/84, 7.5% for 1984/85 and 7.0% for 1985/86, for both
local and foreign costs. A physical contingency of about 10% has been
included in the cost of the training institute. No physical contingencies
have been provided for the other project components; purchases for these will
be limited to the funds available. The proposed IBRD loan of
US$304.5 million (including the capitalized front end fee of US$4.5 million)
would finance all of the foreign exchange costs of about US$115 million and
about US$185 million of the local costs, and would cover about 40% of the
total project cost net of taxes and duties. The remainder of the cost of the
project would be provided by GOI from its own resources.
57.     About US$275 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be
onlent by GOI to REC at an interest rate of 7.75% per annum with repayment
over 20 years, including five years' grace, under a subsidiary loan agreement
between GOI and REC. The balance of about US$25 million of the loan would be
made available by GOI to participating SEBs through its allocation to State
funds as part of its normal assistance to the States for development
projects, under terms and conditions applicable at the time. Execution of
the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and REC will be a condition of
effectiveness for the loan (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement). REC will
in turn onlend funds to the SEBs for financing the rural electrification
schemes at its current rates of interest of 7.5%-10% per annum (depending on



-18-
the type of scheme), with maturities of 15-20 years, including grace periods
from two to five years. Loan repayments to REC are used to retire REC's
obligations to GOI. In the light of GOI policy favoring the rural sector in
general, these onlending arrangements are satisfactory. State Governments
will onlend funds to the SEBs for financing the system improvement schemes
under their normal terms of lending to such State institutions. Current
rates of interest are 6%-11% per annum. The exchange risk will be borne by
the Government of India. Inflation in India over the past five years has
averaged about 9.5% per annum, although this reflects the unusual conditions
prevailing after the 1979 drought (para 6). The rate of inflation has fallen
sharply during 1981/82 so that the average annual inflation rate over the
next five years is not expected to exceed 8%. The interest rate of 7.75% per
annum for onlending by GOI to REC is comparable to this rate; the interest
rate of 7.5% to 10% for onlending by REC to the SEBs will be positive, on the
average, in real terms.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.     All items financed under the proposed loan, with the exception of the
construction, equipping and furnishing of the training institute, would be
procured though international competitive bidding procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines. As in the case of the two previous Rural
Electrification projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN), SEBs will be
responsible for procuring their own project materials according to REC's
standard specifications and standard conditions of contract. REC will
provide assistance to the SEBs in the preparation of bid documents and will
ensure that quantities of materials specified are consistent with scheme
requirements. SEBs will invite bids for their material requirements for
rural electrification and system improvement schemes for the two-year period
1983/84-1984/85. These materials would include, for rural electrification
schemes, items such as conductors, distribution transformers, high-voltage
insulators and galvanized iron wire, and for system improvement schemes,
items such as conductors, power transformers and switchgear. Indian
manufacturers competing under international competitive bidding procedures
will receive a margin of preference of 15%, or the current rate of customs
duty, whichever is less, and are expected to win most of the contract awards.
Contracts of US$500,000 equivalent or more for equipment and materials and
for civil works for the training institute will be subject to prior review by
the Bank. Civil works and equipment associated with the construction of the
training institute would be procured locally by REC using procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed during a
four-year period against normal documentation, and will cover 100% of the
c.i.f. cost of imported goods or of the ex-factory cost of goods manufactured
in India, 70% of expenditures for equipment procured locally for the Central
Training Institute, and 70% of expenditures on civil works for its
construction.
REC Finances
59.     REC's financial position is satisfactory.  As of March 31, 1981, its
loan portfolio had reached about US$1,173 million, having grown by about 20%
per annum over the previous two years. Outstanding loans to SEBs accounted
for about 94% of REC's assets; the SEBs' repayment record continued to be
good, and no recovery problems are foreseen at present. The debt/equity
ratio at March 31, 1981 was 76/24, reflecting REC's increasing reliance in



-19-
recent years on' loan capital from GOI and market sources. For the 1981/82
fiscal year, an operating ratio of 79% and debt service coverage of 1.6 are
forecast, compared with ratios of 77% and 1.7 respectively in 1980/81. The
forecast returns on average total capitalization and on average equity are
5.6% and 3.6%, as against 5.1% and 3.2% in 1980/81.
60.     REC's financial position is expected to remain satisfactory during
the implementation of the project. Its loan portfolio is expected to reach
about US$2,440 million by March 31, 1986, representing a total increase of
about 108% over the five-year period from March 31, 1981. The return on
average total capitalization is expected to rise to about 6%. The
debt/equity ratio will increase to 82/18, and debt service coverage will fall
to 1.3 times, slightly above the 1.2 times required by IDA under previous
rural electrification agreements. REC's operating ratio will remain at about
79%, well within the required 90% limit. In this regard, REC will ensure
that in any fiscal year, its internally generated funds will cover at least
1.2 times its debt service requirement, and its administrative expenses and
interest payments will not exceed 90% of its interest receipts (Section 4.03
of the Project Agreement).
Financial Aspects of the State Electricity Boards
61.     One of the areas identified in the recently-completed power sector
improvement plan (para 43) concerns the establishment of revised sector
financial objectives and policies and improved information and accounting
systems. These financial matters were discussed in some detail with GOI
during appraisal of the proposed project and understandings were reached
which should accelerate progress in implementing improvements in this area.
These understandings were concerned primarily with (a) financial objectives
and policies, and (b) accounting practices.
62.     With regard to financial objectives and policies, a major concern of
the Bank Group in the past has been the financial performance of the SEBs.
Under previous projects in the power sector in India, the principal measure
of financial performance of the SEBs has been the rate of return on net fixed
assets. This measure was first recommended by a GOI committee in 1964, and a
rate of return of 9.5% was adopted as the criterion for satisfactory
financial performance in all Bank Group-financed projects in the sector.
However, the appropriateness of the 9.5% rate of return requirement has been
undergoing review recently in light of the need for the SEBs to meet their
obligations under the amended Electricity (Supply) Act to provide a
reasonable contribution to the financing of their investment programs. The
amendments to the Act were designed to reorganize the financial structures of
the SEBs along commercial lines by introducing (a) financial policies and
accounting practices that would require the SEBs to adjust tariffs to produce
annual revenues sufficient to cover all operating costs, meet debt service
obligations, and provide a reasonable contribution to their investment
programs; and (b) a capital structure which is less debt-oriented, through
the conversion of State Government loans into equity share capital and the
financing of future expansion in part by way of State Government equity,
rather than debt. Many SEBs have been unable to meet their debt service
obligations to their State Governments; in some instances, the interest
payments have not been made to the State Government and have accumulated over
many years as a contingent liability. Progress made to date by the States to
make the amendments to the Act effective has been slow, since many of the



-20-
SEBs were awaiting the recommendations of the Committee on Power (para 41)
before introducing changes. During appraisal of the proposed project, the
introduction of a measure of financial performance of the SEBs based on an
adequate level of self-financing, rather than a rate of return concept, was
discussed and accepted by GOI. It was subsequently agreed during
negotiations that the SEBs should provide, beginning in 1982/83 (see
para 63), a contribution to investment of not less than 20% of theif average
annual capital expenditures, instead of a 9.5% rate of return on net fixed
assets. Further, in order to participate in the project, SEBs would be
required to provide undertakings, endorsed by their respective State
Governments, to this effect. (Section 3.04(a) of the Loan Agreement, and
Section 2.03(a) and Schedule 2 para 1(a) of the Project Agreement.) The new
provisions concerning SEBs' self-financing will also apply to previous
Agreements involving SEBs; these will be amended accordingly.
63.     Most of the SEBs will be required to attain the 20% level of
contribution from the current financial year, 1982/83. However, there are
four States (Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal), those with
primarily agriculturally intensive electricity needs, for which the immediate
attainment by the SEBs of the required contributions to investment would be
almost impossible. Electricity demand within these States is greatly
influenced by extremes of climate such as drought, which affect both the
quantity and mix of electricity consumption. Moreover, the SEBs in these
States are those which in the past have suffered from a number of problems of
a managerial and operational nature which cannot readily be solved in the
short term. In recognition of the conditions prevailing in these, and in
order to encourage the SEBs to take actions to improve their financial
performance, the SEBs of Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal would
attain the 20% contribution to investment progressively over the next four
years (three years in the case of the Uttar Pradesh SEB), in accordance with
a schedule of interim levels established and agreed during negotiations. In
addition, these SEBs will submit to the Bank, by December 31, 1982, an action
plan outlining the steps to be taken and the improvements to be made in order
to ensure that the required contributions to investment are achieved.
(Section 3.04(a) of the Loan Agreement, and Section 2.03(a) and Schedule 2
para l(a) of the Project Agreement.)
64.     An area of much concern to the Bank is the growth in the amounts of
subsidy 1/ paid by State Governments to their SEBs in respect of their rural
electrification operations, which have increased from Rs 466 million in
1975/76 to an estimated Rs 5,886 million in 1980/81, or from 4% to 24% of SEB
sales revenues. The size of these amounts and their increasing trend has
made it desirable to introduce measures to progressively contain the amounts
of rural electrification subsidy paid by the States, both to encourage
movements towards economic pricing in the power sector as well as to conserve
scarce resources that could be utilized in other parts of the economy. GOI
and the State Governments recognize the problem and agree in principle to a
subsidy reduction. Consequently, the State Governments, in conjunction with
1/   Under ongoing projects in the Indian power sector, subsidies are paid by
the State Governments to the SEBs in amounts sufficient to cover the
lesser of the SEBs' rural electrification losses or to enable the SEBs
to achieve a 9.5% rate of return on net fixed assets.



-21-
their SEBs, will each prepare by December 31, 1982 a plan for a phased
reduction in rural electrification subsidies over the next 3-5 years with the
objective of containing them to a reasonable proportion of the SEB's gross
revenues from its sales of electricity. The Bank considers that this would
be about 10% of electricity sales revenues; however, interim annual subsidy
limits will be specified in the plan, which is to be agreed upon by GOI and
the Bank. The 10% of revenues from electricity sales would be the upper
limit of the subsidies; if lower, the amount of losses from rural
electrification activities would constitute the maximum subsidization. State
Governments will be required to provide to GOI and the Bank undertakings to
limit annual rural electrification subsidies on the basis of the subsidy
reduction plan, as a condition of participation in the project
(Section 3.04(a) of the Loan Agreement, and Section 2.03(a) and Schedule 2
para l(c) of the Project Agreement).
65.     Improvement to the standard of accounting practices among SEBs has
been the subject of a continuous dialogue with GOI, and is a key element for
the effective monitoring of the financial performance of the SEBs. The
introduction of a uniform commercial system of accounting based upon
generally accepted accounting principles has been proposed by the Bank and
is presently under preparation in CEA. A plan and schedule for the
development and implementation of the system, including the necessary
legislative amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act, has already been
provided to the Bank. The development and implementation of the commercial
accounting system will be under the supervision of a special unit which will
be established within the Ministry of Energy (Section 3.06 of the Loan
Agreement). The Government has indicated that consultants will be retained
to assist the special unit in this effort. The system is expected to be
fully operational in all SEBs, with audited accounts being produced within
six months after the close of the fiscal year, by March 1985. Accordingly,
SEBs would be required to provide to GOI and the Bank undertakings, endorsed
by their respective State Governments, to introduce a uniform commercial
system of accounting from April 1, 1984 as a condition of participation in
the project (Section 3.04(a) of the Loan Agreement, and Section 2.03(a) and
Schedule 2 para 1(b) of the Project Agreement).
66.     Until recently, the average level of tariffs charged by most SEBs has
been below reasonable economic measures of cost of supply. Since 1978,
however, base tariffs, duties and taxes, and fuel surcharges (all items
charged to the consumer) have risen significantly, particularly for
industrial and commercial consumers. For example, total payments per kWh by
industrial consumers have risen at an average rate of about 17% per year
between 1977/78 and 1981/82, well beyond the rate of inflation. In some
instances, these tariff increases have reached a rate of 20%-30% per year.
Tariffs for industrial and commercial consumers are approaching long-run
marginal cost levels in most major States, and may be exceeding them in some
cases. For example, the long-run marginal cost estimates for 1980/81
indicate that industrial tariffs for that year approximated the long-run
marginal costs in nine of 13 States for which data were available, and
possibly exceeded them in the case of four. However, while industrial and
commercial cost recovery has improved, cross-subsidization of domestic and
agricultural consumers has increased. This is a result of socio-political
considerations of the State Governments and SEBs and their desire to keep
tariff levels low for economically weaker consumers: residential tariff
levels have increased by only about 5% per year, and irrigation pump tariffs



-22-
have remained constant. Nevertheless, industrial and commercial tariff
increases have carried total average revenue per kWh closer to an
economically satisfactory level. The share of these two consumer groups in
total electricity consumption in India amounts to about 65%, and
significantly more in such major States as West Bengal and Maharashtra. The
emerging trend is encouraging and constitutes a significant improvement. The
measures proposed under the project in connection with the financial
performance of the SEBs should also encourage increases in tariffs in the
long term. Most of the SEBs have now completed tariff studies based on
marginal cost pricing principles. Revisions and improvements to these tariff
studies based on reviews by Bank Group staff are under way, and the study
for the one remaining major SEB is being finalized.
Project Justification and Risks
67.     The project would benefit about 500,000 households and about 100,000
commercial consumers. About 543,000 pumps will be electrified, about 25,000
small industrial enterprises will be connected to the distribution network,
and about 18,000 villages will obtain access to the grid. The main economic
benefits would be cost savings accruing to the economy by using electricity
rather than alternative conventional energy sources such as kerosene for home
lighting and diesel oil for irrigation pumps and motors. In the economic
analysis, electric power was found to yield a clear cost advantage when
compared with these non-electric energy sources in such rural applications as
irrigation pumping, domestic and street lighting, and small village
industries. For example, the economic cost advantage for a typical 5 HP
electric irrigation pump over a similar diesel pump amounts to about Rs 2,700
(US$340) per year. In the case of domestic lighting, the advantage of using
electricity is about Rs 390 (US$49) per connection per year, and in the case
of small industry, about Rs 5,100 (US$640) per year. For pumping and small
industry, the diesel alternative only becomes attractive if the marginal cost
of power more than doubles from the assumed all-India average at the rural
retail level, which takes into account the characteristics of the dominant
pumping load. The proposed project also offers a number of socio-economic
benefits which cannot be readily quantified and are therefore not taken into
account in the computation of the economic rate of return. These include
increased agricultural output in the villages and improvement in the quality
of life in the rural areas newly connected to the electrification grid, which
may help to reduce urban migration. As rural electrification progresses, the
benefits also accrue to smaller farmers and small-scale rural industries.
Landless laborers would benefit through an increase in employment
opportunities generated by irrigation-induced multiple cropping. While there
will be substantial variations depending upon the types of schemes and the
conditions prevailing in different States, the weighted average economic rate
of return is about 53%, with about 70% for advanced area electrification
schemes, 27% for less-advanced area electrification schemes, 60% for pump
connection schemes, and 43% for distribution system reinforcement schemes.
68.     There are no special risks involved in project implementation as REC
has had considerable experience in financing and supervising new rural
electrification and distribution system improvement schemes.



-23-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and REC, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and REC has
been made an additional condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement).
71.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
May 12, 1982






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A_jRAGES
LAKD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. MK.)                                                      NDMST RECENT ESTINATIa
TOTAL           3287.6                                 HOST RECENT       Low INC4E              MIDL  INu0
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US4)                   640.0      100.0     190.0             232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1        152.5    241.8              499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URaAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.0              17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3        166.6     200.5             153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7        308.0     355.8             360.3                  2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1         42.4      41.1              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                         56.8        54.7       56.0              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1          2.9       2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8          2.3       2.1               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5          3.3       3.3               3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.2         40.3      34.0              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.7         17.4      13.5              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1          2.8       2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0        3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      22.6              20.4                    44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        102.0      93.0             107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0       91.0              98.6                   112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0         51.0      50.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         15.0      13.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.1         20.4      14.8              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2          47.5      51.9              57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       134.0     125.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          17.0      33.0              30.1                    45.9
URBAN                                ..       60.0       83.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                ..         6.0      20.0              20.1                    34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ''         18.0      20.0              17.6                    53.4
URBAN                               ..         85.0      87.0              71.0                    71.0
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4/c    4889.0    3617.4             3857.7                  4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.07-   8296.5    6429.4              6411.8                  2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1             1132.8                   588.5
URHAN                                ..          ..    363.5              322.3                   579.6
RURAL                               ..          ..  10429.1              5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6          2.8
URbAN                              2.6          2.8
RURAL                              2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..
URSAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GOUPS (WEIGITED AVE   ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)X
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA 4 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
MJUUMD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         73.0      79.0               85.9                    99.8
MALE                  80.0         90.0      94.0                94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                40.0         56.0      63.0                64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0        26.0       28.0               38.0laa                 53.5
MALE                  30.0         36.0      37.0                34.6la                 58.4
FEMALE                10.0         15.0      18.0                18.O7aa                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T OF SECONDARY)   8.0            1.0       1.0                3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0        41.0       41.0               32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                           16.0        21.0         ..               19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.4      36.0               52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.1       1.3                1.7                    12.7
RADIO REC?JRS PER THOUSAND
PUPULA ION                           4.9        21.5       32.5               35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0         0.0        1.0                3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0      16.9               14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           6.3        3.8                3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31.2        32.4       31.9               29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0        74.0       71.0               69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       11.0               14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.6        40.3       38.9               39.7                    40.2
MALE                                  58.0         52.6      51.3                51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                28.2         27.1      25.7               23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY ilATIO               1.0          1.1       1.1                 1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.77;      7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEhOLDS   13.6          17.27;    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      132.0              134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                 *-           '-     114.0              111.6                  193.7
LSTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                  249.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.3               41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      50.7               51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the iodicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b   Unless atherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNU I
Page 3 of 5
Ittee:  Alohogh the data  re drean  fro  eonerea genrally lodge   the  -ot  ohalatvbad      fai, ft ehowl  sha be  -otd that they say tee he le--
catoalyoeathl   ncns   f  helakofetoarled   eonntt  ed  oteteocdby diffaca   esnm   Ia teltlgthe date.  The data are,oe
theece .. eefol. to d-ecihe ordeta of sagolnuda, il-dtoa     tred., and che..acrerlee  ceral  sae-J..               aoebesesratfe
The refenc   soneor              he eas  o, oc     dtrygr-   of oe eohject cotrr  cad >2) a -oetry jtte  wIsh enseeat higher a-erag  ieo                 thee the oceetry gnaop
of the.ujetcoty(cetfor'aIa   upu l   Eporteta' group there  'hdleIambth Aftia sad Kuddle taef" te. heahaeaof et-sg
enclotoitraafoellee) . I  the refernc   grup data ohe aneraeear,             ppoaIo  fegedertsgn   ee n  each istaeeed                          'hw      ptat.
ceoft   f  h  citre   f   geoup h.e data  o   holdctr                        lc tdhe....rae.     o  tef    ecee gthe fndtcaore dapedortetalhlyetaa
and  enorolfoe, cutIo  sta  he  oaI lea:d it-lnlgseae   f  n   nleo    oeohar    Thae.. ..ea.e  are onl.y uefuenopate   he  Iaoeo
LAJID AREA >thoue..d eq.ks.>                                                                           ooulcpe   teta  td -5Lb                         n   ud -Ppfro    ttl
for  ropa  pstore. snketendkItchen   arden  or tolin  felloc   1978 daaPaflata                            tee          Iefte are  e shltefte  pese- tfy etetfd
by at I            ha"on   yhefsa.'   Iagalh-ctant  pent..sag pntetfpell  oot
GNP? PEt CAPITA (USl) - GcNPt~cplepnetea   orc   ek pprlce.   ldOla  cae  reati-olded.  heal hopit le, ho-ster  loade health
cuetd  y  as  coccao  mttd  e  ocd   oc  Aic   197-9   an):190                            ed  edca  cs7raea   eeafsty   nef b b     phy.tian.  (hnt hya
1971, and 19719 dare                                                                                 .adi.o.  aeleot,ctt.efwts   tc>   bobofe   e-aietaha
ENEtGcY CONSUiMPTION PEP CAPITA- MIns  coteu.spti odf ccnro1s               "Ieg  (coal                tical pnrpoes  ahe          iteytle  e-lade  Waptop /eaa  heiae
Total Pooalc  OdYa   toad)-beo   uy1 1967, 1970,  and 1979                                       afJ
dffUderect ADfntlomooronaanayafetcprbiitcfdtasthI VIleSTAISTuSfe .d  dy thcardeb r  loge   aro  tptndh   t edI
ston1   counries      1967. .1977   od107  dAt.                                                     the hyoeah196for e9o0tetcaf19orrocac
PopflaSiton Ic yearl.l  -h Ccecppltopoeciaorbadon17hA                                                        ldfproo  e   osInaltht  androrlrcale  conac tonal
tota  poplotio byageand  et od thir  orta up  nd frto ity cato.del'Ag,  eean bol . tdeleetldett raec   notraad
Projctin praster   fo  entaltc  ancacoerfa  ofthre Oneiocen-              thcoite   paJ. _.
tak    rnyte  teteindoeo   Itrtn   ottaln   fncuiy                                    tTAII
and ftrnll Ity trends Ion prcjtctlcn-d  porposas.          ..fo.fed                                 fprcllsec   Saute j b       ,               I
ofeI     napac    tol   octy            h  sttoay' npnlarlet io -.ae                          Acooroa.ih....aledotoncolece                                   ced(0pecn
In th  yf-   2f-, aod the y             trlcliro   fert..... ity tote t  relae                    eCondary echool - tota, tl             enc  Ceie            ihor    rodr
nIeheberr-hd.                                                                              usull o-1  t  17yer-   Iug;pecnepcdoc  ourac  rcfoetli
Peren  h.    td-na  ppuutom  pt  qorrIleeoe   liihacaea   o                           lccfoalenoldot   (pecn  o.df aecotd               ... -....ti _ne   inidu loot
ioc   ara; 110,107  aId 1979 data.                                                           Inldeiotia ,ider-l,orotr  rfae-hc   yoheidrrO
'h'.o.giolrlad-optuuoeefrdluttlndctrccdcctnafeodc    ottnoe
only   -1917,  T90 ar  1978      . Osta       "   -Iiil            dcl. .                       fuoli-tetbrrai   P- ciLocY. and              1 eeon dahTodtsl tudeta orol6ed1i
lanlo; 190. 160, ad 197  dct -                                                            odli 1 Y t.. oy -dn f-rec  dif-         119 l.iarta pcte   ie tr red adcit
yea  poodobon   for'.. 195-6,  9107_dod 17079
-aYo  u    P950-1-,196-70. oohd         T.1970-79di . ~                                        p._   .P.e.no .Con  re  thosan   ouutni_ -
popolatfoc; 196, 1977, and f99 data.                                    ellltaYeehlc1e  -.1         ' 
Crd   et   ue   etoeni-kncllat   e  ionod   fed-cncdotrecr    otiocadcplto)-  i  ye   frcang                                                                                    u   oi
opolotlor  1960. 197   -n 99dt.hodeeat   eea   ooc   e   hoad0   oulco,rooo    i
C6acerdueotutunrgecbeodogtcnosu                              lha--clf                      licened-ecuner            o-otiea         dr yeo     V-ctac  ..cIac -ti-ifrdl
PaeilnPlanooa-Pcere (rnonofofChilednooe0n1>(1-Peonoe   farn                                tituntredondlo             1-senhcriad atod        fidertby
-dton  f      Jrhf d-srn  ace ......  moe    b  tabc---t     e    eccenNesan   iruo  nn(o   tuac   ocliin     hoehuonco
al  trredteetInaun  gedro.                                                        ultin  f   aly  ecro  iceec   anpoet   df-or  ooyrld-a
';6   J"   d I, ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~    ~ ~ olioot  eno   niaoyttendt   forlnea                                    ti  coiee
P000 al ttPTITIIO                                                                     n he  dd0   if  t appeno at  oat f_r noY              a ontk.
P-Plti-rloo   l  oo   oedtla G-ndohIceoclden..d.od fed od                                            dlk1t  alduifceoo,icldo  aattt-cdrn-niat
In onP ca te-do     - year koala    1oodltictcnd    prtenny  Sood  InP-leuarca- an  motle ootd
aInnu- fene15ag60  1960uccr proo  Idh19n0 19611,17,ad17   ae.P.Total Lao  focC(-                                         uaoe..tc......cln    otoo.ioldo
per.D"h  ` doy.  uncla      -dl -up  -- cela  dossiccodcio.hnoce n                                 not' ccnarhle.11.190jd199dt
sancacreeeiinoto  byb-da- nphtoniclo.oto.noa    cl                                         Ifho   ccpn rto   ofbl tota  laboc , foce  1960,"197  atd199ita
city  and heolth  onetd d erfng  e    drcon gta hcepeot. e  body  de~t,aoldec    rretI-Lbrfnc   tet,crtunin   auatcn
oua_tndItl  1ff-i,  _97            h coI97_otd170sd  99  aa
cat eupip of fod patdah.  Ne  noppl  offod  s  efne   acboe   to                       r it_oe  oeoocdo   otl   ae  antstba_                              rfreo
onlya   rti  an ta aoeag  forthic d, prp-_y  chifeTirfoteol1dnoutio-ctoo   oyltfnudr1_adh   eec
Oct1  Pod  onny   lkintt17ban  1)  dra                                                         hbte-doI  abo  orc
rie  fn  ulal nd- .       puee  hnett  par c b, 9i-h5--197  od.j 197  dat                  tCel_ilTktli
Child  laee 1-01  ortalit  cuo  ro  thoad      ota   etcpy   hoadle                        Prytu    C         ti Oci -    thcc ... (h d fu  uhcc  oi       roic   I   o,-
oggouiu   ncatoblre    itiag    rnpfonotnelptgcr-                        (ereti   ,nccnlpecrf,poryt1  pr hr                       - ,udhncn dpc-r
trIe  daadNoe   rtlirwtec;16,  90ad  99itaYfhcih c
FIOLOD      pRItOl cu .c                                                                                                           ..OiyLPii-
Lietoocaf        oo  ftrtd P t-a- h       -(997- Orurtuhcc  ooo  lift rof aolnk                    Thyfo yinnin  eat tooroar   rr- c-pproc            ...e . -1o oo  poc -t  l       -d
ec brct.191, 190 od.   di9i - data,                                                          and_nko- ldhco- tc Prccnrcoodrbtcuir
Iof tttnaltlttortcntd-cnoducffofotodrreto                                                          ncitdkeltPntttnofLcl(f1retrta u-dadrc
nfaerc  huad   o    ith.Oaloepnrt   nooler   nthtdoe  ee o-Ioih      tiu
donetoboebier(ceco  o  onuatoi-too,  rbt.ot    mi  -Nu-nnriloalrudqotodrtclt  trofa  nn-fodreuiecto oYo
her o  noope  (ttal,  rban  aol  oral  nftbeoenthieacnttteoftof docable
oanarucclfln-      onnnrtetnfohahea httratdhctcnonR slca_d.                                     tilotd c_       to    eetotcnlcl(I>ycaoo  -ro                              nrrl
aaerubotetre   rcttdhrhoettcog,adoc"-diltu                                                 trotloi...ncyIrnaloi....throfooro p.ict
ofter depoto    oilo ten.  I  ororbon              f-eupuh    d
tuefly  n oadtrplir-1 bto ni... -.yc,-                                                                                                                t
ncoeohooeaiaoolp~toI__oc.tco-oulcro   od     
oo  Ao -ijopc)tco,tur   atirordl-t1oYedbbetc-eti lhp.et-o_
orheceaecie k        pitiotP...c.nto dOp1a60 00dinolc
t "cIte", ondooaloceodbucaano o:huocct                                                                                                   inoiodedolt   Pcno
dodcon   -cen   byae-   _-rccya   _dn or -too                                                                      19tpfict   to-toot   cau,   n    rtitotfptt.
fopubtoonOtt hoaloio    Ppoato-unoa                                    _Zoearo    t _trofp i-I                                b-f
cianaqualiftodfrnsueadiootorhnoiotunooernfoylntl.yjdf
P0y,lattn_oc  tictlyhereo -Popoutio  dllOodh0 nnhe  of  rocroir
eataotdfeealeocaduatencrnec,~~~y  P_c_ Orqctth'corset-



ANUD I
Page 4 of 3
ECOONDIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
*/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 240
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 b                                                              ANNKAL RATE OF GROWT  (1  conatant utica.)
US$ Bln.       7                 1955/56-1959/60  1960/61 1964f 65   1965166-1969/70   19702 713 197417Z        1U7UU76u197f
GNP at Market Prices                  159.37       100.0                     3.7                3.6                 3.6                  2.9               4.1
Gross Dometic Investment                38 46       24.1
Grog, National Saving                   35.30       22.1
Current Account Balance                 -3.16       -2.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Forcs   /              V.A. Pr Worker
US$ Bln.              %              Mil.       71                  USS         % of Nutionrl Average
Agriculture                            39.8             39.6              180.6      70.7                 220               56
Industry                               25.2             25.1               32.2      12.6                 783             199
Services                               35.5             35.3               42.6      16.7                 833              211
Total/Avernge                         I                l7Z                           0 TTJ:               39r             TMU
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government         e/                                       Central Covarimnt
Re  Bln.         % of ODP                                            Al. Ala,               f GtDP
19181   19011  1976177-1980/81                                  1908        19U)/8         1976/77-19t01
Current Receipts                    238.19       19.0         19.1                                        125.41       10.0            10.6
Current Expenditures                238.93       19.0         18.0                                        133.29       10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              -0.74      -0.1           1i1                                        - 7.88      - 0.6           N.8S
Capital Expenditures  f/            107.35       8.5          7.6                                          79.99        6.4            5.4
External AsiLetanc  (nst) dl         12.86       1.0           1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71    1974/75    1975/76        1976/77    1977178    1978179    1979/80    19W/181    FEbruarh   19l1   sbruar  1982
(Re Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quaei Money                109.8        194.6       223.2       273.2       329.1       398.6       467.9        553.1         536.13            615.53
Bank Credit to Government (not)    54.6            95.3        97.9       118.5       137.3       162.4       201.0        258.1         238.22            292.18
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector   64.6           126.5        153.7       185.1       212.2       253.5       306.3        363.2         349.03           422.15
(Percentage or Index Numbere)                                                         ril-peb  198W81  Aprtl-PF0  1981/02
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  27.3            28.0        30.1        33.9        40.8        40.9        44.1         44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    1O0.0       174.9       173.0       176.6       185.8        185.8       217.6       257.0          255.9                   :280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Iholesale Price Index                  7.7         25.2        -1.1         2.1         5.2                    17.1         18.1           18.4                      9.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0             9.2         2.7        21.0        15.9        18.3        23.8         28 4           28.6  /                  22;7 hl
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4            18.2        21.5        20.4        14.6        19.5        20.8         18 6           16.6 g/                  20.9 ft
I/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market price., calculated by the conversion technique used in the World bank Atlas, 1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
bl Quick Estimates, Central Statiscical Organication.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor coat series, including one obervation before firet year and one observation
after last year of lieted period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official figuree.
i/ Transfere between Contre and States have been netted out.
f| All loan and advancee to third parties have been netted out.
j/ Percentage change from end-February, 1980 to end-February 1981.
kL/ Percentage change from end-February, 1981 to end-February 1982.
i/  Totel Labor Force and percentage breskdown fron Sixth Five Year Plan, table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BAIANCE OF PAYM-ENTS               1978/79    1979/80    1980/81        1981/82         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                                                                          US$ Mln. 
Exports of Goods                    6,978       7,998       8,504        8,700          Engineering Goods               908         12
Imports of Goods                  -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000               Tea                             506          7
Trade Balance                      -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300              Gems                           403           5
NFS (net)                             717       1,100         722          915           Clothing                       501          7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                    - 824      -2 204    - 6,612    - 6.385                 Products                    457          6
Jute Manufactures              303          4
Interest Income (net) k/               14         196          370         212           Iron Ore                       321          4
Net Transfers   l/                  1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840           Cotton Textiles                 316          4
Sugar                          102          1
Balance on Cur ent Account            375       - 431      -3.163      -4.333           Others                       3,541          48
Official Aid                                                                             Total                        7.448        100
Disbursements                   1,695        1,738      2,337        2,724  o/       EXTERNAL bJE, MARCiR 31. 1981
Amortization                    - 702        - 608       - 707       - 659                                                  US$ billion
Transactions with IMF               - 158         -          1,035        690           Outstanding  nd Disbursed                    17.2
All Other Items                       265       - 475         147       - 797           Undisbursed                                   7.5
Outstanding, including                      24.7
Increase in Reserves t-)           -1,475       - 224         351       2,375                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) /         7,357       7,579       7,228       4,853
Net Reserves   (end year) rn/    7,357          7,579       6,901       3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81 3I n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                              IBRD/IA  LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)                2,043       4,045       6,657        6,075                                                US$ million
IBRD         IDA
Exports                                24           26         33         n.-lBDaD
Outstanding and Disbursed          984          5646
Undisbursed                        880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                  1864          10280
RATE OF EXCOANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971              US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972          US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980                US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981                US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.l10
i/ Estimated.
/   Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-    included within official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n4 Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
o / Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrowings.
p/  Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank            IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
45 Loans/                                               1,516.0             -
73 Credits fully disbursed                                  -           4,315.4            -
342-IN    1973      Education                                             12.0           1.70
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Proc. & Marketing             -              13.0           1.15
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0             -             8.38
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -              30.0          15.19
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -              83.0          27.24
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -              27.7          10.71
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -              16.4           2.41
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -              40.0          12.40
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -             105.0          12.71
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -             150.0          34.00
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -               4.0           1.30
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -              18.0           9.24
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0              -            68.27
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0             -             8.17
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0              -            20.90
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0             -            11.52
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0              -             6.94
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -              30.0          20.86
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -              20.0           5.82
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -             150.0          19.37
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development               -              24.0           0.10
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research         -              12.0          12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0             -             6.57
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -              10.0           4.40
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -              23.0          12.88



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank           IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -                8.0           5.18
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -               70.0          23.76
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -               13.0           3.43
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -               58.0          21.29
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5             -              4.24
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -              107.0          75.63
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -              87.0           16.59
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                            -               8.0           6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0             -             10.04
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0              -            38.55
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -             117.6           70.93
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -             200.0           90.86
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -              14.0           12.37
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -               85.0          56.51
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -               17.5          12.48
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -               16.0          13.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0             -            43.46
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -              150.0         112.81
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -              196.0         181.19
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                     -              111.0          27.64
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                        -             190.0         130.32
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -              38.0           15.56
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -               27.0          24.01
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                 25.0           14.95
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                    -              30.0          15.14
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0             -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -             200.0          135.20
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -             129.0          88.33
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -               48.0          35.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -              175.0          59.52
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -              23.0           14.63
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -              20.0           19.22
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -             210.0          155.28



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -              37.0          26.50
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -             46.0           44.73
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -              32.0          29.33
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                        -               18.0          14.05
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -             175.0         160.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -            300.0         249.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -              22.0          20.95
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -               10.0           9.64
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -              56.0          51.85
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -             54.0           51.69
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -              80.0          73.53
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0             -            33.50
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0             -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -             225.0         199.63
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0             -            28.09
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0             -           148.49
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -              35.0          34.20
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -              83.0          80.70
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -              42.0          42.00
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -             140.0         140.00
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -             314.0         267.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -              54.0          54.00
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -             400.0         387.90
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -              23.0          23.00
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -              28.0          28.00
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -              37.0          37.00
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -             125.0         124.30



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -                400.0         400.00
1177-IN*   1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -             220.0         220.00
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0             -           100.00
1178-IN*   1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -              29.0          29.00
1185-IN*   1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -              25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0             -           150.00
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0             -           300.00
2095-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                              190.0             -           190.00
1209-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                                -             160.0         160.00
1219-IN*+  1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                      _                     6.0           6.00
Total                                     3,570.5        10,632.6
of which has been repaid                1,137.4            94.7
Total now outstanding                     2,433.1        10,537.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         2,433.1        10,537.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,062.1         4,192.2
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their IJS dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.11309) in effect on March 31,1982.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        0.9      8.4
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         164.7       11.8    176.5
Less:   Sold                           40.0        2.6     42.6
Repaid                        24.5         -       24.5
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      94.0        7.9    101.9
Undsbue  84==5    =====
Undisburs ed                  84.9        1.4      86.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 total US$858 million, representing an increase
of about 28% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1982, is US$5,254 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under all loans are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. It is fully committed, but close
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
supervision is required to ensure timely implementation of sub-projects and
full disbursement of the loan by the closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Land acquisition has been completed. Basic engineering work is
expected to be finished by June, and construction to commence in July 1982.
Tendering for major equipment is underway. Project progress is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government, and in
order to bring the project to a close in a timely manner, no new sub-project
proposals will be approved. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily with
initial implementation and procurement actions on schedule.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Engineering and construction
activities are proceeding on schedule. As of January 1982, four of the
fifteen well platforms included in the project were already producing, con-
tributing over 30,000 bls/day to Bombay High's total oil production. The
project is expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053, assist in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW exten-
sion of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help
meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale
thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage
has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The
first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in
February 1982. In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant
equipment, price increases for materials, and increases in customs duties
have resulted in an increase in the total cost of the project. The Govern-
ment of India is raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the
additional cost.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements are ahead
of appraisal projections.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major problems. Imports of electronic switching equipment for the projects
were behind schedule, but procurement contracts have now been finalized and
the loan amounts fully committed. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts and
Telegraphs Department remains sound.  Credit 1112, which became effective
in June 1981, provides for the continued expansion, over a three-year period,
of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural areas. It
also provides for the modernization and upgrading of three existing telecom-
munications equipment factories, and the establishment of three additional
ones. Progress with bidding procedures is excellent and it is expected that
the project will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Physical execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with procurement for the two major components over
75% completed.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule, with the first year's program of rural road construc-
tion well underway and agreement reached on much of the second year's
program.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. All project-financed buses are in service, increasing
the fleet to nearly 2,000, in accordance with appraisal estimates. However,
delays in construction of new workshop facilities have been substantial;
construction began in January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan
closing date may have to be extended one year. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, financial and managerial performance is lagging behind expectations
and must now receive project authorities' full attention if physical and
financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on Credit 687 is generally satisfactory; costs are within
appraisal targets on most components and the credit is nearly fully dis-
bursed. Construction is complete and cost recovery is excellent in the first
sites and services area. For the other two areas, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction required a one-year extension of the
closing date. Slum improvements benefitting about 30,000 families are com-
plete. Legal constraints and initially poor maintenance of improvements
hindered cost recovery for slum improvement at the outset. However, project
authorities have taken action to resolve these problems and cost recovery has
improved markedly.
Early project implementation of the second Madras project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the
first project are being heeded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
The Calcutta project is proceeding quite well in most sectors. Ini-
tial delays caused by materials shortages have eased and the pace of
implementation has picked up. Procurement and financial management issues
are being handled satisfactorily. Staff shortages in some of the implement-
ing agencies continue, and institutional development remains a priority.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule, but revised cost estimates for the
project, together with the initial implementation delays, may necessitate
a revision of the implementation timetable and adjustments to project scope.
Credit 1185 is aimed at providing shelter and urban services in
Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar Pradesh. Initial tendering is underway.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory and the institution
building aspects of the project are nearing completion. However, initial
procurement problems and the Government's slow release of construction funds
may delay the project by about 12 months and result in cost overruns. Con-
struction work under Credit 842 is now gaining momentum and a large number of
contracts are due to be awarded shortly. However, the Government has had to
prepare a revised financing plan since the delay in the appointment of con-
struction consultants, together with last-minute design changes, caused a
two-year delay in the start of construction and consequent substantial cost
overruns. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements and
tariff measures proposed for Credit 899 have been overcome and the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of rural schemes has commenced, and work on



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
urban schemes is expected to begin shortly. All major materials contracts
for the first two years' requirements of the project have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: Expected May 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. The Periyar Vaigai project in
Tamil Nadu experienced a 50% cost overrun due mainly to an underestimation of
rehabilitation work required and higher-than-anticipated unit costs. An IDA
mission undertook a comprehensive review and reformulation of the project in
1981. Project completion is now scheduled for March 1984. In the
Maharashtra I project, civil works in some project components are well behind
schedule and of poor quality. Remedial measures are under discussion. The
overall management and planning for implementation of the Gujarat II project
has been disappointing. The State Government and GOI are discussing ways to
resolve staffing difficulties and expedite progress. Progress of the remain-
ing projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31. 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27. 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance, and
monitoring and evaluation components of the project need considerable
strengthening. The Government of UP has agreed to undertake specific actions
designed to address these deficiencies. Project completion may be delayed
by six months due to initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 21977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138 Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 millio
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit approved March 30, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected August 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular, significant
gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, a change in govern-
ment brought a temporary hiatus in project implementation, but the new State



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Government has reaffirmed its commitment, and project activities are resum-
ing. There has been considerable progress in staffing and civil works, but
the initial delays are likely to cause a two-year extension of the project.
In Bihar, project progress had been disappointing mainly due to serious
staffing vacancies. However, the pace of project implementation is expected
to accelerate following the decision by the Government of Bihar in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts. A
revised implementation schedule is under preparation. In Gujarat, Haryana
and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project, the basic extension system has been established and attention now
needs to focus on the quality of extension recommendations and the filling of
remaining staff vacancies. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts; but further progress on the project will require
an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V system to the
remaining eight districts. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, initial project
implementation is encouraging. Most extension workers have been posted and
are undergoing training. There is good evidence that extension recommenda-
tions are having a positive impact on farmers' activities. In the Madhya
Pradesh II project, implementation has begun in five of the twelve districts.
Extension workers are undergoing training and all staff are expected to be on
board by early May 1982.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Following the resolution of initial implementation delays caused by
staffing and funding problems, the project progress continues satisfactorily.
However, farmers' demand for coconut rehabilitation has been disappointing
and is not likely to meet the target. This shortfall will be offset by
increased implementation of new coconut planting and pepper rehabilitation.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  Expected May 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, there has been significant recent
progress, especially in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. Commitment of funds to
research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although corresponding
disbursements lag behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
the Project Unit have been made to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment oppor-
tunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project was
initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has picked up since and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the extended closing date. The technical assistance component
of this project has been satisfactorily completed and the computer for the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics is fully operational.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
There has been progress in the construction of bag storage
warehouses. However, difficulties in land acquisition and in providing rail
sidings, exacerbated by management problems, have caused GOI to propose
modifications to the project to provide additional bag storage capacity in
lieu of bulk storage facilities. Land acquisition for the additional bag
storage warehouses is proceeding, but a significant extension of the closing
date would be necessary to complete the project. GOI's proposals are cur-
rently under review by the Association.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Credit 871 is proceeding well.
Subproject appraisal and loan sanctioning are in accord with appraisal tar-
gets, and disbursements are ahead of schedule. However, as a result of
initial shortages in the supply of steel and cement, construction costs have
risen 30-40%, necessitating a revision of quantitative targets. Implementa-
tion of Credit 1146, which became effective in November 1981, was slower than
anticipated in the initial stages due mainly to poor preparation in most
States in the pre-project year. However, during the first 5 months of the
planned project period, development has been satisfactory, although disburse-
ments are currently considerably less than projected at appraisal. NCDC is



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
taking steps to ensure that the progress in preparatory work attained during
the last few months is maintained.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Nearly 3,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects, with
membership of almost 300,000. Farmer response has been excellent and project
authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the estab-
lishment of DCSs. Profitability in almost all DCSs is good and construction
of dairy and feed plants is proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The coal
fired boilers being installed in the dairy plants throughout the State
projects appear to have a design flaw. The NDDB has assured IDA that this
flaw will be corrected or the boilers replaced. The project in Madhya
Pradesh has had significant success in the conversion of wasteland to pas-
tureland. Under the National Dairy Project, six sub-projects are under
implementation, and further sub-projects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal by the Indian Dairy Corporation. Progress has been slow due to
the longer-than-anticipated time required to secure the appropriate agree-
ments on institutional structure and guarantees on loans to the sub-projects.
The IDC is considering the establishment of a special review committee to
deal more expeditiously with this issue.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Cashew planting and improvement programs are proceeding well and
the targets are expected to be fully met. Economic effects of cashew planta-
tion, particularly in Orissa State, are expected to be very significantly
favorable. Cashew research and cashew study components are behind schedule
but are expected to pick up soon.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory and, based on revised planning
by the project authorities in late 1981, it is expected that the time lost
in the initial stages of the project can be recouped during 1982. The
research staff has commenced operations and the overseas training component
of the project has been initiated with the collaboration of Japanese experts.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. The GOI is now reviewing a study on the
socio-economic impact of such investments, and the State Government is
assessing the industrial development proposal.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31. 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31. 1985
Cr. No. 1178 West-Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves. There has been excellent performance in establishing healthy
plantations in UP and Gujarat, exceeding appraisal targets, but the staffing
of the forestry extension service is behind schedule and requires the atten-
tion of the project authorities. Initial implementation of the West Bengal
project is proceeding very well.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, a feasibility studies of other
watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This is expected to be resolved by June
1982, in which case harbor works should be finished by mid-1984. Village
roads and water supply components of the project are proceeding satisfac-
torily. In Andhra Pradesh, the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was offi-
cially opened in February 1982; harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are
progressing satisfactorily following the resolution of design problems.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. After a slow start in the first
18 months, project implementation is now satisfactory. Detailed designs for
the first two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States has
been completed and construction work is expected to start in June 1982.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation is
proceeding generally satisfactorily and there has been a large build-up of
activity since the last review in April 1981. The major delay is in the
construction area where, despite good progress in site selection for popula-
tion centers, the shortage of architects and construction materials and slow
progress in staffing of construction units are causing problems.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block has proceeded according
to schedule.  Based on this experience, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
About one and a half years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Rural Electrification Corporation.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
A preparation mission visited India in October 1980;
the project was first formally presented to the Bank
in January 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 4, 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 28, 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1982.
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) REC to ensure that in any fiscal year, its internally
generated funds cover at least 1.2 times its debt service
requirements, and REC's administrative expenses and
interest payments do not exceed 90% of its interest
receipts (para. 60);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) SEBs to provide undertakings to GOI,as a condition of
participation in the project, to (i) achieve a con-
tribution to their investment program of at least 20%
of annual average capital expenditures, by 1982/83;
or (ii) in the case of the SEBs in the States of
Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, achieve
a 20% contribution to investment progressively by
1985/86, in accordance with specified interim annual
contribution levels, and by December 31, 1982, prepare
a plan for the achievement of these annual contribu-
tions (para 63);
(c) SEBs to provide undertakings to GOI, as a condition of
participation in the project, to introduce a commer-
cial system of accounting from April 1, 1984
(para 65);
(d) State Governments to provide undertakings to GOI., as a
condition of participation in the project, to limit
the subsidies to their SEBs in respect of their rural
electrification operations to a reasonable proportion
of the SEBs' gross revenues from sales of electricity
(para 64);
(e) GOI to establish a unit within the Ministry of Energy
to be responsible for the development and implementa-
tion of the commercial system of accounting in the
SEBs (para 65);
(f) GOI to conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with REC
(condition of loan effectiveness, para. 57).






IBRD 15858R
-.    .. U.S.S.R.             U                                 80                                                                        OCTOBER 1981
--'.-- - 5               f%.-a*                                                                   INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
~~    c  ~~~App-i,omate Line of Contol
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                             "x.                                        CORPORATION PROJECT
OF             !         R   i    rX f    A                       PROJECT TARGETS AND DEGREE OF ELECTRIFICATION
Approximate Border as                REC OFFICES:
Indicated by India
Apprortirnate Border ~   &     Headquarters
Appited may China                 A    Ex,sting Offires
PERCENT OF VI LLAGES ELECTRIFIED (March 1981):
15-49
4, 5  f- . .  i   C }   <4XW 50-89
r -.F. 90g1o0                                          Apprxrnmate
V              4              ~~~~~~~~~~State Capitals            Border an  300
g    National Capital      Approximahe  by India
P A K I S T A N                                                                                                            Bode I  j|           n  c     ww m   i 
PAK   STAN                                                    -                   ___  State Bo-ndar,s           Indkated
,,l, --                                                           - tonInternationat Boundaries  by C.ind.
/1                                          Uffo X      sit -Gt BHUTAN C                                                                 s
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K0                                                        - - $ ............... fudrztjG  400"
.oe' S-  -f    AJaI<t                   A           -         Bfv   o/   B       a                Aam _              lo NaZ /and
~~tasB tx#    ~~*  -  ;  TriYr4zS  < W  -                                                                       Implta
aw5;g,        -i,        X4                                                       - -             )           MeAlj                   Mani  ,0-     _TftJ
0~~~~~~~0
u - X    k    K  \   -                               (.0faSX TZ>83~~~~~~~~~~~~ FOOO
# _ S r    :  -   <4Kssters  .L. I  :  Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s~o
A,irjbrarr 7t   :           -                   i ea~                                                                                           :
2,000- -20000    WBCUBR M A
K~~~~~AK
ana~aeIa~r~atk                                                                                  pecnto -eteenetetrfe
mele      ~I(BeeeaeeB0



