Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3612b-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 7, 1982
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1              =    Paise 100
US$1                   Rs 8.0   1/
Rs 1              =    US$ 0.125  1/
Rs 1 million      =    US$ 125,000  1/
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
,ARDC      -        Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAG       -        Comptroller and Auditor General
CEA       -        Central Electricity Authority
DCF       -        Discounted Cash Flow
GOI       -        Government of India
HT        -        High Tension
HP        -        Horsepower
LT        -        Low Tension
MNP       -        Minimum Needs Program
NHPC      -        National Hydro Power Corporation
NTPC      -        National Thermal Power Corporation
OA        -        Ordinary Advanced Area Scheme
OB        -        Ordinary Backward Area Scheme
RE        -        Rural Electrification
REB       -        Regional Electricity Board
REC       -        Rural Electrification Corporation
RMNP      -        Revised Minimum Needs Program
SEB       -        State Electricity Board
SI        -        System Improvement
SPI       -        Special Project Industry
SPA       -        Special Project Agriculture
V         -        Volt
kV        -        kilovolt  =  1,000 volts
kVA       -        kilovolt-ampere = 1,000 volt-amperes
MVA       -        megavolt-ampere = 1,000 kilovolt-amperes
kW        -        kilowatt = 1,000 watts
kWh       -        kilowatt = 1,000 watt-hours
Gwh       -        gigawatt-hour = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/ The US$/Rs exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
have been made at the long-term estimated rate of US$1 to Rs 8.0.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD RURLL' ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       THE POWER SECTOR ........................................              1
Background ............ ..................................             I
Energy Resources ...... . ........ .                   .1
Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector . . .............            2
Sector Institutions ......................................             3
Existing Facilities - All India .....         ..................       4
Power Supply and Demand .................................              4
Bank Group's Strategy . ................................. .            6
II.      RURAL ELECTRIFICATION ...................................    10
Background          ..............................................    10
Development ...............................          . ...    12
Future Program           ..........................................   12
III.     BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES:  INSTITUTIONS AND
OPERATIONS                                                 .....    15
A. Rural Electrification Corporation (REC)
- Role in the Power Sector ..........................    15
- Organization and Staff ............................    16
- Scheme Appraisal and Monitoring ....           ...............    17
- Disbursement    .       ......................................    19
- Technical Assistance to SEBs ......................    19
- Record of Operations ..............................    20
- Future Development of REC .........................    20
B.  State Electricity Boards (SEBs) .....................    21
- SEBs' Organization for RE .........................    21
- RE Planning and Financing .21
- Record of RE Operations .22
This project was appraised by Messrs. K. Jechoutek (Economist), B. Lynch and
B. Davis (Fin. Analysts), J. Ryan (Engineer), R. Pradhan (Researcher), and
E. Mbi (Young Professional).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.      THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT               ..............................   23
Genesis of the Project ......          ........................     .     23
Description of the Project ..............................                 24
Normal REC and SPA Schemes ........               ......................    24
System Improvement (SI) Schemes .........................e e              24
Training Facility .25
Project Cost and Financing ..............................                 25
Procurement ....................................... ............ *..      27
Implementation Schedule ...... .............................    27
Disbursement  ..        ..........................  ................    28
Onlending Rate       .............................................        28
V.       FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................                  28
A.  Rural Electrification Corporation (REC)
- Past Financial Performance              ........................    28
- Present Financial Position ..................          ....        30
- Financing Plan ..................................................  31
- Future Finances ..................... .                            32
- Audit .....          ........................................      34
- Accounting Organization and Systems ....... ........    34
B.  SEB Financial Performance:   Rural Electrification
(RE) Sub-Sector
- RE Investment ................................ .........           34
- Financial Performance on RE Activities ...........           .    34
Impact of RE Losses on Overall SEB Financial
Performance             ............-....  36
C.  Reform of SEB Finances
- Background   ..37
- Reform of Financial Objectives and Policies . .38
- Reform of Accounting Practices.                                    42
- Eligibility under the Proposed Credit   .             .43



-iii-
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION .....       ................   43
Cost Comparison      .........................................    44
Economic Rate of Return ......     ...........................    44
Financial Rate of Return ...... ..........................    45
Tariffs and Cost of Supply              ....   45
Beneficiaries ...     ........................................    47
VII.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS ...................................    47
Agreements During Negotiations         .     .     .47
Condition of Effectiveness    .      ......................    48
Recommendation        .............  . ..... .........   .. .. ....   .  48



-iv-
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   All India Sales and Energy Data 1969/70 - 1979/80                49
2.   All India Power Supply Position 1980 - 90                        50
CEA Norms for Estimating Capacity and Energy Availability    51
3.   Villages Electrified and Pumps Energized (REC & SEB
Programs)                                                      52
4.   Progress of Pump Electrification (Nos.)                          53
5.   Planned Statewise Expenditure on RE During Sixth Plan
1980/81 - 1984/85                                              54
6.   Organization Chart (IBRD No. 23042)                              55
7.   REC Staff Structure (3/31/81)                                    56
8.   Types of Schemes Financed by REC                                 57-58
9.   Terms and Conditions for REC Loans to SEBs                       59-60
10.   Typical Pattern of Installments of REC Loan Disbursement
( in % of total loan)                                          61
11.   Development of REC Lending Activity 1969-81 in Major
Categories of Loans                                            62-63
12.   Achievement of Village Electrification Plan Targets (Nos.)   64
Achievement of Pump Connection Plan Targets (Nos.)               65
13.   Project Cost Estimate                                            66
Project Cost Estimate REC Schemes                                67
Schemes Approved by REC from 4/1/78 to 1/31/82                   68
Expenditure on Materials by State                                69
Central Institute for Rural Electrification:
Preliminary Cost Estimate                                      70
14.   Targets for Electrification of Villages & Energization of
Pumps in 1983/84 and 1984/85                                   71
15.   Disbursement Schedule                                            72
16.   Income Statement for the period FYs 1979 through 1986            73
17.   Sources and Application of Funds Statement for the period
FYs 1979 through 1986                                          74
18.   Balance Sheets for the period FYs 1979 through 1986              75
19.   Statement of Debt Service Coverage for the period FYs 1979
through 1986                                                   76
20.   Statement of Loans Sanctioned, Disbursed and Undisbursed         77
21.   Assumptions for Financial Projections                            78-79
22.   Rates of Return of SEBs FY1976 - FY1981                          80



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
23.   SEBs' Gross Fixed Assets at March 31, 1979                     81
24.   SEBes  Capital Expenditure FYs 1977-78                         82
SEBs' Capital Expenditure FYs 1978-79                          83
25.   SEBs' Operating Performance - RE Activities (FY1978)            84
SEBs' Operating Performance - RE Activities (FY1979)           85
SEBs' Operating Performance - RE Activities (FY1980)           86
26.   SEBs' Rate of Return for FY1979:  analysed between RE
Activities and Other Operations                              87
27.   Average Tariffs, Subsidies for Rural Electrification,
Contribtution to Investment, and Rate of Return
FYs 1983-85                                                  88
Projected Contribution to Investment FYs 1983-1985             89
28.   Introduction of Commercial Accounting Arrangements             90
29.   Economic Analysis                                              91-9i
- Table 1 .
- Characteristics of Sample, Actual and Average Schemes  94
- Table 2
- Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value of
Sample Schemes                                             95
- Table 3
- Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value of
Actual Schemes                                             96
- Table 4
- Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value of
Average Schemes                                            97
- Table 5
- Financial Internal Rate of Return and Net Present
Value                                                      98
30.   Development of Average Tariffs for Domestic and Industrial
Consumers 1977/78 - 1981/82                                  99
Electricity Tariffs vs. Long-run Marginal Cost (LRMC)
(paisa/kWh)                                                 100
Tariff Systems:  Flat Rate per HP vs. Metered Tariffs         101-103
31.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File 104
MAP
IBRD No. 15858 - Project Targets and Degree of Electrification






INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
I. THE POWER SECTOR
Background
1.01      The development of India's economy and the improvement of its
people's standard of living depend to a large degree on the development of
the power sector. Over the last two decades, power demand has grown twice as
fast as the economy, and the power sector now takes the largest share of
public investment (12% of the Sixth Five-Year Plan outlay). This was due to
the rapid development of power-intensive industry and the expansion of rural
electrification for irrigation.
1.02      In spite of an increase in generating capacity from 5,600 MW in
1960 to about 33,000 MW in 1981, power shortages have been experienced in
various parts of the country for a number of years, and gaps between supply
and demand will impose major constraints for some years to come.
1.03      Before 1975, power facilities were planned, constructed and
operated by each State to meet its own needs. Because of the rapid growth of
the power sector, the Government of India (GOI) decided to create new
institutional structures in the power sector, and to emphasize central
planning of generation and high voltage transmission with the ultimate
objective of central control through a national grid. The Central
Electricity Authority (CEA) performed studies of a national power system, and
GOI decided to proceed with the construction of four large centrally-owned
thermal power stations located at coal fields, supplying bulk power to the
States through an interconnected 400 kV transmission system. The
construction of these power stations (2,000 MW at Singrauli, 2,100 MW at
Korba, 2,100 MW at Ramagundam, and 2,100 MW at Farakka) was begun with
IDA/Bank financial assistance. The first phase of the program comprised the
first stage of 600 MW at each plant, and its associated transmission. In
addition, IDA Credits for the second stage of Singrauli (1,400 MW) and the
second stage of Korba (1,500 MW) have been approved, and a proposed Credit
for the second stage of Ramagundam (1,500 MW) is being processed.
Energy Resources
1.04      Commercial energy accounts for about 46% of total energy used, the
balance (54%) coming mainly from non-commercial sources such as firewood and
agricultural and animal wastes. The main commercial energy resources are
coal, oil, natural gas and hydro-power. There are also resources of nuclear
fuels, principally uranium and thorium. Some geothermal energy sites have
been identified, but their potential appears to be small. Over the past ten
years, total energy consumption has grown at an annual rate of about 4%.
Consumption of commercial energy has increased by about 5% per year, slightly



-2-
faster than that of non-commercial. Coal and hydro-power meet about 70% of
the country's commercial energy requirements. The consumption of petroleum
is relatively low in comparison with other developing countries, accounting
for less than 20% of total demand for commercial energy.
Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.05           The Bank has made eleven loans for Indian power projects
amounting to US$658.5 million, and fifteen IDA credits totalling US$2,096
million. Of these amounts, US$ 2,120 million involves generating plant;
US$23 million the purchase of construction equipment for the Beas
Hydroelectric Project; US$380 million the provision of high voltage
transmission; and US$232 million the purchase of rural electrification
equipment. Fourteen projects financed under the following loans and creditis
have been completed: nine generating projects, the Beas Project (Credit
89-IN), the first three transmission projects (Loan 416-IN, Credits 242-IN
and 377-IN) and the First Rural Electrification Project (Credit 572-IN). The
Fourth Transmission Project (Credit 604-IN) had its closing date extended to
December 31, 1982, in order to ensure full implementation and the major part
of the credit of US$150 million has been committed. The Third Trombay
Thermal Power Project (Loan 1549-IN), the Singrauli (Credit 685-IN), Korba
(Credit 793-IN), and Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN) Thermal
Power Projects, and the Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project
(Credit 911-IN) are in an advanced stage of implementation. The credit for
the Second Singrauli Thermal Project (Credit 1027-IN) and the credit/loan for
the first stage of the Farakka Thermal Power Project (Credit 1053-IN and Loan
1887-IN) were approved in May and June 1980, respectively. An extension to
Korba (Korba II) was approved in July 1981, and an extension to Ramagundam
(Ramagundam II) in December 1981. The Singrauli, Korba and Trombay projects
are on schedule. The Farakka and Ramagundam projects, and the Fourth Power
Transmission Project are proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays. The
Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project's disbursements are ahead of
schedule, amounting to US$ 115 million by March 31, 1982, as compared to an
appraisal estimate of US$ 110 million.
1.06    A Project Performance Audit Report on the Second Power Transmission
Project (Credit 242-IN) was issued on June 3, 1980. The Report stated that
the project had been successful in assisting nine State Electricity Boards
(SEBs) in extending their transmission systems to help meet their growing
requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in the nine SEBs exceeded
the appraisal forecast. Institutional objectives mainly concerned the
rehabilitation of the finances of the SEBs, and while the results achieved by
project completion were modest, improvement was continued by the Third and
Fourth Power Transmission Projects (Credits 377-IN and 604-IN). In FY 1980,
seven of the nine participating SEBs reached their target rate of return of
9.5%. The conclusions of the Report pointed to: (a) the difficulty for the
Bank Group in adequately supervising work other than procurement on the



-3-
project, since it consisted of many sub-projects scattered all over India,
and (b) the absence of a close working relationship between the Bank Group
and the beneficiary SEBs, which denied opportunities for effecting
institutional improvements. The Report suggested that a more direct
involvement with the SEBs in projects of this nature, where an efficient
intermediary is not available would be beneficial.
Sector Institutions
1.07      The principal agencies in the industry are:  the State Electricity
Boards; the Atomic Energy Commission; the Central Electricity Authority; the
Regional Electricity Boards; the central power corporations National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) and National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC); and
the Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd. (REC; see paras 3.02 to 3.24).
1.08      The SEBs were constituted by the State Governments under the
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, to promote the coordinated
development of generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in
the most efficient and economical manner, and to control and regulate private
licensees and utilities. The States effectively own or control over 90% of
electricity supply facilities. While the SEBs are corporate entities and
enjoy some autonomy in the management of their day-to-day operations, they
are under the control of State Governments in such matters as capital
investment, tariffs, borrowings, pay scales and personnel policies.
1.09      The CEA was constituted in 1950 with responsibility for developing
national power policy and coordinating the activities of the various agencies
involved in electricity supply. Its powers were enlarged by amendments in
1976 to the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. It is now also responsible for
the formulation and coordination of plans for power development, optimization
of investments in the power sector for the whole country, development of
interconnected system operation, training of personnel, and research and
development. Its Thermal Department takes responsibility for monitoring the
performance and maintenance records of thermal power stations, and for
organizing the training of power station personnel. The Economic and
Commercial Department accumulates data on economic, financial and accounting
aspects of the power industry, both at Center and State levels, with
particular reference to the operations of the SEBs, and advises SEBs on
financial matters.
1.10      As a means of improving collaboration between SEBs and establishing
Regional rather than State power systems, REBs have been set up for each of
the Northern, Southern, Eastern, Western and North-Eastern Regions. The
general function of an REB is to operate its system to the maximum benefit of
the Region as a whole, to coordinate overhaul and maintenance programs, to
determine generation schedules and power available for transfer between
States, and to determine tariffs for the transfer of power within the Region.
At present, REBs function mainly in an advisory role.



-4-
1.11      The country has for years suffered crippling power shortages
because of SEBs' inability to build and maintain enough plant to meet rising
demand. To provide more power, GOI in 1975 incorporated NTPC and NHPC, whose
main purpose is to construct, own and operate large Central power stations.
NTPC is at present building four thermal stations aggregating 8,300 MW, while
NHPC is building three hydro stations totalling 975 MW. Both NTPC and NHPC
are also building transmission lines and substations associated with
generating stations. A new Central organisation may soon be formed to assiume
ownership of these lines and to develop national or regional grids.
Existing Facilities - All India
1.12      The total installed generating capacity in the country on March 31,
1981 was just over 33,000 MW, including 2,736 MW of non-utility capacity.
The generating capacity is shown in Table 1.1 below. The peak demand
supplied in 1980/81 was 19,080 MW under conditions of constrained supply.
Table 1.1:  INSTALLED GENERATING CAPACITY AS OF MARCH 31, 1981
(MW)
Conventional
Region                        Thermal         Nuclear      Hydro    Total
Northern                            4,318              440       4,033    8,791
Western                             6,138              420       1,811    8,369
Southern                            2,824               -       4,828    7,652
Eastern                             4,080               -          972    5,052
North-eastern                         260               -          147      407
Total Utilities                    17,620              860     11,791   30,271
Non-utility Capacity (31.3.80)    2,733                              3    2,736
Total                       20,353              860      11,794   33,007
Source: CEA.
Power Supply and Demand
1.13      Installed generating capacity increased at an annual rate of 10%
during the 1950s and 1960s, while gross electricity generation grew at just
under 12%, due to better utilization of generating capacity. Although local



-5-
and intermittent shortages did occur, system failures were not a major
problem. However, by the early 1970s, demand consistently outpaced supply in
a number of States. This was due to several factors, such as failure to
implement projects on schedule, inadequate transmission development,
operating and maintenance problems leading to low plant availability,
inadequate budget allocations, and poor monsoon rains leading to low hydro
output. Shortages were most serious in 1974/75, 1977/78 and 1979/80,
particularly in the Eastern Region. The estimated deficit of energy during
the 1970s ranged between 5% and 15%. Estimates for the year 1980/81 indicate
that the deficit was about 10%. The growth of the power sector and the
pattern of consumption during the last 10 years are shown in Annex 1.
1.14      Power shortages have decreased the country s economic output, and
their cost in terms of industrial production foregone has been substantial.
Energy restrictions have generally fallen on industry, with relatively little
loss to the economy due to power shortages in the residential and
agricultural sectors. Loss of value added in industrial production because
of power restrictions has been estimated to be about 3% of GDP in 1977/78.1/
1.15      The Sixth Five-Year Plan was finalized early in 1981.  The program
anticipates an expansion of generating capacity during the 10-year period
1980/81-1989/90 of about 50,000 MW, so as to eliminate supply shortfalls by
the end of the decade. Installed capacity by March 1990 would be about
80,000 MW, an increase of about 180% over March 1980. Only about 60% of this
additional capacity had been approved by GOI at the time of appraisal.
Further approvals are expected as the availability of resources in future
years becomes clearer. The construction of some 15,000 km of 400 kV
transmission lines is planned, to enable full integration of regional systems
and to carry the output from the proposed new power stations to load centers.
1.16      Annex 2 shows projections of planned installed capacity, available
peak capacity, potential peak demand, and a forecast of energy requirements
and availability (not taking diversity into account) until 1990. The data on
the peak demand and energy requirements in 1979/80 and 1980/81 show demand
constrained by supply; the estimated unsuppressed power and energy demand
would have been higher.
1.17      Both unconstrained peak demand and annual energy requirements are
projected by CEA to grow at an average annual rate of about 10% until 1990.
If the program of generation development can be achieved, the present
shortage of energy (about 10% of potential demand) would be eliminated from
1984/1985 onwards, but there would still be a peak capacity deficit
1/ See: India, Economic Issues in the Power Sector, 1979 (World Bank Report
No. 2335-IN, paragraph 68).



-6-
throughout the 1980s, not to be eliminated until 1990. The forecast deficit
decreases from 15% of potential demand to about 2-3% in the late 1980s, a
margin less than the accuracy of the data. CEA's projections employ a very
low availability factor for generating plant. The peak availability under
present operating conditions is about 63% of installed capacity, and the
norms used by CEA in forecasting future availability reflect this (Annex 2).
In fact, some improvement in availability is likely because of system
interconnections and better maintenance practices. A small improvement after
1985 could eliminate the deficit before 1990. In the short run to 1985,
little can be done to eliminate the present shortage of capacity.
Bank Group's Strategy
1.18    The Bank Group's strategy in the Indian power sector has been to
cooperate with GOI in selecting solutions to the many difficult and
politically sensitive problems confronting the Indian electricity supply
industry. The Bank's main objectives in the sector are:
(a) to eliminate power shortages by the installation of generationi
and transmission capacity, and the promotion of measures to
improve the operation and maintenance of existing plant;
(b) to introduce long range system planning on a
nationwide basis so as to assure implementation of a
least-cost power development program;
(c) to promote improvements in sector organization and training;
and
(d) to strengthen the finances of the institutions
in the sector, particularly of the State Electricity
Boards.
1.19    The States, through their Electricity Boards, operate and develop
most of the power facilities. Under the Constitution, however, power supply
is a concurrent subject, which means that the responsibility for supplying
electricity is shared between the Central Government and the State
Governments, requiring full agreement between them before action can be
taken. Despite many difficulties, improvements achieved so far have been
encouraging:
(a) With the establishment of REBs, NTPC and NHPC.
important steps towards an improved organizational structure
of the power sector have been made. GOI intends to
strengthen the REBs and increase their
role in coordinating the SEBs in matters of power development
and operations.



-7-
(b) CEA was reorganized and had its powers enlarged through the
amendment in 1976 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.
(c) The amendment in June 1978 of the financial provisions of the
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 required that tariffs be set at
levels sufficient to enable the SEBs to finance from internal
sources a reasonable proportion of their investment programs.
(d) During FYs 1979 and 1980, SEBs were developing and implementing
plans to improve their financial performance at least to the
extent of achieving a rate of return of 9.5% on unrevalued net
fixed assets as agreed under previous projects (para 1.21).
These plans included substantial tariff increases,
rationalization of manpower requirements, improved maintenance
practices and other measures.
(e) With a view to the reassessment of tariff policies, the majority
of the SEBs have completed tariff studies based on
marginal cost pricing principles. The Bank's review of
these studies recommended the standardization of certain
assumptions so as to produce a uniform methodology for
application by all SEBs. While revisions and improvements
to these tariff studies are under way, and the remaining
studies for major SEBs are being finalized, significant
improvements in the level of total payments per kWh by
consumers have taken place. Consumers bills include not
only the base tariff accruing to SEBs, but also duties and
fuel surcharges. Total recovery per kWh from industrial and
commercial consumers (representing about 65% of all-India
electricity consumption) has been increasing rapidly during
recent years, bringing payments by these consumer categories
close to long-run marginal cost (para 6.07 and Annex 29).
While domestic and agricultural tariff levels are still well
below marginal cost for socio-political reasons, average
recovery from consumers of electricity is moving much closer
to strict long-run marginal cost estimates than in the past.
Duties now form a substantial element of consumer payments
and should not be neglected as contributions to sector funding.
(f) NTPC's generation and transmission construction program
will make an important contribution
to the elimination of deficits of power.
1.20    Two areas have been a particular cause for concern to the Bank Group
and have been the subject of a continuing dialogue with GOI. They are:
(a) the lack of nationwide long-range planning for power
development;



-8-
(b) the weak financial position of certain SEBs.
CEA has now prepared, in accordance with agreements during negotiations for
the Second Korba Thermal Power Project, a national long-term power
development plan. First chapters of this plan have been submitted to the
Bank during negotiations for the proposed project, the remainder will be
submitted within three months.
1.21    While the financial performance of some SEBs, measured in terms of
achieving the 9.5% rate of return covenanted under previous lending
operations for power transmission and rural electrification projects has been
unsatisfactory in the past, there was a big improvement during FY1979 and
FY1980 when, out of a total of 14 major SEBs, 10 reached or exceeded the
target (Annex 22).1/ The implementation by these SEBs of programs designed to
restore or maintain their target rates of return together with the payment: of
subsidies in respect of RE losses2/ has proved effective in most cases. In
the case of Uttar Pradesh, the subsidy by the State Government of rural
electrification losses in FY1980 enabled the SEB to reach its target rate of
return for the first time and to meet the conditions of eligibility for the
Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project. SEBs' performance for
FY1981 is expected to have been maintained at the FY1980 level (in some cases
the RE subsidy still has to be settled).
1.22    Because of the rapid expansion of the power industry, all aspects of
the sector needed to be reviewed and solutions found for its various
problems. Consequently, GOI established in 1978 the Committee on Power,
which submitted its conclusions to GOI in September 1980. They refer to all
major aspects of the power sector including planning, project formulation and
implementation; operation and maintenance; organization and management;
finance, financial management and tariffs; rural electrification; and
research and development. The recommendations of the Committee on Power,
most of which are satisfactory in light of the Bank Group's strategy, form a
useful basis for improvement of all aspects of the power sector. -
Implementation of the Committee's recommendations has already started with
aspects that do not require GOI-s formal approval, such as better planning
procedures and improved operating and maintenance management.
1/  Of the four SEBs not making the 9.5% in FY1980 Bihar is receiving full
subsidy for RE losses and thereby remains eligible under previous RE
Credits, Gujarat has performed satisfactorily in earlier years and is
negotiating a subsidy for RE losses in FY1980, Haryana is not eligible
under previous RE Credits and finally, Orissa has consistently failed to
make 9.5% (para 5.11). Reliable recent data for Assam is not available.
2/ In accordance with Credits 604-TN, 572-IN, and 911-IN, subsidies in
respect of rural electrification losses are to be included in operating
income when calculating the annual rate of return.



-9-
1.23    The Bank Group considers that actions to accelerate improvements in
the following areas are of high priority:
(a)  Performance of thermal power plants:  measures should focus on
achieving better utilization of capacity by improving
maintenance practices, overcoming delays in the supply of spare
parts, reducing the duration of maintenance shut-downs,
improving the quality and flow of coal supplies and upgrading
the skills of personnel engaged in operation and maintenance.
(b)  Co-ordination between power development and growth in other
sectors: in connection with the long-range power development
plan, demand forecasting, which is currently done on the basis
of unrestricted power supply, should be related to realistic
projections limiting the growth of demand to the available
supply; this would be accomplished by adjusting the policy for
connecting new consumers and by stressing conservation and
demand management for existing consumers.
(c)  Acceleration of hydroelectric development:  only 11% of the
economically exploitable potential has so far been developed.
Measures should include not only increased investment, but also
appropriate project preparation through managerial, technical
and administrative improvements.
(d)  Strengthening of the role of the Centre in power generation and
inter-State high-voltage transmission: the transition from
local grids to regional grids, and later to a national system,
should go in parallel with the implementation of adequate
institutional structures, so as to permit gradual shifting of
the responsibility for planning and operating power plants and
inter-State transmission from the State to the national level.
(e)  Establishment of financial objectives and policies for their
implementation, evolution of a rational tariff policy, and
improvements in management information and accounting systems
for each SEB: to comply with the provisions of the financial
amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, so that the
SEBs can finance themselves to the extent of making reasonable
contributions towards their capital investment programs.
1.24    During negotiations for the Second Korba Thermal Power Project,
agreement was reached that GOI would provide to the Bank Group a program and
time schedule for the implementation of measures to reach the above
objectives. A program was submitted on time to the Bank Group during the
negotiations for the proposed project, thus complying with the above
agreement, and is under review. Furthermore, agreement was reached during the



-10-
negotiations to accelerate the implementation of financial improvements in
SEBs (para 1.23e): these improvements are spelt out in paras'5.16 to 5.23.
II. RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
Background
2.01    The primary objective of the Government of India in its drive for
rural electrification (RE) is to ensure increased agricultural output by
providing reliable and economical power for irrigation pumps, involving
mostly groundwater pumping by individual farmers. Secondary objectives are
the provision of electricity for domestic, commercial and small industrial
consumers in the villages, in order to improve employment possibilities and
quality of life in rural areas.
2.02    Agricultural pumping demand accounts for approximately 17% of India's
total annual kWh demand. This represents a significant increase over the
last 10 years, up from a previous figure of about 9%. There is considerable
variation among States in this respect, the share of agricultural consumption
ranging from negligible levels in West Bengal, Orissa, and Assam to 30-40% in
Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. Between 1970 and 1980, consumption for
agricultural pumping has been growing at an annual rate of about 13%,
reflecting the rapid increase in irrigation pumps connected to the grid.
2.03    Electricity demand in the rural sub-sector is characterized by a low
annual utilization of connected load (concentrated in the irrigation season)
and frequent consumption at system peak times. This, together with long
distribution lines because of scattered consumers, is the reason for the high
cost of supplying electricity to rural areas. The reason for this feature of
rural consumption is the dominant share of small-scale irrigation pumping,
the pumps are, on average, operated for a few hours per day only. In areas
with ample groundwater, however, utilization times per day in the irrigatlon
season are longer.
2.04    Nearly all parts of the country are subject to load shedding.  Rural
feeders in some areas may have supply up to 18 hours per day, although much
of this will be at night, whilst other areas may at certain timies of year
have only 5-6 hours per day. In order to allow farmers to plan their work,
rosters are published showing the days and hours when each feeder or area
will be energized. Having lived for long periods with power interruptions
and rostering, consumers have adapted to them, an indication of this being
the unusually high system load factors experienced. Under the circumstances,
the methods used are generally satisfactory and fulfill their purpose.
2.05    REC has developed and produced standards, guidelines and manuals
covering most aspects of rural electrification. These have been adopted and
applied by SEBs, where they have made major contributions to improving the



-11-
effectiveness and lowering the costs of RE in general. While the standards
may not be flexible enough to allow distribution system cost minimization
everywhere, they are substantially well suited to the Indian circumstances.
A pilot project under the previous credit is in progress to promote better
control of power factor by the use of both fixed and switched capacitors on
11 kV feeders. The use of capacitors will be of great benefit to most
systems in reducing energy losses and releasing capacity for productive use,
and REC will promote this as rapidly as possible. The use of single-phase
lines has recently been investigated as another pilot project under the
previous credit but has been demonstrated to have less application in India
than elsewhere: by far the most important use of RE here is for driving
irrigation pumps, and for this application a three-phase supply is generally
more economical. REC is now sponsoring research and testing of a transformer
type enabling SEBs to provide two-phase supply under low load conditions, an
approach allowing cost savings.
2.06    As a further practical apprach, pump motors have been designed that
have an inherently high power factor even on part load. Farmers can now
obtain advice and help from ARDC in selecting pumps of the right size and
specification for their purposes, and ARDC and the banks will now finance
only pumps that have been properly selected and meet the required standards.
These measures will take time to take effect and will not improve the several
million irrigation pumps already in service, so only gradual improvement can
be expected.
2.07    Many rural distribution systems show excessive losses of energy (and
hence revenue), both technical and unaccounted. Three things account for
this. First, the law dealing with theft of electricity is weak. Moves are
afoot to amend the Indian Penal Code, but it is uncertain when this will
happen. Secondly, distribution engineers have little chance to reward good
work and no power to hire and fire. The fact that some SEBs perform better
than others in similar circumstances suggests that differences in results may
be attributable to differences in quality of higher management. Thirdly,
distribution engineers are hampered in their work by the absence of metering
equipment on feeders. It is estimated that in the south, 90% of feeders are
metered, whereas in the north 90% are unmetered. However, in the north the
consumers themselves are usually unmetered, and where this is so there is
relatively little benefit from metering the feeder. Where REC is involved in
the building of new substations or modifying existing ones, metering will be
provided on all feeders. This development, together with increasing
supervision of rural electrification by REC, should ensure gradual
improvement in the analysis and prevention of losses. REC plans to encourage
and improve loss monitoring systems in SEBs by urging them to establish
"System Improvement and Loss Monitoring Cells", as already practiced by some
SEBs.



-12-
Development
2.08    In October 1981, about 279,000 or 48% of the 576,000 villages in
India were "electrified", i.e., at least some initial consumer connections
had been established. The percentage varies from State to State: Kerala,
Punjab, Haryana, and Tamil Nadu have reached 100%, while in Assam and other
northeastern areas only 15-40% of villages are electrified. By October 1981,
4.48 million irrigation pumps had been electrified. The largest
concentrations are in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Andhra
Pradesh (Annex 3).
2.09    The other major motive power for irrigation pumping is the diesel
engine. In March 1980, an estimated 2.6 million diesel-powered pumps were
in operation in India, concentrated in Uttar Pradesh (31%), Gujarat (21%),
Punjab, and Maharashtra. During most of the 1970's, the number of diesel
pumps increased at a higher rate than that of electric pumps. In recent
years, GOI policy has reversed this relationship, as the diesel pump growth
at about 3% per year has been lagging well behind the expansion of electriLc
pumping (about 14% per year). The potential for further expansion of pump
electrification exists: out of an estimated 10 million tubewells and dugwells
existing in India in 1980, 4.2 million (42%) had electric pumps installed and
2.6 million (26%) diesel pumps. The remaining 32% were operated with animal
or human power. In addition to this replacement demand, new wells will be
sunk in areas with high groundwater potential.
2.10    Since 1970, the number of villages connected to the grid has grown
at an annual rate of about 10%. While REC's share in financing this
development was small during the early 1970's, it has grown to about 40% of
annual achievements by 1980. Similarly, the pump connection growth of 11.5%
per year during the decade has been financed by REC to an increasing degree,
amounting to a share of about 25% in 1975, and about 50% in 1980/81 (Annex
4). In terms of expenditure, total outlay on RE has increased from about Rs
80 million (US$10 million) in the First Five-Year Plan in the early 1950's,
to about Rs 23,000 million (US$2,900 million) in the ongoing Sixth Plan, with
a rising share of REC finance (para 2.14).
Future Program
2.11    A continuing high growth rate in the numbers of irrigation pump
connections (about 10% p.a.) is envisaged by GOI for the coming decade, while
the growth rate in village electrification is planned to taper off to about
6% per year to reach a nation-wide level of 80% of villages with access to
electricity by 1990. The heavy emphasis on RE as vehicle for increasing
agricultural production is to be maintained and intensified: a desirable
development.
2.12    The Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85) provides for the
connection of about 100,000 new villages to the grid, and the energization



-13-
of about 2.5 million additional pumps. Of this total, 90% of villages and
63% of pumps are to be connected with REC finance or supervision. (Table
2.1).
Table 2.1
Physical Targets for the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85)
Normal REC
State  Program and   MNP/RMNP        SPA
Plan   Cooperatives  Program (REC)  Program       Total
Villages to be
electrified       10,000      46,470          43,600          -       100,070
Pumpsets to be
energized        922,800    610,500          148,000      818,700  2,500,000
The "Special Projects Agriculture" (SPA), which are co-financed by REC, the
Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), and Indian
commercial banks (one third each), are one of the most important elements
of the plan in terms of pump connections.
2.13    All RE investments and operations (both new schemes and
intensification of the density of consumer connections in electrified areas)
in each State are conducted and controlled by the SEBs. The SEBs finance
their RE expenditure from a number of sources, the major ones being ARDC and
REC, both of which utilize GOI funds. ARDC refinances bank lending to SEBs
for irrigation pump connections, and the banks provide funds themselves.
Total expenditure on RE under the Sixth Plan is expected to amount to about
Rs 23,000 million (US$2,900 million) in constant 1980 prices.  This
expenditure is to be financed as shown in Table 2.2 (a detailed breakdown by
State is shown in Annex 5):



-14-
Table 2.2
Financing of the Indian RE Program
Expenditure 1980/81-1984/85
Source of
Finance               Program Component            Rs million      US$ millioin
State Planl/      Scattered village electri-          6,800           850
fication and pump connection
REC               Normal area electrification         5,955           744
schemes
REC               Minimum Needs Program (RMNP)        3,010           376
area electrification schemes
REC               Pump connection schemes (SPA)       2,100           263
ARDC              Pump connection schemes (SPA)       2,100           263
Banks             Pump connection schemes (SPA)       2,100           263
REC               Cooperatives, and Harijan             330            41
settlement electrification
schemes
REC               System improvement (SI) schemes       420            53
State Plan        System improvement under REC          450            56
supervision2/
23,265        2,909
2.14    The share of REC direct financing in the Sixth Plan is about 51%.
REC appraisal, approval and supervision activities, however, will cover about
71% of total RE expenditure in India, as REC responsibility extends to the
1/ Including ARDC refinance of pump connections independently of
REC-supervised schemes.
j1 Out of total GOI Plan funds for transmission and distribution construc-
tion and improvement of Rs 42,700 million.



-15-
full amount of the co-financed pump connection schemes and to some system
improvement schemes financed out of the State Plan rather than through REC.
In future (apart from ongoing REC-financed System Improvement schemes), all
new reinforcement and upgrading of existing rural distribution networks will
be financed directly out of State funds, and no longer as loans from REC. A
provision under the proposed project, however, ensures that REC will be
involved in the scrutiny and implementation of such improvement schemes (para
4.05).
2.15    The pump connection program (SPA), co-financed by REC, ARDC, and
banks involves (i) a reinforcement of existing distribution networks to
accommodate more pumping loads, and (ii) the connection of pumps only in
these reinforced areas. The schemes under this program have a short
implementation period, and yield significant economic benefits at relatively
low levels of investment per schemes. Outside these joint efforts, ARDC
continues to refinance the pump connection expenditures of SEBs under the
State Plan without REC involvement, but is intending to phase out this
activity gradually, and coordinate more with REC as the SPA program grows.
This development is satisfactory, and is expected to result in an improved
coordination of the bulk of RE finance.
III. BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES: INSTITUTIONS AND OPERATIONS
3.01    The borrower is GOI who will (i) relend part of the proceeds of the
IDA Credit to REC, and (ii) make available the balance of the Credit to SEBs
directly or through their State Governments. REC, in turn, will onlend to
SEBs to finance specific RE schemes meeting its defined viability criteria.
The part of the proposed IDA Credit onlent to REC constitutes part of ongoing
GOI lending to REC, and of REC lending to the SEBs. The part of the Credit
made available to SEBs directly covers part of Plan allocations for SEB
expenditure.
A. Rural Electrification Corporation (REC)
Role in the Power Sector
3.02    REC was incorporated in July 1969 under the Indian Companies Act,
1956, as a company wholly owned by GOI, under the general supervision of the
then Ministry of Irrigation and Power (now under the Ministry of Energy).
REC's chief objective is to finance rural electrification schemes throughout
India, acting as a financial intermediary with technical expertise, and
administering funds received primarily from GOI. In doing so, REC is
directed to adopt a "project approach," coordinating electrification with
other inputs in rural development in order to achieve increased agricultural



-16-
production and overall economic development. This involves an appraisal of
each scheme to confirm the availability of groundwater and the existence of
sufficient demand for electricity.
3.03    The impact of REC lending to the SEBs is large in the rural
subsector, although it is small in relation to total SEB operations. While
more than half of rural electrification financing is REC's responsibility,
REC provides only about 10%1/ of total finance needed by SEBs for generation,
transmission, and distribution investment. REC, therefore, exerts more
infuence on most SEBs by persuasion and demonstration than by leverage, and
is providing valuable contributions to the training of SEB staff, methodology
of RE scheme appraisal, and local RE planning.
Organization and Staff
3.04    REC is headed by a Board of Directors, all of whom are appointed by
the President of India. At the time of appraisal, the Board consisted of a
full-time Chairman and Managing Director, the REC Financial Director, three
officials of GOI, the managing director of ARDC, and two officials of State
Banks. Three more members are expected to be appointed shortly.
3.05    The Chairman and Managing Director is the chief executive in charge!
of all REC operations. Under him, the Technical Director (a presently vacant
position that will be filled shortly) has overall responsibility for four
technical project divisions headed by Chief Engineers who are fully
responsible for the coordination of the project cycle including scheme
preparation, approval, monitoring, and disbursement in four groups of States
("zones"). In addition, they specialize in technical matters such as
standardization, system improvement, and training. Five other divisons are
non-regional and provide specialized inputs in the project cycle and general
operations. Finance, accounting, and corporate planning is taken care of by
a department under the Finance Director. This department is also responsible
for IDA liaison. Proposed new divisions under Chief Engineers will deal wLth
lending for micro-hydro schemes and new energy sources (Annex 6).
3.06    At the time of appraisal, total staff strength of REC was 798, up
from 713 in November 1978. Staff growth of about 5-6% per year has occurred
both in headquarters and in the Regional Offices that are increasingly takLng
over the appraisal and monitoring of schemes. Eleven such Regional
Offices2/, with a total of about 260 employees, are now in operation. The
1/ This proportion is much higher in Karnataka where generation investment
is the responsibility of a separate entity, the Mysore Power Corporation.
2/ In Bhubaneshwar, Calcutta, Chandigarh, Gauhati, Hyderabad, Jabalpur,
Jaipur, Lucknow, Madras, Patna, and Baroda.



-17-
total staff growth of about 8% from March 1979 to March 1981 (approximately
in line with expectations at the time of appraisal of the Second REC project)
has coincided with an increase of disbursements to SEBs of about 18%, and an
increase in loan commitments of about 30%. The planned annual increase of
2-3% in total staff strength in the next years is adequate. Emphasis will be
placed on strengthening Regional Office staff in States with weak
implementation performance such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and West Bengal.
3.07    About 15% of total REC staff are seconded from the SEBs, including
about 40% at senior levels, mostly engineers (Annex 7). For staff with
economic and financial background, direct recruitment is prevalent. About
45% of senior level employees are engineers, about 33% have an economics
background, and the remainder are financial and business-oriented staff.
Middle-level employment is dominated by financial staff. The pattern of
staffing is appropriate for the function REC is performing.
Scheme Appraisal and Monitoring
3.08    REC organizes its lending to the SEBs on the basis of RE schemes.
Schemes are always defined to cover an area, usually not exceeding the size
of a "block" or "taluk" 1/, and consist of either (i) the electrification
of villages in the scheme area, (ii) connection of new consumers of one
consumer category in the scheme area, or (iii) upgrading of the sub-
transmission and distribution system of the scheme area (Annex 8). The
schemes are processed by REC in a cycle consisting of formulation and
presentation, appraisal, approval, and monitoring.
3.09    The terms of REC loans differ according to the type of scheme and
area classification by degree of general area development. Repayment periods
range from one year to 30 years and the rate of interest increases in steps
to a maximum of 9.5% per year for long-term loans (Annex 9). REC loans
usually cover the total authorized cost of approved schemes, exclusive of
consumer's contributions with the exception of recently developed categories
of schemes, where other financing institutions or SEBs supplement REC's
financing.
3.10    Since 1969, REC has gradually established a working relationship with
the SEBs that ensures the presentation and design of RE schemes according to
REC requirements. REC has prepared satisfactory proforma procedures and
manuals for the SEB staff involved in the processing of scheme proposals to
encourage uniformity and meeting of specifications.
1/ Administrative subdivisions below district level.



-18-
3.11    Each scheme proposal received by REC is revised if necessary to REC's
satisfaction and appraised by a team from the responsible Regional Office.
During the appraisal, a meeting is held to examine the coordination of the
institutions' efforts. An integral part of the appraisal is the sample
examination of the validity of the SEB's assumptions. Forecasts such as the
availability of credit facilities, the expected connected load, and the
availability of groundwater and infrastructure, are checked. The internal
REC appraisal report then highlights any inconsistencies, suggests
modifications, and shows the viability of the scheme. Formal approval of the
loan is obtained from the REC Board of Directors.
3.12    REC has now begun to introduce discounted cash flow techniques in its
feasibility calculations, and has replaced the previously used assessment of
financial return on the investment in a given year, by more significant net
present value and internal rate of return concepts. REC is well advanced in
the program of introducing economic rate of return calculations in scheme
feasibility analysis, based on the benefits of cost savings in using
electricity rather than alternative sources of energy. Since June, 1981, the
economic internal rate of return is the main decision criterion for approval
of schemes, accompanied by a DCF-based analysis of the scheme's financial
impact.
3.13    In the course of monitoring of the implementation of schemes, SEBs
are required to submit to REC regular standardized reports on physical and
financial progress. REC monitoring teams visit the scheme sites occasionally
to ascertain progress and to check on implementation problems. If any
problems or significant deviations from the appraisal report are identified
during monitoring, REC follows up its findings in a dialogue with the SEB
concerned. The usual problems to occur are cost overruns, delay in the
construction schedule, and slow growth of connections.
3.14    Schemes that had been sanctioned by REC in the early 1970's are now
reaching completion or are being reviewed by REC if implementation times are
exceeding the original estimates. Due to REC's lack of forecasting and
costing experience in the early years, the majority of these schemes have
exhausted either the allocated funds or the allowed time, and need to be
re-evaluated. REC has now developed a scheme closing procedure that includes
a scheme completion report and an analysis of actual scheme viability, as
well as instructions to SEBs to provide more detailed data after the
originally anticipated implementation period. Schemes which prove to be
economically viable on reappraisal are closed, and a new scheme may be
approved in an adjoining area. Schemes which are not yet viable are
reformulated and an additional load for cost overruns may be approved. REC
has submitted to IDA draft guidelines for project closure reporting, which
are satisfactory. REC has introduced these procedures for all closing
schemes in September, 1981.



-19-
Disbursement
3.15    For area schemes, REC disburses 35-40% of the loan as an advance when
the loan is approved, the remainder in four unequal installments tied to the
achievement of interim physical targets. For two-year special schemes,
disbursement is made in two approximately equal installments (Annex 10). The
timing between installments, particularly for area schemes, depends on how
fast SEBs reach the targets set in the scheme report. Implementation delays
lead to a postponement of the next disbursement tranche, usually scheduled
one year after the last. These procedures and incentives are satisfactory.
3.16    Earlier delays in REC disbursement, due to poor withdrawal
performance of large recipient States, had been virtually eliminated by
1978/79. Some disbursement shortfall was experienced in 1979/80 because of
uncertainty about the financing of system improvement schemes (para 2.10) but
disbursement in 1980/81 was in line with the revised projections. A
disbursement growth rate of about 10% per year is expected for the next five
years.
Technical Assistance to SEBs
3.17    REC is providing assistance to SEBs primarily in three fields: (i)
scheme design; (ii) technical standardization; and (iii) training of SEB
staff. REC has prepared detailed guidelines and circulated them to the SEBs,
dealing with identification and preparation of scheme proposals, and
assessment of viability. A continuing dialogue between REC and SEBs keeps
this methodological input up to date.
3.18    For standardization of RE system design, REC has published a number
of manuals for the SEBs that set out technical specifications for material
and construction standards (para 2.05). In addition, REC is sponsoring a
number of technical research projects, the results of which are being made
available to the SEBs.
3.19    RE schemes require skills somewhat different from those required for
other SEB operations. To help develop these, REC has financed linemen
training centers in various locations and assisted in the initial stages of
instruction: by 1981, 23 such centers had been established, training more
than 1,800 workers annually. In 1976, REC started to conduct courses for SEB
engineers involved in RE: these courses have been held in Hyderabad since
1977. REC will continue and expand this training function both for SEBs and
for its own staff. The training program is comprehensive and well-designed.
As part of the proposed project, REC is requesting IDA to finance the
construction and equipment of new facilities for the Hyderabad training
center, to enable them to consolidate the training activities in suitable
premises (para 4.06).



-20-
Record of Operations
3.20    From its inception in 1969 until March, 1981, REC had approved about
4,500 schemes with a total loan amount of about Rs 15,000 million (US$1,900
million). Half of these were area electrification schemes, accounting for
about 73% of the loan amount. Recently, a significant shift of REC lending
activity away from general area electrification towards specialized, more
narrowly focussed schemes has taken place. Taking 1980/81 approvals alone,
the shares of area electrification schemes were only 30% of the number, and
60% of the total loan amount (Annex 11). Out of total loans committed,
approximately 68% had been disbursed to SEBs by March 1981.
3.21    Under the first Credit (572-IN), six SEBs were eligible for receiving
IDA finance initially: during subsequent years, seven more SEBs fulfilled the
original eligibility criteria (para 5.11). This gradual increase in the
number of participating SEBs, together with the slow introduction of ICB
procurement procedures, delayed the procurement process and, consequently,
the disbursement of the Credit. A second cause for disbursement delays has
been the domestic shortage of aluminum for conductors during 1978/79 and
1979/80. The shortage has held up implementation work on REC-financed
schemes, causing a shortfall of physical achievements against targets and,
consequently, slower disbursement of REC loan installments. The first Credit
has been closed as of December 31, 1980, and all procured materials and
equipment have been installed in eligible scheme areas. A draft completion
report has been prepared by REC, and a Project Completion Report has been
submitted to OED in April, 1982.
3.22    Under the second Credit (911-IN), adequate safeguards were introduced
based on the first Credit's experience: these included a streamlining of the
procurement process (coupled with increased procurement supervision
experience within REC), and a system of priority allocation of
conductor-grade aluminum to conductor suppliers holding REC-financed
contracts. The results are encouraging: implementation of the second Credit
to date has been smooth, and disbursement of Credit proceeds is well ahead of
schedule.
Future Development of REC
3.23    REC is endeavoring to expand its range of activities in order to gain
flexibility and satisfy a wider-range of rural energy needs. Involvement
of REC in small generation projects such as mini-hydro schemes in remote
areas is being discussed with GOI. On less conventional energy sources,
research into the feasibility of biogas plants in rural electric cooperatives
is being conducted by REC, and REC is planning to finance installation of
such plants, possibly with dual-fuel generators. New ventures for REC
include research and experimental scheme finance for solar pumping, wind
energy, and integrated energy solutions for rural areas. This activity is to
be coordinated with research institutes, and SEBs.



-21-
3.24    The shift away from traditional area electrification schemes (para.
3.20) towards specialized schemes dealing with pump connections (SPA
schemes), industry (SPI), drinking water well connections (SPD), and system
reinforcement (SPA and SI) is expected to continue. In particular, the
irrigation pump connection activity (cofinanced with ARDC and Indian
commercial banks) will continue its expansion, as rural electrification
emphasis will remain on productive agricultural and small industrial use.
The planned increase in disbursements and commitments for the coming years
is realistic, and REC is well prepared for the level and structure of the
lending program ahead.
B. State Electricity Boards (SEBs)
SEB's Organization for RE
3.25    All major SEBs have set up "Rural Electrification Cells" or similar
departments at headquarters that deal with the formulation, screening, and
monitoring of RE schemes. Typically, the Cells are headed by a Chief
Engineer of senior rank, and consist (in the larger SEBs) of 10-30 engineers.
Their principal functions are the preparation of RE schemes that are suitable
for REC financing,- and communication with REC during the scheme cycle. In
some States, the Cell also deals with other RE operations and is responsible
for planning and scheme preparation in the rural distribution system as a
whole.
3.26    The actual implementation and operation of RE schemes is the
responsibility of the SEB-s construction and regional administration
departments rather than of the RE Cells. Although the Cells keep a close
watch on the progress, the decisions on material allocations, construction
priorities, and consumer applications are made by the operating departments.
Billing and collection in the scheme areas is handled together with other
business by the regional SEB administration. Separate consumption and
connection statistics are kept for REC-financed schemes only.
RE Planning and Financing
3.27    The content of investment plans for RE depends to a large extent on
the availability of funds. Together with generation and transmission
planning, each SEB prepares a distribution and rural electrification plan
for five years, mainly based on targets for village electrification and pump
connection. Initially, the physical details of the plan are rather general,
and average unit costs are used to arrive at approximate expenditure
requirements. The funds required for this expenditure are partly allocated
from the SEB's and the State's own resources, but mostly from Central plan
funds made available by GOI according to the Planning Commission's
recommendation.



-22-
3.28    Simultaneously with the State plans, the Planning Commission prepares
a five-year expenditure plan for RE on a nationwide basis. The two
approaches are then reconciled in discussion between the States, REC, and the
Planning Commission, and annual plan allocations are formulated for each
State. Most Central plan funds specifically earmarked for RE investment are
now channelled through REC, including blocks of funds for (i) the normal REC
program, allocated by State; (ii) the Minimum Needs Program, also by State;
and (iii) the irrigation pump connection program (REC's share is provided
as an annual lump sum, the Statewise distribution to be left to REC's
discretion). There are also GOI funds made available to the States as
general plan assistance, some of which are onlent to SEBs. These are either
(i) all-purpose loans for SEB capital expenditure, or (ii) funds earmarked
for transmission and distribution system improvement.
3.29    The priorities within each State's RE program are decided by the SEB,
taking into account the local backlog of potential consumers' applications
for connections, ease of grid extension, and the revenue potential of
possible areas. In many States, a large influence on priorities is the
existence of RE schemes that are suitable for submission to REC.
3.30    Planning for RE and coordinating it with the work of other agencies
involved in rural development is conducted at several levels within each
State. The most effective coordination takes place at the district level in
regular meetings between the concerned institutions under the chairmanship
of the District Collector. In the past, this system has been operated with
varying degrees of success, but a general improvement is evident in the
increasing interdependence of the activities of SEBs, REC, ARDC, banks,
agricultural departments, and industrial departments.
Record of RE Operations
3.31    The record of target achievement in the implementation of
REC-financed schemes by most weaker SEBs is improving consistently. REC
distinguishes (i) original scheme appraisal targets; (ii) "phased scheme
targets" which change according to the amounts of the REC loan withdrawn; and
(iii) annual global plan targets, which are arrived at in annual plan
discussions independently of individual schemes. While original appraisal
targets and phased scheme targets are useful in assessing individual schemes-
progress, the annual plan targets show the SEB's overall performance
according to realistic short-term expectations. During the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (1974/75 to 1978/79), REC-financed activity was dominated by
electrification of new villages, resulting in a 112% target achievement as
compared to only 46% achievement in terms of new pump connections. The
shifting emphasis towards productive use in recent years has increased the
REC-financed pump connection achievement rate to more than 80% by 1980, while
the good performance in REC-financed village electrification was maintained.
In comparison, the SEB performance in non-REC pump connections was much
better (about 100% target achievement) than their record in non-REC village



-23-
electrification (43%). This may be due to the relative ease of adding
connections to an existing system (Annex 12).
3.32    The performance of individual SEBs varies widely.  Consistently good
performers such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, and Punjab are
counterbalanced by SEBs with poor implementation records such as Assam,
Bihar, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. The main reasons for delayed
achievement are: (i) initially over-optimistic forecasts of future load
demand in REC scheme areas; (ii) inefficiency and delays in the construction
activity of many SEBs; (iii) shortages of materials required for rural
distribution; and (iv) bottlenecks in providing other essential inputs for
successful rural electrification, such as credit for farmers for wells,
pumps, etc. The improvement observed in recent years appears to be the
result of progress in all these fields: one important contributing factor has
been REC's learning process in forecasting load and consumption growth in
scheme areas, which has led to more realistic expectations.
3.33    Most weak performers among the SEBs have improved their
implementation records with respect to pump connections significantly in
1980/81, due to intensive REC monitoring and pressure. This is particularly
noticeable in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Orissa. In Assam, plan targets were
too optimistic, and pump irrigation has not been easily accepted by farmers.
Consequently, Assam will not be a beneficiary under the proposed project.
Karnataka and Kerala are slipping in implementation, but are expected to
recover because of the temporary nature of the delays. West Bengal, although
improving its village electrification performance, has been lagging behind
severely in pump connections. However, satisfactory institutional measures
have been taken recently that will enable the West Bengal SEB to improve its
performance gradually. REC will intensify its supervision effort in the
States with weak performance.
IV. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Genesis of the Project
4.01    This project is a follow-up to the First (Credit 572-IN) and Second
(911-IN) Rural Electrification Corporation Projects. The First Project was
approved in July 1975, and closed on December 31, 1980. The Second Project
was approved in May 1979, and is under implementation. Both Credits
supported the ongoing REC lending program for eligible schemes in eligible
States by financing materials which were mostly procured through ICB.
4.02    Continuing the approach adopted in the Second Project, the only
schemes eligible for onlending of proceeds of the Loan are those in REC
categories that are likely to have economic rates of return well above the



-24-
opportunity cost of capital. More than 50% of RE schemes benefitting under
the proposed project have already been identified and approved by REC; the
remaining eligible schemes will be approved before March, 1984. Fourteen
SEBs are eligible to benefit under the proposed project, according to their
acceptance of the financial performance criteria (para 5.24): they are
Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and West
Bengal.
Description of the Project
4.03    The project consists of: -
(a) Expenditure during 1983/84 and 1984/85 on 1,780 REC schemes of
categories OA, OB, SPA and SPI (Annex 8) already identified and
approved by REC between April 1,, 1978 and January 31, 1982; and
about 1,700 new REC schemes of the same categories to be
approved by REC between February 1, 1982 and March 31, 1984.
(b) Expenditure during 1983/84 and 1984/85 on about 110 system
improvement schemes, to be financed by SEBs from funds partly
made available by GOI to States as Plan allocations, and
partly generated by States themselves, and lent by States
to the SEBs, but to be appraised, approved and monitored by
REC.
(c) Buildings, furniture and equipment for the Central Training
Institute for Rural Electrification.
Normal REC and SPA Schemes
4.04    The first component of the project [para 4.03 (a)], covers the cost
of all eligible REC projects in eligible States in progress in 1983/84 and
1984/85. Annex 13 page 3 shows the distribution by State and by category of
scheme, of the 1,890 schemes and associated loans previously approved by REC
between April 1, 1978 and January 31, 1982 that will be eligible under the
Third Project. Annex 13 page 4 shows the total expenditure under the Third
Project on all eligible REC schemes (about 3,500 in total) during 1983/84 and
1984/85, broken down by State. Achievements expected during the project
period are the electrification of 18,760 villages and the connection of
543,000 irrigation pumps, 25,000 small industries and 600,000 domestic and
commercial consumers (Annex 14).
System Improvement (SI) Schemes
4.05    Many of REC's schemes under the previous credit provided funds to
carry out improvements needed in the existing systems to which the schemes
were to be connected. GOI has now decided that in future REC funds will be



-25-
used for system improvements only as part of electrification schemes rather
than as separate schemes. The second component of the project fpara 4.03
(b)] provides funds for such separate improvement schemes and also for urgent
system improvements not necessarily directly associated with REC schemes.
SI schemes of this kind will be appraised and monitored by REC, who will also
process the procurement of materials for them under the proposed Third
Project. The funds for these schemes will not be lent by REC but will be
provided by SEBs from their Plan funds (para 2.14). GOI has undertaken to
obtain assurances from each eligible State that the necessary funds will be
so directed; the procedure will be similar to that in effect under the Fourth
Transmission Project (Credit 604-IN). Similarly, REC has undertaken to
appraise and supervise such schemes.
Training Facility
4.06    GOI has decided that REC will continue to run the Central Training
Institute for Rural Electrification in Hyderabad, and also that its
activities should be expanded to include not only the existing courses for
assistant and junior engineers from the SEBs, but also workshops and seminars
for the SEBs' upper and middle level officers of other disciplines. US$ 1
million has been provided under the loan to construct, furnish and equip
buildings for the Institute and hostel to replace the present unsuitable
rented accommodation (Annex 13, page 5).
Project Cost and Financing
4.07    The total cost of the project is estimated at Rs 6,326 million
(IJS$791 million). A detailed breakdown is provided in Table 4.1 and Annex
13. Physical contingencies were allowed only on the training facility;
purchases under the other headings will be limited to the funds available.
The base cost of materials and equipment was derived by using prices
prevailing at the beginning of 1982. Price contingencies amounting to 22% of
the project-s base were calculated using the following rates of inflation:
FY        82/83        83/84        84/85        85/86      86/87
Rate %     8.5          8.0          7.5          7.0        6.0



-26-
TABLE 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Rs million)             (US$ million)
Foreign  Local      Total      Foreign Local    Total
REC Schemes                   695    4,070      4,765       86.8   508.8    595.6
SI Schemes                     55      345        400        6.9    43.1      50.0
Training Facility              -         12        12         -       1.5      1.5
750    4,427      5,177       93.7   553.4    647.1
Physical contingency           -          1         1         -       0.2      0.2
Price contingency             166       982     1,148       20.8   122.7    143.5
Total Project Costl/          916    5,410      6,326      114.5   676.3    790.8
Front-end Fee2/                36     -            36        4.5       -       4.5
Total Financing
Requirement                 952    5,410      6,362      119.0   676.3    795.3
4.08    The total cost of the project was determined by considering the REC
program for 1980/81 through 1984/85, as defined in the Sixth Plan, and taking
40% of this as the estimated expenditure in the two years covered by the
Project. It is assumed that 85% of REC's normal program, and 100% of its SPA
program would be eligible for Bank financing. The expenditure on major
materials is derived from previous experience, as follows: conductors 30%,
distribution transformers 10%, and insulators 1.5% of total cost (Annex 13).
A sum equivalent to about 8% of the cost of major REC scheme materials has
been provided for system improvement under REC supervision.
4.09    Under the two previous RE credits, virtually all contracts subject
to international competitive bidding were won by Indian suppliers. Direct:
foreign exchange expenditure under the Third Project is expected also to be
only a small proportion of the cost. The indirect foreign component is
expected to be about 14% of total project cost. The amount necessary to
purchase all major materials suitable for ICB procurement would exceed US$350
million equivalent. In the light of limited availability of funds, an IBRD
loan of US$300 million is recommended, to cover the purchase of about 90% of
conductors, distribution transformers, HT insulators, GI Wire, power
1/ Including duties and taxes on local expenditure amounting to Rs 260
million (US$32 million).
2/ Bank loan assumed as US$300 million equivalent.



-27-
transformers, and switchgear, and 70% of construction and equipment costs of
the REC Training Center. The remainder of the cost of the project (mostly
local expenditures) would be provided by GOI from own resources.
Procurement
4.10    As with the previous two credits, each SEB will be responsible for
procuring its own project materials, using REC's standard specifications, and
standard General Conditions of Contract approved by the Bank Group. REC will
provide assistance to the SEBs in the preparation of bid documents and will
ensure that quantities specified in the bids are those required for eligible
schemes. REC will also review SEBs' bid evaluations before seeking the Bank
Group's approval to place orders.
4.11    SEBs will invite tenders, using international competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, for their estimated requirements for
the two years 1983/84 and 1984/85 of conductors, distribution transformers,
HT insulators, and GI wire for REC-financed schemes that are to be procured
using Loan proceeds. Indian manufacturers will receive a margin of
preference of 15%, or the current rate of customs duty, whichever is less.
The same procedures will be followed when procuring conductors, power
transformers and switchgear for SI schemes. In view of the expected large
number of small contracts and the present smooth functioning of the
procurement process under REC supervision, agreement was reached at
negotiations to require prior Bank approval of contract awards only for
contracts exceeding US$ 500,000 equivalent. Civil works for the construction
of the REC training center, and appropriate equipment for this center, will
be procured locally using procedures acceptable to the Bank. The procurement
procedures for project materials procured without using loan proceeds are
satisfactory.
Implementation Schedule
4.12    The following timetable has been agreed:
Activity                                        Latest Date
Issue invitations to tender                     June 15, 1982
Tender opening                                  September 15, 1982
SEBs' recommendations to REC                    January 15, 1983
REC's recommendations to IDA                    February 15, 1983
IDA's clearance                                 March 15, 1983
Contract awards by SEBs                         April 15, 1983
Contracts signed by SEBs                        May 15, 1983
Commence delivery of materials                  June 30, 1983
Complete delivery of materials                  June 30, 1985
Project completion                              December 31, 1985
Credit closing                                  June 30, 1986



-28-
Disbursement
4.13    The proceeds of the proposed loan will be disbursed against full
documentation as follows: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment; (ii) 100% of local expenditure ex-factory for locally
manufactured equipment; 70% of total expenditures for local equipment and
furniture; and 70% for civil works. Disbursements by the Bank would begin in
the fourth quarter of FY1983. The estimated disbursement schedule is given
in Annex 15. The rate of disbursement is somewhat faster than the typical
rate experienced in power projects, running about 2 years ahead of the
typical profile. This is based on experience with the ongoing Second Project
and is due to the nature of the proposed project as support of REC's lending
program during 2 years.
Onlending Rate
4.14    GOT will onlend the part of the Loan supporting the REC lending
program to REC at an effective interest rate of 7.75% p.a. with a repayment
period of 20 years including 5 years of grace. This compares to a rate of
6.5-8.25% for GOI lending to ARDC, and 11.75% to central power generation
agencies such as NTPC. REC, in turn, will onlend to the SEBs at interest
rates ranging mostly between 7.5 and 10%, with grace periods of 2 to 5 years,
depending on the type of scheme and length of loan period. These rates
compare to rates of 6-11% for SEB borrowings from State Governments, and
9.5-11% from ARDC. In the light of GOI policy favoring the rural sector in
general, these onlending arrangements are satisfactory. The part of the
proposed Loan not routed through REC will be made available by GOI to SEBs
through their State Governments as part of Plan allocations. State
Governments will onlend funds to their SEBs at interest rates ranging between
6 and 11%. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by GOI. The conclusion
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and REC satisfactory to the
Association will be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(A) RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION (REC)
Past financial performance
5.01    REC's financial performance through FY 1981 was satisfactory.  Actual



-29-
financial operations for the three years FY 1979 through 1981 are summarized
in Table 5.1 below and are shown in greater detail in Annex 16.
TABLE 5.1
REC FORECAST 1/ AND ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENT
(FYs 1979 THROUGH 1981)
(Rupees million)
1979              1980                1981
Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual
Loans Disbursed to SEBs   1,600    1,561    2,150    1,671    2,530    1,844
Revenues                      362      332       485       431      636       549
Less Expenses                 277      248       364       328      491       424
(Admin and Interest)
Net Income before Tax          85       84       121       103      145       125
Less Tax                       39       39        55        44       66        54
Net Income after Tax           46       45        66        59       79        71
Ratios
1.   Operating Ratio
(Admin and Interest
as % Revenues)         76        75        75       76        77        77
2.   Debt Service Coverage 1.6        1.7       1.6      1.7       1.5       1.7
3.   Interest spread on
Average Total
Assets (%)             1.8       1.7       1.8      1.7       1.7       1.6
4.   Return on Average
Total Capitali-
zation (%)             5.2       4.5        5.4     4.8       5.9       5.1
5.   Return on Average
Equity (%)             2.4       2.3        3.1     2.8       3.4       3.2
1/   Second Rural Electrification Project - Credit 911-IN



-30-
5.02    REC is a financial lending institution rather than a public utility
and the conventional Bank Group rate of return and cash generation covenants
for the power sector are not suited to REC's operations. A covenant,
designed under previous lending operations to REC (IDA Credits 572-IN and
911-IN) to ensure the solvency of REC, requires REC to ensure that, in any
fiscal year:
a) internally generated funds are not less than 1.2 times
debt service and
b) administrative expenses and interest payments do not exceed
90% of total interest received from all sources (i.e. lending
operations and investments).
REC satisfactorily met this requirement through FY 1981 and, in view
of its continuing appropriateness, this covenant was repeated under the
proposed project.
5.03    REC's lending program in FYs 1980 and 1981 was lower than forecast,
following a reduction in GOI's plan expenditure and discontinuance of lending
to SEBs for new system improvement schemes. Loan disbursements were also
slower than forecast in these years because of slippage in some SEB programs.
Lower interest earnings were offset by lower interest charges and REC's
actual after tax income was similar to the earlier forecast. Financial
indicators - operating ratio, debt service coverage and interest spread -
were all satisfactory. The return on average total capitalization was lower
than forecast, following the reduction in REC's lending program. After
paying a 1% dividend on GOI equity REC has in past years appropriated a part
of its earnings (a) to a Special Reserve to take advantage of concessions
under the Income Tax Act 1961 and (b) to a Special Development Reserve
created to enable REC to subscribe to the shares of RE Cooperatives and to
provide grants for research and development and to "specially underdeveloped"
areas.
Present Financial Position
5.04    REC's position at March 31, 1981, based on audited accounts, is
summarized as follows:



-31-
TABLE 5.2
REC BALANCE SHEET
(at March 31, 1981)
(Rupees Million)
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets                             3
Loans Outstanding                        9,385
Deferred Expenses                            5
Current Assets/Investments         518
Less Current Liabilities            154    364
9,757
FINANCED FROM:
Equity:
GOI/USAID                      2,050
Reserves and
Retained Earnings                317  2,367
Loans:
coi                            6,324
Market                         1,066  7,390
9,757
5.05    Outstanding loans to SEBs account for 94% of REC's assets.  The
repayment record of the SEBs is satisfactory. REC's current ratio (including
the short-term investment of surplus cash) was 3.4:1. The debt/equity ratio
at March 31, 1981 was 76/24 reflecting REC's increasing reliance in recent
years upon loan capital from GOI and market sources.   REC bonds, issued for
ten years and guaranteed by GOI, were first floated in FY 1975 and now
represent about 14% of REC-s loan debt: the interest rate of 6.75% compares
favourably with GOI's onlending rate of 7.75%. REC's financial position is
expected to remain satisfactory in FY 1982; an operating ratio and debt
service coverage of 79% and 1.6 respectively are forecast while a gross
interest spread of 1.6% will be maintained. The forecast returns on average
total capitalization and on average equity are 5.6% and 3.6% as against 5.1%
and 3.2% in FY 1981.
Financing Plan
5.06    REC's requirements and sources of funds for the period of Credit
disbursements under the proposed project (FY's 1983 through 1986) are
summarized in table 5.3 and shown in greater detail in Annex 17. The
proposed financing plan is satisfactory. REC will continue to rely heavily



-32-
upon loan capital (about 77% of total requirements) from GOI, including the
proceeds of the proposed US$ 300 million Bank loan, and from market bonds to
finance its approved lending program for the Sixth Five-Year Plan period
through FY 1985. This plan calls for a considerable expansion of REC's
lending activities; by end FY 1985 the loan portfolio is expected to rise to
Rs 17,309 million, an increase of 120% over the plan period.   REC's
authorized share capital was increased to Rs 1,500 million in September 1980
and further GOI equity is planned to this level by end FY 1985.   The
debt/equity ratio will increase slightly to 81/19 by end 1985 but is
satisfactory for this type of lending institution.
Table 5.3
REC FINANCING PLAN (FY's 1983 THROUGH 1986)
Rupees       US$ MilTion    Percentage
Million      Equivalent          (Z)
Requirements:
Loan disbursements
to SEBs                    10,576        1,322.0         99.5
Dividends                          57            7.1         0.5
Capital Expenditure                 2            0.3          -
10,635       1,329.4           100
Sources of Funds:
Net cash generation               531           66.4         5.0
Working Capital                   228           28.5         2.2
Loan repayments by SEB's        2,288         286.0         21.5
3,047         380.9         28.7
Less
Loan repayments to GOI  (1,220)         (152.5)       (11.5)
Contribution to Investment    1,827           228.4         17.2
Equity - GOI                      550           68.7         5.2
Loans - GOI (incl Bank Loan)  6,758           844.8         63.5
- Market                 1,500          187.5         14.1
10,635       1,329.4        100.0
5.07    Future Finances
Salient features of REC's future finances through FY 1986 are set
out in Table 5.4. Financial projections through FY 1986 and assumptions
relating thereto are shown in Annexes 16-21.   REC's future finances are
satisfactory. REC's forecasts are based upon the continuation of current



-33-
lending and borrowing rates. 1/: debt service coverage will fall to 1.3
times, slightly above the 1.2 times required by IDA, reflecting the higher
debt/equity ratio. A satisfactory interest spread of 1.7% on total assets
will be maintained through FY 1986. REC's operating ratio will remain at
about 79%, well within the covenanted figure of 90%.
Table 5.4
REC FUTURE FINANCES
(FYs 1982 through 1986)
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
1.   Loans to SEBs              2,215    2,410    2,535    2,731    2,900
(Rs million)
2.   Revenues (Rs millions)       702       847    1,002    1,154    1,310
3.   Percentage (%) of
Average Total Assets
(a) Revenues                 6.4       6.6      6.8       6.9       7.0
(b) Interest on
borrowings              4.8       5.0       5.2       5.2       5.3
(c) Gross "spread"           1.6      1.6       1.6       lt        1.
4.   Operating Ratio
(Interest and Admin. as
% Revenues)                  79        79       79        79        80
5.   Debt Service Coverage        1.6       1.5       1.4      1.3       1.3
6.   Debt/Equity Ratio          78/22    79/21    80/20    81/19    82/18
7.   Current Ratio                3.1       2.3       1.8       1.4      1.4
8.   Return on Average
Total Capitalization (%)   5.6         5.8       5.9      6.1       6.1
9.   Return on Average
Equity (%)                   3.6       4.0       4.3      4.5        4.6
1/ Annexes 9 and 21 respectively.



-34-
Audit
5.08    Under the Companies Act, 1956, GOI, on the advice of the Comptroller
and Auditor General (CAG), may direct the manner in which REC's accounts are
audited, may conduct test audits as he thinks fit and may comment on the
report of the professional auditors. This arrangement is satisfactory to
IDA. REC has previously agreed to submit its audited financial statements
together with the auditor's report within six months of the financial year
end. Satisfactory reports have been received through FY 1981 and this
requirement will be repeated under the proposed project.
Accounting Organization and Systems
5.09    REC has a competent accounts department which operates a satisfactory
accounting system. Until recently the accounts were kept on a basically
manual system. Loan accounting, including the billing of interest and loan
repayments from SEBs, has been computerized. Further computer applications
are in progress or envisaged to assist REC in monitoring the progress of all
schemes and for internal reporting purposes.
(B) SEB FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE: 1/ RURAL ELECTRIFICATION (RE) SUB-SECTOR
RE Investment
5.10    Capital invested (gross fixed assets and work in progress) by the
major SEBs in rural electrification amounted to Rs 20,778 million (US$2,597
million) by March 31, 1979: 2/ this represents about 20% of total investment
in power facilities by theseTSEBs (Annex 23). Since FY1977, SEBs annual
capital expenditure has grown overall by about 13% per annum with investment
in RE assets increasing at a faster rate than investment in "Other
Operations": 21% as against 11% per annum (Annex 24). Planned RE investment
for the Sixth Plan period, FYs 1981-1985, amounts to about Rs 23,000 million
(US$2,875 million). Financial Performance on RE Activities
5.11    The financial results of RE operations for FYs 1978 - 1980 are set
out in Annex 25.   While the performance of individual SEBs varies
considerably, the gross deficit on RE operations increased substantially in
1/  Excluding Assam SEB for which data is not available and which will not
participate in the proposed project.
2/   FY 1979 is the last year for which full data is available for all SEBs.



-35-
those years: expressed as a percentage of RE sales revenues the deficit
increased from 66% in FY1976 to 89% in FY1979 to about 112% in FY1980
(Table 5.5). In FY1980, however, while data for all SEBs is not yet available,
there was a significant reduction in the net deficit on RE operations as a
result of the substantial increase in State Government subsidization of SEBs
rural losses required as conditions of eligibility under the First and Second
RE Credits (572-IN and 911-IN).l/ In particular, Uttar Pradesh SEB
received an RE Subsidy in FY1980 to become eligible for the first time.
In recent years, all but three SEBs, Guiarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra,
have received a regular annual subsidy. Maharashtra SEB required a subsidy in
FY1980 to achieve a 9.5% rate of return while in 1981, the indications are
that all but Kerala would require an RE subsidy to maintain eligibility under
Credit 911-IN.
Table 5.5:
SUMMARY OF SEB FINANCIAL LOSSES ON RE OPERATIONS
Sales          Deficit                                     Net Deficit
Revenues    (before subsidy)            Subsidy           (after subsidy)
(  Rs   )  ( Rs   ) (% Sales)  (  Rs   ) (% Sales)  ( Rs   ) (% Sales)
FY   (million)  (million) (Revenues) (million) (Revenues) (million)(Revenues)
1976    2,656       1,764       66         466         18       1,298       48
1977    3,194       2,108       66         738         23       1,370       43
1978    3,336       2,773       83         952         28       1,821       55
1979    3,979       3,542       89       1,106         28       2,436       61
2/
1980
(a) 4,184      4,693       112       2,510        60        2,183       52
(b) 4,461      4,968       111       2,657        60        2,311       52
1/ Eligibility requires either that SEBs achieve a 9.5% rate of return or
that State Governments subsidize RE operations to the full extent of any
loss or to the extent needed to achieve a 9.5% rate of return, whichever
is lower.
2/ FY 1980 data is incomplete - line (a) represents data received from 11
SEBs and line (b) represents the same 11 with FY 1979 data added for
Kerala, Orissa and West Bengal.



-36-
The impact on SEBs' finances of planned RE investment between FYs 1981-85,
which will double the level of RE assets employed, and the consequent need
for additional State Government subsidies to meet growing deficits has not
been assessed in the context of the Plan. However, attempts will be made to
quantify the impact as part of the improvements in sector financing and
reporting (paragraphs 5.17-5.23).
Impact of RE Losses on Overall SEB Financial Performance
5.12    The impact of RE losses on SEB overall financial performance can be
seen from an analysis of the SEBs' rates of return for FY1979 (Annex 26).
Five of the fourteen SEBs had a positive rate of return (which is expressed
before interest) on RE assets which indicates that State Government RE
subsidy was sufficient to meet the whole or a part of the interest costs of
RE activities. In the case of the other nine SEBs, which had a negative rate
of return on RE assets, cross-subsidization by other consumers was needed to
meet all or a part of the deficit, including interest, on RE operations. Ten
SEBs reached the required 9.5% rate of return, with or without the aid of RE
subsidy. Of the remaining three SEBs, Bihar failed to achieve the 9.5% rate
of return but received full RE subsidy, thereby retaining eligibility to
participate in the ongoing rural electrification proJects, while Orissa and
Rajasthan failed to meet the eligibility criteria: the shortfall in
Rajasthan occurred only in that year whereas Orissa has consistently fallen
short of requirements.l/   Recent tariff actions in that State indicate that
from FY 1981 the position will be significantly improved in future years.
In FY 1980 ten SEBs reached the required 9.5% rate of return with or without
RE subsidy: Bihar, Haryana and Orissa were the exceptions. Bihar again
received a full RE subsidy to retain its eligibility and Haryana is not a
participant under ongoing projects.
5.13    SEB financial performance has improved in recent years:  the overall
position, measured in terms of rate of return on historically-valued net
fixed assets in FY1976 as compared with that in FY1979 was as follows:
FY         RE Operations         Other Operations         Combined  Operations
1976            (0.3%)                 8.1%                         7.8%
1979           (2.2%)                 10.6%                         8.4%
1/ Until recently Orissa SEB was unable to raise tariffs to major industrial
consumers but these difficulties have now been resolved. The State Govern,-
ment has in recent years imposed a very high rate of duty equivalent to 4-5%
of the SEB s asset base partially to compensate for the inability to raise
tariffs. (Annex 22).



-37-
While the rate of return on RE activities has deteriorated despite the
increasing level of subsidization of RE operations, that on "Other
Operations" has shown a marked improvement. In part this improvement is
attributable to actions taken to increase SEB tariffs which have risen
overall as follows:
FY                               Paise/kWh
1976                                21.5
1977                                23.5
1978                                24.3
1979                                26.7
1980                                29.5
1981                                33.8
(C) REFORM OF SEB FINANCES
Background
5.14    The financial operations of the SEBs are governed by the provisions
of the Electricity-(Supply) Act, 1948. In June 1978, after intensive
consultation with the Bank Group, amendments to the financial provisions of
the Act were enacted so as to enable the SEBs to reorganize their finances
along commercial lines by the introduction of:
(a) financial policies and accounting practices which require an SEB
to adjust its tariffs to produce annual revenues sufficient to
cover all operating costs, including full depreciation on fixed
assets,and interest, and leave a surplus (specified by the State
Government) which with depreciation, is sufficient to meet loan
repayments and provide a reasonable contribution to investment
and return on any State Government equity capital; and
(b) a capital structure which is less debt-oriented through the
conversion of State Government loans into equity share capital
and/or the financing of a part of future expansion by way of
State Government equity rather than debt.
Despite these legislative changes, little attempt has been made by the States
to give practical effect to these measuresl/ as they were awaiting the
1/ Indeed, there is now evidence to show that because of conflicts arising
from the interpretation of the amendments, some SEBs are not providing
for depreciation of fixed assets in full or in part (so as not to show an
operating loss in their accounts) but are paying interest on State
Government borrowings by way of a priority charge.



-38-
publication of the recommendations of the Committee on Power before
introducing changes. Furthermore, while the CEA has spelled out the options
available, the technical aspects of the amendments and their impact on SEB
finances have not been fully evaluated by the SEBs and their State
Governments: so far no State Government has specified "the reasonable
contribution to investment" which its SEB is required to achieve.
5.15    Since the enactment of the financial amendments in June 1978, the
Bank Group has regularly sought progress towards their implementation while!
recognizing, however, that real progress would only be achieved after the
Committee on Power had reported and GOI and the States had reviewed its
recommendations. During negotiations of the Second Korba Thermal Power
Project in May 1981, GOI agreed to prepare, by April 1982, an implementation
plan and schedule outlining the steps to be taken in each of five priority
areas of power sector improvements. One of these areas concerns the
establishment of revised sector financial objectives and policies for their
implementation, rational tariff policies and improved information and
accounting systems. During appraisal of the proposed project the financial
and accounting issues were discussed further with GOI and understandings were
reached which should accelerate progress in implementing this part of the
five point program. Furthermore, because of the far-reaching implications
that these understandings would entail, it became a matter of some urgency
during appraisal to reach agreement with GOI on revised financial eligibiliLty
criteria for SEB participation in the proposed project. The understandings
relate to two major developments: (i) reform of financial objectives and
policies, and (ii) reform of accounting practices.
Reform of Financial Objectives and Policies
5.16    A rate of return of 9.5% on historically-valued net fixed assets,
first recommended by a GOI Committee in 1964, has been used in previous Bank
Group lending as the principal measure of financial performance for the SEBs.
The concept of fixed asset revaluation is not generally practised in India
and is unacceptable to GOI. The 9.5% rate of return is no longer valid as it
is insufficient to enable SEBs to meet their obligations under the amended
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, and, in particular, to provide a reasonable
contribution to their expanding investment programs. All SEBs depend
heavily, if not exclusively, upon their State Governments to provide loan
capital to finance capital expenditure. The terms of such loans vary from
State to State and many SEBs are unable to meet, in full, their debt service
obligations to their State Governments; in some instances, the interest
payments have not been made to the State Government and have accumulated over



-39-
many years as a contingent liability.l/ Furthermore, in several instances
much of SEB borrowing from their State Governments is not scheduled for
repayment while in Gujarat and Maharashtra much of the borrowing is on a
perpetual basis. The 1978 Act amendments were designed, in part, to
eliminate these problems and improve the capital structure of the SEBs by
introducing State Government equity capital and/or by converting State
Government loans to equity.
5.17    During appraisal of the proposed project, it was agreed with GOI that
an adequate level of self-financing might be acceptable to the Bank Group,
GOI and the States as a satisfactory measure of financial performance. This
concept conforms to the SEBs revised statutory obligations. Having regard to
the significant resources generated from the sector by way of State duties on
electricity sales and the central excise tax on generation it was agreed with
GOI that the SEBs should provide a contribution to investment of not less
than 20% from FY 1983. (para. 5.19). The formula for expressing this concept
will ensure:
(a) satisfactory capitalization of interest during construction (a
practice hitherto not followed by SEBs despite earlier
assurances from GOI under Credit 604-IN to prepare the necessary
guidelines2/);
(b) satisfactory arrangements for the disposal of arrears of
interest on existing State Government loans.
(c) full provision for depreciation of fixed assets.
5.18    The contribution to investment for each SEB will be expressed as a
percentage of capital expenditure, including interest during construction,
averaged over a three-year period, comprising the previous, the present and
the next succeeding year and would be arrived at after deducting from an
SEB's annual internal cash generation:
1/  Credits 377-IN and 604-IN for the Third and Fourth Transmission Projects
required GOT to make satisfactory arrangements to dispose of SEB interest
arrears to their State Governments. The matter was never satisfactorily
resolved and was referred to the Committee on Power, which has recom-
mended conversion to interest bearing loans. Further amendments to the
1948 Act would be required to implement this (para 5.18).
2/  Again GOI referred this matter to the Committee on Power which recom-
mended against adoption of the practice of capitalizing interest: despite
this, GOI agreed during negotiatons to adopt this practice. Pending the
necessary statutory amendments, GOI will issue guidelines to SEBs for
the notional calculation of interest to be capitalized for the purposes
of the cash generation covenant.



-40-
(a) full debt service (comprising all interest chargeable to
operations, after deducting the proper capitalization of
interest during construction of capital works, loan repayments
due in that year) on all existing and future SEB long-term debt,
including the phased repayment over 25 years of arrears of
principal and interest on State Government loans (except to the
extent that such arrears are repaid from new borrowings).
(b) any dividends on share capital, if the option for creating share
capital now permitted under the amended Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, is exercised;
Internal cash generation would comprise:
(a) an SEB's net income after tax and after adding back depreciation
in respect of fixed assets which should henceforth be provided
in full as an operating expense;
(b) any consumers' capital contributions and security deposits;
(c) any subsidy received by an SEB from the State Government for
financial losses on rural electrification operations (para.
5.19).
5.19    Under the eligibility criteria for the First and Second Rural
Electrification projects, State Governments were permitted to subsidize th,e
RE operations of their SEBs in arriving at the 9.5% rate of return on net
fixed assets, subject to the subsidy not exceeding the total RE loss as
calculated in accordance with a formula previously agreed with IDA. However,
as indicated above (paras 5.11 - 5.12), under these arrangements some SEBs
have come to rely heavily upon RE subsidy to achieve their financial targets.
Whereas in FY 1976, RE subsidies totalled Rs 466 million, in FY 1981 a figure
of about Rs 5886 million is estimated. As a proportion of SEB sales
revenues, RE subsidy represented about 24% in FY 1981 as against 4% in FY
1976.   The Bank Group proposed that the amount of a State Government's
subsidy to its SEB for losses on RE operations be limited to the lesser of
the full RE loss or 10% of the SEB's sales revenues: such a limitation would
have a major impact upon future tariffs in a number of SEBs whose RE subsidy
is projected to exceed significantly 10% of its sales revenues. GOI was
unable in the time available to discuss this major proposal in full detail
with the States. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the principle of
limiting RE subsidy from FY1984 to a "reasonable" proportion of an SEB's
sales revenues based on programs for the progressive reduction in the amount
of the RE subsidy provided to SEBs, to be submitted to the Bank Group by



-41-
December 31, 1982. 1/   These programs, recognizing the varying conditions of
different States, will be based upon the following objectives:
(a)  In SEBs where the existing subsidy exceeds 25% of sales revenues
(Bihar, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh)
a reduction of 10 percentage points between FYs 1984-86 and
a further reduction in FYs 1987 and 1988 will be sought.
(b)  In SEBs where the existing subsidy is between 15% and 25% of
sales revenues, a reduction of 5 to 10 percentage points will be
sought.
(c)  In all other cases, the  subsidy will be contained at a level
not exceeding 10% of an SEB's sales revenues.
5.20    GOI has submitted financial projections for the period FYs 1983-1985
for each of the fourteen proposed participating SEBs. The projections were
prepared at FY 1981 constant prices and on the understanding that GOI will
continue to require SEBs to achieve not less than the present 9.5% rate of
return.   While they would require to be adjusted for cost and tariff
increases arising from inflation they provide a satisfactory basis for
assessing the impact of the above requirements upon SEBs and their consumers.
Salient features are summarized at Annex 27.
5.21    The financial projections indicate that nine 2/ of the fourteen SEBs
would exceed the proposed 20% contribution to investment in the period FY's
1983-1985. Four of these SEBs - Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and
Kerala - would achieve 30% or more. In achieving the 20%, six of the nine
SEBs would require tariff increases, from the FY 1981 level, ranging from 7%
to 58%. Several SEBs have already increased tariffs significantly in FY
1982. Of the nine SEBs, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and possibly Punjab, (for
which full data is not yet available) would be heavily dependent upon the RE
subsidy to achieve the proposed 20% contribution to investment. However, in
view of the proposal to limit such RE subsidy from FY 1983 (para 5.19), these
SEBs may require further tariff increases to offset the proposed limitation
on RE subsidy and to maintain the 20% contribution to investment. Madhya
Pradesh SEB would require only a small additional tariff increase to meet the
required 20% contribution to investment.
1/   An undertaking by the State Governments to this effect is one of the
criteria establishing initial eligibility of an SEB to participate in
the project (para 5.24).
2/   Orissa SEB, whose financial performance has been unsatisfactory in
previous years, would exceed the 20% contribution: significant tariff
increases were made after FY 1979.



-2-
5.22    The financial projections for the remaining four SEBs - Bihar,
Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal - indicate that they would not achieve
the required 20% contribution to investment, although with the exception of
Bihar, all would achieve a 9.5% rate of return. With the exception of West
Bengal, these SEBs would also be affected by the proposed limitation on RE
subsidy. Many of the problems which these SEBs face are of a
managerial/operational nature and cannot be resolved simply by increasing
tariffs which in Bihar and West Bengal are already amongst the highest in
India. In order to achieve an overall improvement in the performance of the
weaker SEBs, it is essential that they participate in the proposed project.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI on the preparation and
submission to the Bank Group by December 31, 1982 of specific programs of
actions to be taken to improve the management and operation of the SEBs of
Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal so as to ensure their phased
attainment of the proposed 20% contribution to investment as follows:
FY       FY        FY        FY
1983     1984      1985      1986
Bihar                    10%       12%       14%      20%
Haryana                    6%       8%       12%      20%
Uttar Pradesh            12%       18%       20%      20%
West Bengal                5%      10%       15%      20%
Reform of Accounting Practices
5.23    Improvements to the standard of accounting practices among SEBs has
been the subject of continuing dialogue with GOI: the agreements reached
during negotiations are expected to lead to much needed reform. CEA had hoped
to prepare an accounting manual for introduction by the SEBs and State
Electricity Departments from April 1, 1982, prescribing a uniform commercial
system of accounting for all SEBs in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. This has not been possible, given the lack of
suitable staff at CEA. During negotiations, GOI agreed to formulate a model
system of commercial accounting for SEBs, submit it to the Bank Group by June
30, 1983 and, after taking into account any comments thereon, to cause the
SEBs to introduce the system from April 1, 1984. GOI also agreed to
establish and staff by August 31, 1982 a special unit to assist the
introduction of commercial accounting.   GOI proposes to appoint consultants
to design and assist implementation of such a system and is also considering
urgent further amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948 to eliminate
present anomalies (para 5.14).   A timetable of key events for the
introduction of commercial accounting is at Annex 28; it aims at the SEBs
presenting their annual audited accounts within six months after the close of
the fiscal year, as required by the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. As most
SEBs are currently taking between 12 to 18 months to do this, it is hoped to
improve progressively the timeliness in presenting their audited results and



-43-
to ensure full implementation of these improvements by March 1985. The
proposed program of improvements would extend to the scope and quality of
audit as well as to the standard of accounting.
Eligibility under the Proposed Project
5.24    Initial eligibility of SEBs to participate in the proposed project
would be established upon the submission by GOI to IDA of satisfactory
undertakings to accept and thereafter to achieve the following criteria of
eligibility:
(a) from SEB's (except Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal), endorsed by their respective State Governments,
to achieve at least a 20% contribution to investment from
FY1983 and to introduce from April 1, 1984, the prescribed
system of commercial accounting; such undertakings should
state clearly the acceptance of the principles set out in
paras. 5.17 and 5.18;
(b) from the SEBs of Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal, endorsed by the State Governments, to achieve the
percentage contribution to investment specified at para 5.22 in
FYs 1983 through 1986; to submit by December 31, 1982 the
program of actions proposed to achieve these targets; and to
introduce from April 1, 1984 the prescribed system of commercial
accounting.
(c) from State Governments, to limit any RE subsidy to their SEBs in
accordance with programs to be submitted by December 31, 1982,
and based on the principles set out in para. 5.19.
5.25    GOI and REC will be monitoring and determining the initial and
continuing eligibility of SEBs by examining each participating SEB-s budget
forecast prior to the beginning of any fiscal year, and will forward the
relevant data to the Bank Group by March 31 of each year.   Apart from
informing the Bank Group about the status of each SEB's eligibility, GOI and
REC will also take any appropriate measures needed to ensure continuing
eligibility of SEBs.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01    Rural electrification in India lends itself to justification using
cost savings accruing to the economy by using electricity rather than
alternative conventional energy sources for irrigation pumping, rural
industry, domestic and commercial use, and street lighting. This approach
yields attributable benefits of electrification that include part of consumer



-44-
surplus, and avoids the causality problem of allocating any incremental
agricultural output to electricity alone.
Cost Comparison
6.02    The cost comparison of electric and major present non-electric power
sources for rural applications, taking into account all costs incurred by
consumers as well as SEBs, and valuing energy at its long-run marginal cost,
yields a clear cost advantage for all uses of electricity. The economic cost
advantage for the typical 5 HP electric irrigation pump over a similar diesel
pump amounts to about Rs 2,700 (US$340) per year. In the case of domestic
lighting, the advantage of using electricity is about Rs 390 (US$49) per
connection per year and, in the case of small industry about Rs 5,100
(US$640). The results of the cost comparison are sensitive to changes in
long-run marginal cost of power supply, but do not encroach on the cost
advantage for the use of electricity within a wide range of marginal cost
variation. For pumping and small industry, the diesel alternative only
becomes attractive if marginal cost of power more than doubles from the
assumed all-India average at rural retail level, which takes into account
the characteristics of the dominant pumping load.
Economic Rate of Return
6.03    The major categories of schemes proposed by REC to be eligible for
financing under the proposed project are OA, OB, SPA, and SI, with a small
component of SPI (industrial estate) schemes.  These categories of schemes
were selected as those with securely high economic rates of return under the
ongoing Second REC Project. In continuation of this approach, only these
scheme categories are included in the proposed project, and their economic
internal rate of return recalculated in the light of recent experience and
further analysis. Costs were assumed to include initial and subsequent SEB
investment, operation and maintenance expenditures by SEBs, the long-run
marginal cost of energy supply to the scheme, and the initial and recurring
costs incurred by consumers. Benefits were defined as the initial and
recurring costs of the non-electric alternative, yielding the same output.
(Other assumptions are detailed in Annex 29). For purposes of shadow
pricing, appropriate weighted conversion factors were applied to the cost and
benefit streams expressed in market prices, to obtain data in terms of border
prices.
6.04    Economic internal rates of return were calculated for (i) selected
sample schemes recently approved by REC, (ii) ongoing REC schemes under
implementation, and (iii) typical scheme categories based on an all-India
average. The results are satisfactory: the average OA scheme yields a rate
of return of about 70% (base assumption), the average OB scheme one of about
27%, and the average SPA scheme one of about 60%. Only extremely
conservative assumptions on the valuation of benefits (cases 2 and 4 in Annex
29) result in negative rates of return. The analysis is sensitive to changes



-45-
in the marginal cost of power supply, but the rate of return remains
satisfactory unless extreme increases in marginal cost are assumed (Annex 29,
Table 4).
6.05    The analysis of sample approved and ongoing schemes yields an
economic rate of return range of 17-64% for OA schemes, 20-50% for OB
schemes, and 23-78% for SPA schemes, using the base case assumption for
valuation of benefits. SI schemes are not suitable for averaging, as the
needs for system improvement vary widely: the sample schemes reviewed show a
rate of return of 19% and 43% (Annex 29, Tables 2 and 3). Weighting the
individual scheme categories' results by their expected share in total
project cost, the average weighted economic rate of return for the project as
a whole is about 53%.
Financial Rate of Return
6.06    Under average assumptions of demand development and costs, and with
present tariff levels, even the economically attractive RE schemes show a
negative financial internal rate of return. This is due mainly to the low
level of tariffs for irrigation pumping, which dominates rural electricity
consumption (see paras 6.07-6.10). Average tariffs in a scheme area would
have to increase by more than 50% to enable the scheme to achieve an
acceptable financial rate of return (Annex 29, Table 5). In view of the
resistance to increases in agricultural tariffs encountered by SEBs,
financial safeguards have been allowed in the proposed project to compensate
for the rural revenue shortfall (para 5.19).
Tariffs and Cost of Supply
6.07    The average level of tariffs charged by most SEBs had been below
reasonable measures of cost of supply until recently, as well as below
long-run marginal cost. Since 1978, however, base tariffs, duties and taxes,
and fuel surcharges (all items appearing on the consumer's bill) have been
rising significantly, particularly for industrial and commercial consumers.
Total payments per kWh by industrial consumers, for instance, have been
rising by an average rate of more than 17% per year between 1977/78 and
1981/82, well beyond the rate of inflation. In some instances these tariff
increases reached a rate of 20-30% per year (Annex 30). Tariffs for these
consumer groups are approaching marginal costs in most major States: evidence
from recent marginal-cost-based tariff studies shows that total payments by
industrial consumers in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal,
Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Bihar, Orissa, and Andhra Pradesh already are
close to strict long-run marginal cost levels (Annex 30). It is important to
include duty and fuel surcharge in the consumer payments, although duty does
not accrue directly to the SEB (the impact of the duty on sectoral internal
generation of funds is illustrated in Annex 22). While industrial and
commercial marginal cost recovery has improved, cross- subsidization of
domestic and agricultural consumers has increased. This is due to



-46-
socio-politcal considerations by State Governments and SEBs to keep tariff
levels low for economically weaker consumers: residential tariff levels have
increased by about 5% per year, and irrigation pump tariffs have remained
approximately constant. However, the momentum of industrial and commerciaL
tariff increases has carried total average revenue per kWh closer to an
economically satisfactory level: the share of these two consumer groups in
total electricity consumption in India amounts to about 65%, and
significantly more in such major states as West Bengal and Maharashtra.
Although tariff levels in general still are below strict long-run marginal
cost, the emerging trend is encouraging and constitutes a significant
improvement towards the long-term goal of tariffs reflecting marginal cost.
6.08    Among rural consumers, irrigation pump connections benefit from
significantly preferential tariffs, while industrial, commercial and domestic
consumers are charged at considerably higher rates. Agricultural tariffs are
often held well below average cost, and always much below marginal cost of
pump supply (Annex 30).  The main reason for low agricultural tariffs is the
inclusion of electricity supply in the general GOI policy of preferential
treatment of the agricultural sector by means of price subsidies, and
favorable taxation and credit principles, to encourage rural development.
In spite of this policy, farmers' margins have been decreasing in absolute
terms in recent years.
6.09    Evidence from tariff and agricultural pricing studies indicates that
agricultural consumers' demand elasticity for power with respect to tariffs
is small, a fact that would allow significant tariff increases. On the otlher
hand, demand with respect to total energy cost can be assumed to be more
elastic: the farmers operating diesel pumps tend to be those in higher
income brackets, and there is a significant expansion of pump use when
electricity become available. Farmers' margins have been steadily
decreasing, but the tariff component amounts only to about 4% of total cost
of irrigated farming. While there does not appear to exist a clear economic
case for subsidized agricultural tariffs, resistance to increases is high
because of (i) the traditional nature of electricity prices as one of the
vehicles of favoring the agricultural sector, and (ii) the low reliability
and limited supply times in rural areas. Taking into account these obstacles
to significant agricultural tariff increases, a State Government compensatLon
to SEBs for RE financial losses has been allowed in the calculation of SEB1s
financial performance for purposes of eligibility under the proposed project
(para 5.19).
6.10    An increasing tendency among SEBs to switch from metered supply for
pumps to a flat-rate tariff per HP installed is apparent. While there are
short-term advantages to non-metering such as administrative cost savings and
elimination of meter tampering, the long-term negative effects (waste,
inability to measure consumption, and technical losses) may outweigh them.
The level of the flat rate per capacity unit also presents problems: users
with above-average utilization benefit significantly more than small farmers



-47-
with low utilization rates (Anne: 30). Preliminary results of the
agricultural tariff studies being prepared under Credit 911-IN point to the
conclusion (consistent with the findings of the Committee on Power) that
flat-rate tariffs are less desirable than metering. Final drafts of the
studies will be submitted to the Bank Group by June 82, and to GOI by August
82, and their findings will be discussed with States and SEBs thereafter to
ensure that negative effects of flat-rate tariffs are avoided.
Beneficiaries
6.11    Sample evidence indicates that it is primarily the better-off members
of a village community who obtain pump and domestic connections: the bulk
of pump connections is obtained by farmers with landholdings of more than
5 acres, a size that enables them to utilize pump irrigation efficiently.
In general, farmers with very small landholdings (except in fertile areas)
rarely apply for pump connections, although the breakeven point in terms of
landholding is relative rather than absolute, depending on groundwater
availability, soil, type of crops, etc. Repayment of pump purchase credits
on top of electricity charges could be prohibitively expensive for a small
farmer. Bearing in mind that a 5 HP electric pump can cost about Rs 4,000
installed, annual repayments even on generous terms would be a severe or
impossible burden on a farmer with 1-2 acres.
6.12    Landless laborers in rural areas benefit indirectly from RE.  Having
no assets suited for the utilization of electricity, they benefit from
increased employment opportunities created by the expansion of landholders
activity through multiple cropping made possible by irrigation. Farmers
cultivating more than 5 acres routinely hire additional laborers beyond
family labor, especially during labor-intensive cultivation and harvesting
periods.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
Agreements During Negotiations
7.01    During negotiations, the following agreements were obtained from GOI
and REC.
(i)   GOI will ensure that SEBs will use Loan proceeds for
system improvement (SI) schemes in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines, and that procurement for and
implementation of these schemes will be subject to
REC supervision. REC has undertaken to appraise and
supervise SI schemes under the proposed project
(paras 2.14 and 4.05).



-48-
(ii)   REC will ensure that:
(a) its internally generated funds in any fiscal
year shall at least cover 1.2 times its debt service
requirement during the same fiscal year (para 5.02); and
(b) its administrative expenses and interest payments in
any fiscal year shall not exceed 90% of its interest
receipts (para 5.02).
(iii) Participation in the proposed Loan will be restricted
to SEBs:
(a) who have undertaken to and will achieve a contribution
of at least 20% to their investment program by 1982/83
or a specified later year, and to introduce a
commercial system of accounts satisfactory to the Bank
Group by the fiscal year 1984/85 (paras 5.17-5.25);
and
(b) whose State Governments have undertaken to limit the
subsidies for the financial losses incurred by SEBs
from their RE operations to an amount acceptable to
the Bank Group, and have endorsed the SEBs- undertaking
at (a) above (paras 5.19 and 5.24).
(iv)  GOI will formulate and, by June 30, 1983, submit to the Bank
Group a model commercial system of accounting for SEBs, and
will cause SEBs to adopt it from April 1, 1984. For this
purpose, GOI will establish a special unit by August 31,
1982 (paras 5.23-5.24).
Condition of Effectiveness
7.02    The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and REC
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.14) will be a condition of effectiveness.
Recommendation
7.03    The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IBRD Loan of
US$300 million equivalent.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
All India Sales and Energy Data 1969/70 - 1979/80
1969-70    1974-75    1975-76    1976-77    1977-78    1978-79    1979-80    1980-81
Installed Capacity (excl. non-utility
plant                                 MW   14,102      18,317     20,117      21,814      23,770      26,681      28,448     30,271
Electricity Generated                   GWh  57,988      70,191      79,231     88,333      91,206    102,432    104,716    111,514
Electricity sold                        GWh  41,061      52,682     60,246      66,608      68,693      77,293      78,226       n.a.
Electricity Generation per capita       kWh    96.2       119.2       132.5      147.2       146.7       159.6       163.6       n.a.
Electricity Consumption per capita    kWh    76.0          89.9       100.3      111.0       110.9       120.7       119.6       n.a.
Proportion of Sales                    (M)
Agricultural and Irrigation                     9.2        14.5        14.5       14.4        14.5        15.6        16.9       n.a.
Railway Traction                                3.5         2.9         3.1         3.3        3.5         2.8         2.9       n.a.
Industry                                       69.1        62.1        62.4       62.5        61.6        61.7        59.7       n.a.
Commerce                                        6.5         8.5         7.3        7.3         7.3         5.6         5.3       n.a.
Domestic                                        8.6         8.5         9.7         9.5       10.0         9.8        10.8       n.a.
Other (Public Lighting, Waterworks
etc.)                                         3.1         3.5         3.2        3.0         3.0         4.5         4.4       n.a.
Average Annual Growth of Sales (%)              9.9         5.3        14.5       10.5         3.2        12.5         1.2       n.a.
Losses as percentage of kWh sent out           16.8        20.5        19.4       19.7        19.6        20.0        20.5       n.a.
n.a.:  not available                                                                                                                             !-



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
All India Power Supply Position 1980 - 90
(Excluding non-utility)
Actual                                                   Estimated
1979-80    1980-81    1981-82    1982-83   1983-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88    1988-89  -1989-90
Installed Capacity    MW       28,448      30,271      33,483     38,027    43,414      48,114    53,741        59,227     64,309      71,134    79,253
Peak Availability     MW      '19,139      19,080      20,970     23,855    27,525       31,152    34,476       38,457     42,112      46,826    52,857
Peak Demand           MW       19,1391/1   19,080-l   24,922      27,296    29,718       32,703    35,972       39,586     43,574      47,972    52,546
0~
Surplus (Deficit)     MW         -           -         (3,952)    (3,441)   (2,193)    (1,551)   (1,496)        (1,129)    (1,462)    (1,146)        311
2/
Energy Availability-  GWh      99,480     104,782    132,263    141,990   161,710    183,459   203,041        226,466    249,947    275,318   306,400
Energy Requirement/  GWh       99,480-'   104,782-/  138,929    152,142   165,304    182,077   200,429        220,716    243,108    267,832   293,373
Surplus (Deficit)     GWh       _                      (6,666)   (10,152)   (3,594)      1,382      2,612       5,750       6,839       7,486    13,027
1/ Suppressed by load shedding
2/ At station busbars
Source: CEA
Io f'
JJ



-51-                                   ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
CEA Norms for Estimating Capacity and Energy Availability
1. Thermal
(i)  Effective Capacity:  For existing thermal generating
units the derated capacity is considered. For
newly commissioned thermal units, no benefit is taken
during the first three months after the unit is commissioned,
50% of the capacity during the next 9 months, and thereafter
full capacity is taken.
(ii)  Retirement of old sets:  Deductions are made at the rate of 1/2
percent per year of the installed capacity available at the end
of the base year 1977-78.
(iii)  Planned Maintenance:  The figures for planned boiler and
capital maintenance have been obtained from a computer study
conducted to optimise the maintenance schedule. A period of
4 weeks per year for boiler maintenance and an extra allowance
of 4 weeks once in three years for capital maintenance have
been taken.
(iv)  Forced Outage:  This is calculated at 18.5% of the balance
of capacity available each month after allowing for retirement,
planned and capital maintenance.
(v) Partial Outage: This is calculated at 10% of the capacity
available for operation after allowing for forced outage.
(vi)  Auxiliaries:  This is calculated at 9% of the capacity available
for operation after allowing for forced outage.
(vii)  Norms for energy calculations:  For new units 2,500 kWh/kW
gross during the first year, 4,000 kWh/kW gross during the
second year, 5,000 kWh/kW gross during the third year and
5,350 kWh/kW gross during the fourth and subsequent years.
These figures allow for energy losses due to planned
maintenance and all types of outage.
2. Hydro
(i) Generating Availability: The generating availability figures
are based on the designed head conditions and water flows on
a month-to-month basis computed for a 90% dependable year.
(ii) Retirement: Deductions are made at the rate of 1/2 percent per
year of the installed capacity available at the end of the base
year 1977-78.
(iii) Planned maintenance: It is assumed that as far as possible
the hydro generating units are maintained during low flow
periods, keeping in view the peak system demand to be met and
the hydro availability in each month of the year.
(iv) Capital Maintenance: This is worked out at 3% of the effective
generating capability after deducting retirements from the
gross availability.
(v) Forced Outage: An allowance of 5% of the effective generating
capability is made towards forced outage.
(vi) Auxiliaries: From the balance available after the above
allowances a further allowance of 1/2% is made for consumption
of auxiliaries.
(vii) Spinning Reserve: A spinning reserve of 5% of the capacity
available on bars is taken.
(viii)  Energy output from hydro generating units:  Monthly energy
figures are based on the 90% dependable year for each station.



ANNEX 3
-52-
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Villages Electrified and Pumps Energized (REC and SEB Programs)
No. of Villages        Villages Elec-
Existing in            trified as on         Pumps Energized
States                     States                  10/31/81             as on 10/31/81
Nos.       %                Nos.
Andhra Pradesh                27,221               18,006*    66.1           468,877 *
Assam                         21,995                5,913      26.9            1,906
Bihar                         67,566               22,499*    33.3           161,891 *
Gujarat                       18,275               12,921      70.7          243,848
Haryana                        6,731                6,731    100.0           233,715
Himachal Pradesh              16,916               10,606      62.7            1,760
Jammu & Kashmir                6,503                5,059*(a) 77.8             1,010
Karnataka                     26,826               17,233      64.1          319,087
Kerala                         1,268                1,268    100.0            97,333
Madhya Pradesh                70,883               26,740 (b) 37.7           320,631 (b)
Maharashtra                   35,778               28,143      78.7          700,939
Manipur                        1,949                   334 (a) 17.1               10 (a)
Meghalaya                      4,583                   765 (b) 16.7               47
Nagaland                         460                  408      42.5              Nil
Orissa                        46,992               18,892      40.2           17,030
Punjab                        12,188               12,126(+) 100.0           291,845
Rajasthan                     33,305               15,440      46.4          213,762
Sikkim                           405                   67 (a) 16.5               Nil
Tamil Nadu                    15,735               15,589      99.1          933,928
Tripura                        4,727                1,030      21.8              449
Uttar Pradesh                112,561               42,780      38.0          418,312
West Bengal                   38,074               15,195      39.9           25,226
Total (States)               571,441              277,745      48.6        4,451,606
Total (Union Territories)    4,685                  1,581      33.7           23,080
Total (All India)            576,126              279,326      48.5        4,474,686
(*)  -  Figure provisional
(+)  -  62 villages have been declared uninhabited
(a) - As on 3/31/81
(b)  -  As on 9/31/81
Source: Rural Electrification Corporation



-53-
ANNEX
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Progress of Pump Electrification (Nos.)
Year                             All India                      Under REC Schemesl/
1975-76                           189,796                             43,367
1976-77                           240,651                             75,529
1977-78                           266,911                             88,814
1978-79                           298,874                             94,161
1979-80                           349,733                            148,967
1980-81                           381,317                            191,694
l/ Including SPA schemes co-financed with ARDC and banks.
Source: REC



-54-
ANNEX 5
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Planned Statewise Expenditure on RE During Sixth Plan 1980/81 - 1984/85
(Rs Million)
REC         REC
State     Normal        RMP           SPA
State                         Plan       Program      Program      Program 1/ Total
Andhra Pradesh                 945.6      312.4          42.0        786.0    2,086.0
Assam                           50.0      178.6         350.0         39.0       617.6
Bihar                          150.0      443.5         330.4        600.0    1,523.9
Gujarat                        280.0       286.0          36.4       339.0       941.4
Haryana                        408.7       141.3          -          180.0       730.0
Himachal Pradesh                52.0       188.1          24.0          -        264.1
Jammu & Kashmir                 50.0      221.5           25.0          -        296.5
Karnataka                      302.9      183.1           14.0       210.0       710.0
Kerala                          80.0        87.2          -            66.0      233.2
Madhya Pradesh                 397.8       716.7        485.5         960.0    2,560.0
Maharashtra                  1,209.0       391.0          -          750.0    2,350.0
Manipur                          6.0         7.0          37.6         -          50.6
Meghalaya                        -          74.6          31.8         -         106.4
Nagaland                        31.9        15.5          12.6         -          60.0
Orissa                         200.0      343.6         203.4        240.0       987.0
Punjab                         396.0      317.4            -         480.0    1,193.4
Rajasthan                      303.0       447.0         281.0       360.0    1,391.0
Sikkim                          12.0         -             6.0        -           18.0
Tamil Nadu                     971.4       178.6           -         240.0    1,390.0
Tripura                          5.0        76.3          22.9        -          104.2
Uttar Pradesh                  840.0       644.9        887.9        810.0    3,182.8
West Bengal                     22.3       700.4         138.8        240.0    1,101.5
Sub Total Statewise         6,713.6    5,954.7        2,929.3      6,300.0   21,897.6
REC lumpsum funds
Coops & Harijan Bastis                 330.0                                  330.0
System Improvement                     420.0                                  420.0
Union Territories               86.3                      81.2                   167.5
System Improvement             450.0                                             450.0
(under REC supervision)
Grand Total                  6,844.9    6,704.7       3,010.5      6,300.0   23,265.1
1/  REC, ARDC, and banks one third each.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
| en,.,illror I,g,n,,,  ~  ~  Oh,,, W,,,,           Ch.~f.              p.,A,h,I               Ofl,,f.            p .A
... .... ....
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,1                                                                                                              _                                              0111                $0,    *1,1,                            010.0,01
|   Tlehmeal Oireevol   i                                                                                                                          |            O+orlof F/oonc         l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C1010,,,.  01,r*,o,*1101
X I= _  2-_t   ='  _ ,00.._             .101,                   0,,_-f
~~~~~~~~l0,,0                       9      1 C,efEualCbfLser* eHam_*ee sh_(  shnsBd rWasE0,
0,000., OI,,  0,,,001,         0.,,,               n,ioI01
{ E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,D0.o., Poo0 II ,,[10l1 0 Al11, 01,111000    P00 00, 011,0, 00,0,,100k111,0 ,,,1S  01,llol0,00,- 3,



-56-
ANNEX 7
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
REC Staff Structure (3/31/81)
Staff                     Class I      Class II    Class III   Class IV
Characteristics      Total   (Senior)  (Middle Level) (Clerks)    (Support)
HQ    RO   HQ   RO      HQ     RO    HQ    RO   HQ    RO
Total Staff       537   261  105   79      91      45   241    95  100    42
Permanent
Employees       483   198   72   34       86      34   225    88  100    42
Seconded           54    63   33   45       5      11    16     7   -      -
Seconded (X)       10    24   31   57       5      24     7     7   -      -
HQ = Headquarters
RO = Regional Offices
Source: REC



-57-
ANNEX P
Page 1 ot X
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Types of Schemes Financed by REC
(i) Area Schemes:
Ordinary Advanced (OA)        - Electrification of groups of villages
in economically advanced areas.
Ordinary Backward (OB)        - Electrification of groups of villages
in somewhat less advanced areas.
Special: Underdeveloped (SU) - Electrification of groups of villages
in economically backward areas.
Rural Cooperative Societies (OC)
- Electrification of groups of villages
joined in an electric cooperative
system with consumer membership.
Mini Growth Centers (MG)      - Electrification of several villages
around a market town.
Mini Health Centers (MH)      - Electrification of several villages
around a town with health center.
Revised Minimum Needs Program (RMNP)
- Electrification of groups of villages
out of a special GOI fund earmarked
for specific particularly backward
areas.
Tribal, Hill, and Desert Areas (RER{P - THD)
- RMNP areas with special social and
geographical features.
Mini OA, OB, SU, and MNP      - Electrification of previously left out
villages and hamlets in OA, OB, SU, and
MNP scheme areas.
(ii) Special Consumer Category Schemes:
Mini Industrial (MI)           - Connection of village industry in a
group of villages.
Mini Industrial Estate (ME)  - Connection of small and medium industry
in a rural industrial estate.
Mini Farm (MF)                - Connection of irrigation pumps in a
group of villages.



-58-                                    ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Mini Farm - Lift Irrigation (MF-LI)
- MF connection for lift irrigation only.
Harijan Bastis (HB)            - Electrification of settlements of lowest
social group.
Special Project - Industry (SPI)
- Connection of small and medium industry
in rural industrial estates (replacing
MI and ME).
Special Project - Agriculture (SPA)
- Connection of irrigation pumps in
groups of villages, co-financed by
other institutions (replacing MF and
MF-LI).
Special Project - Drinking Water (SPD)
- Connection of pumps on wells supplying
drinking water in rural areas.
(iii) System Improvement and Reinforcement Schemes:
Special Transmission (ST)    - Transmission lines to serve scheme and
non-scheme areas in specific districts.
Special System Improvement (SS)
- System improvement by capacity increase
and reinforcement of distribution
system.
Special Loans (SL)            - Financing workshop and production
facilities for SEBs.
System Improvement (SI)        - Replacing SS due to the creation of a
separate fund by GOI for distribution
system reinforcement and improvement.
Low Tension Capacitors (LT)  - Installation of capacitors in a defined
scheme area.
(iv) Other:
Single Wire Earth Return (MPS)
- Experimental schemes using SWER
technology.
Potential Scheme Area Advance (AL-PPA)
- Advance loan for starting electrification
of a scheme area with long gestation,
period, ultimately converted to area
schemes.
Advance Loan: Annual Plan Purchase (AL-APP)
- purchase of equipment for schemes within
annual electrification plan.
Special Development Reserve (SDR)
- program loan not related to specific
scheme area.



-59-                                                   ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Terms and Conditions for REC Loans to SEBs
Normal                      Period                       tes
Financial       Period      of mora-         Rates-of Interest_(Per cent.per annum)
Outlay          of loan    torium         Year        Year    Year       Year       Year     Year
Category    (million Rs)    (years)    (years)          1-5          6-10    11-15    16-20       21-25    26-30
OAA!            7.5-8.0         20           5          8            8 1/2    9         10         -         -
OB              7.5-8.0         25           5          71/2        8         81/2      9         10         -
OC                15.0          30           5          41/4        51/4    6 1/4    71/4    8 1/4    9 1/4
SU              7.5-8.0         30           5          63/4        7         7 1/4     8         93/      9 3/4
5/
ST-5              15.0          10           2          8 3/4       8 3/4     -         -          -        -
AA-/
Staes
AB/-              15.0          12           2          8           8         8         -          -         -
States
SS-/         30% of the         8           1          8           8         -         -          -        -
market value
of existing
assets in the
area to be
benefitted by
SS schemes or
Rs 7.5 million
whichever is
less
9/
S 1- 9/          9.0             12           3          8 3/4    8 3/4        -         -         -         -
9/
LLT-             5.0              5           -          8           -        -          -          -        -
MG             1.0-1.5 )
For transmission portion: same as applicable to ST category: for area portion:
MH             1.0-1.5
) same as applicable to OA/OB/SU/MNP category as the case may be.
MI             1.0-1.5
MIp2l            1.5              10           2          8        8           -         -          -         -
2.5             10           2          8         8           -         -          -
(LI)
ME -l            1.5              10           2          8        8           -         _          _         _
M(PS)          0.5-1.0            10           2          4 1/4    6 1/4       -         -          _         -
SPA- (1)         3.0              8            2         9         9 
(2)     1.5-5.0            14           2          9        9           9         -           -        -
SPI-l(l)         2.5              8            2         91/4    9 1/4         -         -           _        _
(2)       4.0              14           2          91/4    9 1/4        9 1/4    -            _
SDR              1.5               5          --          21/4    4 1/4        5 1/4     -           _
(for 2   (3-5        (6-15
years)   years)      years)



-60-                                                  ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Normal                      Period                              7
Financial       Period      of mora-          Rates of Interest-' (Per cent per annum)
Outlay          of loan    torium      Year       Year    Year      Year      Year      Year
Category      (million Rs)    (years)    (years)    1-5          6-10   11-15       16-20    21-25    26--30
SL                2.5             5           -         8         -         -         -        -
HB                1.5            15           -          5        5         5         -        -
AL:PPA            2.0          2 or less      -          73/4    -          -         -        -
AL:APP            -            l or less      -         11        -         -         -         -
RMNP (THD)    7.5-8.0            30           5          61/2    6 1/2    7           7        7 3/4    7 3/4
RMNP           7.5-8.0           30           5          61/2    6 1/2    7           7         7 3/4    7 3/4
SPD (1)           1.5             8           4          4        4         -         -        -
SPD (2)           3.0            14           4         4         4         4         -        -
Mini OA           1.5  )
,            ~~~~~~~~)
Mini OB           1.5       Same as applicable to OA/OB/SU/RMNP category as the case may be.
Mini SU           1.5  )
Mini RMNP         1.5  )
Notes:
1/ If repaid by the 15th year, interest for 6-15 years will be 8.5%.
2/ If repaid by the 20th year, interest for 16-20 years will be 8.5%.
3/ If repaid by the 25th year, interest for 21-25 years will be 8%.
4/ In respect of the second and subsequent 'OA' schemes from same district in AA States,
direct loan assistance from Corporation is restricted to 60% of the project cost.
5/ Under ST category, direct loan assistance from the Corporation is restricted to 80% of the
project cost except in case of RMNP areas, Mini Project areas and area of operation of Rural
Electric Cooperative Societies.
6/ Under 'SS' category, direct loan assistance from the Corporation is restricted to 80%
of the project cost in case of 'A' States except for the schemes meant either exclusively
or substantially for Rural Electric Cooperative Project areas.
7/ A rebate of l/4% is allowed by the Corporation in interest at all stages for prompt payment
except in case of AL:APP Loans,SPA loans, SPD loans.
8/ AA States mean above Average States and 'AB' States mean Average and Below States in village
electrification.
9/ With the introduction of SI (System Improvement) and LT (LT Capacitors) categories of loan,
the SS Category of loan has been withdrawn w.e.f. 5-8-1977.
10/ With the introduction of SPA (i) and SPA (2) categories of loan, MF and MF (LI) categories
have been withdrawn w.e.f. 18-5-1978.
ll/ With the introduction of SPI (1) and SPI (2) categories, ME category has been withdrawn w.e.f.
18-5-1978.



-61-
ANNEX 10
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Typical Pattern of Installments of REC Loan Disbursement (in % of total loan)
Instalments
Five Year Project                                         Intlet
Five Year Project         Initial       2nd        3rd     4th       5th
Normal Programme
(OA, OB, SU- area schemes)                 35         25          15      15        Ic
R.M.N.P.                                   40         30          10      10        10
SI/ST/Mini Schemes                         50         50           -       -         -
Four Year Project
Normal                                     35         25          20       20
R.M.N.P.                                   40         30          15       15
Three Year Project
Normal                                      35        35          30        -
R.M.N.P.                                    40        30          30
SPA
Infrastructure part                         40        same as 4-year project
Pump connection part                        40        reimbursement basis (actual work
progress)
Note: The initial instalment is released in two stages i.e. 60% on execution
of documents and 40% on furnishing requisite certificates.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Development of REC Lending Activity 1969-81 in Major Categories of Loans
(Loan Amount in Rs. MiLlion)
Particulars                         1996fibL     1971-72       1972-73       1973i74 1974 75                      197&-7&
No. Lan   NO    on              Loan    NO              No    Loan _       b       an       mm         Loan
Ordinary:   Advanced Areas(OA)       6   29.0    51   296.4   55   310.8  104    447.7   62   251.0    42          171.8       42          158.9
Ordinary:   Backward Areas(OB)       5   25.0    38   188.6   44   304.6   71    357.3   53   253.6    56          283.7       46          248,9
Ordinary:   Co-operatives (OC)       -     -      5   135.4        -      -       -         -       -       3       35.3        2           31.0
Special:    Underdeveloped Areas
(Hill Tribal & Desert
etc.)            (SU)     -     _                    2      8.1   16      71.0   38    1466    12         49.8       12          57 6
Mini:       Farm productions(MF)   -                      -           -        -            -       -       5         6.8      61           71.5
Mini:       Farm LiftIrrigation
(MF X LI)           -      -     -        -    -        -    -        -    -        -      -          -        - 
Mini:       Growth Centre (MG)       -     -     -        -    -        -    -        -    14      7.8    12         12.4       6            5i6
Mini:       Health Centre (MH)       -     -     _        -    -        -    -        -    14      7.3      6        3.5        7            6.3
Mini:        Industrial (MI)         -     -                                                -       -      -           -        2            2.5
Mini:       Industrial Estate(ME)  -       -                -      -      -       -      -          -      -          -         7            6.9
Mini:       Pilot Single Wire
Earth Return (MPS)      -     -     -        -    -        -    -         -    -       -      -           -        2            1.4
Mini:       Ordinary Advanced
Area (MOA)              -     -     _        _    -        -   _          _    _        _     _           _       _              -             S
Mini:       Ordinary Backward
Areas (MOB)             _     _      _       _    _        _    _         _    _       _      _           _
Mini:       Special Underdeveloped
Areas (MSU)
AdvM1cdLa" Potential Project
Area (AL:PPA)           _     _      _       _    _        _    _         -    _        _     _                     4            U
Special:    Transmission(ST)        -            -        -     4     22.4   8      54.8    6    35.0       8       46.4        8
Special:    System lmprovement
(Ss &SX)                _     _     _                            1       Ib.4  21    38.6    20        38,8        7           17.7
L.T.CapOicitors(LT)     -     _     _        _    _        _    _         _    _       _      _           -       -              -
Special Project: Agriculture(SPA)  -       -     _       _    _        _    _         _    _        _     _           _        -
Minimum Needs Programe(MNP/PMNP)  _        _        _     _         _  _          _   _          _        116      648.6       77        k 467r-1
Special Loan (SL)
Special Development Reserve(SDR)   _       _     _       _    _        _    _         _    _        _     _         13.5       _             WtS
Advance Loan:Annual Plan Purchase
(AL:APP)       _     _      _       _    a        _                 _                                                  64.--
Harijan Basti Loan (HB)                   _      _       -    1       5     - - 4          33    14.6    35          8.3        4            242
Special Project Drinking Water(SPD)-       _     _       _    _        _    _         _    _        _     _                    - _
Special Project: Industrial(SPI)   -       _     _       _    _        _    _         _    _        _     _           _
Mini:   Revised Minimum Needs
Programme (M-RMANP)



DeveLopment of REC Lending Activity 1969-81 in Major Categories of Loans
(Loan Amount in Rs. MiLLion)
Particulars             1971977                       I9  -81                                                      Ttal
Ordinary:  Advanced Areas(OA)             39      130.7    14      76.6    31      151.1   17       75.2    34       140.10         497        2239.3
Ordinary:  Backward Areas (OB)            68     350.9    40    193.9    60        310.8   51    259.7    62         295.9          594       30721.9
Ordinary:  Co-operatives (OC)              1        7.9     2      39.5      2      24.9    1       26.6      5        83.2          16         2A.4
Special:   Underdeveloped Areas (Hill
Tribal & Desert(SU) etc.    15         71.6    29    117.0    39       168.4   79    367.9    58         308.4          3CO        136%
Mini:       Farm Productions (MF)         80       89.7    38      445    -            -    -         -      -           -          184         212X
Mini:       Farm LiftirriqFtion
(MF X LI)                     9       10.5     7       9.0    -          -    -          _     _            _           16          19.
Mini:       Growth Centre (MG)             6        5.6      4      3.3      3        4.2   -         -      -           -           45          38.9
Mini:       Health Centre (MH)             7        5.6      2      1.2      7        6.1    5       6.1      2         2.4          50          38.5
Mini:       Industrial (MI)               -          -      -        -       2        2.3   -         -      -           -            4           4.1V
Mini:       Industrial Estate (ME)        24       100.13   15      7.8    -           -    -         -      -                       46          25.0
Mini:       Pilot Single wire Earth
Return (MPS)                  -          -      -        -      -                                _2                                   1.4
Mini:       Ordinary Advanced Area
(W)A)                         -          -               -      -         -              0.5      7         7.1                       7.6
Mini:       Ordinary Backward Area
(MOB)                         -          -     -         -      -          -     4       6.2    12         17.9          16          24.1
Mini:       Special Underdeveloped
Area (MSU)                    -          -      -        -      -          -     3       4.9    14         19.1          17          24.0
Advance    Potential Project Area
Lo an:      (AL:PPA)                       8       11.3      4      5.15     1        04.9   -        -      -           -           17          203.3
Special:   Trnsmission(ST)                10       33'.4     7     10.'8   11        70.7   13      99.0    22         83.9          97          537.7
Special:   System Tmprovement(SS&SI)    9          20.4    53    319.2    57       341.8   -          -      52       218.9         220       ,996.
L.T. Capacitors (LT)         -          -     33      69.6    -           -    -         -      -           -           33          69.6
Special Project: AgricultuM(SPA)*         -          -      19     48.1   308       411.3  318    296.2   483         535.4        1128        1291.0
Minimum  beds Programme    1RPF-MWPT      59      286.0   106    460.4   148        736.6  136    8)9.0    89         546.5         731        3951.4
Special Loan (SL)                          2        1.2    24      13.7      9        6.3    9       6.B      4         3.1          48          31.1
Special Development Reserve ,DR)          -         3.5    -       10.5    -          7.0   -        3.5    -          17.5          -           64.0
Advance Loan: Annual plan purchase                 86.4           125.2    _        105.7   -         _      _           _           _          381.8
(AL: APP)                              8.              2.               0.                                                           8.
Harijan Basti Loan (HB)                   -          -     -         _       2        1.4   78      24.1   104         67.7         293         138,2
Special Project Drinking Water (SPD)   -             _     _         -      20       18.6   32      36.4    10          9.6          62          64.6
Special Project: Industrial (SPI)         -.               -         -      19       34.1   29      73.7    18         51.0          66         158.8
Mini:  Revised Minimum INeds Programme                               _
(M-FR.fxp)                         --                --              --              --                6         6.9            6           6.9
* IncLudes REC's portion only for participative schemes.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Achievement of Village Electrification Plan Targets (Nos.)
Fifth Plan-/                                  2
(1974/75 to 1978/79)         _            1979/80-/                        1980/81_ 
State                  Plan Target  Achievement               Plan Target. A_hievement       Plan Target  Achievement 3/
State         State        3EC
Andhra Pradesh           5,781          2,063       3,210        1,220           912               900          1,087
Assam                    3,310             609      1,246        1,000         1,130             1,000          1,400
Bihar                    9,042          5,097       4,001        2,200           715             2,500          1,987
Gujarat                  1,030          2,226       1,582          460           503               600            650
Haryana                    -               -
Himachal Pradesh           930          1,704       2,125        1,100           596               850          1,129
Jammu & Kashmir          1,000            972       2,121          590           337               450            125
Karnataka                3,947          1,586       1,490          925           513               550            243
Kerala                     150               1         74         -               15               -              -
Madhya Pradesh           9,003           3,564      5,083        2,120         2,029             2,100          4,026
Maharashtra              3,110          3,755       2,858          450           964               750          1,289
Manipur                     650             61        -             70            41                30             20        4
Meghalaya                1,000              11        295          160            78                90            140
Nagaland                   200              52         82           20            33                40             47
Orissa                   4,626          2,566       4,925        1,018         2,191             1,350          1,601
Punjab                   2,132          1,670       3,378         -              -                 -              -
Rajasthan                3,542          1,555       4,978        1,400           894             1,000            927
Tamil Nadu                 -                 2         88         -              -                  40             21
Tripura                  1,000              61        402          200           187               200            240
Uttar Pradesh           11,416          1,957       4,576        1,380         1,340             2,500          2,487
West Bengal              6,660              50      3,598        1,350           749             1,600          1,156
All-India State Program68,529          29,565
Achievement                               43%
in %
All-India REC Program  41,108                      46,112       15,663        13,217           16,500          18,575
Achievement                                          112%                       84%                              113%
in %
1/ State Program targets statewise, REC program targets global.
2/ REC Program only.
I/ PrnviAinnal,                                                                                                          O
Source:  REC
o t~,
1h



Achievement of Pump Connection Plan Targets (Nos.)
Fifth Plan-/
(1974/75 to 1978/79)                           1979/80-                      1980/811-
State                       Plan Target  Achievement                    Plan Target  Achievement   Plan Target  Achievement:
State         State          REC
Andhra Pradesh                 97,070        52,512         36,287         20,400         13,621         27,500       16,850
Assam                           9,540            352           193          1,600             376         2,500          210
Bihar                          28,620        36,236        10,457           9,700          1,920        19,000         7,000
Gujarat                        15,500        56,590        18,525           9,200          8,727         13,500       10,000
Haryana                        51,500.       26,800        26,485           9,400         10,618          4,700        6,466
Himachal Pradesh                  990            157           359            100              88            70           77
Jammu & Kashmir                   -              344           101            125               5            50          201
Karnataka                      59,880        70,591         17,203          6,650          3,773          6,500        3,655
Kerala                         30,000        22,233          6,346          2,500          2,316          4,600        1,402
Madhya Pradesh                 38,160        90,429         38,864         26,350         19,205         25,000       28,777
Maharashtra                    64,320       152,477         42,553         17,000         22,240         19,500       26,856
Manipur                          -              -             -                35           -                50         -
Meghalaya                                          6            41            140           _                30         _
Nagaland                         -             -                                                                                  0'
Orissa                         47,240         3,408          3,099          2,570          1,786          6,100        3,129      i
Punjab                         39,160        61,039        42,541          13,000         25,244         13,000       11,058
Rajasthan                      28,620        38,467        43,001          14,000         17,766         15,000       17,685
Tamil Nadu                    143,000       119,869        41,972          21,000         11,510         10,000        8,146
Tripura                          -               105            39            100              26           300          120
Uttar Pradesh                 114,480        75,374         15,323         10,750          8,750         14,000       14,151
West Bengal                    43,000          6,312         9,579         10,000             996         9,100          752
All-India State Program       811,080       813,301
Achievement                                   100%
in %
All-India REC Program         763,200                      352,968       1,74,620       1,48,967      1,90,500    1,56,535
Achievement                                                   46%                           85%                         82%
in %
1/ State Program targets statewise, REC program targets global.
2/ REC Program only.
_/ Provisional.
Source:  REC
o N~



-66-
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(Rs Million)                       (US$ Million)
FOREIGN    LOCAL       TOTAL      FOREIGN      LOCAL       TOTAL
REC Schemes
Conductors                 564.8      847.2   1,412.0         70.6      105.9        176.5
Dist. Transformers         122.5      367.3     489.8         15.3       45.9          61.2
Insulators                  -          70.0       70.0        -           8.8           8.8
Solid and Standard
GI Wire                   -         48.0       48.0         -           6.0          6.0
Meters                       7.2       82.8       90.0         0.9        11.3         11.3
Cables                      -          90.0      90.0         -          11.3         11.3
Lightning Arrestors         -          23.0       23.0         -           2.9          2.7
Poles                       -         741.8      741.8         -          92.7         92.7
Other Materials             -         600.0      500.0         -          75.0         75.0
Labor and Transport         -         721.8      721.8         -          90.2         90.2
overheads                   -         478.2     478.2          -          59.7         59.7
694.5   4,070.1   4,764.6         86.8       508.8        595.6
S.I. Schemes
Conductors                  32.0       48.0       80.0         4.0        6.0         10.0
Power Transformers          20.0       60.0       80.0         2.5         7.5         10.0
Switchgear                   3.2       36.8      40.0         0.4         4.6          5.0
Other Costs                 -         200.0     200.0         -          25.0         25.0
55.2     344.8      400.0         6.9        43.1         50.0
Training Facility           -          12.0       12.0         -           1.5          1.5
Base Cost (early
1982 prices)             749.7   4,426.9   5,176.6         93.7       553.4        647.1
Physical Contingency 1/   -             1.2        1.2         -           0.2          0.2
Price Contingency          166.3      982.3   1,148.6         20.8      122.7        143.5
Total Project Cost         916.0   5,410.4   6,326.4         114.5      676.3        790.8
Front-end fee on Bank
loan 2/                   36.0      -          36.0         4.5        -             4.5
Total Financing Required 952.0   5,410.4   6,362.4           119.0      676.3        795.3
1/ Applies only to training facility.
2/ Bank loan assumed as US$300 million.



-67-                           ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 5
Project Cost Estimate
REC Schemes
(Rs million)
REC Program 1980/81 - 1984/85
Normal                                                       5,193
SPA                                                          6,261
Total                                                       11,454
Part of REC Program 1980/81 - 84/85 eligible under IDA credit
Normal                        85% of 5193.1                  4,414
SPA                          100% of 6261.0                  6,621
Total                                                       10,675
Expenditure on eligible program in 1983/84 - 84/85
Normal                        40% of 4414.1                  1,766
SPA                           40% of 6261.0                  2,504
4,270
Expenditure 1982/83- 83/84 by cost component:
Quantity       % of 4,270
Consumers                      640,4501 m         30.0          1,280.9
Distribution Transformers       59,800-           10.0            427.1
HT Insulators                1,993,000             1.5             64.0
GI Wire                          8,400 t           1.0             42.8
Meters                                             2.0             85.3
Cables                                             2.0             85.3
Lightning Arrestors                                0.5             21.4
Poles                                             15.0            645.0
Other materials                                   13.0            545.2
Labor and transport                               15.0            645.0
Overheads                                         10.0            427.0
100.0         4,270.0
1/ at 60 KVA each
NOTE: Prices at early 1981



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Schemes Approved by REC from 4/1/78 to 1/31/82
(Rs Million)
OA               OB              SPA-I         SPA-II         SPI-I          SPI-II          SI           Total
State              No    Loan        No    Loan     No    Loan      No   Loan    No    Loan       No    Loan      No   Loan      No. Amt.
Andhra Pradesh       8    34.06      15    74.99    20    13.83   140  218.94    3        2.53     6    21.22    10   34.26    202  399.83
Bihar                -     -         33   142.79    84    60.10    37   45.50    3        5.18     -      -        8   31.68    165  285.25
Gujarat              -     -         12    42.17    20    19.09    50   73.99    -        -        -      -        9   44.74       91  179.99
0P.
Haryana              1     4.05       -     -         7     4.78    23   30.35    8    11.82       -      -         5   32.97      44   83.97
Karnataka            2     8.44      20   111.37      3     2.36    47   76.52    -       -        3      9.24      6   22.78      81  230.71
Kerala               2     7.71       3    15.57      3     1.57    14   20.64    -       -        -      -        -    -          22   45.49
Madhya Pradesh       1     7.14      18   101.92   123   106.66    41   58.16    3        3.68     -      -         3   13.85    189  291.41
Maharashtra          -     -         17    74.42    82    54.92   107  135.17   11    13.12        5    13.43    25  151.10    247  442.16
Orissa               7    14.26      11    34.75      2     2.59    53   58.22    -       -        4    11.53       2   10.13      79  131.48
Punjab             48   190.14        -     -        2      1.51    57   94.07    -       -        -      -       16   86.96    123  372.68
Rajasthan            4    20.26      16   114.34    43    27.47    55   76.23    -        -        -      -         -    -        118  238.30
Tamil Nadu           1     2.81       -     -         35   18.87   108  126.98    5       8.32    30    96.07    20  109.33    199  362.38
Uttar Pradesh       10    46.45      39   196.04    58    51.56   153  209.83    -        -        -      -         6   28.39    266  532.27  
West Bengal         16    98.89      31   159.06      6     8.51    10    9.86    -       -        -      -         1    5.32      64  281.64      m x
0 WL
TOTAL             100   434.21    215  1067.42   488   373.82   895 1234.46   33    44.65    48   151.49   111  571.51   1890 3877.56             "'
U'



-69-                             ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 5
Expenditure by State (in early 1981 prices)
(Rs million)
Total                          Total
REC program                    Eligible Program
State                          1980-85                         1982/84
Andhra Pradesh                  1,098.4                              420.6
Bihar                           1,043.5                              390.8
Gujarat                           625.0                              232.8
Haryana                            321.3                             120.0
Karnataka                          393.1                             146.2
Kerala                             153.2                              56.0
Madhya Pradesh                  1,676.7                              627.7
Maharashtra                     1,141.0                              432.9
Orissa                             583.6                             212.8
Punjab                             797.4                             299.9
Rajasthan                         807.0                              296.0
Tamil Nadu                        418.6                             156.7
Uttar Pradesh                   1,454.9                              543.3
West Bengal                        940.4                             334.1
Total                          11,454.1                           4,269.8



-70-1-                     ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 5
Central Institute for Rural Electrification: Preliminary Cost Estimate
Rs '000
1. Buildings including electrification and water
supply:
Institute                   5,000
Hostel           30.00      3,000
2. Furniture, fixtures including air conditioner
and cooler for:
Institute                     500
Hostel including Kitchen                       500
3.  Equipment:                                                          500
(various types of relays, hand crimping tools,
hydraulic crimping machine, meter testing
laboratory, transformer repair workshop
equipment, relay testing kit, stringing
equipment, etc.)
4.  Instruments:                                                        200
(Megger 500V and lOOOV, earth tester, tong
tester, voltmeter, power factor meter,
schering bridge, standard energy meter etc.)
5.  Demonstration Equipment:                                            500
(Circuit breakers, pole-mounting substations
role manufacturing equipment, model 11 KV
and LT lines (2 to 3 spans), working models of
various equipment used in R.E.
6.  Audio-visual equipment:                                             500
(16mm projector, overhead projector, synchronised
slide projectors, video tape equipment, viewers,
public address system, etc.)
7.  Mini Computer                                                       600
8.  Transport vehicles                                                  300
9.  Development of course material                                      400
Total:        12,000



-71-                            ANNEX 14
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Targets for Electrification of Villages
& Energization of Pumps in 1884and 1984IR5
Name of SEB                          Villages to be         Pumps to be
electrified            energized
Andhra Pradesh                           1,640                  55,360
Bihar                                    2,600                  58,000
Gujarat                                  1,360                  34,840
Haryana                                   -                     16,120
Karnataka                                  916                  18,192
Kerala                                      20                   8,440
Madhya Pradesh                           2,660                  90,920
Maharashtra                              1,696                  46,392
Orissa                                   1,728                  31,348
Punjab                                      20                  40,660
Rajasthan                                1,012                  32,804
Tamil Nadu                                  68                  18,256
Uttar Pradesh                            3,400                  64,200
West Bengal                              1,640                  27,800
18,760                 543,332
Source: REC



-72-                                    ANNEX 15
INDIA
THIPR RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal                                                    US$ Million
Year                     Quarters                    Quarterly              Cumulative
1983                        IV                            7                    7
1984                        I                           14                    21
II                          28                    49
III                         39                   88
IV                          53                  141
1985                        I                           47                   188
II                          33                  221
III                         26                  247
IV                          20                  267
1986                        I                           18                   285
II                           9                  294
III                          3                  297
IV                           3                  390



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation
Income Statement for the period FY4 1979 through 1986
(Rupees Million)
--------ACTUAL --------                ------------FORECAST-------------------
Year to-March 31                   1979     1980      1981                1982      1983      1984      1985       1986
Revenue
Interest on Loans Disbursed             313.4    409.9   514.0                672.1    817.0    971.7  1,124.4   1,275.0
Interest on Investments                  18.8      20.7    35.3                 30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0       35.0
Total Revenue                        332.2    430.6   549.3                702.1    847.0  1,001.7  1,154.4   1,310.0
Expenses
Administration                           19.7      22.5    25.5                 32.5      35.0      38.0      41.0       44.0
Interest on Borrowings                  228.7    305.1   398.6                521.0    633.8    758.9    875.0   1,002.3
Total Expenses                       248.4    327.6   424.1                553.5    668.8    796.9    916.0   1,046.3
Operating Income (before tax)              83.8    103.0   125.2                 148.6    178.2    204.8    238.4         263.7
Less:  Income tax provision                33.9      43.8    53.6                 59.8      71.8      82.5      96.0      106.2
Operating Income (after tax)               44.9      59.2    71.6                 88.8    106.4    122.3    142.4         157.5
Less:  Proposed Dividend                     7.7      8.7    10.0                 11.0      12.0      13.5      15.0       16.5       1
Transfer to Special Reserve         16.8      29.6    36.3                42.5      50.9      58.5      68.1        75.3
24.5     38.3    46.3                 53.5      62.9      72.0      83.1       91.8
Retained Earnings                          20.4      20.9    25.3                 35.3      43.5      50.3      59.3       65.7
Ratios:
Percentage of Revenue;                      %         %        %                   %         %         %         %          %
1.  Interest on Borrowing                  68.9      70.9    72.6                 74.2      74.8      75.8      75.8       76.5
2.  Administration                          5.9       5.2      4.6                 4.6       4.1       3.8       3.6        3.4
3.  Total(l + 2)                           74.8      76.1    77.2                 78.8      78.9      79.6      79.4       79.9
4.  Income Tax                             11.7      10.2      9.8                 8.5       8.5       8.2       8.3        8.1
5.  Operating Income (after tax)           13.5      13.7    13.0                 12.7      12.6      12.2      12.3       12.0
Percentage of Average Total Assets:
6.  Total Revenue                           5.3       5.7      6.0                 6.5       6.7       6.8       6.9        7.0
7.  Interest on Borrowings                  3.6       4.0      4.3                 4.8       5.0       5.1       5.2        5.3
8.  Gross Spread 6-7                        1.7       1.7      1.7                 1.7       1.7       1.7       1.7        1.7
9.  Administration                          0.3       0.3      0.3                 0.3       0.3       0.3       0.2        0.2
10. Income Tax                              0.6       0.6      0.6                 0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6        0.6
11. Proposed Dividend                       0.1       0.1      0.1                 0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1
12. Retained Earnings                       0.7       0.7      0.7                 0.7       0.7       0.7       0.8        0.8      M
Return on Average Equity (Z)-            2.3       2.8      3.2                 3.6       4.0       4.3       4.5        4.6
Return on Average Total
Capitalization (X) 2/                    4.4       4.8      5.1                  5o6       5.8       5.9      6.1        f 
1/ Operating Income after tax
2/  Operating Income after tax and after adding back interest on Boa. owings



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation
Sources and Application of Funds Statement for the period FYs 1979 through 1986
---     ACTUAL ----- -              --O_LR2eEes million)
Year to Miarch 31               1979     1980     1981               1982     1983     1984      1985     1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
Internal cash generation:
Operating Income (after interest)      83.8   103.0   125.2              148.6    178.2    204.8    238.4    263.7
Depreciation                            0.4      0.5      0.6              0.6      0.6      0.6       0.7      0.7
84.2   103.5   125.8             149.2    178.8    205.4    239.1    264.4
Less:  Income Tax provision            38.9     43.8    53.6              59.8     71.8     82.5     96.0    106.2
Proposed Dividend                7.7      8.7    10.0             11.0      12.0     13.5     15.0      16.5
46.6     52.5    63.6             70.8     83.8      96.0    111.0    122.7
Net Cash Generation                    37.6    51.0    62.2               78.4     95.0    109.4    128.1    141.7
Loan Repayments (by SEBs)             162.2    228.9   327.9             363.9   441.6    540.8    620.0    685.4          1
Capital:
GOI Equity                            100.0    100.0    130.0            100.0    100.0    150.0      150.0   150.0
GOI Loans                             876.8  1,228.7  1,332.3          1,465.0  1,540.0  1,515.0   1,753.0  1,950.0
Bank Loan                              99.4                   -        -                 -              -        -
Market Loans                          200.7   200.8    250.3             300.0    300.0    350.0      400.0    450.0
1,276.9  1,529.5  1,712.6         1,865.0  1,940.0  2,015.0   2,303.0  2,550.0
Working Capital:
decrease (increase)               110.2     20.2    (3.9)              8.2     83.9     90.3       70.4    (16.6)
Total Sources                1,586.9  1,829.6  2,098.8          2        2        2,755.5   3,121.5  3,360.5
APPLICATION OF FUNDS:
Loan disbursements (to SEBs)        1,561.0  1,670.5  1,843.5          2,215.0  2,410.0  2,535.0   2,731.0  2,900.0
GOI Loan repayments                    25.3     33.7    71.1             100.0   150.0    220.0    306.8    349.0
Bank/Market Loan repayments             -       26.0     73.4             -        -         -        83.2    ;11.0
Short term deposits                     -       98.9    110.0             _         _        _         _         _
Capital Expenditure                     0.6      0.5      0.8             0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5
Total Applications           1,586.9  1,829.6  2,098.8         2,315.5  2,560.5  2,755.5   3,121.5  3,360.5



INb IA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation
Balance Sheets for the period FYs 1979 through 1986
-------ACTUAL -------                 --------------FORECAST-----------------
Year to March 31                 1979     1980      1981               1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                           4.2        4.7       5.5               6.1        6.6      7.1        7.6        8.1
Less: Depreciation                     1.8        2.3       2.9               3.4        4.0      4.6        5.3        6.0
Net Fixed Assets                       2.4        2.4       2.6               2.7        2.6      2.5        2.3        2.1
Deferred Expenditure                   4.7        4.8       4.9               5.0        5.1      5.2        5.3        5.4
Loans Outstanding                  6,427.8   7,869-1  9,384.7           11,235.8  13,204.2 15,198.4  17,309.4  19,524.0
Investments/short term deposits    181.1        280.0    390.0             298.0      208.0    110.0        33.6       39.0
Current  Assets                      155.6     161.0    128.3              230.1      268.0    306.3       346.9      391.3
Total Assets                6,771.6   8,317.3  9,910.5            11,771.6  13,687.9 15,622.4  17,697.5  19,961.8
LIABILITIES
Equity
Share Capital                        770.0     870.0  1,000.0            1,100.0   1,200.0  1,350.0   1,500.0   1,650.0
Capital Reserve                    1,050.0   1,050.0  1,050.0            1,050.0   1,050.0  1,050.0   1,050.0   1,050.0
Special Reserve                       63.1      92.7    129.0              171.5      222.4    280.9       349.0      424.3
Retained Earnings                    141.1     162.5    187.8               223.1     266.6    316.9       376.2      441.9
2,024.2   2,175.2  2,366.8            2,544.6   2,739.0  2,997.&   3,275i-  3,566.2
Borrowings
GOI Loans                         3,867.2   5,062.3  6,323.5             7,688.5   9,078.5 10,373.5  11,816.5  13,386.5
Market Loans                         615.0     815.7  1,066.0            1,366.0   1,666.0  2,016.0   2,336.0   2,706.0
Bank Loan                             99.4      73.4       -                 -          -         -          -          -
4,581.6   5,951.4  7,389.5            9,054.5  10,744.5 12,389.5  14,152.5  16,092.5
Current Liabilities
Interest Accrued                      32.6      52.1      75.3              90.5      107.4    123.9       141.5      160.9
Sundry Creditors                     10.9       10.6      15.3              11.2       13.2      15.2       17.3       19.5
Provision for Taxation               114.6     119.3      53.6               59.8      71.8      82.5       96.0      106.2
Proposed Dividend                      7.7       8.7      10.0               11.0      12.0      13.5       15.0       16.5
165.8     190.7    154.2              172.5      204.4    235.1       269.8      303.1
Total Liabilities          6,771.6   8,317.3  9,910.5            11,771.6  13,687.9 15 622.4  17,697.5  19,961.8
Loan Commitments (Sanctions~ 
notn dommisbused  (Sntons        3,583.6   4,011.5  4,766.2            5,921.2    7,111.2  8,376.2   9,845.2  11,345.2
not disbursed)                     -                     
Debt/Equity Ratio                    69/31      73/27    76/24              78/22      79/21    80/20       81/19     82/18
Current Ratio 1/                      2.0        2.3       3.4               3.1        2.3       1.8        1.4        1.4
1/ Current assets plus term deposits divided by current liabilities.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation
Statement of Debt Service Coverage for the period FY8 1979 through 1986
-----ACTUAL -----                       ----------------FORECAST---------  ---
Year to March 31        1979      1980      1981                1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Internally Generated Funds 1/:
Total Revenue                    332.2    430.6      549.3             702.1       847.0  1,001.7  1,154.4  1,310.0
Less:
Administration                    19.7     22.5       25.5              32.5        35.0      38.0      41.0      44.0
Taxes                             38.9     43.8       53.6              59.8        71.8      82.5      96.0    106.2
Dividends                          7.7      8.7       10.0              11.0        12.0      13.5      15.0      16.5
Total                        66.3      75.0       89.1             103.3       118.8    134.0    152.0    166.7
Net Revenue                     265.9    355.6       460.2             598.8       728.2    867.7  1,002.4  1,143.3
Add:
Depreciation                      0.4       0.5        0.6               0.6         0.6       0.6       0.7       0.7
Loan repayments (by SEBs)       162.2    228.9       327.9             363.9       441.6    540.8    620.0    685.4
Total                       428.5    585.0       788.7             963.3    1,170.4  1,409,1  1,623.1  1,829.4
Debt Service: 2
Interest on Borrowings          228.7    305.1       398.6             521.0       630.8    758.9    875.0  1,002.3
Repayment of GOI Loans           25.3      33.7       71.1             100.0       150.0    220.0    390.0    460.0
Total                       254.0    338.8      469.7              621.0       783.8    978.9  1,265.0  1,462.3
Times Debt Service covered
by Internally Generated
Funds and sums repaid by          1.7       1.7        1.7               1.6         1.5       1.4       1.3       1.3
borrowers (minimum 1.2
times)
1/   Internally generated funds means the aggregate revenues from all sources and the principal vepayments on
loans made by REC, less administrative expenses, dividends, taxes, surcharges and other levies, if any,
but before provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
2/   Debt service requirements means the aggregate amount of amortization, interest and other charges in
respect of debt.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation
Statement of Loans Sanctioned, Disbursed and Undisbursed
-         -ACTUAL--                 ----            -FORECAST----------
Through
1978     1979      1980      1981        1982    1983       1984      1985      1986
1.  Number of schemes sanctioned              -        703      769      1,035       1,120   1,200    1,260    1,400    1,485
2. Total number of schemes
sanctioned to date                    2,028      2,731   3,500       4,535       5,655   6,855    8,115    9,515   11,000
(Rs. million)
3.  Loans Sanctioned during year              -    2015.0  2098.4    2598.2         3370.0  3600.0   3800.0   4200.0   4450.0
4.  Total Loans Sanctioned to-date         8301.3 10316.3 12414.7   15012.9    18382.9 21982.9  25782.9  29982.9  34432.9
5.  Loans Disbursed during year               -    1561.0  1670.5    1843.5         2215.0  2410.0   2535.0   2731.0   2950.0
6.  Total Loan Disbursements to-date    5171.7  6732.7  8403.2   10246.7    12461.7 14871.7  17406.7  20137.7  23087.7
7.  Loan Repayments during year               -      162.2   228.9       327.9       363.9   441.6    540.8    620.0    685.4
8.  Total Loan Repayments to-date           142.7   304.9   534.1        862.0      1225.9  1667.5   2208.3   2828.3   3513.7
9.  Total Loans Outstanding (6-8)          5029.0  6427.8  7869.1    9384.7    11235J.8 13204.2  15198.4  17309.4  19574.0
10.  Total Undisbursed Loans (4-6)          3129.6  3583.6  4011.5    4766.2         5921.2  7111.2   8376.2   9845.2  11345.2



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
(A) Rural Electrification Corporation
1.      Financial projections of REC's lending operations have been prepared
for the period through FY1986, using as a base REC's share (Rs 11,800
million) of the RE program approved by GOI for the Sixth five-year Plan
period (FYs 1981 through 1985) and extended for a further one year. The Plan
is in constant prices (FY1981) and REC's lending operations through FY1986
are similarly expressed. Cost escalation over the plan period would be
accommodated either by a curtailment of the volume of lending or by
additional GOI funding.
2.      The financial statements -- Income (Annex 22), Sources and
Application of Funds (Annex 22), Balance Sheets (Annex 24) and Debt Service
Coverage (Annex 25) include historical data for the years FYs 1979 through
1981.
3.      The following assumptions have been made in preparing REC's financial
projections:
(a) Interest rates:
(i) Borrowing rates on GOI loans are 7.75% for Normal Programs,
including IDA Credit onlending and 5.75% for the Minimum
Needs Program;
(ii) lending rates on loans to SEBs vary according to the type
of scheme: details are set out in Annex 11.
(b)  Loan repayments:  for both borrowing and lending operations are
in accordance with contractual arrangements. Market borrowings
are repayable from FY1985.
(c)  Administration Expenses:  are projected to increase by about 8%
annually from the approved budget for FY1982.
(d)  Income Tax:  is calculated after providing for transfers to the
Special Reserve at 28.57% and represents an effective rate of
40% on chargeable income.
(e)  Proposed Dividends:  are provided at 1% of issued share capital
at the year-end.
(f)  Current Assets:  are provided at 2% of loans outstanding at the
year-end.
(g)  Current Liabilities:  are provided as follows:
- year-en *Accrued at 1% of borrowings outstanding at the
- Sundry Creditors at 0.1% of loans disbursed outstanding at
the year-end.



-79-
ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 2
(h) Authorized Share Capital: has been increased to RS 15,000
million by reso;ution of REC's Board in September 1980:
issued share capital is projected to reach this ceiling in
FY1985 by further GOI equity contributions. A further formal
authorization would be required by FY1986 to permit a further
increase in the issued share capital.
(B) State Electricity Boards - apportionment of financial results between
rural electrification and other operations
The rationale for the above apportionment is in accordance with
Article IV, Section 4.01, Credit 242-IN, which specified that financial data
should be produced for SEBs which separated information relating to RE from
information relating to the SEBs' other supply functions. Since FY1970,
proforma income statements, statements of sources and applications of funds,
rate bases, and details of indebtedness have been prepared both for RE and
for the SEBs excluding RE on a basis of apportionment which is reasonable
has been consistently applied and which is used to support SEBs' applications
to State Governments for the payment of RE subsidies. Details are as
follows:
(i) Energy sales to consumers at appropriate tariff rates are on
an actual basis with reasonable estimates used where this is
not possible.
(ii) Cost of energy is charged to RE by apportioning the cost of
supply at the EHT transmission end (comprising operation and
maintenance, depreciation and interest charged for generation
and transmission up to this point) in the ratio of units sold
to RE consumers.
(iii) Operation and maintenance, depreciation and interest charges
in the distribution system below EHT are allocated on the
basis that consumer services costs are apportioned in the
ratio of the number of consumers, while other operation and
maintenance costs depreciation and interest are apportioned
in the ratio of gross fixed assets in the distribution system.
(iv) Fixed assets are allocated on an actual basis where possible,
otherwise, a reasonable basis of apportionment is used, e.g.,
multiplying the number of irrigation pumps installed each year
by the average estimated RE scheme cost per pump in that year
(this cost would include the cost of domestic and other service
connections in the scheme) and adding to the cumulative total
brought forward from the previous year.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PFOJECT
Rates of Return ' of SEEs FY 1976 - FY 1981
(based on audited data, unless otherwise stated)
FY 1976            FY 1977             FY 1978             FY 1979             FY 1980      |    FY 1981
il   Forecast
Return   Return    Return   Return    Return   Return    Return   Return    Return   Return   Return   Return
to SEB   incl.     to SEB   incl.      to SEB   inel.      to SEB   incl.      to SEB   incl.    to SEB   incl.
State              State               State               State               State              State
Duties             Duties              Duties             Duties               Duties             Duties
%        x                                       Z X                         2 X  Z  Z
Andhra Pradesh       7.7      7.7       9.0       9.0       9.5      9.5       9.5       9.5       9.5       9.5      9.5A      9.5A
Assan               6.4       7.4      12.3      13.9       9.3     10.4       7.1F      8.2F      3.9F      4.8F     1.9       2.5
Bihar               7.0       8.5       8.1       9.5       8.0      9.4       1.4       2.6       5.2       6.3      1.4A      2.4A
Gujarat             7.9      11.0       9.7      13.9       9.7     13.5       9.7      14.0       8.34/   12.4       6.4k'  10.3
Haryana-/           7.2      11.4       6.4      10.9       6.6     10.6      10.0      14.4       5.5       9.2      0.3A      3.4A
3'
Karnataka          10.0      14.9      15.8      20.7       8.7     13.4      15.7      20.6      12.5      16.7     13.3      17.4                  .
00
Kerala              5.9       8.1       8.5     10.5        8.6     10.5      15.7      18.0      13.9F    15.8F    14.3       16.2
Madhya Pradesh     12.8      15.4      13.1      15.3      14.7     16.7      11.2      14.1      13.4      16.9      8.2A    11.2A
N4aharashtra       10.0      11.5      13.0      14.5      15.5     17.0      14.2      15.7       9.5      11.0      9.5A    12.2A
Orissa              5.8       9.1       6.3       9.9       4.4      8.3       1.6       7.2       3.9F      8.OF     9.5      14.5
Punjab              7.4      10.1       8.2     11.4        9.5     11.9       9.5      11.9       9.5      11.7      9.5A    11.7A
Rajasthan           8.7       9.9       9.2      10.5       7.9      9.0       8.6       9.7       9.5      10.7      5.3       6.4
Tamil Nadu          9.7      10.4       9.5     10.3        9.5     10.3       9.5      10.4       9.5       9.9      9.5       9.8
Uttar Pradeslf-     4.6      .5.4       5.8       6.6       0.9      1.6       1.8       2.4       9.5      10.1      6.4       7.2
West Bengal         6.0       8.0       9.5      11.1       9.5     11.0       9.5      11.0       9.5F    10.7F      9.5      10.8
F - Forecast      A   Audited Actual
/ Target rate of return in general is 9.5%.  When this was established in 1964, it was also conceived that an average
electricity duty equivalent to a return of 1.5% would be applied, making the total expected return 11%.  Effective
March 1978, GOI levied an additional excise tax of 2 paise/kWh on generation which is not included above. This
would add an estimated 2-3 percentage points to the returns noted.                                                                        M
2/ Not eligible for assistance under Credits 572-IN and 911-IN.
3 State Government has since agreed to RE subsidy to achieve 9.5%.
4/ Subsidy to achieve 9.5% is under discussion with State Government.



-81-                                 ANNEX 23
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SEB's Gross Fixed Assets at March 31, 1979
(Rs.million)
RE    i  Other
SEBs /  RE   Other            i Operation  Operations
SEBs                     RE 
Operations  Operations  Total   _
Andhra Pradesh  I.S.        1,547        5,083       6,630      23.4         76.6
W.I.P.       -          1,761      1.761         -         100.0
Total      1,547        6,844      8,391       18.4         81.6
Bihar            I.S.       1,257        3,381      4,638       27.1         72.9
W.I.P.       -          1,481      1.481         -         100.0
Total      1,257       T7 6 2                  20.5         79.5
Gujarat          I.S.         962        4,597       5,559      17.3         82.7
W.I.P.       -          1,808      1,808                   100.0
Total        962        6,405      7.367       18,1         86.9
Haryana          I.S.       1,073        2,394       3,467      31.0         69.0
W.I.P.       -          1,191      1.191         -         100.0
Total }   1,073         3,585      4.658       23.0         77.0
Karnataka        I.S.       1,176        2,162       3,338      35.2         64.8
W.I.P.       -             78         78         -         100.0
Total      1,176        2,240      3.416       34.4         65.6
Kerala           I.S.   1    227         3,122       3,349       6.8         93.2
W.I:P.       -            286        286         -         100.0
Total        227        3,408                   6.2         93.8
Madhya Pradesh  I.S.        1,518        3,680       5,198      29.3         70.7
W.I.P.       283        1,328      1,611       17.6         82.4
Total     1,801         5,008      6,809       26.5         73.5
Maharashtra      I.S.       2,371        5,144       7,515      31.6         68.4
W.I.P. |    380         5,717      6.097        6.2         93.8
Total  j  2,75I        10,861    13.612        20.2         79.8
Orissa           I.S.         757        1,569       2,326      32.6         67.4
W.I.P.        74          933      1,007        7.4         92.6
Total  i    831         2,502      3,3333      24.9         75.1
Punjab           I.S.       1,440        5,045      6,485       22.3         77.7
W.I.P.       -          1,288      1,288         -         100.0
Total  r 1,o -    6,333            7.773       18.5         81.5
Rajasthan        I.S.       1,670        2,796      4,466       37.4         62.6
W.I.P. t      48        1,300      1.348        3.6         96.4
Total  T  1,718         4,096      5,814       29.5         70.5
Tamil Nadu       I.S.       2,644        4,490      7,134       37.1         62.9
W.I.P.        96        1,745      1-841        5.2         94.8
Total     2,740         6,235      8.975       30.5         69.5
Uttar Pradesh   I.S.        2,462       10,002    12,464        19.8         80.2
W.I.P.       -          6,913      6 913                   100.0
Total      2,462       16 915    19,377       12.7          87.3
West Bengal      I.S.         318        2,227      2,545       12.5         87.5
W.I.P.       475        2,270      2,745       17.3         82.7
Grand Total   -        _T     793        4,497      5,290      150           85.0
Grand_ Total20,778     83,791  t104,569        19.9          80.1
I.S. - In Service.
W.I.P. - Work in Progress.
1/ Excluding Assam.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SEBs' Capital Expenaiture (FYs 1977 and 1978)
(Rs million)
FY 1977                                            FY 1978                             Increase (+) Decrease (-) FY1978 over FY1977
1/           ~~~RE              Other                           RE                 Other                             RE                  Other Opts.               Total
SEBs-           Amout          2       Operations     Total        Amount         %       Operations      Total       Amount         %       Amount          %        Amount         %
Andhra Pradesh        144        16           750             894         196        15.7         1053          1249         +52        +36        +303         +40         +355        +40
Bihar                 165        21           614             779         123        21.4          453           576         -42        -25        -161         -26         -203        -26
Gujarat                56    j   7            777       1    833           82         9.3         801            883         +26        +46         +24          +3          +50         +6
Haryana                77        17           364            441           80       16.2          414            494          +3         +4         +50         +14          +53        +12
Maharashtra            132       10          1262            1394         209         8.7         2194          2403         +77         +6        +932         +74        +1009        +72
Punjab                209        23           710             919        172        24.2           538           710         -37        -18        -172         -24         -209        -23
Rajasthan             192        34           377            569          281       41.9           390           671         +89        +46         +13         +34         +102        +18
Uttar Pradesh         213        11          1756           1969         393        18.5         1732           2125       +180        +85          -24          -1         +156         +8
West Bengal            110       18           492             602          79        10.9         659            738         -31        -28        +167         +34         +136        +23
Kerala                 11         4           252            263            8        2.7          291            299          -3        -27         +39         +15          +36        +14
Madhya Pradesh         207       24           657            864         236        24.6          723            959         +29        +14         +66         +10          +95        +11
Orissa                 83        16           443            526          93        27.3          248            341        +10        +12         -195         -44         -185        -35
Tamil Nadu            162    !  22            572             734        180        24.7          548            728        +18         +11         -24          -4           -6         -1
Total                1761        16          9026          10787        2132    j  17.5         10044         12176        +371        +21       +1018          +11        +1389        +13
1/  Excluding Assami and Karnataka



SEBs' Capital Expenditure (FYs 1978 and 1979)
(Rs million)
FY 1978                                            FY 1979                             Increase (+) Decrease (-) FY1979 over FY1978
1/                RE                Other                            RE                 Other                             RE                  Other Opts.               Total
SEBs            Amount   rOperations                   Total       Amount        Z        Operations      Total       Amount                  Amount         %        Amount
Andhra Pradesh        196        15.7        1053            1249         189        15.9         1003          1192          -7         -3.5        -50          -4.7        -57         -4
Gujarat                 82        9.3         801             883         179        16.9          881          1060         +97       +108         +80          +10         +177        +20
Haryana                 80       16.2         414             494          89        17.3          426           515          +9        +11         +12           +3          +21         +4
Maharashtra            209         8.7       2194            2403         311        10.7         2596          2907        +102        +49        +402          +18         +504        +21
Punjab                172        24.2         538             710         234        29.0          572           806         +62        +36         +34           +6          +96        +14
Rajasthan             281        41.9         390             671         398        44.4         498            896        +117        +42        +108          +28         +225        +34
Uttar Pradesh          393       18.5        1732            2125         395        15.4         2166          2561          +2         +1        +434          +25         +436        +21
Kerala                   8         2.7        291             299           9         3.5          248           257          +1        +12          -43        -115          -42        -14
Madhya Pradesh         236        24.6         723            959         386        38.9          607           993        +150        +64         -116         -16          +34         +4
Orissa                  93        27.3         248            341          98        32.3          218           322         +11        +11          -30         -12          -19         -6
Bihar                 123        21.4         453             576          46         8.3          509           555         -77        -63          +56         +12          -21         -4
Tamil Nadu             180       24.7         548             728         191        19.4          793           984         +11         +6        +245          +45         +256        +35
West Bengal             79        10.9         659            738          79E       10.9E         659E          738E         -          -           -           -            -          -
Total               2,132         17.5Z    10,044         12,176        2,610        18.9%      11,176        13,786         478          22%      1,132          11%       1,610         13%
1/ Excluding Assam and Karnataka
o Q



IN~DIA
THIRD RURAL. ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SEBS' O/peratigPromne   R    ciities (FY 1978)
(Rs .million)
Andhra                                              iMadhya  Maharashtra                                 Tmlltar Ws                  oa
Pradesb Bihauay~KantkaKrl  Pradesh tra                                       Orissa Punjab Rajastha  Nadu  Pradesl Bengal  (Rs/kWh)
es:    ts(Gwh)   825     3955    14041       961      40         36      11       1834        653   1126 _      929      97 26             2
Sales Revenue  185               396       205     -102         6       8           g~ l             216      228      443      440      50       3336 (0.23)
Other Operating
Revenue       22        5      ~~17       24         4         5'     251        26          6  125           20       18      28        -       25(0.02)r
Total Revenue             207    113  I413            229       106        74     311        519 ___121    241           248       461     468       50      3561 (0.25)i
Operating Expenses:
Energy Cost               156       91      286       152        35        25    195         278         73    181       147       375      654   I26        2674 (0.19)~
Other                     118       57      131       106       117        68     114        252         69      94       124      371      225      82      1928 (0.13)1
Depreciation                53      35       35         35~   23            9      46          81        20:38*            39       95       79      14        602 (0.04)1
Total Expenses            327    183        452  11 293         175          2    35         61         162     313       31       84       95      12504(.6
Deficit Before                           , 
Interest               120      70       39         64       69         28      44         92         41      72       62       380     490       72      1643 (0.11)
___           27      58       75  1   ~~~        ~~~89  51  13       97        170        54    103  _ _64           129  I171        29       1130 (0.08)
Deficit After                                                                                                                    1
Interest         ~147    128       114        153      120   - 41    141             262         95    175       126       509     661      101      2773 (0.19)
Less:  State Govt. 
Subsidy  43  128    -         -         -        ~~~~~41 1107          3         0     171       126       217      -        66       952 (0.07)
Net Deficit for Year   14           - 14              153      120         --- - - 
34        29          45       4                292  1 661        35      1821 (0.12)
Overall Rate of Return 9.5         8.0      9.7       6.6      8.0. 47155                               44      95        7.         .       .        .
Subsidy Fomula  OK  OK    ~~~I                                                         O       K       O         O       2      O
Subsidy Fonnula  OK     OK       OK         2/       3/         OK      OKOK                  N       OKK                OK       2 
1/ Excluding Assam
2/ Haryana and Uttar Pradesh not eligible under Credits 572-IN and 911-IN
3/ State Government has since agreed to RE Subsidy to achieve 9.5%



INDIA
HrlIRI) - RAL ELECTIFICATIONI PROJECT
SFBs'2Oetm ig  efomace1!R  Activities (FY1979)
F                  ~~~~~~Andhra~                       Karna-9          Madhya   Maharash-           I                    TCamil lUttar   West            Total
Pradesh  Bihar  L~jarat'Haryana taka    KeralaiPradesh  tra              Orissa .Punjab iRajasthan Nadu  lPradesh Beng~al          (Rs/kWh)
Sales: Units (Gwh)         868      466     t0    1346        391  I375~  1181          2958         712 ;1716  I10-81           26      247    139    17082
Sales Revenue              185      179    456       260      106      64      336       680       1159J      24r9     277       446    528       54       3979 (0.22)
Other Operating
Revenue                   38        6      42       32        3       6       28        97           6~  30 ~    28             35      424.             33(C.02'
Total Revenue              223      185    498       292      109      70      364       777        165      279       305       481    570       54      4372 (0.24
Operating Expenres                                I-
Energy Cost                183I  142    369          198       39      30      259       52910               27        162        493    816      33       3633 (0,20)
Other                      137      115    141       118      134      61      185       308          91    121        181        389    250      95       2326 (0.13)    j
Denreciation         61       44      39       38       28       9       55        84          23      43        4         0         7      1         8    00
Deficit Before             -__                                                   __14                                                                      64227  (0.37)
Interest                 158      116      51       62       92      30     135        144         53    161          85       502    593        88      270(.3
Add:  Interest33                     5       88        8       55      1       1220 67                        96        79        142    203        23     1272 (0.07)
Deficit After 
Interest                 191      172    139       147      147      44      259       351        120    257         164       644     796      III      3542 (0.20)
Less:  State Govt.          ~        1 2-          I-          -       411                                 14         __
Net uefiityfo3 Ye1r214844                                                  191        -          190:     4        146        264     -         84     1106 (0.06)
SubsDe idyt fo-ea       4               139      147      147      -        68       351        I   1114            18       380    796         27     2436 (0.14)
Return                   9.5      1.4     9.7      10.0    15.7   15.7    11.2    14.2            1,6     9.86                 9.-5    18----------4
Subsidy Formula         [   KOK             OK          2/     OK      OK       OK       OK         NO'       OK       NOOK                         OK
1/Excluding Assam.
2/  Haryana and Uttar Pradesh not eligible under Credits  572-IN4 and 911.-IN.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SEB's Operating Performance  - RE Activities (FY 1980)
(Rs.million)
Andhra                       2/                    Madhya  Mahara                    RaJa- Tamil Uttar  | West             Total
Pradesh Bihar Gujarat Haryana Karnataka Kerala Pradesh shtra    Orissa Punjab sthan Nadu  Pradesh Bengal                 (Rs/kWh)
Sales:  Units (Gwh)        985    614   1729    1768         427              1225    3086              1966   1462  2410  2762                 , 18434
Sales Revenue              212    188    555       346       121              397      714               277    331   481   562                   4184  (0.22)
Other Operating
Revenue                  35       7     19       41         4               30      102                33     43    18    28                          (0.02)
Total Revenue              247    195    574       387       125              427      816               310    374   499   590                   4544  (0.25)
Operating Expenses:
Energy Cost                244.   207    482       300        51              320      695               397    249   556  1008                   4509  (0.24)
Other                      157    124    174       141       153              225      374               170    189   466   389                   2562  (0.14)
Depreciation                74     46      45       42        30               67       94                51      61   1C7   110                   727  (0.04)
Total Expenses             475    377    701       483       234              612    1163               618    499  1129  1507                    7798  (0.42)
Deficit Before
Interest                 228    182    127        96      109               185      347              308    125   630   917                    3254  (0.17)
Add: Interest               54      79     99       89        74              158      257               111    102   143   273                   1439  (0.08)
Deficit After
Interest                 282    261    226      185       183      n/a      343      604      n/a     419    227   773  1190        n/a         4693  (0.25)
Less:  State Covt.                                                                                                                                35/'(   3
Subsidy             95    261      -        -         -      (60F)      -      236    (23F)    419    190   299  1010   (181F)            2510  (0.13)
Net Deficit for Year       187     -      226  1  185       183       N/A    343       368      NJA       _      37   474   180    N/A            2183  (0.12)
Overall Rate of
Return                   9.5    5.2    8.3      5.5       12.5    13.9F  13.4    9.5         3.9F     9.5    9.5   9.              9.5               n/a
Subsidy Formula            OK     OK      No        21      OK        OK      OK      OK        No      OK      OK    OK    OK        OK
1/ Excluding Assam                           n/a = not available.
2/ Haryana not eligible under Credits 572-IN and 911-IN.
3/ Total excludes forecast (F) subsidies towards RE losses of Kerala, Orissa, West Bengal SEBs.                                                         o x
i-,



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SEBs'-/ Rates of Return for FY1979: analyzed between RE Activities a_nd Other Oerations
Surplus/       Surplus/    l
SEBs              Average      (Deficit)      (Deficit)        Total
Rate Base    on RE 2/         on other       Surplus             Rates of Return
operations      operations                    RE  Other Operations    Total
(Rs.million)  (Rs.million)   kRs,million)    Rs.million)    %               %              %
Andhra Pradesh          4,574           (115)           552           437       (2.5)'        12.0           9.5
Bihar                   3,414             56            (8)            48        1.6          (0.2)          1.4
Gujarat                 3,861            (51)           425           374       (1.3)         11.0           9.7
Haryana                 2,536            (62)           315           253       (2.5)         12.5          10.0
Karnataka               1,839            (92)           380           288       (5.0)         20.7          15.7
Kerala                  2,581             14            391           405        0.5          15.2          15.7
Madhya Pradesh           3,604            56            348           404        1.5           9.7          11.2                X
Maharashtra             5,441           (144)           917           773       (2.6)         16.8          14.2
Orissa                  1,734            (34)            62            28       (2.0)          3.6           1.6
Punjab                  4,965            (18)           490           472        (0.4)         8.5           9.5
Rajasthan               3,281             61            221           282         1.8          6.8           8.6
Tamil Nadu              4,400           (238)           656           418       (5.4)         14.9           9.5
Uttar Pradesh           9,763           (593)           774           181       (6.1)          7.9           1.8
West Bengal             1,610            (4)            156           152       (0.3)          9.7           9.4
Total                53,603          (1164)         5679          4515       (2.2)         10.6           8.4
l/  Excluding Assam for which no RE accounts available.
2/  RE surplus (deficit) is after taking credit for State Government subsidies of RE losses.  RE surpluses
shown are due to those portions of subsidies which reiuburse interest costs - the rates of return being
calculated before interest.



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
State Electricity Board6 (SE8s)
Average Tariffs, Subsidies for Rural Electrification
Contribution to Investment and Rate of Return FYs 1983-85
1                          .                        _                   SEB PROJECTION (FY 1981  PRICES)                        FY 1985 AVERAGE TARIFF REQUIREMENT
FY 1976                  FY 1981                FY 1982                                                                  -  -RATE OF
ACTUAL         !         ACTIJAI                 FORECAST                        FT 1985                  CONTRIBUTION TO        RETURN       TO ACHIEVE           TO LIMIT RE SUB-
(paise/kWh)              (paise/kWh)               (paise/kWh)                    (paise/kWh)                   ANE   EY                        208 TONTRVESTMEN      SIDY TO 101 SEBs
_____  ___________  ______________            ~FT 1983-85 AVERAGE    FY 1985    TO DTrVSTNN             SAESREENE
Average   RE             Average   RE               Average   RE             Average   RE              Average               with dutv  with-
SEB         Tariff  Subsidy  Total  Tariff   Substdy  Total  Tariff  Subsidy  Total  Tariff  Subsidy  Total  Tariff   out  with  but net of out   with  Pai-eWkWh Increase  Paise/klh Increase
(inc.                    (inc.                      (inc.                    (inc.                     increase duty  duty  subsidy    duty  duty                on FF1982            on FY198  SEB
duty)                    duty)                      duty)                    duty)                                       2                I       X                  %                    2_
Andh,ra
Pradesh   30.1       -      30.1   37.3       2.2      39.5   39.5      3.4     42.9   37.8       -       37.8     -4      45     55    52         9.7   11.4                                              AP
( - )                  (1.7)                      (1.9)                    (1.8)
Bihar        26.1      4.7     30.8   43.2      12.6      55.8   50.1    13.5      63.6   54.3    1S.7       70.0       8   j9       14   -14         7.3    8.8      6O.'       21         69.3     38       BI
(1.2)                    (2.1)                      (2.2)                    (2.8)
Gujarat      23.6      0.1     23.7   40.1        5.4     45.5   52.3      0.5     52.8   55.8        -      55.8       7     30     56    36         9.5   14.7                                              GU
(1.6)                    (5.0)                      (6.0)                    (5.7)
Haryaaa      17.9       -      17.9   29.6       9.6      39.2   35.2      8.4     43.6   35.6      9.7      45.3       1      3      31     3        9.5   15.0      40.7       16         45.8      30      NA
(2.4)                    (5.0)                      (6.3)                    (6.2)
Karnataka    14.7       -      14.7   29.2       0.3      29.5   31.4       -      31.4   31.2       -       31.2      -1     34     62    62         8.6   12.7                                              RA
(1.5)                    (2,0)                      (1.8)                    (1.6)
Kerala       13.3      1.9     15.2   24.4        -       24.4   24.6       -      24.6   30.1       -       30.1      22     38     65    65        12.5   17.0                                              EE
(1.2)                    (3.3)                     (4.3)                     (3.8)
Madhya
Pradesh   21.4      1.6     23.0   40.2       6.1      46.3   40.6      7.0     47.6   39.8      4.8      44.6     -2      17      31    18       10.6   15.2      41.0        1         41.6       2      MP
(1.6)                    (5.7)                     (6.2)                     (5.6)
Maharashtra  19.9      0.8     20.7   28.2        5.7     33.9   36.3      4.1     40.4   44.6       -       44.6      23     21      34    34        9.5   13.3                                              MA
(1.0)                    (3.3)                      (3.5)                    (3.8)
Orissa       14.1      1.8     15.9   31.6       3.3      34.9   32.7      0.5     33.2   34.3      0.3      34.6       5     24      91    80        9.5   18.9                                              OR
(2.0)                    (8.5)                     (8.7)                     (8 .8)
Punjab       15.8       -      15.8   23.3      14.0      37.3   25.8    12.1       37.9   n/a      n/a      u/a      n/a    24       n/a  n/a        9.5   n/a         -         -         n/a     n/a       PU
(1.9)                    (4.1)                      (4.2)
Rajasthan    21.1      2.9     24.0   28.0       6.9      34.9   36.5      6.7     43.2   44.0      7.1      51.1      21     21      29     8        9.5   11.0        -         -         46.5     27        RA
(0.9)                    (2.4)                     (3.3)                     (2.7)
Tamil Nadu   25.1      0.8     25.9   30.6      12.5      43.1   30.6    12.9      43.5   30.5    12.8       43.3     -1      25      29   -23        9.5   10.7        -         -         39.4     29        TN
(0.4)                    (1.2)                      (1.2)                    (1.1)
Uttar
Pradesh   26.2       -      26.2   35.6      17.8     53.4   39.2    14.8       54.0   40.0      8.4      48.4      2      15      22     4        9.5   11.4      42.0        7         45.8     17       UP
(0.7)                    (2.6)                     (2.9)                     (2.6)
West Bengal  24.7       -      24.7   40.8       5.7      46.5   43.4      5.4     48.8   40.0       -       40.0      -8      4      11    11        9.5   12.9      46.1        6           -       -        WB
(0.9)                    (2.6)                     (2.5)                     (2.6)
J_



INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
State Electricity Boards:
Projected Contribution to Investment FYs 1983-1985
(in constant FY 1981 prices)
FY 1983                                   FY 1984                                 FY 1985
Contri-                          Contribution                             Contribution
Capital l/  Net Cash  bution to  Capital 2/ Net Cash             to         Capital 3/  Net Cash          to
Investment Generation Investmen Investment Generation  Investment   Investment Generation  Investment
(Rs.mill)   (Rs.mill)      %       (Rs.mill)    (Rs.mill)         %                                        %
Andhra Pradesh   1659          633        38          1731           794         46             1831        895             49
Bihar             1888         181        10          2176           176          8             2288        227             10
Gujarat           1929         492        26          2287           718         31             2395        882             37
Haryana           1233          76         6          1468            10          1             1566         33              2
Karnataka          428         167        39           468           156         33              494        1.51            31
Kerala              666        204        31           746           344         46              790        306             39
Madhya Pradesh   3469          507        15          3804           635         17             4060        815             20
Maharashtra       4734         921        19          5485          1213         22             5832       1298             22
Orissa              491        112        23           530           123         23              560        144             26
Punjab            1621         371        23          1797           422         23             1890        501             27
Rajasthan         1431         256        18          1589           364         23             1684        394             23
Tamil Nadu         2293        596        26          2635           644         24             2813        772             27
Uttar Pradesh    5061          629        12          5891           902         15             6191       1126             18
West Bengal        2045        102         5          2283           137          6             2434          34             1
TOTAL      28948       5247        18          32890         6638          20           34828        7578             22
1/  Average of FYs 1982-1984>
2/  Average of FYs 1983-1985.                                                                                         N)
3/  Average of FYs 1984-1986: FY 1986 data not available s d VY 1985 data repeated for that Yenr,



ANNEX 28
-90-
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
State Electricity Boards
Introduction of Commercial Accounting Arrangements
(A)   Amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948:
1982
i)   by March 31           CEA to draft proposals and submit to Department of Power.
ii)   by May 15             Inter-ministerial and State Government consultations.
iii)   by June 15             Comptroller and Auditor-General consultations.
iv)   by July 31            Cabinet paper in consultation with Ministries of Law
and Finance.
v)   by September 15        Cabinet approval.
vi)   by October 15          Draft bill to Law Ministry.
vii)   by November 1          Notice to Parliament.
(timetable thereafter not predicted)
(B)   Formulation and Implementation of Commercial Accounting Systems:
1982
i)   by June 30            - organizational structure at centre
- identification of local accounting firm as consultants.
- discussion on scope of work and TOR, methodology,
time schedule.
1983
ii)   by June 30            Draft manual.
iii)   by September 30       Comments of SEBs and CAG and further discussions
of major issues and policy.
iv)   from October 30       Training programs.
1984
v)   by February 29        Final report of consultants.
vi)   by March 31           Decision on manner of introducing new system and extent
of professional help required in initial years.
1985
vii)   between April 1        Introduction of new system,
- March 31, 1985      - resolution of problems and staff training "on the
job".
viii)   between April 1       Preparation of accounts for audit and report
- September 30,1985  of CAG thereon.



-91-
ANNEX 29
Page 1 of 8
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Methodology
1.      The method selected for economic analysis is a cost saving approach that
attempts to quantify net benefits for users of the supply system. In this
approach, electricity is considered as one alternative source of energy and
compared to other energy sources yielding the same result, such as diesel motors
for industry, diesel pumps for irrigation, and kerosene for domestic lighting.
Sample schemes of eligible categories and 3 typical average schemes were
examined with respect to economic internal rate of return, and net present
value. Schemes analyzed consisted of proposed (appraised by REC), actual (under
implementation) and typical (representative) schemes, data for which were
obtained from REC, and from consultants' economic analysis. OA, OB, SPA, and SI
schemes were examined. Costs, achievements, and specific assumptions that were
derived from REC reports are shown in Table 1.
2.      The cost saving approach implies that new electricity consumers in rural
areas are switching from alternative energy to electricity, or if electricity
would not be supplied, many would obtain alternative energy sources. It is
possible that, had electricity not been provided in the area, some rural elec-
tricity consumers who have obtained electric connections might not have pur-
chased an alternative power source. The underlying assumption is a downward
sloping demand curve for rural energy inputs with respect to price.
3.      The cost streams consist of the SEB investment cost, recurrent cost in
SEB-installed facilities, marginal cost of energy, and private costs (excluding
tariff) associated with the proposed project and incurred by retail consumers,
including house wiring investment in electricity-using facilities and equipment,
and their maintenance. Thirty years was chosen as an appropriate lifetime of
the schemes. The demand growth and associated SEB capital investment required
were obtained from REC reports. The bulk of the SEB investment is concentrated
in the first five years of the schemes for OA, OB and SPA. Full potential
demand is met in five years in SPA schemes. Further growth is possible in OA
and OB schemes with further investment after the fifth year until the fifteenth
to twentieth year when full demand is met.
4.      The benefit stream is represented by the total cost of the alternative,
adjusted to reflect a realistic mix of valuation of energy supply by the con-
sumer. If a significant part of expected electricity demand is due to conver-
sion of existing or expected alternative energy sources, this share of project
output is valued at full alternative cost. The remainder, i.e. demand that
would not be present in the absence of the project, should be valued at less
than full alternative cost, the upper value limit, but more than the minimum



-92-                                ANNEX 29
Page 2 of 8
value of electricity depending on the shape of the demand curve. The minimum
value of electricity as seen by the consumers is the total cost of running the
electric alternative, which consists of capital, 0 & M and tariff costs.
5.      For the purpose of this report, the economic analysis is performed under
six different demand curve assumptions. They are as follows:
(a) Case 1: The energy demand is inelastic with respect to price, or the area
has reached saturation by using alternative energy. The demand for the project
output is fully due to conversion of existing or expected alternative energy
source users. (Maximum value of benefits).
(b) Case 2: The energy demand is due solely to first time users of any form
of energy and the observed value of electricity to these consumers is their
total cost of running the electric alternative. (Minimum value of benefits).
(c) Case 3: The demand curve is linear, with the upper value limit represented
by full cost of alternative energy source (Case 1) and the minimum value by the
cost of electricity use (Case 2).
(d) Case 4: The demand curve is concave with the same upper and lower value
limits as in Case 3.
(e) Case 5: 50% of the demand is due to replacement (value as in Case 1) and
the remainder is represented by a linear demand curve. Based on existing
evidence, this is considered to be the best central estimate and constitutes
the base case.
(f) Case 6: 50% of the demand is due to replacement and the remainder is
represented by a concave demand curve.
6.      Shadow Prices
(a) SEB Investment: Standard conversion factor of 0.80 was used to revalue
costs in border prices.
(b) SEB 0 & M Costs: The assumption of 80% labor and 20% materials content
(valued at the shadow wage rate and using standard conversion factor) yields
a weighted conversion factor of 0.70.
(c) Marginal Cost of Electricity: Recent SEB and REC calculations to deternine
marginal cost of power supply at 11 kV (the point of entry for the schemes) were
utilized. Assuming that the cost elements entering into total marginal cost are
adequately represented by the basket of goods underlying the calculation of the
standard conversion factor, a conversion factor of 0.80 was used.



-93-                                  ANNEX 29
Page 3 of 3
(d) Private Cost and Benefits: Private investment and the cost of diesel fuel
and lubricant were valued at border prices, the remaining cost and benefit items
were converted to border prices using the standard conversion factor. For rural
unskilled labor, the shadow/market wage ratio of 0.6 was used.
(e) Discount Rate: The discount rate (the opportunity cost of capital) used
to annuitize capital costs is 10%, as specified in the REC economic analysis.
7.      Economic Rate of Return: Results
(a) Sample Proposed REC Schemes (OA, OB, and SPA): The economic rate of
return, net present values and sensitivity to marginal energy cost of each of
nine sample proposed schemes are shown in Table 2.
(b) Sample Actual Schemes: Four schemes under implementation for the past five
and nine years and two SI schemes were analyzed. The four schemes include OA
schemes in Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, and OB schemes in Rajasthan and
Maharashtra, and SI schemes in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The benefit stream
used in SI schemes is the marginal cost-based value of loss savings due to
system improvement under the assumption of no demand growth. Cost and benefits
are derived from REC economic analysis. The economic rate of return and its
sensitivity to marginal energy cost, and net present values of each actual
scheme are shown in Table 3.
(c) Typical OA, OB and SPA schemes: Costs and benefits of the schemes are
based on an all-India average provided by REC. The rates of return, the net
present values, and sensitivity to marginal cost are shown in Table 4.
8.      Financial internal rate of return
The cost streams consist of SEB investment cost, recurrent cost in SEB
installed facilities and accounting cost of electricity at 11 kV. The tariff
revenue represents the benefit stream. The net present value of the schemes at
a range of discount rates from 8% to 12%, the financial internal rate of return
and its sensitivity to energy cost and tariffs are shown in Table 5.



TABLE 1
Characteristics of Sample, Actual and Average Schemes
Capital        Units         Marginal        Accouutingj                                       Number of Connections (Tariff Rates)
Scheme                Cost         Consumed      Energy CosV   Energy Cost2/l                                           D                                      State
(Rs. Mill)       (MU)          (P/kWh)           (P/kWh)        Agriculture        Industrial       Domestic            StreetSTate                       Others        Total
Commercial        Lihtin7            Tube-Well        O
OA/Andhra Pradesh          5.3           3.6              93             16.79         67                  36 (20 HP)       2,284             864                     _             _            3,395
16 P/kWh           50 P/kWh (D)   43 P/kWh (D)         42 P/kWh
Rs 2/HP/Month       144 (3 HP)      90 P/kWh (C)       42 P/kWh
__ __ _ _ _4L5    P/kWh                           _ _ _ _  _ _ _                     _ _  _ _ _ _  _ __                 _ _ _
OA/Uttar Pradesh                         5.2              98             23.98         435                 130              1,700             320                                 565            3,150
Rs 14/HP/Month    41 P/kWh          45 P/kWh           45 P/kWh               _            45 P/kWh
15.1           5.2             47              18.32         3,010               200             3,600 (D)          2,050                   _             _           9,760
OA/Tamil Nadu-/                                                                        14 P/kWh            34 P/kWh         42 P/kWh           30 P/kWh
900 (C)
____________              __________     ~78    P/kwh
1/     1.             4.8              7 7            15.43          1.350              82               620                700                                   -2,752
OA/Madhya Pradesh-/       11 7           4 7              77             1679          16 P/kWh            22 P/kWh         30 P/kWh          31 P/kWh
6.7       ~~4.7            9316.79                      328                 82               3,664              700                    --4,774
OB/Andhra Pradesh                                                                      16 P/kWh            45 P/kWh         40 P/kWh          42 P/kWh
Rs 2/HP/Month
OB/Uttar Pradesh           9.1           7.0              98             23.98         190                 150              5,900              700            30                  370            7,340
____________   _____________  Rs 14/HP/Month    41 P/kWh  45 P/kWh        45 P/kWh       Rs 480/HP/Year    45 P/kWh
9.8           7.5             75             14.28          1,565               135             3,250              1,400                   _             _           6,350
OB/Maharashtra 1/                                         75                           22 P/kWh            25 P/kWh         30 P/kWh (D)      30 P/kWh
___________  ____________  ____________                         ~~~~ ~~~40   P/kWh    (C)
5.1           4.2             53              13.10         690                 73              1,660              132                                               2,555
OB/Rajasthan-                                                                          31 P/kWh            30 P/kWh         38 P/kWh (D)      33 P/kWh
_____ ____ _   __ ____ ___   _____ ____ _   __ ____ ____ ____50    P/kWh  (C)
3.3           1.7             47       -            11.42   600                                 950                               _                                  1,550
SPA/Haryana                                                                            20 P/kWh                            40 P/kWh
____________  ___________Rs   2/HP/Month
5.1           2.6             93              16.79         800                 3               180                100                                   -            1,083
SPA/Andhra Pradesh                                                                     16 P/kWh            45 P/kWh        43 P/kWh           42 P/kWh
Rs 2/HP/Mouth                       90 P/kWh
SPA/Mharahtra2.4                  09 -             75             14.-28        600                73 ~               70                90                     --                         965
SPA/Maharashtra            2.4           0.9             75              14.28         22 P/kWh            25 P/kWh         30 P/kWh           30 P/kWh
SPA/Mahdya Pradesh         5.2           1.9              77             15.43         850                 30                                                                                    880
__________________    ___________                                ~~~~~~~~~~16  P/kWh  22  P/kWh
2.5           1.1             36              11.79         129                     _           175 (D)                 _                  _             -            329
SPA/Orissa                                                                             17 P/kWh                             32 P/kWh
25 (C)
- -      __ __ __52   P/kWh                                                                                                                                 _ _ _ _
A   A   8.5            5.6             68              15.42         1.061               92              2,202              237                                               3,592
Average______ OA__________ .20 P/kWh                  40 P/kWh        35 P/kWh           35 P/kWh
Average OB   7.8  6.6         68              15.42         838                 164             1,741              268                                                3,011 _
Average 08                                                       ~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~20 P/kWh  40 P/kWh  35 P/kWh  35 P/kWh    _________    _________
Average SPA                3.7           1.6             68              15.42         596                 8                320                38 P/W                                            962        o
20 P/kWh           40 P/kWh         35 P/kWh           35 P/kWh       o____
1/ Actual Scheme
2/ REC estimates at time of appraisal



-95-                                     ANNEX 29
Page 5 of 8
TABLE 2
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value of Sample Schemes
A. Economic Rate of Return:
*Sample                     1/          2/          3/         4/5                     6
Scheme           Case 1-/   Case 2-/   Case 3-    Case 4-/   Case 5-_   Case 6/
OA/Andhra Pradesh      74.6       None        23.8        None        48.9       36.4
OA/Uttar Pradesh       38.4       None        None        None        17.3       None
OB/Andhra Pradesh      33.8       None         5.3        None        20.4       13.5
OB/Uttar Pradesh       36.1       None        10.5        None        24.9       18.4
SPA/Haryana           117.3       -2.4        47.0        22.4        77.7       61.4
SPA/Andhra Pradesh    42.5        None         4.5        None        23.3       12.3
SPA/Maharashtra        72.2         3.1       36.5        19.3        53.9       45.1
SPA/Madhya Pradesh    50.2        None        18.2         3.0        33.2       25.5
SPA/Orissa             33.7       None        12.0        -1.6       22.7        17.3
B.  Sensitivity to Marginal Energy Cost and Present Value  (Base case 5 only):
Sample                        Sensitivity to                      Net Present
Scempe                 Mar in l Energy Cost (Case 5)          Value at (Rs 1000)
+50%    +25%    -25%    -50%         8%        10%        12%
OA/Andhra Pradesh      19.5    34.4    63.4    78.2       11,909      8,884     6,716
OA/Uttar Pradesh       None    None    37.8    55.8        2,107      1,351        815
OB/Andhra Pradesh      None      8.3    31.0    41.5       6,076      3,951     2,466
OB/Uttar Pradesh        4.2    16.1    32.7    39.9       15,952    10,732       7,096
SPA/Haryana            55.9    66.3    90.0   103.5       13,540    10,747      8,682
SPA/Andhra Pradesh    None       9.6    37.7    53.5       5,693      4,078      2,903
SPA/Maharashtra        38.5    46.1    62.0    70.4        8,800      6,820     5,366
SPA/Madhya Pradesh    15.4    24.0    43.0    53.7         8,132      5,966     4,387
SPA/Orissa             13.4    18.0    27.4    32.3        2,959      2,251     1,734
1/  Case 1:  Maximum value of benefits.
2/  Case 2:  Minimum value of benefits.
3/  Case 3:  Average value of benefits (linear demand curve).
4/  Case 4:  Concave demand curve.
5/  Case 5:  50% due to replacement and the remainder represented by a linear demand
curve.
6/  Case 6:  50% due to replacement and the remainder represented by a concave
demand curve.



-96-                                     ANNEX 29
E'age 6 of 8
TABLE 3
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value of Actual Schemes
A. Economic Rate of Return:
Actual
Scheme        Case 1       Case 2       Case 3       Case 4       Case 5   __Case 6
OA/Tamil Nadu        98.1        None         31.4         None         63.7         47.8
OA/Madhya Pradesh   29.2         None          4.5         None         21.4         13.2
OB/Maharashtra       72.9        None         24.0         -7.4         46.7         35.0
OB/Rajasthan         67.9        None         33.6         15.9         50.5         42.0
B. Sensitivity to Marginal Energy Cost and Present Value (Base case 5 only):
Actual                  Sensitivity to                         Net Present
Scheme          Marinal Energy Cost (Case 5)               Value at (Rs 1000)
+50%     +25%      -25%     -50%         8%         10%        12%
OA/Tamil Nadu        26.8     46.2      81.3      99.6      51,165    38,304    29,165
OA/Madhya Pradesh   10.2      16.5      25.5      29.3       8,860      5,806      3, 648
OB/Maharashtra       19.5     32.9      61.3      77.1      21,000    15,548    11,663
OB/Rajasthan         37.3     43.9      57.2      63.9       2,941      1,761        949
C.  SI Schemes-/
Economic Rate of Return and                   Net Present
Scheme             Sensitivity to Mar inal Cost              Value at (Rs 1000)
Base    +50%    +25%    -25%    -50%        8%         10%        12%
-SI/Tamil Nadu      42.7    57.0    50.1    34.7    25.6    60,564    45,948    35,358
SI/Maharashtra      19.1    26.2  j_22.8    14.9       9.9     7,307        4,915    3,198
.1/ Marginal cost-based value of loss savings is the benefit stream.



ANNEX 29
Page7 of 8
TABLE 4
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value of Average Schemes
A. Economic Rate of Return:
Average
Scheme       Case 1      Case 2      Case 3      Case 4      Case 5    Case 6
OA            145.8       None        25.6        None        69.8       45.3
OB             45.8        None         3.3       None        27.3       17.5
SPA           100.1       None        30.1         5.5        59.9       44.0
B.  Sensitivity to Marginal Energy Cost and Present Value (Base case 5 only):
Average             SSensitivity to                           Net Present
Scheme       Marginal Energy Cost (Case 5)                Value at (Rs 1 000)
+50%     +25%      -25%      -50%         8%          10%         12%
OA           24.1     46.6      95.6      125.5      16,596     12,889      10,194
OB          None      13.4      38.7       49.8       7,421       5,392       3,934
SPA          34.4     46.6      74.5       90.5      10,261      8,060       6,437



TABLE 5
Financial Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value
Scheme                                                                  Internal Rate of Return                                                      Net Present Value (Rs 1,000) at
Base                 Sensitivity  oEnergy Cost                             Sensitivit  to Tariff
Case        -50%         -25%         +25%         +50%         -50%         -25%          +25%          +50%              8%                10%          |    12%
OA/Andhra Pradesh           13.1         18.6         15.9         10.1          6.8        None           5.0          19.9          26.2            1,916                954                282
OA/Uttar Pradesh             1.8         15.2          9.6        None         None         None         None           11.6          18.6           -1,500             -1,634            -1,699
OA/Tamil Nadu /             None          7.5         -7.7        None         None         None         None          -11.9           6.2          -14,952            -12,829           -11;223
OA/Madhya Pradesh-/         None         -5.8        None         None         None         None         None           -8.9          -1.4           -8,922             -8,187            -7,572
OB/Andhra Pradesh            9.4         13.4         11.5          7.1          4.6       -16.3           3.0          14.3          18.8            817.8               -311            -1,068
OB/Uttar Pradesh             5.1         11.1          8.4          0.7        -9.4         None         -6.2           10.7          15.0           -1,873             -2,619          - -3,091
OB/MaharashtraJ              2.2          8.3          5.5         -2.3       -11.5         None         -9.5            8.0          12.7              -               -3,950            -4,133
OB/Rajasthan-                6.8         11.2          9.1         4.2          1.0         None         -0.2           11.8          16.1             -458               -980             1,312
SPA/Haryana                  1.7          6.3          4.1        -1.2         -5.3         None         -6.8            6.7          11.0           -1,405             -1,572            -1,678
SPA/Andhra Pradesh         None           0.1        -5.3         None         None         None         None          -3.5            2.2           -4,733             -4,517            -4,325
SPA/Maharashtra              4.3          7.7          6.1         2.3          0           None         -2.3           9.1           13.3             -641               -828              -951
SPA/Madhya Pradesh        -11.0         -0.6         -4.1         None         None         None         None          -1.8            2.6           -4,223             -4.107            -3,991
SPA/Orissa                 None         -4.8        -12.4         None         None         None         None          -8.3           -2.0           -2,319             -2,192            -2,083
Average OB                 -27.8          2.7        -2.6         None         None         None         None          0.64            5.3           -4.999             -4,673            -4,394
Average OA                  -7.5          3.7        -0.6         None         None         None         None            1.5           7.0           -5,243             -5,004            -4,772
Average SPA                 None         -7.2        -2.1         None         None         None         None          -4.7            0.6           -3,340             -3,192            -3,060
1/ Actual Scheme.
None stands for value highly negative.
jU



-99-
ANNEX 30
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Development of Average Tariffs for Domestic and Industrial
l.                                           Consumers 1977/78 - 1981/82
Average 1977/78 (p/kWh)              Average 1981/82  (p/kWh)
Cons.category/         Base    Duty/  Fuel                    Base    Duty/  Fuel
State                  tariff  tax    surcharge  Total        tariff  tax    surcharge  Total
Domestic-/
Andhra Pradesh         40     -          -         40         45       -         -         45
Assam                 45      3          -         48         57       3         -         60
Bihar                 40      7          -         47         51       7         -         58
Gujarat                30     7          -         37         38       7        13         58
Haryana                25    10          -         35         30      10         -         40
Earnataka              38     5          -         43         42       5         -         47
Kerala                 38     3          -         41         35       4         -         39
Madhya Pradesh         30     7          -         37         33       7         -         40
Naharashtra            31     5          -         36         33       5         -         38
Orissa                 28     5          -         33         32       5         -         37
Punjab                 28    10          -         38         42       8         -         50
Rajasthan             38      6          -         44         40       6         -         46
Tamil Nadu             35     -          -         35         45       -         -         45
Uttar Pradesh          41     2          -         43         50       2         -         52
West Bengal            45     3          -         48         48       3         -         51
Bombay Suburban        14     6          9         29         24       6         26       56
Average domestic                                   40                                     48
Industrial-/
Andhra Pradesh         23     -           -        23         47       -         -        47
Assam                  19     -         10         29         55       -         -        55
Bihar                  20      2         8         30         40       2         8        50
Gujarat                17     3          6         26         36       5        12        53
Haryana                14     6           -        20         24       7         -        31
Karnataka              10     2           -        12         29       2         -        31
Kerala                 12      3          -        15         16       4         -        20
Madhya Pradesh         15      2          7         24        30       3        16        49
Maharashtra            15      1          6         22        33        3       10        46
Orissa                 14     5          1         20         27      11         2        40
Punjab                 15     4           -        19         34        5        -        39
Rajasthan              18     1           -        19         32       2         -        34
Tamil Nadu             25      3          -        28         30       3         -        33
Uttar Pradesh          15      1          8        24        41        2         5        48
West Bengal            20      2          5         27        39        1       17        57
Bombay Suburban        16     1           9        26        31        4        24        59
Average industrial                                 23                                     43
1/ Lights and fans, 30 kWh/month.
2/  Heavy industry, 5,000 KW, 60g LF.



2.  Electricity Tariffa vs. LonE-Run Marginal Cost (LRMCC) (paisa/Kwh)
Average tariffs in force                                                       C eo
by March 1981  /Average Revenue-                                     Il/IIC estimate f    Y81 2
Average FY82        SEEBs where indus-
SEB  Pomesic    Inustr  Agriultue  r~8  ___  _______  _____ Average  LRMC at 11 kV in   trial tariff
SEP               Diomesti8c Industr2                                                    Domestic    Industry       Agriculture  Sales-weighted    rural areas 4/          approaches LRMC
Andhra Pradesh              43             39             20            37             40           110        30-40         100-120          68
Assam                       51             32             18       |      .a.          n.a.         n.a.         -.a.           n.a.          n.a.               72                      n.a.
Bihar                       53             37              7            43             50           110          35              90           45                 79                       x
Gujarat                     42             40             33            40             52         90-100       40-45           90-100         59                 78                       x
Haryana                     40             39             31            30             35         80-90        35-40          60-70           55                 n.a.                     x
Karnataka                   50             25             22            29             31           n.a.         n.a.           n.a.          n.a                65                     n.a
Kerala                      39             18             13            24             25         95-100       30-35           70-80          48                 90
Madhya Pradesh              40             33             25            40             41           110        35-40          110-120         53                 77                       x
Maharashtra                 38             33             30            28             36        140-200         35             100           72                 74                       x
Orissa                      37             34             18            32             33           200        35-40           15-202-/       52                 70                       x
Punjab                      42             21             13            23            n.a.       140-150       30-35          25-30-          46                 75
Rajasthan                   44             25             21            28             37         75-80        35-40           75-80          55                 79
Tamil Nadu                  38             33             16            31             31         80-]00       50-60          80-100          72                 79
UP                          50            41              28            36             39        130-140       40-50          80-100          71                 85                      x            m
WB                          51            45              35            41             43           150          35           100-130         65                 66                      x           0 o
Average                     44.4           33             22            33            38            121          38              82           63 6                76
US          ~             4.9           3.7             2.4          3.7           4.2           13.5         4.2             9.1         7 .                  8.4
1/ Including fuel surcharges and duties/taxes.
2/  From available SEB studies, 1977-81, updated.
3/ Off-peak use only.
4/ REC estimate.
5/  CEA estimate.
6/ Sales-weighted average.
n.a. = not available.
March 1982



ANNEX 3 ,
-101-                               Page 3 0 
3.      Tariff Systems: Flat Rate per HP vs. Metered Tariffs
In the States where the flat rate system has been adopted or is being
contemplated, the main justifications given have been as follows:
(a) reduction in administrative costs--i.e. billing, calculations,
ledgering, collections, audit;
(b) simplification of the billing procedure, elimination of
supervision problems such as the need to check on meter
readers, malpractices, etc.
(c) elemination of tampering with meters, and meter readings by
unscrupulous consumers and employees;
(d) the problems of non-availability of meters, wires, insulators,
non-recording and faulty meters as well as procurement
of meters would be eliminated; and
(e) the unwillingness of the States to increase the rates chargeable
to agricultural consumers increases the need for the SEBs to
raise their revenues through other means such as the reduction
in administrative costs.
Such short-run benefits are negated by possible short-run direct revenue
losses. The table below, shows that the financial impact of the unmetered
versus metered system in Karnataka with 1979/80 as a reference year, is nega-
tive. It is argued, however, that the benefits due to savings on investments as
a result of not metering new pumpsets would compensate the revenue loss of some
Rs 8.9 million. The fact remains that the revenues of the SEBs are inadequate,
and in this case would even be less under the unmetered system as indicated by
the figures from Karnataka. In the long run, a flat rate system may result in a
number of problems. These problems (involving not knowing the quantity of
energy consumed by pump sets) would render the assessment of line losses impos-
sible. Assessment of the trend in energy consumption for future revision of
charges, even if possible, would become difficult and/or costly if energy meters
have to be installed at the feeding transformer points.
The flat rate system as opposed to metering has in most cases resulted
in all pumpset consumers having to pay the fixed charge per HP installed,
irrespective of the energy actually consumed by the individual consumer. Small
farmers, it has been shown, consume much less energy than big farmers, but in
most cases would have to pay the same charges per HP. The prevailing rate in
Karnataka as recommended by the Government is Rs 50/HP upto 10 HP. The actual
average monthly energy consumption by small farmers is 100 units and, at the
1978 tariff of 23 paise per unit for the first 200 units, the small farmers paid
Rs 276 per annum for energy. On the other hand, the actual average monthly
consumption of energy by big farmers is about 700 units. At the prevailing
(1978) tariff of 23 paise per unit for the first 200 units and 20 paise per unit
for consumption in excess of 200 units, big farmers paid Rs 1,752 per annum.



-102-                                    ANNEX 30
Page 4 of 5
With the prevailing flat rate of Rs 50/HP installed, a small farmer with a 3 HP
motor would pay Rs 150 per annum. While this is lower than the 276 he had to
pay under the metered system, he does not benefit to the same extent as a big
farmer who owns, say, a 5 HP set and has to pay Rs 250 per annum as compared to
Rs 1,752 that he had to pay under the metered system.
Financial Implications of Metered vs.
Unmetered Systems for Irrigation Pump in Karnataka
(Reference Year 1979/80)
A.                                                     (Rs. in Millions)
Metered System        Unmetered System
Energy Charges                                  66.4                      50.0
Meter Hire                                        3.4                       -
69.8                     50.0
Less Direct Recurring Costs
1. Meter reading, billing,
calculations, etc.                         (-8.6)                    -1.7
2. Cost of energy lost due to
meter running                              (-3.0)
3. Meter repair, maintenance,
servicing, etc.                            (-1.0)                    _
NET REVENUE                                     57.2                     48.3
Revenue Loss due to Unmetering                                 8.9
B.                                         Savings on Investment on Future
Energisation of 20,000 Irrigation
Pumps/Year due to Unmetering
Meter                                                         4.0
Meter Board                                                   1.4
Sealable cutouts                                             0.7
4th (Neutral) Squirrel conductor                             11.2
Pin Insulator                                                0.6
Strain Insulator                                             0.1
Labor                                                         0.7
18.7



-103-                                     ANNEX 3Q
Page 5 of 5
Notes:  (1)  Revenues for metered system reflects actual 1979/80 receipts
by KEB based on existing tariffs and consumption.
(2) Revenues for unmetered system calculated on the basis of the
recommended flat rates per HP installed taking into account
the existing number of pumps. The flat rates as set (see
Annex I) results in even lower costs to consumers as could be
seen above.
(3) Energy conservation due to metering is not taken into account.
(4) Unmetering results in direct loss of revenue to KEB which it is
expected would be offset by the benefits from the release of
savings on investment due to unmetering.
Source: "A Comparative Cost Analysis Study of Metered and Unmetered Systems
for I.P Sets", KEB Report No. M(M)12/80/81, August 9, 1980.



ANNEX 31
-104--
INDIA
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Rural Sub-sector
A.1 The Institute of Economic and Marketing Research: An Assessment of Load
Demand and Employment Potential (A case study in selected rural areas),
1979.
A.2 Small Industry Extension Training Institute (Hyderabad): Impact of
Electrification on Rural Industrial Development.
A.3 S.V.R. Rao: Rural Electrification: Its relevance to Country's Development,
1981.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1  Cost savings calculations for different consumer categories by REC.
B.2 Collection of REC economic appraisals (three average schemes, eighteen
sample schemes, and three operational schemes).
B.3 REC Project Report on a System Improvement Scheme in Tamil Nadu.
B.4 Project Report of Rural Electric Cooperative Society in Sircilla
(A.P.) and Manasa District Mandsaur (M.P.).
B.5 Cost-Benefit Analysis of Rural Electrification Schemes prepared by
Consultants.
C. Working Papers
C.1 Financial and Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of Sample, Average
and Actual Schemes.
C.2 Computer Output of Economic and Financial Internal Rates of Return
and Sensitivity Analysis for Schemes.
C.3 REC Regional Office Staff Structure.
C.4 REC Appraisal Report Format.
C.5 Memorandum to REC Board on New Fonomic Viability Criteria.
C.6 REC Monitoring of Schemes.
C.7 SEBs' Organizational Setup for RE.
C.8 Achievement of Phased Scheme Targets, Schemewise.
C.9  Economic Analysis of RE Schemes.
C.10 Agricultural Tariff Analysis.
C.ll Technical Analysis of RE
October 1981



IBRD 15858R
- '-._  U.S.         $ U.S.S.R.    -S                                  800                                                                              OCTOBER 1981
-~*~ '-'c                 y -*--R                                                                         INDIA
of Corol tTHIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
t / > ~~~Ape,ox-nnae Lire of Control
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                  A/ -p e                                       CORPORATION  PROJECT
OF              ) F                                                    PROJECT TARGETS AND DEGREE OF ELECTRIFICATION
A FG HA NI STA N 
AFGHANISTAN (                       5~       , . ....... ..   Appro.im mate Border as   REC OFFICES:
~~s. ~~~~~                         F0- ~~~~~indicated by Iodre
\ 5. ':               SrSinagar                              .                          9.    Headquarters
.rE :K.  '    -   I  Apprsxrrate Border as
Jotmma, &lfKasAwm   todicated by China                        .     Existing Offices
..Ss \, t                                               PERCENT OF VI LLAGES ELECTRIFIED (March 1981)
' Himf cha/       \                                             15 49
~2 Prcadesh                                                     154
,,5  \  \   '    i   C  fy   - -  50-89
r  .Poasbi  Sita f                          a  '  AS                90IV 4                                Approximate
     State Capitals                       Border a   30go
Iradirated
Chancl g ~ ~  ~    ~     55rh                              National Capital        Approximate  b'y India
P A K I S T A N               /  > = ajo/                           /             \                          State Boundaries        Hor,diated /s
-    Irnternational Boundaries   by Criaay-
New Delh    Delhi                                                   Sakkam                                       run 2'.
/                 New, 'rs                                         l       .       Gangtok'   BHUTAN TAN  '
/                           9   tJtto~~~~~~~~~~r Prarfesh      ,       :,    .;  
Ra/asthran    OJaie o                         Lucknow                N                                                         I.*   anAd
,  ,, .   ,   (         S'     -                    fb  oP~~~~~o atna        t_       .   Shilhg           l ;mphal
a ,,  lou.r                     Behar    9  BN ADS'
Gvjaingt                    ~~Bhopal                                                  '  .West                            too
Grjrg,Gaindhmnagar    S                                                         .       /   es      ,              ,     .rlzoa
Madhyoa  Pradesh                                   /       B
: .          Baroda  .
Calcutta '
- -   94:  .                      X                                                   9 ~~~~~BURMA
20  >                   ....               0                  '8                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
M -       aharashtra   .                                  Bhubanesw
Bombay 0
'  <     f Hyd~yerab,d,                                                                  ,0>
<~~~    0 ~~Anodhrd Pr,odesh-I
Panjim0     Karnataka
Bangalore                 adras. . .,,; , .0
X   Q                                          e; r . c.l : n                    ~~~~~~~~~~~ANDAMAN
\        .       ~~~CPox7dtcherryv,       ,ef ~                                     >JO                N
O   /ira/g,  rami/ Nadex                                                          2 v. .:     - 0 3>           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NICOBAR   loo-
'  s             ~~~~ISLANDS
bhwmaph bfflespwdbrhWTri andrum)
Goad pmm,lo   ard nd heKiloA't'is
700dr    N?' -r                                                                                               I 0N0AMAN
hmy thltho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NICr f  loBAonR 108t0
b *etemedoiSpshbeWndel   Kilometers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ISLND
70                                                              BOrrss                                                        90adrm  r_ 



