LOAN NUMBER 2165 IN
Project Agreement
(Third Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated                             , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2165 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION LIMITED
(hereinafter called REC).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
hundred four million five hundred thousand dollars ($304,500,00c),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that REC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and REC, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
REC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS REC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. REC shall carry out Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and cause Part B of
the Project to be carried out through the Boards, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and iii conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, economic, investment, engineering and public
utility standards and practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, any
Sub-loan out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to REC by
the Borrower for any REC Scheme under Part B of the Project shall
be made by REC only where the Board carrying out such a Scheme
shall have satisfied and shall continue to satisfy 'he criteria
for eligibility to receive such financing under the Project set
forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   REC shall cause each Board carrying out REC Schemes
under Part B of the Project to comply with the provisions set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. REC shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Sub-loan in such manner as to: (i) protect the interest of
the Borrower, the Bank and REC; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) REC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan for Part C of the Project against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by REC to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, REC shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower for Part C of the
Project to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) REC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part C
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) REC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts B and C of the


﻿-3-
Project (including the cost and the benefits to be derived from
said Parts of the Project), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
ditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financec out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank
and REC, REC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Bank and REC of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
Section 2.07. REC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, REC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) REC shall at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
B and C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreeient, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) REC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes 6f the Loan, or


﻿-4-
the performance by REC of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. For the purpose of implementing Part A of the
Project, REC shall assume full responsibility on behalf of the
Borrower for: (i) the technical appraisal and approval of SI
Schemes, (ii) the supervision and monitoring of implementation of
such Schemes and of the procurement of goods and services there-
for, and (iii) the obtaining and furnishing to the Bank of all
such information relating thereto in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of REC
Section 3.01. REC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business
investment, financial, administrative and engineering standards
and practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by adequate and competent staff
and in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and REC shall otherwise
agree, REC shall: (i) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) take all action necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. REC shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise
put at the disposal of REC by the Borrower or its agencies or
others for relending, investment or management. REC shall promptly
inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. REC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. REC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of REC and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, REC
shall ensure that in any fiscal year:
(i) its administrative costs and the amounts paid by it
as interest and other charges on its debt shall not
exceed 90% of the agg.regate amounts received by it
as interest on its loans and investments; and
(ii) its internally generated funds are not less than
1.2 times its debt service requirement.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "internally generated funds" means gross
revenues from all sources related to the REC's
operations, including the repayments received on
loans by REC, less all expenses incurred on account
of such operations, including expenses of adminis-
tration, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if
any, and dividends, but before any provision is
made for depreciation, interest and other charges
on debt.
(ii) the term "debt" means any debt incurred by REC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(iii) the term "incurring of debt" includes the assump-
tion and guarantee of debt and any renewal,
extension or modification of the terms of the
debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof;


﻿-6-
(iv) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment, on the date and to the
extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument, and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(v) the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and
other charges on debt; and
(vi) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
official rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
able by REC for the purposes of servicing such
debt or, in the absence of such rate of exchange,
at a rate acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agre,ment becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of REC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms
and the Bank shall promptly notify REC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted Lo
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
For REC:
Rural Electrification Corporation Limited
DDA Building
Nehru Place
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
RECTRIC                             314405
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of REC may be taken or executed by the
Chairman and Managing Director of REC or such other person or


﻿-8-
persons as said Chairman and Managing Director shall designate in
writing, and REC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/5
Regional Vice President
South Asia
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION LIMITED
By*
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, REC shall prepare or cause to be prepared
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. REC
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purposes of invitation to bid, REC shall cause each
Board to group goods in packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $1,000,000 or more; provided, however, that in the event that
the total requirements of any Board in any year is estimated to
cost less than the said amount, such Board shall group all its
requirements for said year in one package.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account


﻿- 10 -
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to the Board
concerned of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in India
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar ta:mes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result
of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 11 -
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods off.red in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and furniture to be financed
under Category (6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement may be procured through prudent
shopping in accordance with standard procurement procedures of
REC.
2.   Contracts for civil works to be carried out under
Part C of the Project may be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, REC shall obtain and furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make or cause .to be made such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, REC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which the contract is intended


﻿- 12 -
to be awarded and shall obtain and furnish to the Bank, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and REC and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, REC shall obtain and furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and REC and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 15% of the original price, REC shall inform the
Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and REC and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Criteria for Eligibility of the Boards
1.   Any Board shall be eligible to receive financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan in respect of which the Borrower or REC, as
the case may be, has obtained and furnished to the Bank, an
undertaking:
(a) from such Board, which shall have been endorsed by the
State in which such Board is established, to take from time to
time all such measures as shall be required for such Board to
pruduce in each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year ending
on March 31, 1983, (i) a contribution to investment equivalent to
not less than 20% of the annual average of capital expenditures
of such Board in respect of the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity supply or (ii) in the case of the
Boards of the States of Bihar, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal, a contribution to investment.in accordance with the table
set forth in the Annex to this Schedule, provided, however, that
the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank, by December 31,
1982, a plan outlining the actions to be taken by said Boards
to enable them to achieve the specified contribution to invest-
ment. For the purposes of this paragraph, (A) the term "contri-
bution to investment" means, for each fiscal year, the gross
revenues from all sources related to such Board's operations,
consumer contributions in aid of construction, consumer's security
deposits, net non-operating income and any amounts received by
such Board as subsidy in accordance with the provisions of sub-
paragraph (c) below, less all expenses incurred on account of such
operations, including expenses of administration and maintenance
(excluding depreciation and other non-cash operating charges),
interest and other charges on debt (excluding interest charged
to construction), repayment of loans (including sinking fund
payments, if any), and less 4% of any accumulated arrears of
interest and principal on such loans as at the fiscal year end,
except where payments of such arrears have been made exclusively
from proceeds of new loans, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if
any, and cash dividends, and (B) the term "annual average of
capital expenditures" means the average of all expenditures
incurred on account of fixed or capital assets, including interest
charged to construction, incurred, or on the basis of realistic
forecasts expected to be incurred, during that fiscal year, the
previous year and the next following year.


﻿- 14 -
(b) from such Board, which shall have been endorsed by
the State in which such Board is established, to introduce from
April 1, 1984, the system of commercial accounting to be prepared
by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06
of the Loan Agreement; and
(c) from the State in which such Board is established, to
limit, in each fiscal year beginning with the fiscal year ending
on March 31, 1984, any annual subsidy to its Board in respect
of rural electrification operations to a reasonable proportion
of the Board's gross revenues from the sale of electricity, and in
any case not exceeding the amount by which such Board's operating
costs in respect of rural electrification operations exceed its
gross revenues from such operations in that fiscal year. For the
purposes of this paragraph (i) the term "operating costs" means
all costs incurred by such Board on account of its rural elec-
trification operations, including expenses of administration,
maintenance and taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, if any,
and provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt; (ii) the term "gross revenues" means revenues from all
sources related to such Board's rural electrification operations;
(iii) the term "debt" means any debt incurred by such Board
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred; (iv) the term "incurring of debt"
includes the assumption and guarantee of debt and any renewal,
extension or modification of the terms of the debt or of the
assumption or guarantee thereof and, for this purpose, debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (A) under a contract, loan agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment, on the date and to the extent the amount
of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such con-
tract, agreement or instrument, and (B) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt
is outstanding; and (v) the term "reasonable proportion" in the
context of limiting annual subsidies to the Boards shall be
determined in respect of each Board on the basis of a plan of
action as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank,
to be formulated by December 31, 1982, which shall take into
account the objective of a progressive reduction in the amount of
annual subsidy provided by each State to its Board in respect of
its rural electrification operations.
2.   The Borrower or REC, as the case may be, shall, from time to
time, inform the Bank of the names of the Boards which are


﻿- 15 -
qualified and continue to be qualified to receive financing under
the Project pursuant to the criteria set furth or refered to in
this Schedule, and shall promptly notify the Bank of the name of
any Board which ceases to continue to be qualified to receive such
financing pursuant to the said criteria.


﻿- 16 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Contributions to Investment to be Achieved
by the State Electricity Boards of Bihar,
Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal
1985/86
Board            1982/83    1983/84    1984/85      onwards
Bihar               10%        12%        14%        20%
Haryana              6%         8%        12%         20%
Uttar Pradesh       12%        18%        20%         20%
West Bengal          5%        10%         15%        20%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation of SI and REC Schemes
For the purpose of implementing SI and REC Schemes under
the Project, the Borrower and REC, shall ensure that each Board
complies with the following provisions:
Each Board shall:
(i) carry out its part of the Project under the general
supervision of REC with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices;
(ii) obtain the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and to use
such goods exclusively for the Project;
(iii) furnish to the Bank through REC promptly the plans,
specifications, justification, and construction schedule
for its part of the Project and any material modifi-
cations subsequently made therein, in such detail
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
(iv) maintain records adequate to identify the goods and
services acquired out of the proceeds of the Loan, to
disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the
progress of its part of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound public utility accounting practices
its operations and financial condition;
(v) allow the Bank's representatives to inspect its part of
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the sites, works and construction included
in its part of the Project, the operation thereof and
any relevant records and documents;
(vi) insure with responsible insurers, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,


﻿- 18 -
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the Board to replace or
repair such goods;
(vii) inform the Borrower, REC and the Bank promptly of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan or the carrying out of its part of the Project,
or which shall increase or threaten to increase mate-
rially the estimated cost of its part of the Project;
(viii) give all such information as the Borrower and the
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to its financial condition, operations and admini-
stration;
(ix) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning its part of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds;
and
(x) (a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statement of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the foregoing accounts and
financial statements as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed Lhe Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 198 -.
FOR SECRETARY


