Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7673 
-PH
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Rural Power Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
Dated May 25, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 25, 2009, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (t
he “Bank”) and the 
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES (the “Borrower”) for the purpose of 
providing additional financing for activities related and additional to the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby 
agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three billion five hundred seventy 
two million three hundred thousand Japanese Yen (JPY3,572,300,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Page  3
2
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
Page  4
3
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVE DATE; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its 
President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Page  5
4
5.03. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Development Bank of the Philippines 
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner 
Makati Avenue 
Makati, Metro Manila 
Republic of the Philippines 
 
Facsimile:  
 (6-32) 
815-1611 
 (6-32) 
893-5350 
 
AGREED at Manila, Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Bert Hofman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By 
/s/ Reynaldo David 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the first phase of 
the Program aimed at supporting reforms and priority investments to improve the quality 
of life in rural areas through the provision of adequate, affordable and reliable energy 
services, in partnership with the private sector. 
 
The Project consists of Parts A, B and C of the Original Project. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements   
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation 
and financing arrangements set forth in Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of, and Schedule 4 
(excluding the procurement provisions set out therein), to, the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and  
 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section  
 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall  
 
cover the period of one (i) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the   
Bank not later than one (i) month after the end of the period covered by  
 such 
report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
following:  
(i) 
Prevention of at least additional 20,000 tons of CO2 emissions; and 
 
(ii) 
Direct access to electricity through mini-grid electrical connections or 
individual renewable energy technology (RET) services to 10,000 new 
customers in rural areas. 
 
Page  8
7
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2010. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, Financial Monitoring 
Reports for the Project covering the preceding quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (i) fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Preparation Advance for the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines.  
 
Page  9
8
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan, as 
amended from time to time in agreement between the Bank and Borrower, shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been found 
 
acceptable to the Bank  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualification 
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d) Commercial Practices  
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  10
9
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in JPY
)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed
(1) Type A Subloans,  
Type C Subloans, Type D 
Subloans, and 
Subsidiary Loans
 
3,563,369,250
100% of amount 
disbursed
 
(2) Front-end fee 
8,930,750
Amount due under Section 
2.03 of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,572,300,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
 withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 
equivalent may    be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after April 24, 2008, for   Eligible Expenditures; 
Page  11
10 
 
(b) 
in respect of a Type A Subloan or a Type C Subloan, under Category (1), 
unless: (i) the Borrower shall have entered into a Type A Subloan 
Agreement or Type C Subloan Agreement, respectively, with a Type A 
Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary, in accordance with paragraph 1 of 
Annex A to Schedule 4 to the Original Loan Agreement, providing for 
such Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan; and (ii) the respective Type A 
Subloan or Type C Subloan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in such 
paragraph 1; 
 
(c) 
in respect of a Type D Subloan, under Category (1), unless: (i) the 
Borrower shall have entered into a Type D Subloan Agreement with a 
Type D Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 1 of Annex D to 
Schedule 4 to the Original Loan Agreement, providing for such Type D 
Subloan; and (ii) the Type D Subloan has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
such paragraph 1; and 
 
(d) 
in respect of a Subsidiary Loan under Category (1), unless: (i) the relevant 
PFI shall have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the 
Borrower in accordance with paragraph 1 of Annex C to Schedule 4 to the 
Original Loan Agreement providing for such Subsidiary Loan; (ii) the PFI 
shall have entered into a Type B Subloan Agreement with the respective 
Type B Beneficiary, in accordance with paragraph 1of Annex B to 
Schedule 4 to the Original Loan Agreement, providing for such Type B 
Subloan out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan for which 
disbursements are being made; and (iii) the Subsidiary Loan has been 
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in paragraph 1 of Annex C to Schedule 4 to the 
Original Loan Agreement. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
Page  12
11 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 
and August 1, the first installment to be payable on the seventeenth (17th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last 
installment to be payable on the forty-seventh (47th) Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. The following table sets forth the 
percentage of the Disbursed Amount payable on each Principal Payment Date.
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
From 1st to 30
th 
3.23% 
31st 3.10% 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after February 1, 
2036, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments. 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency. 
Page  13
12 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 of the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
3. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank, dated December 8, 2003 (Loan No. 7204-PH). 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
6. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 25, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
Page  14
13 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
