Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2652
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-72040, IBRD-76730 and TF-52188)
ON AN
INTERNATIONAL BANK OF RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT
AND AN ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT
AND A
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9 MILLION
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
RURAL POWER PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
RURAL POWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
June 24, 2013
Sustainable Development Department
Philippines Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)
Currency Unit = Philippine Peso
US$ 1.00 = PHP 41.06
PHP 1.00 = US$ 0.024
US$ 1.00 = JPY 86.18
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF           Additional Financing           LGUGC       Local Government Unit
Guarantee Corporation
APL          Adaptable Program Loan         MDSF        Market Development Support
Facility
ASTAE        Asia Sustainable and Alternative  MEDP     Missionary Electrification
Energy Program                             Development Plan
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy    MFI         Micro Finance Institution
COA          Commission on Audit            MWh         Megawatt-hours
CO2          Carbon Dioxide                 NCB         National Competitive Bidding
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy   NCIP        National Commission on
Indigenous Peoples
DBP          Development Bank of the        NEA         National Electrification
Philippines                                Administration
DENR         Department of Environment and  NG          National Government
Natural Resources
DOE          Department of Energy           NPC         National Power Corporation
EA           Environmental Assessment       O&M         Operation and Maintenance
EC           Electric Cooperative           PAD         Project Appraisal Document
ECC          Environmental Clearance        PCA         Procurement Capacity
Certificate                                Assessment
ECSLRP       Electric Cooperative System Loss  PDO      Project Development Objective
Reduction Project
ECPCG        Electric Cooperative Partial Credit PFI    Participating Financial
Guarantee                                  Intermediary
EA           Environmental Assessment       PHRD        Japan Policy and Human
Resource Development Program
EMP          Environment Management Plan
ERC          Energy Regulatory Commission   PMO         Project Management Office
ERR          Economic Rate of Return        PPF         Project Preparation Fund
ESMAP        Energy Sector Management       PV          Photovoltaic
Assistance Program
FM           Financial Management           QTP         Qualified Third Party
GDP          Gross Domestic Product         RAES        Remote Area Electrification
Subsidy
GEF          Global Environment Facility    RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
GEO          Global Environment Objective   RERP        Rural Electrification
Revitalization Project
GHG          Greenhouse Gas                 RET         Renewable Energy Technologies


﻿GOP          Government of the Philippines  RPF         Resettlement Policy Framework
HEDP         Household Electrification      RPP         Rural Power Project
Development Plan
HH           Household                      SHS         Solar Home System
IBRD         International Bank for         SSMP         Sustainable Solar Market
Reconstruction                             Package
ICB          International Competitive Bidding  SPUG     Small Power Utilities Group
IFR          Interim Financial Report       TA          Technical Assistance
IP           Indigenous Peoples
KPI          Key Performance Indicator      UNDP        United Nations Development
Programme
LGU          Local Government Unit          WTP         Willingness-to-pay
Regional Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
Country Director: Motoo Konishi, EAPCF
Sector Manager: Ousmane Dione, EASPS
Project Team Leader: Alan Townsend, EASWE
ICR Team Leader: Defne Gencer, EASWE


﻿
﻿PHILIPPINES
Rural Power Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design.......... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes  ................  ..... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes        ........................................... 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environmet Outcome .. 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance   ................     ........ 23
6. Lessons Learned           .....................................   ......... 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                     ................................. 28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component          ............................... ..... 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis  ............................. 38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................... 53
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results......................... 55
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR        ......... 59
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  .  .......... 62
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents      ..........................  ..... 63


﻿
﻿ICR DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
Country:            Philippines          Project Name:       Rural Power Project
Project ID:         P066397, P113159,    L/C/TF Number(s):   IBRD-72040,IBRD-
P072096                                 76730,TF-52188
ICR Date:           05/08/2013          ICR Type:            Core ICR
DBP/REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:  APL,APL             Borrower:           THEPULIP     OF
THE PHILIPPINES
Original Total      USD 10.OOM, USD     Disbursed Amount:    USD 10.7M, USD
Commitment:         40.M, USD 9.00M                          14.6M,USD 7.40M
Environmental Category: F,B              Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies: Development Bank of the Philippines, Department of Energy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: UNDP as implementing agency of the GEF
IB. Key Dates
Rural Power Project - P066397, P113159
Revised / Actual
Process           Date          Process       Original Date     es)
Date(s)
Concept Review:    09/06/2001   Effectiveness:     05/06/2004       05/06/2004
Appraisal:         02/04/2003   Restructuring(s):                   05/25/2009
Approval:          12/04/2003   Mid-term Review:                    03/17/2008
Closing:            12/31/2009      12/31/2012
PH-GEF-Rural Power Project - P072096
Revised / Actual
Process           Date          Process       Original Date     es)
Date(s)
Concept Review:    09/06/2001   Effectiveness:      03/08/2004
Appraisal:         02/04/2003   Restructuring(s):                   10/15/2009
Approval:          12/04/2003   Mid-term Review:    07/23/2007      03/17/2008
Closing:            12/31/2009      12/31/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
GEO Outcomes                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome             Moderate
Risk to GEO Outcome                     Moderate


﻿Bank Performance                         Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                     Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry    Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory       .       Moderately Satisfactory
Agency/Agencies:
Overall BankI i                          Overall Borrower
Oerallanke         Moderately Satisfactory Oeraorroe       Moderately Satisfactory
Perfonnance                              Perfonnance
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Rural Power Project - P066397
Implementation         Indicators      QAG Assessments          Rating:
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project     No            Quality at Entry         None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA)
Problem Project at any      Yes              Quality of
time (Yes/No):                        Supervision (QSA)
DO rating before       Moderately
Closing/Inactive status  Unsatisfactory
PH-GEF-Rural Power Project - P072096
Implementation         Indicators      QAG Assessments          Rating:
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project     No            Quality at Entry         None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA)
Problem Project at any       Yes             Quality of
time (Yes/No):                        Supervision (QSA)
GEO rating before      Moderately
Closing/Inactive Status  Unsatisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Rural Power Project - P066397, P072096, P113159
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General energy sector                                   25               10
Other Renewable Energy                                  50               65
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity            25               25


﻿Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                            25               25
Infrastructure services for private sector development    25               25
Other Private Sector Development                          25               25
Rural services and infrastructure                         25               25
PH-GEF-Rural Power Project - P072096
Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Renewable energy                                        100               100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                            67               77
Rural services and infrastructure                         33               23
E. Bank Staff
Rural Power Project - P066397
Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:        Axel van Trotsenburg           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:      Motoo Konishi                 Robert V. Pulley
Sector Manager:        Ousmane Dione                 Christian Delvoie
Project Team Leader:  Alan F. Townsend                Selina Wai Sheung Shum
ICR Team Leader:       Defne Gencer
ICR Primary Author:    Defne Gencer
Additional Financing for Rural Power Project - P113159
Positions              At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:        Axel van Trotsenburg           James W. Adams
Country Director:      Motoo Konishi                  Bert Hofman
Sector Manager:       Ousmane Dione                  Mark C. Woodward
Project Team Leader:   Alan F. Townsend               Salvador Rivera
ICR Team Leader:       Defne Gencer
ICR Primary Author:    Defne Gencer


﻿PH-GEF-Rural Power Project - P072096
Positions      I           At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:      JAxel van Trotsenburg          Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:     Motoo Konishi                 Robert V. Pulley
Sector Manager:       Ousmane Dione                 Christian Delvoie
Project Team Leader:  Alan F. Townsend              Selina Wai Sheung Shum
ICR Team Leader:      Defne Gencer                  I
ICR Primary Author:   Defne Gencer                  I
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
APLl: (i) test and demonstrate viable business models that maximize leveraging of
public resources with private investment for decentralized electrification; (ii) support
transformation of ECs through institutional and operational improvements; and (iii) avoid
C02 emission through wider use of renewable energy.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Mitigate global climate change caused by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through
wider user of clean energy technologies
Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
GEO was not revised.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally      Actual Value
Indicator       Baseline Value      Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
approval        Target      Completion
documents)       Values
Indicator 1 :  ECs supported are financially viable
Value                                                At least 85%
(quantitative or Zero               90% viable       participating  91%
Qualitative)                                         ECs
[Date achieved 105/06/2004           12/31/2009      12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments Achieved: At completion, 10 out of 11 participating ECs were financially
(incl. % viable, as measured by their debt service coverage ratio of greater than one.
achievement) However attribution to the project is problematic.
[New customers in rural areas provided with mini-grid electrical connection or
individual RET services
Value
Zero                   At least 10,000  20,000      20,975
(quantitative or


﻿Qualitative)
[Date achieved 112/04/2003           12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments      Exceeded: 20,975 new customers were provided service, mostly through solar
(incl. %      PV, which connected 17,340 households and 2,185 public facilities. In addition,
achievement)  1,450 household connections were provided via mini-grids. (See Annex 2)
(b) GEO Indicator(s)
Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
approval        Target      Completion or
documents)       Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :RET companies accredited and doing business in rural areas
Value
(quantitative or Zero                At least 4      At least 4   7
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/04/2004            12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments      Exceeded: Seven RET companies were accredited, corresponding to 175% of the
(incl. %      target. In addition, 12 ECs began to provide Solar PV service in rural areas.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  C02 emissions avoided per year
Value                                                At least
(quantitative or Zero                20,000 tons     40,000 tons  23,181 tons
Q ualitative)  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __________12/                  1/ 01
[Date achieved 12/04/2004           12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments      Not achieved: The project met the original target of 20,000 tons per year, but fell
(incl. %      short of the target revised at additional financing due to implementation
achievement)  challenges arising starting 2010. (See Annex 3)
(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
Indicator       Baseline Value      Values (from      Revised      Achieved at
approval
apromns    Target Values   Completion
documents)
Indicator 1 :Participating ECs have achieved operational improvements as indicated by
reduction in both system loss and frequency of service interruptions
Loss reductions: 44
Value
No specific target No specific  MWh/ year in one
Quanitative                         set             target set   case, to as much as
11,379 MWh/year
Date achieved  12/04/2003            12/31/2009      12/31/2012   12/31/2012
No specific quantitative targets were set for loss reduction and frequency of
Cmn     ts. %   service interruptions. Loss reductions by ECs ranged from 44 to 11,379 MWh/yr.
(inc. %
achievement)  Systematically collected data on frequency of interruptions in EC project areas is
not available.
Indicator 2: Staff of public and private entities participated in RET TA and training activities


﻿Value
(quantitative or Zero                At least 150    At least 150  More than 500
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/04/2003            12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments      Achieved: More than 500 individuals, including management and staff of
(incl. %      Renewable Energy Technology (RET) suppliers, Electric Cooperatives, LGUs,
achievement)  along with DOE and DBP staff were trained under the RPP.
Indicator 3   Guarantee fund established and operating
Value                                Established and  Established
(quantitative or Zero                operating       and operating No longer operating
Qualitative)
[Date achieved 112/04/2003           12/31/2009       12/31/2012  112/31/2012
Comments      Partially achieved: The Loan Guarantee Fund became active in mid-2007 but
(incl. %      was discontinued at the end of 2009, after having limited implementation
achievement)  success.
Indicator 4: Rules and regulations for subsidy allocation and tariff setting issued
Value
(quantitative or Zero                Two                          Two
Qualitative)   ______     ______     _________________
[Date achieved 12/04/2003           12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Achieved: Two DOE circulars on (i) policy framework for streamlining and
Cmn     ts. %   rationalizing subsidies for missionary electrification using solar PV systems; and
(incl. %
achievement)  (ii) Qualified Third Party (QTP) electric service in remote areas were issued in
2004.
Indicator 5 :  About 10 new productive applications initiated in pilot areas
Value
(quantitative or Zero                Ten             Ten          Zero
Qualitative)
[Date achieved 112/04/2003           12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments Not achieved: During implementation of the GEF Grant, efforts for developing
(incl. %      productive applications were not pursued, due to the prioritization of other
achievement)  activities.


﻿G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                   Disbursements
No.    Archived        DO            GEO             IP           (USD millions)
 Project 1Project 2
1    12/24/2003        S             S              S           0.00      0.00
2    06/29/2004        S             S               S           0.11     0.00
3    12/27/2004        S             S              S            0.11     0.26
4    06/18/2005       MS             S               S           1.36     0.33
5    03/17/2006       MS            MS             MS            1.36     0.78
6    03/15/2007       MS            MS             MS            4.73     1.86
7    06/27/2008        S             S              S            8.92     3.30
8    06/26/2009        S             S              S           10.79     4.67
9    02/26/2010        S             S              S           15.07     5.15
10   10/26/2010         S            S               S           17.58    5.85
11   08/02/2011        MS           MS              MS           19.07    6.29
12   09/08/2011        MS           MS              MS           19.07    6.34
13   03/21/2012       MU            MU              MU          24.99     7.01
14   12/11/2012       MU            MU              MU          25.19     7.40
H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed
Board Approved                 at Restructuring in    Reason for
R e(s n                RUSD millions                    Restructuring & Key
Date(s)     PD     GO
PDO Cn  ChGE  DO GEO     IP  Project1 Project2    Changes Made
Change Change
05/25/2009          1 __       S         S      10.79
[10/15/2009   1S                          S  1            4.75


﻿i.      Disbursement Profile
P066397 and P113159
-    Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
60-
50.
40-
2  30
20 ------------------------------------------------------ --------------- ---------------
20 20
10
N r  L                                   e kø  N  .  w  cn                   m   m
ø    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0    0   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -
P072096
-    Original ---- Formally Revised -- Acual
10
8-
4--
SL  w  N  N             cn  cm                         N r    m
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 - - - - - - -
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
rq  ~      i rq    iN Fq  rq  rq  Fq  rq  rq  rq  rq  IN 1N 11  1,           iN


﻿1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
As of the end of 2002, the Philippines rural electrification program had made significant
achievements, with 100% of municipalities and cities, 86% of barangays and about 80%
of households electrified. The program being implemented by the Electric Cooperatives
(ECs), the predominant service providers in rural areas, was almost entirely focused on
grid-extension. Yet, the majority of the barangays remaining unelectrified were in remote
areas with low population densities and overall incomes, making expansion of electricity
access a difficult challenge.
The National Electrification Administration (NEA), the apex organization for rural
electrification, and predominant lender to ECs, was facing serious financial problems,
and was undergoing a major reorganization. Performance levels among individual ECs
varied significantly. Operational and financial constraints faced by many ECs had led to
underinvestment in rehabilitation, low efficiency, poor quality of service, and high costs
in difficult areas. Most ECs could not access private commercial financing for the
necessary investments, while public sector funding was constrained by the precarious
financial situation of NEA. Very few ECs had the experience and capacity to serve
remote areas. To address the sector's challenges, the Government of the Philippines
(GOP) enacted the Electric Power Industry Reform Act (EPIRA) in 2001. GOP support
to the rural power sector at the time of appraisal was being provided through the
Department of Energy's (DOE) Expanded Rural Electrification (ER) Program, aiming to
achieve 90% household electrification by 2017.
Reflecting the focus of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS R2002-0083 discussed in
June 2002), World Bank support to the energy sector concentrated on the rural power
sector. With some Bank input, the DOE developed a rural power sector strategy and
policy and institutional reform framework covering: (a) rationalization of tariff and
subsidy policy; (b) rationalization of franchise areas and opening up of unserved areas to
qualified third parties; (c) strengthening of ECs and adoption of a segmented financing
strategy; (d) privatization of the existing assets/operations of SPUG 1; and (e)
restructuring of NEA. To support GOP's program, the Bank and GOP chose an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to implement reforms and priority investments
addressing major sector issues, particularly: operational and financial constraints of ECs;
the need for cost-effective electrification beyond grid extension; and barriers to private
investment. The RPP APL program was to be implemented in four manageably sized
phases between 2004 and 2018, with loans totaling US$150 million. APLI comprised a
US$10 million IBRD loan on-lent through the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP), and a $9 million GEF Grant administered by the DOE.
Small Power Utilities Group of NPC, which supplies off-main-grid EC's with diesel-fired power, at very high cost.
1


﻿1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
As stated in the PAD, the long-term purpose of the overall Program was "to support the
government's pro-poor flagship program which aims to improve the quality of life in
rural areas of the country through the provision of adequate, affordable and reliable
energy services, in partnership with the private sector."
The objective of APL1 was to assist GOP in the implementation of the first phase of the
Rural Power Development Program through (i) testing and demonstrating viable business
models that maximize leveraging of public resources with private investment for
decentralized electrification; (ii) supporting transformation of ECs through institutional
and operational improvements; and (iii) avoiding CO2 emission through wider use of
renewable energy technologies (RET). However, in the Loan Agreement, the objective
was "to support the implementation of the first phase of the Program aimed at supporting
reforms and priority investments to improve quality of life in rural areas through the
provision of adequate, affordable and reliable energy services, in partnership with the
private sector."
Key PDO-level outcome indicators for APL1 were:
* at least 10,000 new customers in rural areas provided with mini-grid electrical
connection or individual RET services;
* at least two new mini-grids;
* at least four RET companies accredited and doing business in rural areas; and
*  At least 85% of ECs supported are financially viable (as indicated by actual debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1 time) by end of APL 1.
1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PAD stated the GEO as "to mitigate global climate change caused by greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions through wider use of clean, RETs in power generation." RETs would
be complemented by rehabilitation and loss reduction in distribution systems operated by
ECs, leading to increased efficiency of grid supply, thus reducing harmful emissions
associated with diesel-fired power generation. The GEF Grant Agreement GEO is the
same as the Loan Agreement. Key GEO-level outcome indicator was avoidance of at
least 20,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year by end of APL1.
1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
In March 2009, the Board approved a US$ 40 million additional financing loan (AF) in
order to scale up the rural electrification subprojects. (See Section 1.9) The PDO was not
revised, but the target for avoided GHG emissions was doubled to 40,000 tons/year of
CO2 and the target for direct access to electricity through mini-grid electrical connections
or individual RET services was doubled to 20,000 new customers in rural areas.
1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The GEO was not revised.
2


﻿1.6 Main Beneficiaries
The project's primary targeted beneficiaries were the rural poor households that would
gain access to electricity under the project. The project would contribute to expanding
access to electricity and modem energy to rural households, rural industries, and
microbusinesses. As the project also aimed at enhancing the operational performance of
the ECs and improving the efficiency of their networks, existing customers of the ECs
stood to benefit. The AF would benefit the same groups, while doubling the number of
new connections targeted. The project also provided institutional strengthening and
capacity building to DOE and the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) as
implementing agencies, as well as private RE developers, participating RET companies,
ECs, microfinance institutions and NGOs.
1.7 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Rural Electrification Subprojects (Total cost US$16 million, of which
IBRD $10 million, GEF $1.1 million), comprised two subcomponents:
(a)  Grid-connected EC Subprojects. For areas that were economic to serve
through EC distribution networks, this component supported subprojects aimed at
improving power supply system safety, reliability, efficiency, and power service
quality for existing customers, through rehabilitation and capacity upgrades of the
existing supply system; removing supply constraints; encouraging institutional
development of ECs; and improving productivity, safety, and customer service; and
(b)  Decentralized Electrification. This supported investments in small power
generation, decentralized grids and stand-alone RET, most notably PV systems. An
important objective of this subcomponent was to pilot various service delivery
mechanisms and identify successful solutions for future adoption and scale-up.
Component 2: Partial Credit Guarantee Fund (Total cost US$1 million, fully funded
by a UNDP-GEF Grant). This component intended to facilitate access to credit by
suppliers and purchasers of solar home systems (SHS) and other RETs, by providing
GEF funds to partially cover loan losses incurred in the provision of loans to RET.
Component 3: Capacity Building (Total cost US$9.3 million, of which GEF $7.9
million). This component supported DOE, DBP, participating financial intermediaries
and enterprises to reduce market barriers to the commercialization of renewable energy
development, by building the capacity of the concerned public and private sector entities;
reducing investment risks by supporting project development, appraisal, procurement and
supervision of RET subprojects; and supporting the development and implementation of
policies on energy tariffs and subsidies, regulation, and planning.
1.8 Revised Components
Project components were not revised, however, with the approval of the additional
financing, US$40 million in IBRD funds was allocated to rural electrification subprojects
under Component 1.
3


﻿1.9 Other significant changes
Additional Financing (AF) and Closing Date Extensions. The most significant change
was the US$40 million AF approved in 2009, which quadrupled the original loan amount,
and was made in light of the strong implementation progress achieved under the rural
electrification subprojects under Component 1. The AF was intended to (a) scale up the
project, by financing newly identified subprojects; and (b) support rural electrification by
(i) targeting more households, (ii) encouraging more PSP by sharing in investment risks,
with an emphasis on new and renewable sources of energy, and (iii) upgrading ECs to
become financially viable and operationally efficient. When the AF was approved, the
loan closing date was extended three years from December 31, 2009 to December 31,
2012, while the GEF Grant closing date was extended by two years to December 31,
2011. In view of the project's solid procurement performance under the DBP
subcomponent, the threshold below which procurement by private borrowers would be
allowed to follow established commercial practices was increased (see Section 2.4.).
Reallocations. Grant proceeds were reallocated five times to ensure sufficient funds were
available for priority activities.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
2.1.1 Soundness of background analysis.
Alignment with CAS and GOP Sector Priorities. RPP was aligned with CAS objectives
of supporting the achievement of more rapid sustained growth and empowering the poor
to increase their participation in development. It contributed to these objectives through
supporting improvement of infrastructure facilities and services and creating an enabling
environment for PSP in the rural power sector. The project was also in line with GOP's
strategic priorities for the rural power sector. The priorities highlighted in the DOE's
policy and institutional framework were incorporated into the RPP GEF Grant scope
through specifically targeted analytical and advisory activities, while the loan provided
the resources that the private sector and ECs would need to finance their investments.
Analytical work. The project design built on findings of analytical work that had been
carried out as part of Bank engagement. Various technical assistance (TA) grants from
GEF, Japan Policy and Human Resource Development Program (PHRD), Asia
Sustainable and Alternative Energy Program (ASTAE), were mobilized to support the
DOE and DBP during project preparation, including support for the development of the
rural power sector policy and institutional reform action plan mentioned in Section 1.1,
2
which was developed by the DOE with the assistance of PHRD-financed consultants.
Lessons from past projects. Lessons from previous World Bank projects in the Philippines,
most notably the Rural Electrification Revitalization Project (RERP, FY92) and the Local
Government Unit (LGU) Urban Water and Sanitation APL (Ln. 4422), were taken into
account. RERP, approved in 1992, providing a US$91.3 million loan to finance part of
NEA's investment program, with the objective of enhancing its capability to function as
an effective core agency for rural electrification, improving the performance of rural ECs,
2 The full set of analytical work that contributed to the project design is available in Annex 8 of the PAD.
4


﻿and increasing the availability and reliability of rural electricity supply. The project
closed in 1998, 16 months behind schedule, with nearly 25% of the loan canceled and an
"unsatisfactory" outcome rating, modest institutional development impact and uncertain
prospects of sustainability due to NEA's financial problems.3 During RPP appraisal in
2003, in light of the RERP experience, NEA's continuing financial predicament, and
inadequate prospects for a turnaround in the near term, NEA was deemed an
inappropriate borrower for RPP.
Lessons from international experience. International experience with rural power sector
reform and recognition of the need for a long-term vision for policy and institutional
change provided the underpinnings of the APL. With regard to off-grid electrification, the
project design took into account lessons from similar World Bank experiences in
Argentina, India, Indonesia and Sri Lanka. One key lesson was that the uptake of new
technologies and business models in off-grid areas proceeded very gradually in the first
few years, then rose significantly once start-up problems were solved and institutional
capacity built. This lesson was reflected in the APL approach by starting slowly with
testing various delivery and institutional models for off-grid electrification investments
under APL 1 and setting conservative targets.
2.1.2 Assessment of project design
Project objectives. The long-term purpose of the APL Program was to support GOP's
pro-poor flagship program to improve the quality of life in rural areas by providing
affordable, reliable energy services in partnership with the private sector. Relevance of
the objective was high. The foci of APLI to support priority policy reforms and
investments and demonstrate viable business models for rural electrification were
appropriate. Similarly, the GEO, centering on avoidance of GHG emissions through
wider use of clean, renewable energy technologies in power generation, and rehabilitation
and loss reduction in distribution systems, was well suited to GOP and Bank priorities.
However, the PDOs in the legal agreements and PAD should have been identical.
Project components and organization. The project design, although complex, was
relevant to project objectives, combining investments for grid and off-grid electrification,
complemented by TA and capacity building. Strong points were:
(a) ECs were facing significant financing constraints, and their networks were
suffering from underinvestment in rehabilitation, leading to high losses, poor
supply quality and reliability - issues that would be further exacerbated with
additional customers. Providing long term debt financing for relatively low-risk,
financially viable investments was appropriate for removing major system
constraints, improving system efficiency, connecting new customers, and
eventually improving their financial status;
(b) Considering decentralized electrification would be the primary means of reaching
about a third of the remaining unserved households in the most remote areas, the
decision to complement financing for EC system upgrades with support for off-
grid electrification was correct. The identification of workable business models to
World Bank, OED, Performance Audit Report: Philippines Rural Electrification Revitalization Project (Loan 3439-
PH), June 15, 2000, Report No. 20581
5


﻿bring in new players for decentralized electrification was critical, considering the
limited resources at the disposal of the public sector and existing providers;
(c) The approach of testing different alternatives that were workable and sustainable
in the Philippines' context instead of adopting "expert prescribed" theoretical
options was very wise and practical. The APL lending instrument was conducive
to this flexibility; and
(d) Given the limited availability of long-term infrastructure financing to the rural
power sector from commercial sources at the time, complementing lending for
RET and EC loss reduction investments with credit enhancement for the ECs
through a GEF supported Loan Guarantee Fund was a good choice, and reflected
international best practice.
Other strengths included: the demand-driven approach for the IBRD funds to preserve
flexibility in shifting funds between grid-connected and decentralized electrification
subprojects; the ability of a broad variety of sector participants to access financing and
capacity building support; and frontloading of capacity building activities.
Design weaknesses. Identification of certain weaknesses was only possible with the
benefit of hindsight, based on observations of actual developments.
(a) Several EC  system  rehabilitation and small renewable energy generation
subprojects had been included in the pipeline for the DBP line of credit and had
been appraised. However, that none of them materialized during implementation
due to a combination of factors, suggests some weaknesses in the assessment of
subproject readiness, or inadequate realism on their likelihood of materializing;
(b) The expectation that the private sector would easily participate in the rural power
sector was optimistic, particularly in the case of stand-alone RET systems and
SHS. In the latter case, relying on private dealers throughout most of the project
was likely due to a combination of optimistic assessments on the risk appetite and
capacity of the private entities, and of the feasibility of creating a market for SHS
supplied by dealers, premised on households' up-front purchase through cash or
borrowing. Similarly, in the case of stand-alone RE generation projects, the
appetite of private developers to engage may have been overestimated. Of the
three small hydropower projects financed by DBP, one was the outcome of a joint
venture between an LGU and EC while the other two were developed by ECs;
(c) The willingness of microfinance institutions (MFIs) to lend to small RETs and
offer consumer loans for SHS, was overestimated. During implementation, MFIs
did not become active financiers in the rural power sector, resulting in the limited
uptake of the DBP wholesale lending for participating financial intermediaries
and the Loan Guarantee Fund, as discussed in Section 2.2.
(d) The SHS dealer model did not incorporate the full requirements for ensuring
sustainability. Even though post-installation sustainability issues faced in
international experience with SHS delivery models 4 were acknowledged in
4 RPP PAD Section 3, Page 18
6


﻿preparation, true costs of O&M were inadequately considered, and consequently
not reflected in the economic and financial analysis (see Section 3.3).
(e) Another weakness with respect to testing different business models for PV
electricity was the decision to focus on a single model right from the start. The
project could have benefited from piloting different models relying on different
entities in parallel instead of a "back-to-back" approach focusing on one model
(the dealer model) for the first three years. Only when that showed weaknesses
did the preparation of the next model begin. Coterminous preparation and testing
could have allowed the DOE and sector participants to compare the different
approaches as they were implemented, use lessons from one to fine-tune the
others and further enhance those that offered promising outcomes.
Institutional arrangements.  Selecting DOE and DBP as the main implementing
agencies was appropriate, as they had strong capacity and experience implementing
World Bank projects. However, certain other choices did not stand the test of time.
In retrospect, the decision to exclude NEA from the project was not the best. NEA was
restructured and has re-emerged as a significant actor overseeing and financing the ECs,
and is now the primary channel for supporting the ECs under the GOP's recently
approved sitio electrification program. While NEA's financial constraints at appraisal did
justify its not being chosen as the borrower for the IBRD loan, more effort could have
been made to explore options for partnering with NEA. Having NEA involved in day-to-
day implementation would have given it a stake in RPP's success, and the project could
have benefited from NEA's knowledge, experience and relationships with the ECs. A
similar point applies to the role of ECs, or lack thereof at the outset, in the SHS delivery
models tested. During the first five years of implementation, all the models tested,
including the SSMP that was adopted, predominantly involved private dealers. Only after
the 2009 restructuring was the engagement of ECs in the delivery of SHS considered, as
discussed in Section 2.2. And in fact, the "PV mainstreaming" approach involving ECs,
stood out as the option offering the highest potential for connections and sustainability.
Therefore, project design should have included ECs in the implementation of SHS
subprojects much earlier.
2.1.3 Choice of lending instrument and triggers.      The choice of an APL was
appropriate for supporting GOP's program, through gradual and selective support to
initiate reforms and undertake priority investments to address major sector issues. A
specific investment loan would not have adequately backed incremental changes and
solutions to deep-seated problems over the projected 14-year life of the program. It also
allowed for risk mitigation. The choice of triggers for moving to APL2 - capturing key
policy actions by government, APLI disbursement - was mostly appropriate, with the
exception of the debt service coverage ratios for participating ECs. There could have
been an indicator measuring progress toward household electrification targets. Section
2.2 discusses the context and implications of the decision to select AF instead of APL2.
5 NEA has indeed ceased being the sole financing channel for the EC sector, but still does do some lending based on
legacy assets (i.e. re-flows), and is also the main channel for sitio electrification grants.
7


﻿2.1.4 Adequacy of GOP involvement was strong, as demonstrated by its Letter of Sector
Development Program (PAD, Annex 11) which reaffirmed its commitment to the rural
electrification program and the target of achieving 90% household electrification by
2017. The Letter underpinned the APL by outlining priorities for sector reform. Extensive
stakeholder consultations were carried out during project preparation, and their findings
and conclusions were carefully documented.
2.1.5 Risks assessment. Project risks for APLI were correctly assessed as "high"
because of the decentralized electrification subcomponent and uncertainties related to the
creation of new markets and green-field investments.  The risk of the EC grid
subcomponent, with existing market and operations, was rated as "substantially lower" in
the PAD. On balance, the overall project risks were considered acceptable due to the
potential high payoff of the pilot schemes for decentralized electrification. Risks
associated with decentralized electrification were correctly identified and the most
significant ones rated as high, particularly regulatory risks related to tariff adjustments
and availability of subsidies. Even though the PAD referenced the risks associated with
post installation sustainability of SHS, that risk was not explicitly stated or mitigated.
Nonetheless, the testing approach inherently provided mitigation.
On the other hand, there were significant weaknesses in the risk assessment for the AF.
Reflecting the optimism stemming from the success in committing the original loan
ahead of schedule, the risk assessment in the Project Paper (section VII) was too positive:
"The project incorporates the good practices applied in the successful implementation of
APL 1 especially as it pertains to the DBP implemented subcomponent. There are no
foreseen risks that could jeopardize the achievement of the PDO." As discussed in
Section 2.2, reality on the ground proved otherwise.
Quality at Entry. The overall rating for quality at entry is moderately satisfactory. The
design was well aligned with GOP policy and the CAS and the analytical research
supporting the project was solid. Lessons from the Philippines and from other rural power
projects were carefully incorporated in the design. However, as noted above, some basic
premises were not carefully thought through, the PDOs in the PAD and legal agreements
should have matched, and the Results Framework had weaknesses (see Section 2.3).
2.2 Implementation
RPP implementation spanned just over seven and a half years for the GEF grant, and
eight and a half years for the IBRD loans. Major implementation milestones for RPP
were the mid-term review carried out September-October 2007, the AF approved in
March 2009, and the CD approved restructuring in December 2010.
IBRD   Loans.   Implementation of the first loan was very successful, with full
commitment one year ahead of schedule. In light of this strong performance, and the
presence of a pipeline of potential subprojects identified by DBP, with estimated
financing needs in the range of US$ 40 million, an AF loan of was approved in 2009.
When the need for scaled up financing was identified, there were deliberations on
whether to do an additional financing to APL1, or begin the preparation of APL2, for
which all the triggers had already been met. The assessment at the time was that there
was a robust pipeline with projects ready to move, and therefore, DBP and the Bank
8


﻿agreed that the AF, which could be prepared much faster than an APL2, would enable
DBP to move more rapidly in responding to the needs of sector participants. At the time,
it was also decided that AF would be followed by an APL2.
However, 2010 brought substantial changes in external circumstances which significantly
impacted AF implementation, as discussed below, and it became impossible for DBP to
close financing for the projects that had been appraised. RPP implementation was also
constrained by the maximum three year period allowable for AF operations, in contrast to
the five or more years that would have been possible under an APL2. By December 2012,
only US$ 14.6 million was disbursed, and the project closed in "moderately
unsatisfactory" status.  Nonetheless, despite implementation challenges, 13 rural
electrification subprojects were financed, including three small hydropower plants and
seven EC system rehabilitation and upgrade projects.
Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes are discussed below.
(a)    Significant changes in credit markets. The AF was approved during the 2009
global financial crisis when limited liquidity, high interest rates, and overall financial
uncertainty  prevailed. However, the
Philippine economy quickly rebounded    Figure 1 - Credit growth in East Asia 2003-2012
in 2010, with GDP growth reaching 7.3    " pert
percent, the fastest in 30 years. GDP   40
growth continued in 2011, nearing 4     3
percent. As the country made a faster   30
than   expected  recovery,  improved    25
economic fundamentals and resiliency    20
pushed    borrowing   costs  towards    15
historical lows, by as much as 500 basis  I
points.7 Local credit markets continued
to improve, as illustrated in Figure 1,
with  increasing  liquidity, declining              s
interest rates and higher credit growth  U203-7nvnaE 2011 *f212
rates. Credit growth    rates  in  the
Philippines from 2011 to 2012, when AF  Source: World Bank East Asia Economic update, December
implementation  began, were    almost   2012, based on IMF International Financial Statistics
triple the credit growth rates in the 2003-
2007 period, when implementation of APLI1 began. This fundamental shift in credit
markets, whose scale, speed and structural nature could not have been predicted at project
design, and the subsequent series of events, had a strong impact on RPP implementation.
(b)    In creasing attractiveness of ECs as borrowers. Starting with the sector reform
process kicked off by EPIRA, a series of developments in the sector, including strong
policy guidance from DOE, improved regulatory framework under the ambit of ERC (the
new tariff mechanism and gradual transition to performance-based regulation), stronger
oversight and financial support from a revitalized NEA, along with management and
' World Bank, Philippines Quarterly Update, Juary 2011.
World Bank, Philippines Quarterly Update, Mach 2012.
9


﻿operational improvements carried out by the ECs themselves, all contributed to increase
the creditworthiness of ECs. Consequently, commercial banks, which were enjoying high
liquidity, became increasingly interested in providing financing to the ECs, and were able
to offer lower rates and longer tenures than was possible under RPP. Moreover, the ECs
demonstrated their viability as borrowers under RPP, and their solid track record likely
increased the appetite among commercial banks to lend to ECs.
(c)    Credit enhancement offered by ECPCG. The government's EC Partial Credit
Guarantee (PCG) program, supported under the GEF funded Electric Cooperative System
Loss Reduction Project (ECSLRP, TF53360,TF53361), offered guarantees for
commercial loans to selected ECs and private investors to finance distribution system
upgrades. As part of the Bank's portfolio approach for supporting the energy sector,
ECSLRP and RPP complemented each other by trying different approaches to supporting
the ECs. The ECPCG, which was managed by the LGU Guarantee Corporation
(LGUGC), enabled financiers to offer lower cost fixed and variable rate financing to ECs.
In late 2009, NEA and LGUGC signed a Memorandum of Understanding to cooperate on
ECPCG. Thereafter, coupled with the favorable changes in the credit market conditions
in the Philippines, there was a significant upturn in loans for EC capital expenditure
projects, which had ground to a halt during the financial crisis. While RPP was negatively
affected by changing conditions, ECPCG thrived.8
(d)    Rate structure for RPP credit line. While commercial lenders saw declines in
their costs, DBP's costs under the RPP were largely fixed. The rates DBP could offer
were a function of IBRD rates; mark-ups from the Department of Finance and a margin
to cover DBP's costs, risks and profit requirements in making loans to borrowers.
According to DBP, the rates it was able to offer under the RPP window were as much as
100 to 200 basis points higher than the reference market price in the country. In fact,
DBP itself was able to offer lower cost funds than the RPP window, through other
funding windows that were under its management, alongside guarantees from ECPCG.
(e)    Slower than anticipated demand from RE developers. Demand for credit from
RE developers did not grow as expected, as potential RE developers reportedly held off
on potential projects while waiting for the completion of implementing regulations for the
RE Act of 2008, and the feed-in tariffs (FITs) for RE. The time required for the
completion of the RE regulatory framework, which continued well into 2012, in turn,
affected DBP's ability to finance new RE projects under the credit line.
(f)    Other factors specific to individual subprojects. Subprojects in the AF pipeline
were affected by various factors including changes in sponsors, or sponsors' decisions
not to pursue the projects, or to use alternative financing sources. Others, with already
approved loans, faced construction delays due to natural disasters and cost overruns.
By early 2011, no subprojects had materialized and no new loans were on the horizon.
Having recognized the risks to project outcomes, DBP initiated various efforts to turn the
project around, but these efforts had limited success. The DBP, with Bank support,
devised a turnaround plan, which involved more aggressive marketing for RPP; blending
of RPP funds with its own funds to bring the rate offered closer to prevailing market
Government and the Bank are preparing the Philippines Renewable Energy Development (PHRED) project to expand
EC-PCG and extend its provision of PCG's to cover loans for renewable energy as well.
10


﻿rates; and working with NEA to identify EC distribution system rehabilitation and
upgrade subprojects for financing through the RPP credit line. Despite initial progress,
through working with NEA, in identifying potential prospects among the ECs and
continued efforts to commit the remaining funds, ultimately, no loans were made, nor did
a lending pipeline with firm milestones emerge as loan closing neared.
In December 2012, GOP requested a one year extension of the loan closing date. The
Bank saw no basis for extending the project, primarily because (i) there was no credible
pipeline with potential for immediate commitments and subsequent drawdown of funds,
and (ii) the broader structural shift in the credit market had weakened the justification for
DBP credit line - that a "market failure" was preventing ECs from accessing financing,
and that public debt financing, through IBRD funds on-lent by DBP was needed. By that
time, the case and the basis for mobilizing the next phase of the APL series no longer
held and the Bank decided to terminate the entire APL.
Key factors affecting the GEF Grant are summarized below.
(a)   Slow project start-up. Finalization of internal government procedures and set-up
of the DOE Project Management Office (PMO) were completed more than a year after
loan effectiveness, and the capacity of the PMO was built up gradually. The delays in
having a fully functioning PMO impacted the start-up of GEF-supported activities.
(b)   Limited initial results from decentralized electrification. Despite the availability
of GEF grant funds to complement government subsidies for SHS, a credit window
offering wholesale financing to MFIs and accreditation of eight potential PV companies
in 2004, solar market development was slow, with no major accomplishments by mid-
term. This delay was attributed to the limited capacity of PV dealers, delayed start-up of
RPP, limited MFI interest in lending for decentralized electrification, and an incoherent
framework for subsidies offered under different government and donor programs.
(c)   Distortionary impact of competing subsidy programs. During early years of
implementation, a plethora of grant-based subsidies for solar PV were being offered by
various government, donor, and private initiatives. The presence of contemporaneous,
often competing programs with differing offers, led to confusion among households, but
more importantly, reduced the chances of success of initiatives requiring household
contributions, and ultimately led to inefficient use of limited resources available to
missionary electrification. The issuance of the PV subsidy rationalization policy in 2005
and its implementing regulations in the following years did not immediately change this
situation either, and RPP continued to face competition from other programs.
(d)   Efforts to make the dealer model work. Solutions tried included the extension of
GEF grants to solar lanterns in 2004, to meet basic lighting needs of the poorest
households. The "Incubator Program" implemented in 2005 focused on building
partnerships between participating MFIs and PV companies, while the Market
Development Support Facility (MDSF) offered cost-sharing grants to the PV companies
for business development and capacity building. In addition, the business model itself
was changed with the introduction, in mid-2005, of the Sustainable Solar Market
Package (SSMP) concept, offering contracts for "market packages" packaging groups of
barangays together to provide a sufficient volume of sales for the contractor to sustain
services. The GEF grant was used to complete the design of the SSMP mechanism,
11


﻿including contracts, initial market assessments, advisory support to participating
companies, as well as outreach to provincial and local governments.
(e)   Poor performance of the Loan Guarantee Fund. LGF became active only in
mid-2007 after the appointment of the LGUGC as program manager in late 2006. By
early 2009, there was very limited interest from MFIs, with a rather modest portfolio
comprising 44 loans being guaranteed. Even though MFIs were supported through
capacity building and outreach they never became significant financiers of SHS.
(f)   Refocusing the project. In 2009, the project was refocused, building on
approaches that were working well while others were discontinued, and new business
models with potential were extended. In light of the results of a PV subsidy
rationalization study, the government and GEF subsidies provided under RPP were
revised, including discontinuation of grants to solar lanterns and revision to the subsidies
for different PV system sizes. As part of discontinuation of unsuccessful activities, it was
decided that LGF would wind down by the original closing date of December 31, 2009.
(g)   Partnering with ECs. One of the most important changes was the partnerships
with the ECs for whom two new business models were introduced in 2009. Under the
lease-to-own model, ECs would be in charge of installing PV systems for households and
public facilities in remote barangays within their franchise areas. The households would
make periodic repayments to cover the ECs' transaction costs, and to build a revolving
fund to cover the procurement of more SHS over time. In the end, system ownership
would be transferred to the households. Under the fee-for-service model, piloted under
the so-called "PV mainstreaming" approach, six ECs were tasked with procuring,
installing, operating and maintaining the SHS, which would be owned by the ECs
themselves, in exchange for a monthly fee from the households they serve. By
encouraging the ECs to use solar PVs to provide continuing electricity service as part of
their regular business, the model could address sustainability concerns for PV systems,
encountered under the dealer model, where there was very little incentive to continue to
provide regular O&M and customer service. At closing, after just two years of
implementation, the fee-for-service model had shown promising results. (Annex 2
provides information about the various models tested under RPP.)
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
According to the PAD, key performance indicators for the APL program would be
organized into three categories: (a) traditional access and performance indicators; (b)
GHG mitigation; and (c) social and economic impact of rural electrification. These
principles were sound, but the M&E framework in the PAD only partly reflected them.
Under category (a), end of program indicators were 100% barangay and 90% household
electrification, reflecting government program targets, and about 90% of ECs supported
being financially viable, as measured by their debt service coverage ratios, with
"improvements in reduction in both system loss reduction and frequency of service
interruptions." The PDO level indicators for APL1 focused on the number of
connections and debt service coverage ratios. The output indicators - intermediate
outcome indicators in today's results terminology - linked to individual components
focused on operational improvements by participating ECs, "as indicated by reduction in
both system loss reduction and frequency of service interruptions." While the intention to
monitor losses and interruptions was certainly relevant to the goal of improving EC
12


﻿performance, the PAD did not provide measurable or attributable indicators to track
progress toward achievement of those outcomes.
Similarly, the PAD did not offer specific, measurable, time-bound indicators on the
socio-economic impact of rural electrification. The socio-economic aspects were
referenced only at the level of sector-related CAS goal, where the corresponding
indicator was formulated as "socio-economic benefits accrued to households and
barangays due to increased use of electricity." Even though baseline socio-economic data
(average household income, monthly expenditures on energy consumption) had been
collected through surveys,9 no relevant indicators or baseline values were reflected in the
Results Framework. Furthermore, some indicators were not realistic, were too broad in
scope, or went beyond what could be achieved by the project. Some were not directly
attributable to project activities, as in the case of EC financial ratios, which the project
did have some activities contributing to improvement, there were many other exogenous
factors that could also have an impact, such as policy and regulatory developments and
macroeconomic conditions. It should be noted that the inclusion of broader sector level
goals in results frameworks was common practice at the time of project design.
Unfortunately the Project Paper for the AF missed the opportunity to update the 2003-era
Results Framework to 2009 standards.
During project implementation, the PDO level indicators and APL2 triggers were
regularly used by DOE and DBP, as well as the Bank to monitor implementation
progress, make decisions, such as that of proceeding with AF, and periodically recorded
in progress reports and aide memoires. Although it was intended to monitor socio-
economic data, none was systematically collected.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard policies triggered by the project were: (a) Environmental Assessment (EA); (b)
Indigenous Peoples (IP); and (c) Involuntary Resettlement. The EA category of this
project was a Category "F" for "Financial Intermediary Assessment". An EA Policy
Framework was made public on January 31, 2002, and an IP Project Policy Framework
and a Policy Framework for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation were made
public in July 2003. The AF did not trigger any additional safeguards.
Environment. The overall rating for environmental safeguards compliance is moderately
satisfactory. Environmental safeguards policies and procedures were generally complied
with. DBP mainstreamed compliance with environmental safeguards in the screening
and approval of sub-projects. Subproject proponents secured the necessary environmental
clearances from the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), but
project sponsors should have updated their Environmental Management Plans and
submitted Environmental Compliance Monitoring Reports more regularly. Even though
project Operations Manual included procedures to guide compliance with Philippines
environmental rules and regulations and the Bank's safeguard policies, the DBP provided
limited oversight of safeguards compliance at its regional business centers. The Bank
visited the subprojects that triggered the EA policy, and found some documents did not
9 Rural Electrification and Development in the Philippines: Measuring the Social and Economic Benefits," ESMAP
Report 255/02, May 2002.
13


﻿fully comply with environmental reporting requirements. Nevertheless, the Bank did not
find any major issues with the actual environmental performance of subprojects.
Social. Overall compliance with social safeguards policies is also rated moderately
satisfactory. Social safeguards policies and procedures, particularly concerning land
acquisition and compensation, and engagement of project affected Indigenous Peoples
(IP) were generally complied with at project level.
With regards to land acquisition, subprojects were mostly located on public land or lands
already owned by the subproject proponent, so no significant land acquisition was
required. Land acquisition totaling 8.63 hectares was necessary to build access roads to
generation facilities. No demolition of household dwellings or businesses was necessary.
For the subprojects that triggered the involuntary resettlement policy, the Bank found the
relevant project documents were in order and the affected land owners interviewed were
satisfied with their compensation for affected lands and crops. Mostly, the affected lands
were in isolated rural areas where the land market was not robust. The engagement of
indigenous peoples during preparation of subprojects was carried out in a manner
consistent with the national law10 on IP rights, with active participation of the National
Commission on Indigenous Peoples (NCIP). Although the intent of the social safeguards
framework for just and humane compensation for affected lands and crops and
engagement with indigenous peoples were substantially complied with, there were
weaknesses in monitoring of implementation of social safeguards. Procedures and
documentation requirements specified in the social safeguards frameworks were not
strictly followed, and in several cases the NCIP did not monitor implementation of IP
related aspects as required. Nonetheless, since IPs were represented in project
management boards for each subproject, they are kept abreast of developments.
Procurement. Procurement under IBRD APLI is rated satisfactory with timely
completion of procurement following Bank procedures. At the time of AF, in response to
requests from project participants, changes were made in the procurement arrangements
to ensure RPP's competitiveness with other sources of financing, most importantly,
raising the threshold below which the private sector entities could use commercial
practices instead of the Bank's processes." Procurement under the AF was moderately
satisfactory. Some subprojects included in early versions of the AF pipeline were not
financed partly due to procurement related factors. In the case of one subproject, at the
time of pipeline entry, the proponent had already completed detailed project designs that
identified specific equipment manufacturers and suppliers it wanted to work with. When
the Bank undertook its technical evaluation of the bidding documents for the subproject
(which was above ICB threshold), the project design and bidding documents were found
technically unsatisfactory. The project sponsor would not retrofit the project design to
meet the Bank's requirements, so the subproject was financed by another source. In
addition, the procurement capacity of the DBP PMO was weakened following its mid-
10 This law was found superior to WB OP 4.10 because it requires free and prior informed consent of affected
indigenous communities and not just consent. Terms of engagement are documented in Memoranda of Agreement,
specifying the responsibilities and roles of the proponent and the IP communities and the benefits they will receive
from the project.
For private sector borrowers, from US$ 0.5 million for goods and US$1 million for works, to US$6 million for both.
14


﻿2010 reorganization, when the dedicated procurement unit was removed, leaving the
PMO with only one staff with appropriate training. The weaker procurement capacity of
the PMO contributed to delays in assessing potential subprojects and implementation.
Under the GEF Grant, procurement performance of the DOE PMO is rated satisfactory.
Even though there were initial delays and weaknesses in procurement activities, project
management strengthened over time through the assignment of a new procurement staff
and hiring of a procurement consultant, who were both trained on the Bank's
procurement guidelines. The performance under the GEF Grant administered by the DBP
PMO is rated moderately satisfactory. Even though the capacity building and TA funds
were nearly fully used, there were challenges with the Project Preparation Facility which
was only partly utilized at closing. DBP attributes the limited uptake to the prior review
threshold for consultant selection, as in most cases, proponents had already identified the
consultants they preferred, and did not want to follow the Bank's consultant guidelines
that would have required them to select consultants through competition.
Financial Management (FM). Under the IBRD loans, FM performance was
satisfactory. The project substantially complied with financial covenants, which included
the submission of quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFR) and annually audited project
and entity financial statements. There were no accountability and internal control issues
contained in the audit report, but there were significant delays in the submission of the
annual audited entity financial statements mostly due to issues at DBP level that needed
to be resolved with the Commission on Audit (COA) before finalizing the audit. DBP
addressed all agreed financial management actions in a timely manner. The system of
internal controls was found adequate throughout implementation.
FM performance under the GEF Grant is rated moderately satisfactory. The project
substantially complied with the financial covenants concerning the submission of
quarterly IFRs and annual audited project financial statements. Even though there were
some weaknesses identified by COA, which were eventually addressed, the audit reports
did not pick up any serious accountability and internal control issues. Most of the agreed
financial management actions arising from FM implementation reviews were properly
addressed. Overall, internal controls were adequate throughout project implementation.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The EC system rehabilitation and generation projects will be operated and maintained by
the project sponsors, with oversight from DOE, ERC, provincial and local authorities. As
for the PV systems: (i) for those installed under the dealer model and SSMP, the
ownership, and hence responsibility to maintain them, was transferred to the beneficiary
households or the local communities, after a pre-determined post-installation
maintenance service by the dealer; and (ii) for those under the fee-for-service model,
maintenance and repairs during the first year were the responsibility of the dealer who
supplied the SHS to the EC; and thereafter of the ECs.
Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. Considerable progress has been made in
the rural power sector since appraisal, and GOP is committed to moving the rural
electrification agenda forward. GOP has a target to expand electricity access to 90% of
households by 2017, and the DOE has drafted a Household Electrification Development
15


﻿Plan (HEDP) that lays down the policies, strategies and other activities to achieve that
target, through grid extensions and off-grid solutions. The options listed in HEDP for
decentralized electrification include the fee-for-service model for PV service by ECs.
Since the closing of RPP, the Bank continued to support the DOE by hiring international
advisors to focus on scaling up sustainable business models, and developing required
policy and regulatory framework. As of mid-2013, DOE had made significant progress in
finalizing the proposed policy and regulatory framework, and was planning to initiate
nationwide consultations on the draft circular and rule-making petitions.
Continued support for the Philippines rural power sector. The experience with RPP,
ECSLRP and recent analytical work were instrumental in testing the applicability of
different approaches and instruments for supporting the energy sector. The experience
under these projects showed that amid changing credit market and sector conditions, the
underlying justification for Financial Intermediary lending no longer held, while credit
risk sharing proved to be critical for channeling commercial credit into the sector and
leveraging private sector resources. In light of the lessons from these experiences and
recognizing that changing circumstances necessitate novel approaches, the proposed
Philippines Renewable Energy Development Project (PHRED - FY2014) will support
RE projects through scaling up the highly successful ECPCG risk-sharing facility.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of PDO and GEO - high. As stated earlier, the PDO was fully aligned with
GOPs priorities and strategies and with the Bank's CAS discussed in 2002. The PDO
remains relevant with current GOP priorities, and the CPS for 2009-2013, which focuses
on improving governance and achieving growth that works for the poor. The GEO was
and remained consistent with national and global priorities. Climate change is a priority
area under the new CPS for 2013-2016 under discussion at the time of this ICR.
Relevance of Design - moderate. Although there were a few shortcomings, the basic
project design, combining investment support with policy and capacity building, and
comprising components that focused both on grid and decentralized electrification was
highly relevant at Board approval and remained so in 2009 when the AF was approved.
As stated in Section 2.1, project design built on experiences in the Philippines and in
other countries in delivering electricity to poor, rural areas. Appropriate technical
assistance and training were provided up front and the participating agencies could
"learn-by-doing". However, changes in external circumstances from 2010 onwards
significantly affected the relevance of the project design. With the shift in the credit
markets, the main justification for the line of credit no longer held true.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment
Objectives
PDO Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The project was making satisfactory progress toward the PDO when the AF was
approved in 2009. Indeed most of the original PDO level indicators were met if not
16


﻿exceeded.12 However, with the implementation challenges arising in 2010, the project fell
short of achieving its revised targets.
PDO - Supporting GOP's program for reforming the rural power sector. RPP was
instrumental in advancing GOP's rural power sector reform agenda by assisting with
issuance of key sector policies to tackle priority issues, such as the subsidy rationalization
and QTP regulatory frameworks, and updating of the MEDP. But perhaps more
importantly, the project allowed sector participants to learn by doing, through identifying
and testing workable solutions that could be scaled up.
PDO - Testing and demonstrating viable business models to leverage public
resources with private investment for decentralized electrification.
This was substantially achieved. RPP successfully tested different decentralized
electrification approaches that have the potential to meet GOP's electrification targets in
a sustainable manner, even if they were not demonstrated with absolute certainty.
RPP was instrumental in formalizing the QTP model for private sector participation, and
through technical, regulatory, and advisory support, led to the operationalization of the
first QTP in the country. The target of having two QTPs in place by closing was not
achieved, primarily because QTP requirements turned out to be quite cumbersome. RPP
helped identify and document these weaknesses, and contributed to simplifying the QTP
framework. Provided that the regulatory framework can be further simplified, this model
could present a sustainable solution for remote area electrification. The DOE reports that
the first QTP is considering expanding service to more houses and other parts of the
country, and two new other QTPs have been proposed by other entities.
As for solar PV, RPP demonstrated what will not work in the Philippines' context. As
discussed in Section 2, the dealer-based arrangements neither offered the potential to
achieve the scale of connections needed to meet GoP targets nor address sustainability
issues. The EC fee-for-service model, on the other hand, does offer the potential to meet
GOP targets sustainably. As the EC fee-for-service model was introduced rather late
(2010), its viability could not be fully demonstrated. Nonetheless, the fact that more than
3,50013 connections were delivered in that brief period, the participating ECs' interest in
scaling up SHS service, and the proposed development of a regulatory framework to
allow ECs to include this service as part of their business, are encouraging signs for the
achievement of the scale of connections required while also ensuring sustainability.
Related key results and outputs include:
* Over 20,975 rural electricity connections were provided under RPP, mostly
through solar PV, serving 17,340 households and 2,147 public facility
installations. In addition 1,450 household connections were provided via mini-
grids, thereby exceeding the revised target of 20,000 connections.
12 This ICR is using the PAD PDO because the KPI in the PAD are better aligned with that PDO. As mentioned in
Section 2.3, the PAD had no social economic indicators that would support statements about the project's impact on
quality of life in rural areas.
13 As of RPP closing date, 2,100 SHS had been provided. In the year that followed project closing, additional systems
were installed by the participating ECs, with DOE support. Annex 2 has further details on installations under RPP.
17


﻿* Seven Participating Companies accredited by the DOE as well as 12 ECs became
operational in rural areas, and their involvement offers the possibility of
leveraging GOP resources with their own funds.
PDO - Supporting transformation of ECs. RPP contributed to the transformation of
the ECs by (a) providing much-needed financing for network rehabilitation and upgrade
investments when such was not accessible at reasonable terms; and (b) contributing to
O&M improvements through capacity building. Key results are discussed below:
(a) DBP widened the available financing options for the rural energy sector and the
ECs in particular. Even though substantial changes in the credit markets
negatively affected the project, RPP played a significant role in demonstrating
that ECs were a viable market for commercial lenders.
(b) The rehabilitation and upgrade investments enabled the ECs to reduce their
system losses, with annual reductions estimated ranging from 44 MWh/ year, to
11,379 MWh/year, ECs' losses were reduced between 0.9 percentage points to 4.5
percentage points (see Section 3.3, Annexes 2 and 3). The total 22 GWh saved by
the six ECs represents 2.7% of the total 815 GWh delivered by those ECs.
(c) In the medium term, loss reductions achieved can allow ECs to purchase less
power to meet the same demand, thereby reducing their operational costs, and
eventually leading to lower tariffs for consumers. In addition, system upgrades
should allow the ECs to connect new customers through line extensions without
adversely impacting supply for existing ones. (Unfortunately quantitative data on
these impacts was not available so this discussion is more qualitative.)
(d) At closing, all ECs supported were financially viable, as measured by debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1. However, this success cannot be fully attributed to
RPP. These improvements can also be explained by the availability of new
financing in favorable terms, changes in ECs' management practices, improved
oversight by NEA and ERC, and other operational enhancements.
However, with US$26.3 million (66%) of the AF canceled at closing, the project could
not reach its full impact, especially in loss reductions, considering that the majority of the
subprojects in the pipeline in its last year were for EC system rehabilitation and upgrades.
Achievement of GEO - moderately unsatisfactory. With an estimated 23,181 tons of
CO2 per year avoided as a result of its outputs, the project exceeded the original target
of avoiding 20,000 tons of CO2 per year; however, it fell far short of meeting the revised
target of avoiding 40,000 tons/year which became impossible when IBRD AF
implementation faltered. This was because the additional CO2 emissions avoidance was
primarily going to be delivered by a 10 MW biomass power plant which was in the AF
pipeline, but did not end up being financed. The majority of the GHG benefits delivered
under RPP are due to small hydropower plants that were developed with help from the
DBP credit line (14,120 tons/year), followed by efficiency improvements in EC grids
(8,500 tons/year), and SHS installations (560 tons/year). Achievement of the GEO based
purely on the CO2 emissions reduction would be rated unsatisfactory, but the GEF can
count other achievements that will be beneficial over the longer term: (a) demonstration
of the renewable energy in rural areas as viable options for commercial lenders; (b) the
initiation of the EC fee-service-model, which has the potential of substantially scaling up
18


﻿solar PV installations in the medium term; and (c) support by DOE for market
development, technical guidance and accreditation for RET suppliers, which could have a
catalytic effect on the development of the off-grid renewable energy market.
Achievement of Core Sector Indicators for Renewable Energy.              The project
contributed to meeting three Core Sector Indicators for renewable energy as seen below:
Indicator                                          Value
Generation capacity of renewable energy (other than  0.062*
hydropower) constructed (MW)
Number of people provided with access to electricity  73,949**
under the project by household connections (off-grid):
Number of community electricity connections under the  2,277
project (other renewable).                        I
*275kWp in SHS +345kWp in publicfacility PV installations + solar lanterns
** 1,450 HH connected via mini-grids + 14,626 HH via SHS = 16,076 HH, converted to people count based on average HHsize of
4.6 people, from 2012 census. It is likely that this estimate is conservative, considering larger average HH size in rural areas.
3.3 Efficiency
While the economic and financial returns of mini-hydropower plants and EC efficiency
improvements fully met appraisal expectations, efficiency of the project is rated
moderately unsatisfactory, taking into account the cancellation of a significant share of
the AF. In the case of mini-hydropower plants, all subprojects have good returns and
positive impacts on EC cash flows. The reduction in revenue requirements provided the
opportunity for rate reductions to all EC consumers, though given the small scale of the
projects, the aggregate potential tariff reduction will be small. In the case of efficiency
improvements and rehabilitation of existing rural EC systems, the economic analysis for
the aggregate of six small investments (total capital cost $8.6 million, 90% provided by
RPP) shows an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 37.6% (NPV US$ 17.4million).14
These are good economic returns, typical of rehabilitation projects. They are also likely
to be conservative, insofar as no credit is taken for additional customers who have
connected to the rehabilitated system. Returns are robust: switching value for avoided
cost of generation is 6.9 US cents/kWh, substantially below the cost of thermal
generation and substantially below estimates of consumer willingness to pay (WTP).
The efficiency of the GEF project is rated moderately unsatisfactory, on account of the
significant time and resources spent focusing on the SHS dealer model, which did not
prove sustainable, and the high costs of PV electricity when diesel is a viable alternative.
ICR economic and financial analysis shows that the high supply chain and O&M costs of
solar home systems are justified where diesel is not technically feasible. The analysis
found that the ERR for SHS, against the no-project alternative (using WTP as proxy for
benefits) is in the 13.5-21% range, depending on assumptions. When diesel is a viable
alternative, however, electricity from SHS remains significantly more expensive than
diesel: in those cases, when SHS is compared to diesel generation the ERR is negative,
and economic returns are only marginally above the hurdle rate. This analysis implies
that while PV mainstreaming may be financially and technically sustainable, and
14 The assumption is that the loan amounts (known to have been disbursed) account for 90% of the total project cost
(given the 10% equity requirement of the DBP). Annual O&M costs are assumed at 2% of the capital investment
19


﻿therefore may constitute an improvement over other implementation models, it also could
come at a high price, particularly where diesel is a viable alternative. However, where
diesel is not a feasible option for various reasons (highly dispersed households, inability
to transport diesel engines in remote areas, or hindrance of diesel fuel supply in the wet
season), solar PV is the least cost option, and can be justified on the basis of WTP
according to rural energy surveys. See Annex 3 for full analysis.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome and Global Environment Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The PDO remained fully relevant from start to finish, but the relevance of the project
design diminished starting 2010 and the AF could not be fully committed. Although the
outcome targets of the original loan and the triggers for APL2 were met, the original loan
represented only one fifth of the $50 million combined Bank financing, of which nearly
half was canceled. AF implementation faltered and the revised outcomes could not be
achieved, leading to moderately unsatisfactory achievement of the PDO. The GEO for the
GEF remained relevant but revised targets could not be met due to implementation
challenges under the AF. Efficiency of both projects is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
Therefore, the overall outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As a result of RPP, 18,790 households and 2,185 public facilities, including schools,
health centers, and barangay halls, received electricity connections through SHS, solar
lanterns and mini-grids. No systematic poverty assessment was conducted, but it is
possible to observe quality of life improvements. Anecdotal observations are consistent
with studies documenting similar experiences in other countries and surveys carried out
in the Philippines, all showing that quality of life and household earnings improve with
electrification15. DOE's Borrower Completion Report and other project outputs report
positive impacts on families and women in the project areas. (Examples are provided in
Annex 5). In field visits in Palawan in 2011 and in Bohol in 2013, households reported
overall satisfaction with SHS. Benefits cited included better quality and safer lighting
compared to alternatives such as kerosene; improved sense of safety; increased evening
study times for children along with enhanced educational outcomes; availability of news
broadcasts and entertainment; enhanced communications due to cell phone usage. In
Bohol, the interviewed households that participated in the EC PV mainstreaming pilot
expressed satisfaction with customer service. For households that had informal service
connections to diesel generators, the availability of SHS enabled them to reduce their
energy expenditures. In case of small hydropower projects, in addition to the increased
availability of reliable supply for the EC grid, benefits observed included employment in
the construction and operations of the project, medical and dental programs for local
15 ESMAP "Rural Electrification and Development in the Philippines: Measuring the Social and Economic Benefits,
2002: D. Barnes, V. Tuntivate, and K. Fitzgerald, 2008. "The Welfare Impact ofRural Electrification: A Reassessment
ofthe Costs and Benefits; S. Khandker, D. Barnes, H. Samad, and H.M. Nguyen. 2009. "Welfare Impacts ofRural
Electrification: Evidence from Vietnam,"; and D. Gencer, P. Meier, R. Spencer and H.T. Van, "State and People,
Central and Local, Working Together: The Vietnam Rural Electrification Experience"
20


﻿communities, educational assistance, training and supply of seedlings for watershed
rehabilitation. Moreover, Bank site visits and discussions with indigenous peoples'
leaders revealed that communities in project areas were satisfied with assistance in those
areas. At a higher level, the subsidy rationalization work completed under RPP can
contribute to better outcomes by improving the efficiency of allocation of limited
resources available for rural electrification by eliminating overlaps, improved targeting of
subsidies to poor households, and enhancing affordability of electricity service.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project contributed to institutional strengthening not only for DOE and DBP as, but
also helped build institutional capacity for private RE developers, participating RET
companies, ECs, microfinance institutions and NGOs. Broader institutional impact is
expected to accrue in the medium term as a result of various policy studies that the
project supported, including the QTP policy framework, and through demonstrating the
EC sector as a viable market for commercial lenders.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
An Implementation Completion and Results review workshop, bringing together key
stakeholders involved in the RPP experience, was held in Manila in February 2011. Main
messages and conclusions emerging from the workshop are summarized in Annex 6.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment Outcome
Rating: Moderate
A. Risks to the success of the Government's program for the rural power sector
Change in government priorities. The most important risk is reduced GoP commitment
to expanding electricity access. However, taking into account GoP's strong commitment
as demonstrated through the targets and plans outlined in the HEDP, and the allocation of
significant government resources to new programs such as Barangay Light Enhancement
and Sitio Electrification, this risk is low.
Reduction in financing for rural electrification. If electrification ceases to be a GoP
priority, this would have a bearing on the allocation of government funds to various
electrification programs and would negatively impact efforts to mobilize resources from
the private sector, commercial lenders and donors. This would be particularly detrimental
to electrification of remote and unviable areas, and poor rural households would be put at
a disadvantage. Unless there is a fundamental change in the macroeconomic situation or
GOP policy directions, the likelihood of this risk materializing is low.
Presence of competing initiatives. RPP experience showed that inadequate coordination
of different GOP and donor initiatives for rural electrification results in inefficiencies in
allocation of limited resources, and even impacts the achievement of sector outcomes,. If
GoP targets are to be met in a sustainable way, the issue of competing initiatives must be
addressed and the roles of GoP agencies further clarified. This risk is moderate.
21


﻿B.     Risks to viability of business models for decentralized electrification.
Continuation of complicated regulatory requirements for QTP. Despite the success in
setting up the QTP regulatory framework, operationalizing the one QTP took nearly five
years. If this model is to be a real option for greater PSP in rural electrification, the
regulatory requirements need to be simplified, timing for approvals shortened, and
process for accessing subsidies accelerated, in order to ensure continued private sector
interest. DOE is currently exploring simplifications to this mechanism, and plans to work
with ERC to advance these efforts. If these efforts are inadequate, the impact on QTP
development could be significant. This risk is rated moderate.
Disregard for true requirements for sustainability of PV electricity service. Inadequate
attention to sustainability can affect commercial viability of business models, along with
the accrual of economic and social benefits. The PV mainstreaming model being
considered for scale-up offers an opportunity to address the sustainability question. The
risk that the sustainability question would remain unresolved is rated moderate, provided
that the model is governed by a suitable policy and regulatory framework.
Incomplete policy and regulatory framework for solar PV as part of ECs' mainstream
business. Completion of suitable policy and regulatory framework for PV mainstreaming
is essential. The ECs need to be able to collect tariffs from their customers to cover a
portion of the cost of the SHS16, and the cost of ongoing services after installation. This
will require the approval of corresponding tariffs by ERC. Where there are affordability
concerns, the ECs will need to be able to access GOP subsidies for the poorest
households. Given the focus on output-based approaches for subsidy delivery, and ECs'
inability to maintain cash reserves beyond minimal working capital requirements (as they
are regulated as not-for-profit), the ECs will need upfront financing at reasonable terms,
for purchase of SHS. The inclusion of the EC fee-for-service model in the DOE's HEDP,
recent efforts for issuance of a policy circular, and plans for subsequent cooperation with
ERC for rulemaking and approval of standard tariffs for solar PV service are cause for
optimism. This risk is rated moderate.
Inappropriate targeting of SHS service in remote areas. SHS service must be deployed
only where it is the most appropriate technology, i.e., in remote areas with low
populations densities, where other alternatives are not viable, and where there are no
plans to extend the grid in the near term. If incorrectly targeted, SHS electrification
efforts could fail and would waste resources. This risk can be mitigated through proper
market assessments and careful balancing of SHS electrification efforts with EC network
expansion plans and various ongoing government programs. The risk is rated moderate.
C.     Risks to EC operational and institutional performance.
Undue pressure on ECs to accelerate electrification resulting in reversal of loss
reductions achieved. RPP rehabilitation and upgrading investments enabled the ECs to
reduce system losses, allowing them to purchase less power to meet demand, reducing
costs and enabling connection of new customers without adversely impacting existing
16 In light of low affordability in the remote unviable areas, it is anticipated that the upfront capital costs for majority of
the systems will need to be subsidized, similar to the government subsidies available for grid extensions to meet
missionary electrification goals.
22


﻿customers. If any government initiatives place undue pressure on the ECs to extend their
lines without due consideration to accommodating new customers, it is possible that the
loss reduction achievements under RPP may be reversed. This risk is rated moderate.
Change in financing environment As a result of the substantive changes in the
financing markets and availability of credit risk enhancement, ECs are enjoying access to
relatively low-cost financing with longer tenors.17 Since some loans offered to the ECs
are at variable rates, a significant reversal in the macroeconomic conditions or credit
markets would likely impact their financing costs and repayments. The medium term
outlook appears favorable, but if such a reversal took place, it would significantly impact
the ECs' viability, particularly if tariffs were not adjusted. This risk is rated moderate.
D.     Risks to the global environmental outcomes and CO2 emissions avoidance
The assets delivering the GHG savings - upgraded portions of EC networks, small
hydropower plants and SHS - are already in place. The CO2 avoidance accomplishments
could be at risk if these assets stop operating due to management, operational, financial,
resource constraints or technical issues. The risk is moderate.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
RPP design was the outcome of extensive upstream analytical work and research into
lessons from past experience in the Philippines and other countries and was closely
aligned with GoP priorities and the CAS. In the time leading up to project identification,
the Bank's sector analytical work and policy dialogue with GoP, along with the
preparation of a sector policy note, contributed to the preparation of the DOE's rural
power sector strategy and reform framework. During RPP preparation, the Bank team
supported GOP in designing the project to meet the Bank's technical, financial, economic,
fiduciary, social and environment standards. The team comprised senior staff and
consultants with diverse technical expertise and international experience, as well as
safeguards and fiduciary staff that supported the client in preparation of environmental
and social frameworks for the IBRD loan. The team provided continuous technical
support to the DOE and DBP and mobilized financial resources from various trust funds
to support their own preparatory work, including TA grants. The more than US$1 million
in trust funds mobilized complemented the $568,500 spent on project preparation out of
the Bank's own budget, over the course of five years. Another $46,000 was spent to
prepare the AF. The Bank budget spent is above normal project preparation costs, but is
nonetheless reasonable, considering the substantial preparatory work required to design a
comprehensive, complex multi-phase program supporting sector reform.
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory, taking
into account the impact of design choices on outcomes, as discussed in Section 2.1,
17 Although data on their cost of financing is not available, anecdotal information suggests that commercial banks are
offering loans as low as 6 percent for tenors up to 10 years.
23


﻿including NEA and ECs' non-involvement in grid connected electrification and solar PV
activities. Even though project objectives were clear and relevant, the Results Framework
to monitor progress could have been better as discussed in Section 2.3.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank regularly supervised the project, carrying out more than 20 supervision
missions over the course of the eight and a half year project life. Implementation Status
Reports (ISRs) were filed regularly. ISR ratings were mostly candid but there was a slight
disconnect in 2006, when GEF project continued to be rated satisfactory, despite delays
and limited achievements, except policy decisions. The Bank correctly downgraded the
PDO and AF implementation ratings, first to moderately satisfactory, and thereafter to
moderately unsatisfactory 2012. US$602,000 in Bank budget was spent on supervision.
The task team was strong, comprising a core team of senior energy sector staff based in
Washington and Manila. The team mobilized international expert consultants as needed
to respond to implementing agencies' needs. During the early years, when GEF Grant
implementation was moving slowly, the team dedicated significant effort to supporting
the DOE in accelerating implementation and troubleshooting activities, both during face-
to-face interactions during formal missions and through correspondence. The team
worked closely with DOE to overcome initial project management and capacity barriers,
and provided guidance on a range of technical issues, including helping design the SSMP
approach for PV electrification. Similarly, in the last two years of RPP, when the DBP
credit line was facing challenges, the team made extensive efforts to support DBP in
identifying solutions, through developing action plans to the project, engaging with NEA
to identify potential quick-win projects that could be implemented by ECs and financed
through the DBP credit line. Throughout project implementation, safeguards and
fiduciary staff performed their due diligence.
Nonetheless, there were some weaknesses in supervision. The pipeline of projects could
under the AF have been more critically scrutinized to assess their likelihood of coming to
financial closing, particularly after credit market conditions changed. Another
shortcoming was that the team did not attempt to update the 2003-era Results Framework
to 2009 standards, nor realign the PDOs.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank's performance in both preparation and supervision was moderately satisfactory,
making the overall rating also moderately satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
In the period leading up to project approval, the GoP's strong commitment to reforming
to the rural power sector was demonstrated by its sector reform strategy and action plan,
and its Letter of Sector Development program which reaffirmed its commitment to the
24


﻿program. The Government satisfactorily met the covenants in the legal agreements.
Throughout the duration of RPP, GoP commitment to the rural power sector reform
program, the objectives of RPP, and achievement of outcomes remained strong despite
the various challenges faced. A Project Supervisory Committee (PSC), chaired by DOE
and with participation of oversight agencies and DBP was set up to provide overall policy
direction, guidance and supervision for the policy and institutional reforms supported
under the program. GoP commitment was demonstrated by issuance of key policy
documents supported under RPP, particularly the policy framework for streamlining and
rationalizing subsidies for missionary electrification using solar PV systems'8; and QTP
electric service in remote areas deemed unviable by franchised distribution utilitiesl9
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
DBP - Moderately Satisfactory. DBP's performance under the first loan was satisfactory,
with the loan fully committed a year ahead of closing and triggers for APL2 met.
Although subprojects appraised during preparation did not materialize, DBP was
effective in identifying new potential projects. DBP was responsive to sub-borrowers and
accommodated their needs in face of challenges. When external factors began impacting
the competitiveness of RPP credit line, and risked the achievement of RPP outcomes,
DBP introduced its turnaround plan in mid-2011. DBP was flexible and willing to try
different solutions - including rate reduction, targeting new borrowers, and working with
NEA - but some major decisions took time to complete, leaving limited time to deliver a
satisfactory outcome. DBP successfully disbursed $10 million in four years under the
original loan, and more than $14 million in three years under the AF. There were no
major safeguards issues, but some minor weaknesses in supervision. FM performance
under the AF was satisfactory, while procurement performance was moderately
satisfactory. Even though the IBRD loan was not fully used and revised targets were not
met, DBP made a much larger contribution to the sector, through its pioneering role in
expanding the range of financing options for the rural energy sector, and demonstrating
ECs as a viable market for commercial lenders. In light of these significant achievements
and minor shortcomings, DBP's performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
DOE - Moderately Satisfactory. GEF grant implementation started slowly, and DOE
PMO's capacity was weak in the early years. Once initial hurdles were overcome and
PMO was strengthened from 2006 onwards, DOE was effective in project
implementation. Early on, DOE successfully delivered on key policy commitments for
sector reform: the QTP framework and subsidy rationalization policy. As solar PV
models faced challenges, DOE demonstrated flexibility, adaptability and diligence in
finding solutions to overcome those challenges and fine-tune the models. DOE was also
efficient in TA delivery to various sector participants, and advising them on day-to-day
implementation activities. Nonetheless, intensive efforts dedicated to making the solar
PV models work meant that other activities that had been originally intended were not
18 DOE Circular, DC 2004-05-005, dated May 28, 2004
19 DOE Circular, DC 2004-06-006, dated June 18, 2004, Prescribing the Qualification Criteria for the QTP, and ERC
Resolution No. 22, S 2006, promulgating the Rules for the Regulation of QTPs performing missionary electrification in
areas declared unviable.
25


﻿carried out, such as TA for livelihoods improvement, and support for small hydro mini-
grid development. DOE PMO faced internal administrative constraints posed by the
DOE's regular procurement and accounting procedures, leading to issues that took
months to resolve. Project procurement practices implemented were not mainstreamed
into DOE's agency procurement system. Weighing major accomplishments against minor
weaknesses, DOE performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Both the DOE and the DBP closely managed project implementation, monitored progress
toward achieving project objectives and were effective in working with the Bank team
during formal supervision missions, and through regular correspondence. Taking into
account the minor shortcomings outlined in the individual assessments of implementing
agencies, overall Borrower performance rating is moderately satisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned
In line of credit operations, being demand-driven is essential, and this needs to be
balanced with due diligence, demand-building, marketing, and upfront technical
support. Line of credit operations require significant coordination of different moving
parts, and a lot of upstream work needs to be done to establish a pipeline of bankable
projects that can be brought to closing. Effort should be made to identify potential
projects far enough upstream, and offer upfront technical support to developers, to help
them prepare a good project. This is preferable to the alternative of trying to retrofit an
already prepared project to meet the requirements of the Bank or other financial
intermediary (FI). Strong outreach by a team that knows the sector, understands its needs,
and is able to demonstrate the comparative advantage of the specific financial product -
long tenor and fixed rates, in the case of RPP - is a key ingredient in moving a line of
credit. In the case of regulated sectors, such as electricity distribution, the FT should have
a good understanding the processes in order to allow for smooth loan preparation and
closing. Periodic reviews of credit market conditions are essential to make sure that the
justification for the credit line still holds and underlying assumptions, including cost of
alternatives, remain valid. Such reviews can be included in project operations manuals.
Flexibility is crucial for credit lines and other facilities targeting rural electrification
and renewable energy. Flexibility in the types of subprojects that can be financed under
a facility was a very strong point of RPP's design, allowing DBP to concentrate its efforts
on subprojects that offered the most potential. Flexibility in terms of targeting of
borrowers is also useful, as it allows the FT to approach a new group of potential
borrowers that may be interested in the funds offered, if changing circumstances mean
originally targeted borrowers are no longer interested. RPP experience demonstrated that
flexibility in terms of financing terms that can be offered to targeted borrowers can have
a strong bearing on project success. When there are changes in external factors impacting
the relative competitiveness of a credit line, the FT may need to look into adjusting its
margins, mobilizing other sources of funds, or using its own balance sheet without
undercutting commercial rates. The FT can also offer longer tenors which would offer a
comparative advantage for such a line of credit operation.
26


﻿Effective coordination of different government and donor initiatives targeting the same
issue is imperative. This applies to both the multiplicity of government, donor and
private sector solar PV initiatives that had been going on at the same time, as well as the
different credit enhancement mechanisms targeting the ECs. Overlapping efforts usually
result in duplication of efforts wasted resources. Activities that are at best redundant and
at worst contradictory are likely to be detrimental to the success of each initiative,
particularly for attempts to promote market-based approaches. If close coordination of
allocation of resources to different priority programs is not possible due to resource or
authority constraints, it is necessary to inventory all different initiatives and make that
information publicly available on a government agency website to guide new entrants.
While designing off-grid electrification business models, it is advisable to think long
and hard about sustainability up front, and remember that there are different ways of
ensuring sustainability. In the case of RPP, the model that was identified as offering the
highest potential for sustainability involved the provision of PV electricity service by
regulated distribution utilities. Even though this utility-based model does appear
promising for addressing the challenges peculiar to the Philippines, it may very well not
be the best choice for other countries. In fact, the dealer model, with different contractual
arrangements to ensure sustainability, is delivering good outcomes in countries with
different circumstances than the Philippines, such as Bangladesh, Cambodia, China and
Mongolia. Therefore, when designing new programs, it is worth closely investigating why
- under what contexts and conditions - other initiatives worked elsewhere and
approaching "flavor of the day" concepts with caution. Lessons from other countries
should be carefully adapted to the target country's specific conditions.
Solar PV should be part of a balanced portfolio of decentralized electrification
solutions. As the RPP economic analysis shows, in cases where diesel generation is a
viable alternative, SHS is not the least cost economic option. In simple terms, this is
because there are limited economies of density in some remote areas of the Philippines,
due to peculiar geographical and topographical challenges. In light of the sizable supply
chain costs of getting SHS to consumers, if there is insufficient concentration of
consumers in one area (or groups of adjacent areas), the cost of service and O&M rises
significantly. Nonetheless, there will be cases where SHS is the most viable option, such
as in remote areas with widely dispersed households, where diesel generation is not
feasible due to fuel availability, supply reliability and financial issues. SHS offers
obvious technical and financial advantages in those cases. Considering the type of
reliable daily service that SHS can provide, if properly maintained, it is a perfectly
appropriate policy choice. SHS should be chosen only where the rationale is strongest.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Implementing agencies' comments on the draft ICR are available in Annex 7, along with
a summary of their completion reports. There are no comments on issues raised by the
implementing agencies.
27


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Rural Power Project - P066397
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Components                Estimate       Estimate
(USD millions) (USD millions)
1. Rural Electrification Subprojects    16.3           16.3           100%
Total Project Cost     16.3           16.3           100%
Front-end fee IBRD                     0.1            0.1           100%
Total Financing Required       16.4           16.4           100%
PH-GEF-Rural Power Project - P072096
Appraisal      Actual/Latest
Components                       Estimate (USD  Estimate (USD   prageao
millions)      millions)
1. Rural Electrification Subprojects  1.1            0.71            65%
2. Partial Credit Guarantee Fund       1             0.2             20%
3. Capacity Building                  7.9             6.2            78%
Total Project Costs                    10            7.11            71%
Front-end fee                          0              0
Total Financing Required               10            7.11            71%
Additional Financing for the Rural Power Project - P113159
Appraisal     Actual/Latest
Components             Estimate (USD  Estimate (USD    prageao
millions)      millions)
1. Rural Electrification Subprojects  48.321        19.49            40%
Total Project Cost    48.321          19.49           40%
Front-end fee IBRD                 48.321          19.49           40%
Total Financing Required      48.321         19.49            40%
28


﻿(b) Financing
Rural Power Project - P066397 and PH-GEF-Rural Power Project - P072096
Appraisal Actual/Latest
Type of      Estimate    Estimate  Percentage of
Financing      (USD        (USD      Appraisal
millions)   millions)
Borrower                    Grant               3.4         3.13       92%
Global Environment Facility  Grant                9         7.4        82%
(GEF)
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Local Sources of Borrowing  Loan and equity     3.2        6.9         16%
Country
UN Development Programme     Grant                1          0.2       20%
Additional Financing for the Rural Power Project - P113159
Appraisal   Actual/Latest
Type of       Estimate    Estimate    Percentage of
Financing     (USD        (USD        Appraisal
millions)   millions)
Borrower                    Grant
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Local Sources of Borrowing  Loan                       4.86
Country
Sub-borrower(s)             Equity                     2.40*
*1USD = Php 44.12
29


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1 - Rural Electrification Subproiects
IBRD Loan - DBP
Table A2.1 - Eligible beneficiaries and projects under the DBP credit line
Eligible Beneficiaries       Eligible Projects   Eligible Loan Purposes
> Type A -RESCO,QTP,         ) Power               Capital Investment
NGO, Coops, & LGUs           Distribution           Working Capital
> Type B - RET               ) Power Generation    Interest during construction
Purchasers/Suppliers         (conventional  and  period
> Type C - Electric         renewable energy)      Consultant's Services
Cooperatives                                       Acquisition of existing sub-
> Type D - Private Sector                        transmission lines
Proponents (i.e. PDU), LGUs
> Participating Financial
Intermediaries
Source: DBP
Table A2.2 - DBP Rural Power Project Portfolio
(In Million Pesos)
Sub-borrower      Purpose of Loan                Approved Loan         Total
releases
WB       Other   Total
 Bohol Electric  2.5 MW Sevilla Mini-
Cooperative       Hydro Power Project
(BOHECO)                     Original Loan  74.57   59.43     134.00
Additional Loan  125.00           125.00
Total Loan  199.57  59.43     259.00    199.57
2   Romblon Electric  900kW Cantingas River
Cooperative       Mini-Hydro
(ROMELCO)                    Original Loan  73.50             73.50
Additional Loan  19.64             19.64
Total Loan  93.14             93.14      93.14
3   Batanes Electric    Rehabilitation of electric
Cooperative       distribution lines        10.00             10.00      9.82
(BATANELCO)
4   LGU-Claveria      Diesel generating set     13.84              13.84     13.84
5   Rural Bank of     Livelihood micro-
Mabitac, Inc.     housing/home improvement   1.00              1.00      0.52
(solar)
6   Peninsula Electric  Distribution System
Cooperative, Inc.  Upgrading/Rehabilitation  100.00           100.00    100.00
(PENELCO)
7   Samar  Electric  Upgrading of substation
Cooperative, Inc.                           18.50             18.50      16.53
(SAMELCO 11)
30


﻿8   Palawan Power    Bunker C fuel generator   39.28             39.28     39.28
Corporation
9   Cebu Electric    Upgrading/Rehabilitation
Cooperative, Inc.  of Distribution System  220.00           220.00     21.02
(CEBECO)
10  Agusan Electric   Construction of 69 KV
Cooperative, Inc.  transmission lines      60.00             60.00     58.71
(ASELCO)
11 Negros Occidental Upgrading/Rehabilitation
Electric          of distribution system.  42.00             42.00     42.00
Cooperative, Inc.  Purchase of sub-
(NOCECO)*        transmission assets
12  Oriental Mindoro  Construction of 4.2 MW
Electric          Mini-hydro Power Project  49000           490.00
Cooperative, Inc.
(ORMECO)                     Original Loan
Additional Loan  220.06          220.06
Total Loan  710.06                     455.05
13  Capiz Electric   Upgrading/Rehabilitation
Cooperative, Inc.  of distribution system.  110.00           110.00    110.00
(CAPELCO)*
Total (in Pesos)                          1,617.4   59.4    1,657.2   1,159.5
Total (in USD)                                                         25.27
*Approved loan was reduced to actual amount availed.
Source: DBP
Table A2.3 - Electric Cooperatives Debt Service Coverage Ratios
Electric
Cooperative          DSCR
1. CAPELCO               1.06
2. NOCECO                7.16
3. BATANELCO            0.36
4. ASELCO***             3.66
5. PENELCO               6.84
6. BOHECO I             2.83
7. ROMELCO               1.94
8. ORMECO****           2.19
9. CEBECO***            4.79
Fully paid as of
10. SAMELCO II    December 31, 2011
*  Interim 2012 Financial Statement
**** Audited 2011 Financial Statement
Source: DBP calculations based on Audited Financial Statements
31


﻿Table A2.4 - EC losses before and after RPP
Losses      Losses        Loss     Delivered
Acronym        Project type      before       After     reduction     energy
MWh         MWh
Batanes Electric    BATANELC        Rehabilitation of      8.1%         7.2%          44        4,833
Coop. Inc.          0              Distribution
Facilities
Samar II Electric   SAMELCO II Upgrading of               13.9%       13.9%             0      53,039
Coop. Inc.                          Substation
Agusan del Sur      ASELCO          Construction of       16.0%        10.5%        6622      121,054
Electric Coop. Inc.                 69kV
transmission
lines
Peninsula Electric  PENELCO        Rehabilitation of      12.6%        9.0%        11379     310,045
Coop. Inc.                          Distribution
Facilities
Negros Occidental NOCECO            Construction of       13.0%       11.0%         3512      174,750
Electric Coop. Inc.                 69kV
transmission
lines and 10
MVA substation
Capiz Electric      CAPELCO        Rehabilitation of      12.4%       11.8%          862      151,286
Coop. Inc.                         Distribution
Facilities
_____________  _________ ___________22,420                               815,006
GEF Grant - DOE
Figure A2.1 - Achievements of SHS business models tested under RPP
*2003-2011                  *2006-2010                  *2009-2011
* Private company           * Aggregates demand         - ECs install SHS for       -efservice
sales to individual         across sectorsina           at least 20                 provisionof
householdsona               cluster of                  households and PVs          electricityuing
cash or credit basis        contiguous                  systemsicrpublic            stand-alone SHS, a
* Output-based grants        barangays                   facilities.                 part of the ECs
provided to private        * Contracted dealers         Repayments to the           regularbusiness
companies to reduce         to installPV               -ECscover                   *EC provides service
initial costofPV            systems in public           transaction costs to        fora monthly fee
systems                     facilities with the         set up a revolving
* GEF Grant support          obligation to sellforpurchase of                                 of the
forpromotionand            SHS on a                    mor SIS                     S
capacity-building           commercial basis to        * Houehold owns              households and is
through MDSF                householders within         systems in the end          responsible for
* Funding support            the same clusterof          Implementedby six           installation, repairs,
and credit access           communities                 ECS participating in        maintenance and
through MFIs and a         * Dealers required to        the RMote Area              replacement of
partial credit              market, sell and            Electrificatica             components
guarantee facility          maintain systems            subsidy (RAES)              Pilotedbv6 ECs in
*TotalH    ciit              after installation          Program                     the Visain
connections: 8,054         * Total HH                   Total HH                   *TotalHH
SHS and 2,714               connections: 2,590          connections: 1,882          connections: 2,100
solarlanterms              *Public facilities:         -Public facilities:
sPublic fafilities: 50       1,554                       581
Source: World Bank staff, based on figures and data from DOE Completion Report
32


﻿Table A2.5 - Total PV Installations under the RPP
Dealer           Lease-to-  EC fee for  Total
model    SSMP      own      service     RPP
SHS           8,054    2,590    1,882     2,100     14,626
Lanterns      2,714                                  2,714
Public
facilities     50      1,554    581                  2,185
Total
installations  10,818  4,144    2,463     2,100     19,525
In addition, a total of 1,450 households were connected via mini-grids bringing the total
of 20,975 new customers in rural areas provided with mini-grid electrical connection or
individual RET services.
Source: DOE
Table A2.6 - Solar PV installations under SSMP packages
SSMP 1          SSMP 3           SSMP 3
No. of Barangays      75             136               72
Public Facilities    436            734               384
Household Sales      242            2163               185
(Actual)
Donor          Mirant in       KEPCO            KEPCO
partnership
with AMORE
and ILPI
Contractor(s)     Solarco        Dumalag           Dumalag
Propmech          Propmech
Source: DOE
Table A2.7 - Solar PV installations by ECs participating in the fee for service model
Electric Cooperative  Acronym      No. of   Public          HH Sales
Bgys.    Facilities*
No.     kWp
Agusan del Sur                     13       77      11.5    260
Electric Cooperative,  ASELCO
Inc.
Cotabato Electric    COTELCO       2        12      1.8     40
Cooperative, Inc.
Lanao del Norte EC,                60       360     54.0    1,201
Inc.                 LANECO
Sultan Kudarat                     3        18      2.7     80
Electric Cooperative,
Inc.                 SUKELCO
Palawan Electric     PALECO        32       160     22.4    640
33


﻿Electric Cooperative  Acronym       No. of   Public          HH Sales
Bgys.    Facilities*
No.     kWp
Cooperative
19       114      17.1   301
Zamboanga Sur II EC, ZAMSURECO
Inc.
Total                               97       581     87.1    1,882
Source: DOE
Table A2.8 - Solar PV installations by ECs Participating in the PV Mainstreaming
Monthly
Electric Cooperative           No. of HH       PV Size      Fee per
Bantayan Island Electric Cooperative, Inc.  350        350 x 75 Wp      390
(BANELCO)
Bohol II Electric Cooperative, Inc.         300        300 x 50 Wp      200
(BOHECO II)
50 x 25 Wp       120
Cebu II Electric Cooperative Inc.           300        150 x 50 Wp      220
(CEBECO II)
100 x 75 Wp      320
Negros Occidental Electric Cooperative, Inc.  300      300 x 50 Wp      250
(NOCECO)
Negros Oriental I Electric Cooperative, Inc.  300       63 x 50 Wp      195
(NORECO 1)                                             237 x 75 Wp      295
150 x 25 Wp      150
Victoria Rural Electric Service Cooperative,  520
Inc. (VRESCO)                                          150 x 50 Wp      250
220 x 75Wp       350
Total                      2,070
Source: DOE
Table A2.9 - MDSF and Incubator Projects
Grantee                                 Activity
MDSF PROJECTS
1. SOLARCO #1             Market and field research
2. Shell Solar Phils.     Sales training and product launch support
3. GenDiesel Phils.       Training, promotion, market survey, business development
4. World Water Phils.     Market assessment, marketing plan, training of network
personnel
5. People's Credit and    Training for PCFC-accredited MFI partners on micro energy
Finance Corporation    credit facility
(PCFC)
6. SURE #1                Marketing and sales of solar lanterns
34


﻿Grantee                                 Activity
7. Del Genta #1           Marketing and sales in Central Mindanao
8. SOLARCO #2             Marketing and sales in Palawan
9. SURE #2                Marketing and sales of SHS in previous lantern markets
10. Paglaum Multi-Purpose  Marketing and sales in North Western Mindanao
Cooperative
11. Propmech              Marketing and sales in SSMP 2 and 3 areas
12. Del Genta #2          Solar Home System (SHS) Market Development 2010
13. Dumalag               Development of sales and service capability in Iloilo, Eastern
Samar, Western Samar, and Leyte
INCUBATOR PROJECTS
14. Del Genta and Solidarity  Commercial sale of PV systems in Mindanao through
for Community Devt.    Solidarity Coop.
Coop
15. Del Genta and Central  Commercial sale of PV systems in Mindanao through
Mindanao BRECDA        BRECDAs
Federation
16. SURE - Rural Bank of  Sale of SHS in Polilio Islands
Mabitac Inc.
17. GenDiesel Phils. And  Sale of SHS in North Western Mindanao
Paglaum MPC
18. Propmech and Central  Sale of SHS in Sultan Kudarat and Maguindanao
Mindanao BRECDA
Federation
19. SURE and CSDO         Sales of SHS in South Cotabato and nearby areas.
Source: DOE
Component 2 - Partial Credit Guarantee facility
Table A2.10 - List of uarantees under LGF
No. of Loans      Amount
Paglaum Multi-Purpose Cooperative      15          PhP 26,991.00
Progressive Bank, Inc.                 27          PhP 316,002.00
Component 3 - Capacity Building
GEF Grant - DOE
Table A2.11 -DOE activities and outputs under the RPP GEF (2004-2011)
International Consultants
1   Operationalization of QTP Framework
2   Needs Assessment Report and Development of a 5-Year Technical Assistance and
Capacity Building Plan for the RPP
3   Development of Sustainable Solar Market Packages (SSMPs)
4   Capacity Building of Prospective Microfinance Institutions
5   Development of Guarantee Programs to support commercial lending for projects in
Renewable Energy and Rural Electrification
6   Design of Subsidy Program for Rural Electrification
7   Loan Guarantee Fund Operationalization
35


﻿8   Assessment and Recommendation for the MFI Capacity Building
9   Study of Options to Reduce Fossil Power Generation in Mindanao
10  Updating of the Missionary Electrification Development Plan 2006-20 10 to 2007-2011
and Integration of Renewable Energy Technologies
11  Training Program for Stand Alone Power Systems Installation and Maintenance Course
12  Strengthen Policy and Regulatory Framework for Household Electrification with
Roadmap for 90% Household Electrification by 2017
13  Updating of the Missionary Electrification Development Plan for 2012-2016
Local Consultants
14  Development of the Operating Guidelines and Procedures for the Start Up of the RPP-
PMO
15  Needs Assessment Report and Development of a 5-Year TA and Capacity Building Plan
for the RPP
16  Capacity Building for Microfinance Institutions
17  Design of Subsidy Program for Rural Electrification
18  Promulgation of Policies and Regulatory Guidelines for QTP Participation in
Rural/Missionary Electrification
19  Preparation of Strategic and First Year Communications and Investment Promotion Plans,
Website and Implementation of Initial Promotion Activities
20  Program Management of the RPP Loan Guarantee Fund
21   SSMP Procurement
22  Technical and Financial Evaluation of QTP Project
23  Conduct of Profiling and Baseline Studies for Selected Unelectrified Barangays in the
Philippines
24  Review of Performance and Warranty Securities for SSMP Contracts
32  PV Mainstreaming Design
33  PV Business Models Assessment
Source: DOE
GEF Grant - DBP
Activity                          Details and achievements
Project Preparation   Project preparation support for three RET subprojects, of which one
Fund                  project, Linao Cawayan Mini-hydropower Project, pursued RPP loan
and construction.
Technical consultants  A total of 16 renewable energy project proposals, mostly mini-
supporting DBP in     hydropower, were reviewed. Of the projects reviewed by the
review of pipeline    consultant, two (2) projects were funded under RPP, namely: Sevilla
subprojects           Mini-hydropower Project and Linao-Cawayan Mini-hydropower
Project.
Procurement support   Hiring of two consultants to support PMO in reviewing procurement
to PMU                documents and provided technical support to the PMO.
36


﻿Training, Workshop    142 DBP staff, mostly Account Officers, received capacity training
and Study Tours       on Renewable Energy Technologies (e.g. hydro, wind, solar,
biomass) and other related energy projects
PMO operations and    Support for PMO in the marketing of RPP and project management
miscellaneous         administrative needs.
expenses
TOTAL                 Funds allocated: 1,100,000.00, Used: 628,502, Utilization rate: 57%
Source: DBP
37


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis 20
A3.1 Methodology
At appraisal of the Philippines Rural Power Project (RPP) in 2002, with much of the project
oriented to individual households and off-grid systems, the methodology for economic analysis
rested on estimates of residential willingness-to-pay (WTP). Benefits of PV systems were based
on increases in the consumer surplus implied in the transition from electricity substitutes
(kerosene, diesel-based battery charging, dry cells) to PV-based electricity, based on demand
curves for lighting (measured as Lumen-hours/month) and TV viewing (viewing hours/month).
This drew heavily on a comprehensive rural household survey taken in 1998.21 The details of the
22
methodology were published in a 2003 ASTAE paper.
Table A3.1 shows the estimated WTP for each tranche of consumption. The survey revealed high
values of WTP for the first few kWh consumed: the first 31 kWh/year were valued at PhlP
98/kWh (1.88$/kWh), reflecting the high cost of lighting from kerosene. The WTP in the last
tranche - 20 US cents/kWh - reflected the observed purchase of diesel-based electricity in un-
electrified areas.
Table A3.1: WTP estimates
kWh        peso/kWh       US$/kWh(1)
first 31kWh               31            98             1.88
31-61 kWh                 30            45             0.87
61-115 kWh                55            24             0.46
115-actual                            10.25            0.20
Source: RPP Economic Analysis Background Report
Exchange rate for 2002: PhP52/$ (2002 average)
Ideally, to re-estimate the economic benefits at project completion, a more recent household
23
energy survey would be available to enable a new demand curve to be drawn.        This is not
available for the RPP, and the only verification of current levels of WTP is from a few field visits
conducted for the ICR.
Some of the input assumptions have changed dramatically since 2002. In 2002, the average retail
price of kerosene was around 13 PhP/liter (25UScents/liter); by the end of 2012, the price was 50
PhP/liter ($1.22/liter), an increase (in nominal PHP terms) of 384% (Figure 3.1).
20      This annex summarizes the analysis in the detailed ICR Economic Analysis Report prepared by Peter Meier.
21      Rural Electrification and Development in the Philippines: Measuring the Social and Economic Benefits,
ESMAP Report 255/02, May 2002.
22      P. Meier. Economic Analysis ofSolar Home Systems: A Case Study of the Philippines, Asia Alternative
Energy Program, World Bank, February 2003.
23      That ideal has been achieved in only very few World Bank projects, notably the China Renewable Energy
Development Project, which commissioned a survey expressly for the re-evaluation of the project in the ICR - see
World Bank, Implementation Completion Report, China Renewable Energy Development Program, 2007.
38


﻿Figure 3.1: Kerosene and Diesel Prices
80  - -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -    -
60 -
~40-
20 -
0
1998   2000    2002   2004    2006   2008    2010   2012
Sqq!yqe: Dg61    2003   2005   2007    2009   2011
-kerosene -diesel       -fueloil
In real terms the increase has been much smaller. For kerosene, the 2012 kerosene price, at
constant 2002 price levels (assuming adjustment with the CPI), is 32.06 PhP/liter, so the real
increase in fossil fuel prices is 236% (Table A3.2).
Table A3.2: Fuel prices, PhP/liter
2002  2003  2004   2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010   2011 2012
Nominal
Kerosene       13.56 15.95 20.59 29.47 36.64 36.23 46.85 36.23 41.44 50.27 50.42
Auto diesel    13.89 15.72 20.10 28.74 34.49 34.77 43.78 32.66 38.48 48.33 49.19
Fuel oil       11.21 13.40 14.40 18.88 23.67 24.94 34.04 26.46 32.30 38.26 40.05
at 2002 prices
Kerosene       13.56 13.26 14.88 18.02 24.46 29.55 26.99 33.52 24.96 27.28 32.06
Auto diesel    13.89 13.58 14.66 17.60 23.86 27.82 25.90 31.33 22.49 25.33 30.82
Fuel oil       11.21 10.96 12.49 12.61 15.67 19.09 18.58 24.36 18.23 21.26 24.40
But higher (real) kerosene prices imply higher avoided costs, and hence larger economic benefits.
However, for poor households with little disposable income, increases in kerosene price would
most likely imply a downward adjustment of consumption rather than an increase in annual
kerosene expenditure. However, in the absence of a recent survey it is difficult to be precise
about the likely changes in the demand curve: with the small increase in real incomes the
demand curve would shift slightly to the right (i.e. for any given price, the quantity demanded
increases). If the costs of the PV systems have not increased, then benefits estimated at the old
24
values of WTP would be a lower bound, and likely underestimate the actual economic returns.
24      This annex was prepared by Peter Meier, Consultant. Further details are available in the ICR Economic
Analysis Background Report.
39


﻿A3.2 Solar Home Systems
Economic benefits at appraisal
At appraisal, the economic analysis was presented under three sets of assumptions about the
benefits (1) avoided costs, under which the economic cost of the PV system is compared to the
economic cost of the avoided energy expenditures that SHS replace (kerosene, battery charging);
(2) benefits estimated as the gain in consumer surplus (which was based on detailed survey
information); and (3) adding carbon reduction benefits to the consumer surplus (CS) benefits. In
addition, a financial rate of return (FRR) was estimated from the consumer perspective (under
assumptions about how the SHS would be financed). The rates of return are shown in Table A3.3.
Table A3.3: Rates of return at appraisal, Solar Home Systems
Financial returns, ERR, benefits at  ERR, benefits as  ERR, CS
consumer         avoided       change in CS    benefits plus
perspective    economic costs                 carbon reduction
20 Wp SHS             160%            15.4%            45%            50.5%
40 Wp SHS             17.4%           11.4%           46.6%           56.4%
75 Wp SHS              1.6%            8.7%           32.2%           38.5%
Entire program                                        44.6%           53.2%
At the time these estimates were made, the assumption was that PV systems would be supplied
under the so-called dealer model, which called for several important assumptions, notably that
(for the financial analysis), consumers purchased the PV systems under some consumer credit
scheme (or cash), and (for both economic and financial analysis) that bulbs, controllers and
batteries would be replaced over time by consumers themselves (assuming that some sort of
dealer network that could stock, replace and repair PV systems was in place).
This model did not prove successful. Micro finance institutions showed little interest, and up-
take was slow.  The subsequent model of "market packages" proved similarly unsustainable.
Rather, the model now advocated is "PV mainstreaming", under which consumers simply pay a
fee for service provided by the EC, under a tariff under the jurisdiction of the regulator, and under
which consumers do not own their PV systems. This has been piloted by six schemes in the
Visayas, with 2050 systems installed by the end of 2011. Making the EC responsible for the
repair and replacement of systems addresses the experience with various leasing models in
existence in the Philippines, which transfer ownership to households who then bears these costs
and often does not provide for them, leading to the failure of the system.
Phrased differently, it means that in 2002 the true costs of maintenance and repair were likely to
have been underestimated. Recent calculations carried out by consultants to the DOE under a
separate technical assistance activity estimates the cost of PV service by ECs and includes a
comprehensive assessment of all of the various cost components required for sustainable service,
and includes staff and transportation costs needed to operate the scheme, overheads, insurance,
and fees for the collection of revenues.
Operating costs
Table A3.4 shows a comparison of the main assumptions in the current tariff estimates with those
taken at appraisal. The calculations, carried out under consultants advising the DOE on a
40


﻿regulatory and policy framework for PV mainstreaming, are for a so-called baseline "Zone A";25
in more remote communities the operating costs are substantially greater.26
Table A3.4: Assumptions for economic analysis
At Appraisal          PV mainstreaming
regulatory framework
consultants' tariff
calculation assumptions.
1    Replacement Solar panel  Not applicable(1)     PhP6,000, life 20 years
2    Battery                 PhP 1600, life 2 years  PhP4,500, life 3 years
3    Controller              PhP 750, life 5 years  PhP2,800, life 5 years
4    Bulbs                   PhP150/year            Not icluded(2)
5    Insurance               Not included           5 PhP/SHS/month
6    Payroll                 Not included           87.65 PhP/SHS/month
7    Overheads               Not included           8.68 PhP/SHS/month
8    Transportation cost     Not included           8.46 PhP/SHS/month
9    BAPA collection fee     Not included           15.39 PhP/SHS/month
Total annual charges    Not included           2,162 PhP/year
(5+6+7+8+9)
Notes:
(1) Our calculations assume a 20-year life of panels; the consultant calculations are for perpetual operation, so panels
need replacement every 20 years (for which an annual sinking fund charge would be levied in afinancial calculation).
But in economic analysis one books capital costs in the year they are incurred; and an outlay 20 years hence has almost
no impact (if the discount rate reflects the opportunity cost of capital, unlikely to be very much less than 10%)
(2) see text above
Sample tariff calculations carried out by DOE consultants do not include the cost of CFLs. Since
light bulbs classify as an appliance, owned by the household just as are owned fans and radios,
they are understandably excluded from the electricity tariff. At appraisal, the view was that CFLs
were significantly more expensive than incandescent bulbs, and were therefore included in the
calculations as an incremental cost.
The rationale for including bulb costs in the package at appraisal was that the incremental cost
over incandescent bulbs was so great that poor consumers could not afford them, and that PV
systems generated so few kWh that CFLs were an essential component. But in principle there is
no reason why the economic advantages of CFL could not also be achieved with diesels: indeed,
handing out free CFLs to households connected to diesel generators is likely to be a far more cost
effective way of reducing carbon emissions (if that was indeed the rationale for the GEF subsidies
provided by RPP) than paying for very expensive solar systems. The proposal to exclude the costs
of CFLs on grounds that this is a consumer appliance like any other is sound, and has been
adopted in this evaluation as well. In any event, it changes little the overall economic returns of
solar PV (a decrease in ERR of less than 1%).
Capital costs
The delivered price for a 50 Wp system ranges from 17,500 PhP for a basic system with 50 Ahi
battery ($US 436) to 27,740 for a 5OWp system with integrated digital AMV/FM radio&MP3
player and 70 Ahi battery ($US 691). At appraisal in 2003, the delivered cost of a basic 40Wp
25      Economic Consulting Associates (ECA), Advisory Support on Policy and Regulatory Aspects ofSHS
provision, Phase 2 Report submitted to the Department of Energy and the World Bank, January 2013.
26      18.6% additional in Zone B, and 58. 1% greater in Zone C.
41


﻿system was $US 484, and $US 710 for a 75 Wp system. The consultants' tariff calculations
assume an initial package system cost of PhP 20,000 ($487). The real costs of the complete
packages have therefore declined somewhat since 2002.
Economic returns
The resulting economic returns are estimated at 13.5 %.27 The NPV of the O&M    costs of
sustainable after sales service (PhP 15,140 at 12% discount rate) is almost as great as that of the
capital cost of the system (NPV 17,857 PhP): at PhP 2,162/year for O&M, this represents more
than 10% of the capital cost per year, an unusually high operating cost for renewable energy
(which for most grid-connected technologies is in the range of 2-3% for small system). This far
outweighs the decrease in capital cost since 2002 noted above. However, the switching value for
WTP is just PhP85/kWh, and therefore the result is indeed highly dependent upon WTP
assumptions, which in the absence of a more recent household energy survey is difficult to
confirm. The levelized cost per kWh computes to 85 PhP/kWh ($2.07/kWh).
At the time of appraisal, this methodology for calculating the equivalent levelized cost per kWh
was rejected. It was argued that a kWh from a PV was worth more than a kWh from a grid
connected or diesel source because it was intrinsically linked to the use of high efficiency
appliances.  To produce the same number of lumen-hours one needed 4 times more kWh if
provided by an incandescent bulb, than if provided from a CFL. Therefore, the 6.25 kWh per
month produced by a 50Wp solar panel was equivalent to 20-30 kWh from a diesel project.
Consequently the cost of PV appeared very much lower than it actually was (is).
The cost of diesel generation
OP 10.04 requires not only that a proposed project is superior to a no project alternative, but also
that the proposed project is the least cost way of meeting the project output - which in this case
means electrification from small diesels. The levelized economic cost of diesel generation is PhP
19.2/kWh (47UScents/kWh), using the 2013 cost of 58PhP/liter ($1.40/liter) as reported in the
28
Bohol site visit notes.  Capital and operating costs, and operating assumptions (4 hours/day,
0.75 liter/hour fuel consumption) are taken from the ECA report on the draft tariff calculations.
The calculations assume that the world oil price escalates at around 2%/year (which corresponds
roughly to the base case of the last IEA World Energy Outlook (that has the 2025 world oil price
at around $125/bbl in 2025 (at constant 2011 prices). In other words, while the ERR meets the
requirement that its NPV meets the hurdle rate for the "no project" alternative (as required by OP
10.04), when compared with the diesel project alternatives, PV is very far from least cost.
Impact of global externalities
This calculation changes little when the avoided global externalities of diesel generation are
added as a benefit. If we use the 19.2 PhP/kWh diesel generation price as the measure of
economic benefit, and calculate what value of carbon is required in order for the ERR to increase
to the 12% hurdle rate, the required carbon price ($/ton CO2 equivalent) to be $2,745/ton. At
values in the range considered reasonable by the providers of carbon finance (rarely more than
$1 00/ton CO2), the ERR remains firmly negative. In other words, PV is a very expensive way of
reducing carbon emissions, which, in the Philippines, can be achieved at much lower prices with
geothermal or small hydropower. If the world oil price tripled (to $375/bbl in 2025), the required
carbon price is still $2,420/ton. .
27     The detailed tables are in the Background report.
28     This is about PhPI0/liter more than the price in Manila (Table 2), implying there is another PhPl6/liter
difference between the fob price and the Manila retail price (fob=34+14+10=58 retail price at Bohol.
42


﻿Sensitivity analysis
The levelized economic cost of solar PV is PhP87/kWh ($2.1 1/kWh) when burdened with the
O&M costs as currently proposed. Therefore the question arises whether plausible cost reductions
for PV and plausible increases in the future world oil price, would change the relative delivered
economic cost to the consumer. One could hypothesize the following sources of cost reductions:
*   Package costs: for which we have used the average cost of the quotations sighted
(PhP20,000). However the least cost bid is for PhP18,800 (quote for 244 systems by
Trademaster to NORELCO). These costs could plausibly be another 5-10% lower if the
scale were in the 1000s rather than 100s, say PhP 16,000.
*   O&M   costs: These may reflect the tendency of the ECs to quote high costs (in the
expectation of being negotiated down by the Regulator). One could plausibly argue they
may be as much as 20% than required.
Under these assumptions, the ERR increases significantly to a robust 21%. However, assessed
against diesel, the ERR still remains negative. The switching value for world oil price, using these
same assumptions, is 2,138 $/bbl in 2025 (or an increase of 28% per year) or PV to be
competitive. Even if the O&M cost were zero, the oil price switching value is still $1,250/bbl
(22% annual rate of increase in oil price).
If the argument that only PV SHS benefit from high efficiency appliances were to be accepted,
then the switching value for the efficiency multiplier is 3.86, namely that the "effective"
equivalent kWh production is not 6.21 kWh/month (as estimated by consultants supporting DOE
in preparation of regulatory and policy framework for PV mainstreaming), but 24 kWh/month.
At this value, the ERR of PV is exactly 12% when measured against diesel generation.
Affordability and Anecdotal Evidence
During the February 2013 field visit to Bohol it was observed that high prices were being paid for
electricity in informal diesel mini-grids. Households were being charged PhP 20 per night per
appliance (whether light bulbs or larger appliances): for three light bulbs and a TV the nightly
charge calculates to 80 PhP, or 2,400 PhP/month ($58). So obviously, a PV fee-for-service
costing 200 PhP/month (or even 400 PhP/month in the more remote areas) will be highly valued
and desired by such consumers.
Needless to say, such a flat-rate pricing system provides no incentive to use efficient appliances
in general, and CFLs or tube lights rather than incandescent bulbs in particular.29 Though it is
true that this level of usage might not be demanded every day of the year, households who can
afford this level of expenditure are clearly not below the poverty line. For daily use, the annual
cost is PhP 28,800 per year ($702). The national poverty threshold is PhP 84,000 ($2,050), so it
is not plausible that families near this income level would spend a third of their income on diesel
electricity. In other words, without a more representative survey of the candidate areas, it is
difficult to establish the current expenditure on electricity substitutes, and on informally provided
diesel electricity in light of current actual disposable income. The last reliable survey is now over
10 years old, from which any simple extrapolations are likely to be unreliable.
29 One would again need a household energy survey to determine whether there was any difference in light bulb stock
among households under such a flat-rate pricing system, and metered households that are grid-connected. Since the
last comprehensive survey in 1998, the (real) relative price of CFLs has decreased considerably. Moreover, there will
likely be another major lighting technology shift with the introduction of LED lights
43


﻿Assuming that the 50Wp SHS is equivalent (i.e. could run three light bulbs and a small TV), then
2,704 PhP for the equivalent kWh from solar panels, i.e. 75kWh/year, works out at 35 PhP/kWh.
But the cost of diesel generation is PhP 18 /kWh (at current oil price levels). In other words,
affordability of the proposed monthly fee for SHS is not the problem: whatever may be the
affordability constraint, diesel has lower financial and economic costs lower than PV.
Conclusions on SHS PV
From this analysis one may draw the following conclusions:
*   The ERR for SHS PV against the no project alternative (using willingness to pay as the
proxy for benefits) is in the range of 13.5-21%, depending on assumptions.
*   The high O&M    costs necessary to achieve PV   system  sustainability in the PV
mainstreaming model have outweighed the increases in fossil fuel prices, and the
decrease in PV system capital costs. Electricity from PV systems remains significantly
more expensive than from diesel: when the PV SHS is compared to diesel generation, the
ERR is negative (talking the IEA World Energy Outlook to forecast the world oil price
($125/bbl by 2025 at constant 2011 prices).
*   Even if further economies of scale are achievable in the system costs, or in the O&M
costs, the cost of oil would need to reach over 1,000$/bbl by 2025 for a solar PV to
become competitive against diesel.
*   While the PV mainstreaming may be seen as financially and technically sustainable, and
therefore constitute an improvement over other implementation models, this appears to
come at a high price. Economic returns are only marginally above the hurdle rate, and in
the absence of new survey evidence, difficult to confirm. The sensitivity analysis shows
that even if these O&M costs for the ECs to provide the service were zero, PV is still not
competitive with diesel.
*   Arguments that comparisons based on actual kWh produced are invalid because PV
systems are intrinsically coupled to the use of high efficiency appliances, and are
therefore above to provide light (and TV viewing) at a far lower price per lumen than
suggested by cost per kWh comparisons, have little merit. There is no reason why such
high efficiency appliances could not also be distributed (subsidized) to consumers
connected to the rural grid, or to diesels (formal or informal mini-grids).
*   However, though expensive, where diesel is not a feasible option for reasons of highly
dispersed households, or inability to transport diesel engines in remote areas, or
where diesel fuel supply is hindered in the wet season, solar PV is the least cost
option, and can be justified on the basis of WTP as estimated from rural energy surveys.
*   Uncertainty in WTP does not affect the comparison of PV with diesel. Whether WTP is
60 US cents, or $6/kWh, the relative costs remain the same.
*   Carbon reductions are small, and have a negligible impact on economic returns. The
avoided cost of carbon is orders of magnitude greater than those achievable at far lower
cost (such as geothermal and hydropower generation).
44


﻿A3.2 Mini-hydropower subprojects
Three mini-hydro projects were financed by the RPP, as summarized in Table A3.5.
Table A3.5: Mini-hydro projects financed by the RPP
Installed    EC
capacity
MW
Sevilla                  2.5       BOHECO
Linao-Cawayan            4.2       ORMECO
Cantingas                0.9       ROMELCO
BOHECO: Bohol Electric Cooperative
ORMECO: Oriental Mindoro Electric Cooperative
ROMELCO: Romblon Electric Cooperative
At the time of RPP project appraisal, none of these specific projects had been identified. Table
A3.6 shows the ERR estimates for the mini-grid component as provided in the PAD: estimates
run from 8.9% to 32.6%. However, the PAD Annex did not identify which among these projects
were based on mini-hydro, and which were diesel-powered mini-grids.
Table A 3.6: Estimates of ERR at project appraisal
Generating cost
ERR UScents/kWh     Peso/kWh      WTP
Roxas                 32.6%          15.0        7.6       15.0
ElNido                11.2%          19.1        9.8       14.3
SanVicente            19.7%          18.1        9.2      14.9
Taytay                25.6%          16.1        8.2      14.6
Palawan combined      28.2%          15.3        7.8       14.7
Jose Abad Santos       8.9%          21.6       11.0       15.5
Malita                25.1%          16.3        8.3       15.5
Davao combined        20.6%          17.6        9.0       15.5
Source: RPP, PAD, Annex 4
Inspection of the (unpublished) background report on economic analysis prepared at Appraisal
shows that mini-hydro was considered in only five of these areas, and in none was mini-hydro
least-cost: five hours service per day based on diesels was least cost in all cases. However, it
must be remembered that in 2001/2002 when the appraisal was prepared, the world oil prices
were considerably below those observed today (as discussed in Section 1).       Consequently it
should not surprise that the economics of small hydro have changed, and that subsequent studies
recommended the three small hydro schemes for implementation.
Borrower's estimates of achieved returns
Table A3.7 shows the borrower's estimates of economic and financial returns, as compared to the
returns estimated in the project feasibility studies. However, the borrower's estimates are not
judged reliable, and have been re-estimated, as described below.30
30 There are limitations to the reliability of the Borrower's estimate of FIRR. The "estimated gross operating profit" is
taken as a constant 60% of revenue, an assumption that is not documented. A reliable estimate of FIRR based on cash
flows needs to explicitly recognize the debt service payments (principal and interest). Nor is it clear whether the
calculations are in constant PhP or nominal PhP - if indeed these are at constant prices, then real rather than nominal
interest rates need to be used. The Borrower's estimate of economic returns is also unreliable. The economic flows
are given by the sum of the "gross operating profit"," "forex savings" and the avoided cost of GHG emissions. Even
assuming that 'forex savings" are properly denominated at border prices, the total economic flow as defined is the sum
of a financial flow (operating profit) and economic flows - which is never reliable.
45


﻿Table A3.7: Borrower's estimate ofERR and FIRR
FIRR                          ERR
FS        Borrower's        FS        Borrower's
estimate                    estimate
Sevilla                NA           7.2%          NA           24.8%
Linao-Cawayan         16.5%        14.5%         24.9%         44.1%
Cantigas              21.1%         9.4%         33.7%         30.5%
Source: Borrower's calculations
NA Not available
ICR re-estimation of returns at Linao-Cawayan
The actual cost of the project is unclear: what has been completed is the 2.1 MW upper cascade
project. It was commissioned in March 2011 by President Aquino. According to the December
31, 2012 tabulation of the DBP, the approved World Bank loan to ORMECO for a 4.2 MW
facility was PhlP 490 million plus PhlP 220 additional funding for a total of PhP 710million.
However, actual disbursements are reported by DBP at PhP 455million. The borrower's
spreadsheet shows financial costs during the 2011-2013 period as PhP 409 million (though that
analysis is silent on the question of how much is debt and how much is equity). The feasibility
study (FS) estimates the cost of the upper cascade at PhP 392 million ($US9.3 million, or
$4,444/kW).
During the first year of operation in 2012, the project generated 7.3 GWh, equivalent to an annual
load factor of 0.396. This is considerably below the FS estimate of 12.27 GWh. Whether this is
due to teething troubles, or an unusually dry year, is not known. If ORMECO's benefits are
assessed at the reported financial incremental cost of generation from ORMECO's most
expensive diesel plant (10.23 PhP/kWh, 25UScents/kWh),' the estimated project financial return
is 14.7%. The project is clearly financially attractive, given the high cost of diesel generation.
Information on the tax content of the financial capital cost estimate was not available: the FS is
silent on this matter. In the absence of subsidy or taxes on the diesel used for power generation
by ORMECO, the avoided financial cost may be taken as the avoided economic cost, under
which circumstances the lower bound of ERR is the same as the FRR.
Using a valuation of $30/ton CO2 for the avoided social cost of carbon, the addition of this benefit
increases the ERR to 16%. In 2012, the CO2 emissions reduction is 4,380 tons; if generation
were to reach the average in the FS, this increases to 7,380 tons.
The ERR would be higher if the average willingness-to-pay (WTP) for electricity exceeded the
cost of oil generation. Detailed WTP estimates were available at the time of project appraisal in
2001, with WTP for rural consumers was assessed at PhP 10.25/kWh. But while nominal PPP
adjusted per capita income has increased from $2,465/capita in 2001 to $4,119/capita in 2011 (an
increase of 1.74), the GDP deflator has increased by a factor of 1.56, so the increase in real
incomes has been just 10%. If the old WTP estimate is adjusted for inflation, the WTP would be
around PhP 17.1/kWh which if used in the calculations provide an ERR (other things equal) of
31     We have no information on whether the transmission losses from the mini-hydro location to the load center is
any different than the distance of the marginal thermal project. If the hydro site were much more distant, then the
benefits (avoided generation at the diesel plant) would need adjustment accordingly.
46


﻿25%. However, without survey data to show how householders have in fact adjusted to higher
kerosene and diesel prices (bought less kerosene keeping expenditure constant, or bought the
same quantity at the new price, but reduced expenditure on other goods and services), such
extrapolations are unreliable.
The ROMELCO and BOHECO small hydros
Table A3.8 shows the corresponding calculations for the other two mini-hydros financed by RPP.
The baseline FRR estimate for BOHECO is 21.6%, or 22.8% when the avoided GHG emissions
are included; the FRR for ROMELCO is 23.3% (24.8% when GHG emissions are included).
Table A3.8: ERR&FRR mini-hydros
ROMELCO      BOHECO     ORMECO
FRR/ERR             23.3%      21.6%       14.7%
ERR with GHG        24.8%      22.8%       16.0%
Conclusions on mini-hydro
All three mini-hydro project have satisfactory returns well in excess of the hurdle rate, and have
positive impact on the EC cash flows: the reduction in revenue requirements (other things equal)
provides the opportunity for rate reductions to all EC consumers - though given the small scale of
these projects (e.g. in 2012, the Liao-Cawayan mini-hydro generated just 4% of ORMECO's total
171 GWH from all sources), the aggregate reduction will be small. The total avoided GHG
emissions from the hydro projects in 2012 are estimated at 14,120 tons.
A3.4 Upgrade/rehabilitation of distribution system in Electric ECs
The RPP funded distribution system upgrades in six ECs, as shown in Table A3.9.
Table A3.9: Distribution system upgrades
EC                                                                Loan   Capital Estimated
disbursed   Cost    Annual
$USm    $USm        loss
reduction
MWh/year
Batanes Electric  BATANELCO    Rehabilitation of Distribution      9.82     0.2       44
Coop.                          Facilities
Samar II Electric  SAMELCO II  Upgrading of Substation             16.5     0.4        0
Coop.
Agusan del Sur  ASELCO         Construction of 69kV transmission    59      1.4     6,622
Electric Coop.                lines
Peninsula Electric PENELCO     Rehabilitation of Distribution      100      2.4    11,379
Coop                           Facilities
Negros Occidental NOCECO       Construction of 69kV transmission    59      1.4     3,512
Electric Coop.                lines and 10 MVA substation
Capiz Electric  CAPELCO        Rehabilitation of Distribution      110      2.7      862
Coop.                          Facilities
TOTAL           total                                              354      8.6    22420
The economic analysis for the aggregate of these individually small investments shows an ERR
of 37.6% (NPV $17.4million). The assumption is that the loan amounts (known to have been
disbursed) account for 90% of the total project cost (given the 10% equity requirement of the
DBP). Annual O&M costs are assumed at 2% of the capital investment.
47


﻿These are good economic returns, typical of rehabilitation projects. They are also likely to be
conservative, insofar as no credit is taken for additional customers as may be connected to the
rehabilitated system. The returns are robust: the switching value for avoided cost of generation
is 6.9 UScents/kWh, substantially below the cost of thermal generation; substantially below
estimates of WTP (as discussed in Section A3.1).
Table A3.10 shows the GHG emission reduction associated with the T&D loss reduction: the
emission reduction achieved will be a function of the generation in each EC (so no savings for an
EC with no thermal generation, as in NOCECO and SAMELCO). In the case of ASELCO,
which has both diesel and hydro, it is reasonable to assume that at the margin, it is the diesel
generation that is reduced when T&D losses are lower.
Table A3.10: GHG emission reductions
EC      Power source  MWh/year    emission factor     Tons
C02/year
BATANELCO Diesel                          44           0.6        27
SAMELCO II Geothermal                      0             0         0
ASELCO        Diesel (+Hydro)          6,622           0.6      3,973
PENELCO       Gas CCGT                 11,379         0.35      3,983
NOCECO        Goethermal               3,512             0         0
CAPELCO       Diesel                     862         (1)0.6      517
22,420                   8,500
(1) The UNFCCC approved emission factor for the Luzon/Visayas grid is 0.49. However, at the margin, it
is not the grid average that is displaced by T&D savings, but the most expensive thermal generator, which
in this case is diesel, for which a higher emission factor is warranted.32
A3.5 GHG emissions
Avoided GHG emissions were chosen as one of the performance indicators set for the project, set
at 40,000 tons/year. However, of this, 20,000 tons was added for the additional financing in view
of the expected contribution from the San Jose I Power Corporation's 9.9 MW Biomass Power
Plant which could have avoided 38,600 tons: as explained in the BCR, the project was not
realized. 33 Therefore the applicable target for the mini-hydros and solar PV systems is the
original APLI target of 20,000 tons.
Table A3.11 summarizes our estimates, together with commentary concerning reliability and the
issues of calculation. The total is 23,181 tons/year, i.e. exceeds the APLI target.
32     In other words, there is a difference between what is used to calculate carbon credits in the CDM market,
relevant for financial analysis, and what is the most likely impact in reality, which should be used for economic
analysis
Based on an emission factor of 0.45kg/kWh.
48


﻿Table A3.11: Estimates of avoided GHG emissions
Project component           Tons/year Reliability/issues
Mini-hydro                   14,123   Reliable. Slightly less than the estimate from the
(from Table 15)                       borrowers completion report which estimates the
mini-hydro savings at 16,325 tons/year
PV, 620kWp (275kWp in          558    Table 9 shows the calculation of avoided emissions
household systems +345kWp             for a SHS (45Kg/year), based on the displacement of
in public facility installations)     oil (either from selfgen or from kerosone used for
(including solar lanterns)            lighting) from a 5OWp system. This is significantly
lower than the estimates in the BCR of 4,208
tons/year.3 The aggregate estimate shown here
scales up the results of Table 90 to the total kWp
installed.
Diesel upgrade, Palawan    Net effect Replacement of diesel oil by bunker fuel (heavy
unknown    diesel) may increase gross emissions (higher
emission factor). However this increase is offset by
greater efficiency. Reliable estimate of the net GHG
impact is not possible
New 438kVA diesel, Masbate Net effect Emissions from a new diesel may be offset by
Unknown    emissions from kerosene use. No information is
available to make a reliable estimate
Distribution system                   See Table 17
upgrading/rehabilitation of  8,500
Electric coop systems
Total                      23,181
breFinal version of the BCR, Dated March 2013.
49


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility!
Names                     Title               Unit            specilty
Specialty
Lending
I                           jTask Team Leader (2001-
Selina Wai Sheung Shum  Lead Financial Analyst    EASEG       2003)
Renewable Energy
Ravindra Anil Cabraal   Senior Energy Specialist  EWDEN       Technology and GEF
Operations (Asia Experience)
. . Distribution Power
Chrisantha Ratnayake    Senior Power Energy        SASEG      Einrin
Engineering
Alan Towsend      ~     Senior Private Sector     PSAPP       Private Participation in
Development Specialist      _Infrastructure Transactions
Noureddine Berrah       Lead Energy Specialist     EASEG      Policy and Institutional
Reforms, Project Economics
Mary Judd               Senior Anthropologist     EASES       Social Assessment
Chaohua Zhang           Senior Social Sector Specialist EASES  Social Development
Tito Nicolas            Operations Officer: Social  EASES     Social Development
Sector
Rene Manuel            IProcurement Specialist    EAPCO      jProcurement
Maya Villaluz           Operations Officer:       EAPCF       Environmental Assessment
Environment
Joseph Reyes            Operations Officer: Financial EAPCF   Financial Management
Management
Preselyn Abella         Operations Officer: Financial EAPCO   Financial Management
Management
Karin Nordlander       jLead Counsel              LEGEA       Legal
Elizabeth Lin          jCounsel                   LEGEA       Legal
Patricia Miranda        Counsel                   LEGEA       Legal
Rural and Renewable Energy
Ernesto Terrado         C   n   t                 EASEG       Business and Institutional
Development, GEF Operations
Consultant - Policy and               Sector Regulation, Subsidy
Wofgang Mostert         Reuato                    EASEG       Plc
Regulation                           Policy
[Shawn Otal            IConsultant - Power Engineer EASEG    lPower Engineer
Peter Meier             Consultant - Project      EASEG       Project Economics
Economics
Consultant - Financial.                     ...
Arie Chupak             In .tari                EASEG       Financial Intermediaries
Intermedianies
Richard Hansen          Consultant- SHS Business  EASEG       SHS Business Planning
Planning
Ines Bagadion           Consultant - Social Safeguard EASES   Social Assessment
Carla Sarmiento         Program Assistant         EASEG       Administrative Support
Charles Feinstein       Lead Energy Specialist, Peer  EWDES   Peer Reviewer
50


﻿Reviewer
Vijay Jagannathan       Sector Manager, Peer      EASUR       Peer Reviewer
Reviewer
Saud Siddique           Principal Investment Officer  CPW     Peer Reviewer
(IFC), Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Task Team Leader (2004-
Selina Wai Sheung Shum  Lead Financial Analyst    EASEG      2007)
2007)
Speiais              E   TE     Task Team Leader (2008-
Arturo Rivera           Senior Energy Specialist  EASTE       2009)
.             .Task Team Leader (2010-
Alan Townsend           Senior Energy Specialist  EASWE         e t)
Present)
Victor Dato            Infrastructure Specialist  EASPS      lEngineering
Ian Driscall           IConsultant                EASPS      IManagement Consultant
Renewable Energy
Ravindra Anil Cabraal   Consultant                SASDE       Technology and GEF
Operations
Rural and Renewable Energy
Ernesto N. Terrado      Consultant                MNSSD       Business and Institutional
Development, GEF Operations
Defne Gencer           lEnergy Specialist         EASWE      ICR Lead Author
Cecilia D. Vales       ILead Procurement Specialist  EASRI   IProcurement
Maya Gabriela Q. Villaluz ISenior Operations Officer  EASPS   Environmental Safeguards
Victoria Florian Lazaro  jOperations Officer      EASPS       Social Safeguards
Tomas. Sta.Maria        Financial Management      EASFM       Financial Management
Specialist
Preselyn Abella        ISenior Finance Officer    CTRLN      IFinancial Management
Rene SD. Manuel        ISenior Procurement Specialist EASR1  IProcurement
Samuel Haile Selassie  jSenior Procurement Specialist SARPS  Procurement
Ferdinand D. Vinuya     Operations Officer        CFPTO      lEconomics
Edward Daoud            Senior Finance Officer    LOAFC       Financial Management
Minneh Kane             Lead Counsel              LEGES       Legal
Hiroshi Tsubota         Lead Financial Officer    BDM         Financial Management
Galina Menchikova       Program Assistant         EASTE       Administrative Support
Demilour Reyes Ignacio  Team Assistant            EACPF       Administrative Support
Maria Luisa Juico       Program Assistant         EASIN       Administrative Support
Gia Mendoza             Program Assistant         EACPF       Administrative Support
Mari Anne Trillana      Project Assistant         EASPS       Administrative Support
51


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands (including
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY00                                  2                      6.0
FYO1                                  7                     60.7
FY02                                 43                    293.6
FY03                                 31                    162.1
FY04                                 14                     46.1
FY09 (AF Preparation)                 8                     43.7
FY10 (AF Preparation)                 -                     57.0
Total:         105                    669.2
Supervision/ICR
FY05                                 13                     66.3
FY06                                  9                     50.5
FY07                                  7                     42.7
FY08                                 16                     79.9
FY09                                 12                     36.1
FY10                                 22                    118.8
FY11                                 15                     68.5
FY12                                  9                     50.2
FY13                                 17                     90.2
Total:         120                    603.2
52


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey was conducted. This annex summarizes anecdotal information gathered by
implementing agencies and the Bank task team during site visits carried out and conversations
with project beneficiaries during the ICR mission. Select photos are also provided in this annex.
Box A5-1- Perspective of RPP beneficiary households
This story was extracted from the DOE's Completion Report and edited for brevity
In May 2011, Emilia Carreon, a 59-year-old mother who lives in the outskirts of Oroquieta City, purchased
a SHS from Gen Diesel an RPP accredited Participating Company that received support from the GEF
Grant and the DOE subsidy. With the help of a loan from the Paglaum
Multi-Purpose Cooperative, Emilia was able to purchase a 30 WP
SHS package (which includes a portable TV with DVD player for her
small shack in Barangay Dolipus Alto. Gen Diesel and Paglaum are
recipients of the RPP incubator program grant. With the GEF and
DOE subsidies, she purchased the SHS for Pl 5,000 (~US$ 375). She
noted that this is slightly expensive but once she weighs the overall
benefits, it becomes reasonable. She emphasized that the subsidy was
essential for making the SHS affordable for her.
Prior to owning an SHS, Emilia depended on kerosene for her lighting
requirements. Her household's average consumption is 0.25 L per day
and a liter of kerosene costs P55, bringing the household's monthly
consumption would amount to P412.50, corresponding to about
P4,950 annually (around US$10 and US$120 respectively). Emilia's
husband receives a monthly pension of P500 apart from the meager
income and resources they get from farming and raising a few chickens. With her SHS, Emilia does not
need to worry about buying kerosene any more.
She takes pride in the fact that at night, her home brightens up their community. Neighbors come to her
house to watch television through the small screen of her portable player. Thus, counting the savings and
the added benefits of entertainment, community relationships, and giving hope to others who have no
access to energy, the initial investment of purchasing an SHS has guaranteed return. She said that even if
her SHS would break down, she is willing to spend for its repair. For the repair needs, she counts on the
Paglaum technician to assist her. She mentioned that what is important for her is that she has a good and
sustainable energy source, and that her life with the SHS is better than before.
Summary of ICR mission site visits in Bohol
The main economic activity in Barangay Calituban, located on an islet about a 30 minute boat
ride northwest of Talibon city, in northern Bohol, is fishing. The households mostly sell the fish
they catch in Talibon, while some travel to Cebu. There are a total of 800 households are in the
barangay. More than half the households reportedly have some kind of informal diesel connection,
with the households reportedly paying around P25 per appliance (light bulb, fan, TV etc.) for up
to five hours of service a day. Households without access to diesel use kerosene for lighting,
consuming around a liter per week for two kerosene lamps.
In this barangay, 54 households received SHS through support under RPP. The systems were
provided by Bohol Electric Cooperative II (BOHECOII) under the PV mainstreaming pilot under
RPP. In addition, the barangay health center and birthing center also received systems. The
households pay a monthly usage fee of PHP 200/month, and the collections are handled by the
Barangay Power Association (BAPA). According to the BAPA representatives the team met,
another 100 households are reportedly interested in receiving SHS. Of the households the team
met with, three had informal diesel connections before receiving the SHS, while two others had
no electricity access.
53


﻿Box A5.2 - Meetings with RPP beneficiaries in Barangay Calituban
The beneficiaries interviewed by the team noted they were happy with the SHS, and satisfied by
the service provided by BOHECOII. The households primarily use the SHS for lighting, and
receive up to six hours of service per day. The beneficiary households cited the availability of
reliable energy for lighting as a key benefit, as they don't have to worry about finding enough
kerosene, while the informal diesel service is often unpredictable. The households also reported
greater satisfaction with the quality of lighting, when compared with kerosene lamps. The
households that had informal diesel connections before receiving SHS also saw SHS as a money-
saving option. The beneficiaries report they are aware of the importance of properly using the
SHS, including avoiding overloading the system and unnecessarily shortening the battery life.
Similarly, strong satisfaction with SHS service was reported in Barangay Mahanan, which is an
islet located northeast of Talibon city. On this islet, 72 households received SHS from
BOHECOII under RPP support. About 70% had no access to electricity before receiving SHS.
Box A5.2 - RPP beneficiaries in Barangay Mahanan
The households pay the EC PHP 200 per month per SHS. The SHS recipient households met by
the team noted that they were very pleased with the SHS service. The benefits cited by SHS
recipient households included access to reliable lighting, which allows women to do household
chores in the evening, and children to study longer hours in the evening. In cases where repairs
were needed, the EC was reportedly responsive to the needs of the households.
54


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
NOTES FROM RPP ICR WORKSHOP
An Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) review workshop for the Rural Power Project
was held on February 13, 2013 in Manila. The workshop brought together around 40 participants
from implementing agencies and key stakeholders, including staff, consultants, electric
cooperatives, and renewable energy technology suppliers among others. During the workshop,
different stakeholders involved in various parts of the RPP over the years actively participated in
this event, shared their insights and had a candid discussion on the project's successes, challenges
and lessons learned.
A summary of presentations by key project stakeholders is provided in this annex. The full list of
participants is available in project files.
Presentation by the Development Bank of the Philippines
DBP started by introducing project objectives, scope and the pipeline of projects financed under
RPP. (see Annex 2 of this ICR). Key implementation results were that out of the total approved
amount of Php 1.617 Billion, Php 1.159 Billion was released to sub-borrowers, amounting to
US$25.28 Million, corresponding to 50.56% utilization rate. Of that amount, PHP 611.12 Million
or 52.72% of the released amount went to off-grid areas (Romblon, Batanes, Masbate, Palawan,
Mindoro). Of the project funds on-lent, 69.14% supported power generation and stand-alone
system projects, while 30.86% went to power distribution projects.
According to DBP, key accomplishments under RPP include:
* Achievement of EC financial viability indicators, and progress toward the GHG target.
* Estimated fuel oil savings (2011), as a result of displacement of thermal generation by
small standalone RETs is equivalent to 21,060 barrels for BOHECOI, 9,523.8 barrels for
ROMELCO
* Savings on Fuel Oil Import: BOHECO I - US$ 2,076,726.00, ROMELCO -
US$ 939,137.97
* Employment generation
* Reduction in government subsidy for SPUG generation
Key implementation challenges outlined by DBP are summarized below.
* Projects identified in the PAD and AF not materializing.
* The choice of Additional Financing instead of APL2 in 2009 meant that the AF project
would have to be completed in three years.
* Low interest rate regime conditions in the Philippines, and limited understanding in the
borrower community on the difference between fixed rates that RPP offered and the
variable rates prevailing in the market.
* Competition with EC Partial Credit Guarantee Program
* On the GEF Grant, procurement issue on the PPF - the threshold of US$100,000 was low
The following lessons learned were drawn by DBP from the RPP experience:
* APL2 could have been preferred to Additional Financing
* Good market assessment is very important
*   World Bank processes are stringent as compared with other funding facilities and thus
would require capacity building for stakeholders
*   Project Design should be flexible especially for financial intermediaries to easily adapt to
changing markets, including the procurement threshold for private entities
*   KPI should have been adjusted to include new customers connected brought about by
rehabilitation and upgrading of distribution systems
55


﻿Presentation by the Department of Energy
DOE listed key accomplishments of RPP, including:
*   The total number of new connections through mini-grid and PV systems for households
and public facilities exceeded the project targets.
*   Seven new RET suppliers were accredited under RPP, exceeding the original target of
four companies. This does not include yet the 12 participating ECs that were involved in
the EC lease-to-own and EC PV Mainstreaming activities.
*   The project fell short of the QTP target of two, nonetheless, there are a few more
companies moving toward QTP accreditation.
*   The project delivered on the key policy commitments of issuing the QTP regulatory
framework, and (ii) issuance of a DOE circular to rationalize PV subsidy
According to DOE, the key factors affecting implementation results and outcomes included the
presence of parallel rural electrification and PV projects; expectations of grid extensions; shift of
private funds to PV procurement; and the expectations created by the passage of RE Act.
Sustainability risks include:
*   Operational risks since the LGU and household beneficiaries will be put to task in the
O&M of PV systems;
*   Regulatory risks, specifically timeliness and adequacy in approval for tariffs, Universal
Charge for subsidy in missionary electrification;
*   Weak interest of the private sector to participate in off-grid electrification without the
continuing grants and subsidies;
* Financing risks specifically the willingness of MFIs to cover PV consumer lending;
* Implementation capacity of stakeholders, including the ECs.
In addition to the presentations by the two main implementing agencies, presentations were made
by an RET supplier (Dumalag electricity Co), a PV mainstreaming EC (NOCECO) and DBP
regional branch offices. The presentations were followed by Question and Answer sessions, and a
lively open discussion session, where stakeholders shared their experiences, insights, and lessons
for future activities.
Table A6.1 - RPP stakeholder consultations carried out by DOE in 2011
DATE              PARTNER/             VENUE               TOPIC               METHOD
(2011)         STAKEHOLDER
May 23           AMORE                  Davao City     AMORE project experiences  Round table
on social preparation &   Discussion
subsidy mechanisms
May 24           AMORE BRECDA           Davao City     Assessment of PV systems  Field Visit
PEF                                   and micro-financing
June 23 & 30     SSMP2/3 Beneficiaries                 SSMP model,               Sustainability and
*  Benguet, Quezon    Manila          implementation results,  Turn-over
*  Central Visayas                    problems and lessons learned  Workshop series
Iloilo
July 20          SHS Project Proponent -  AMORE, Pasig  Experience and lessons   One on one
AMORE                                 learned in supporting SSMP  meeting
and rural electrification
projects in Mindanao
Power Source           Power Source,  QTP experience            One on one
Makati                                   meeting
July 22          PCs, SHS suppliers,    DOE            Experiences with RPP,     Focus Group
MDSF grantees                         market and financing      Discussion (FGD)
56


﻿DATE              PARTNER/              VENUE                 TOPIC               METHOD
(2011)          STAKEHOLDER
challenges, sustainability
plans post-RPP
SHS project proponents:  PNOC/DOE       Individual projects, best  One on one
1. PNOC                                practices and unique       meeting
2. DOE REMB                            approaches, lessons learned,
impact on RPP
July 25           DBP                     Manila         Financing options          FGD
August 4          SHS project proponent -  DOE           Best practices & unique    FGD
DAR SPOTS                               approaches, lessons learned,
impact on RPP
August 11         NEA                     NEA,           National government policy  FGD
Quezon City     on rural electrification
August 17         SOLARCO                 Greenbelt      PC model, implementation   One on one
Makati          results, problems and lessons  meeting
learned
August 24 &       *  SSMP1 Beneficiaries  Dipolog         SSMP 1 and Incubator      FGD
August 25         *  Paglaum Multi-                      model, implementation
Purpose Cooperative                 results, problems and lessons  Field Visit to
(PMPC)                              learned                    Oroquieta City
*   SHS Beneficiaries
*   PMPC
FGD
September 1       Regulator - ERC         ERC Ortigas    New regulatory framework   One-on-one
for off-grid ECs, UC-ME    meeting
subsidy
September 5       PEI                     PEI Ortigas    NGO perspective and        One-on-one
experience in implementing  meeting
RAES
September 12-15   SSMP 1 and RAES         Palawan        SSMP 1 and RAES model,     Field Visit
beneficiaries                           implementation results,
problems and lessons learned
PALECO                                  Other grants and local
PGP                                     initiatives on solar PV    FGD
NPC-SPUG                                systems
September 20      DOE REAMD               EPIMB, DOE     Policy environment for rural  FGD
electrification in remote areas
September 21      SHS project proponent:  DILG Office    Best practices and unique  FGD
DILG MSIP                               approaches, lessons learned,
impact on RPP
September 22      Multi Stakeholder       Legend Villas  Presentation of GPOBA      Workshop
Hotel,         Interim Report on best
Mandaluyong     practices and proposed
electrification and OBA Fund
Models
September 22      DU Mainstreaming Pilot  Legend Villa   Feedback on fee for service  FGD
Project Partners        Hotel           business model, results of
preparatory activities,
challenges, lessons learned
October 12        DOE-UNDP CBRED          DOE            Best practices and unique  One-on-one
57


﻿DATE              PARTNER/              VENUE                TOPIC               METHOD
(2011)          STAKEHOLDER
approaches, lessons learned,  meeting
impact on RPP
October 20-21,   MEDP Stakeholders       Zamboanga       TA: Updating the MEDP     Consultation
24-25, and 27-28                                         2012-2016                 Workshops
Cebu
Manila
November 8-9     Multi-Stakeholders      Lake Hotel,     TA: Roadmap to achieve    Consultation
Tagaytay        90% household             Workshop
electrification by 2017
November 25 &    PCs                     Legend Villas   DU Mainstreaming Project  Workshop
28                                                       Completion
Pilot ECs               Linden Suites
November 29      Multi Stakeholder       Linden Suites   Presentation of OBA TA    Workshop
Final Report
December 13      Concerned Government    PICC            Presentation of MEDP      Workshop
Agencies                               Updating TA Final Report
58


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
A)     Summary of Borrower Completion Reports
The following summaries were extracted from the Completion Reports submitted by the DOE in
December 2011 and DBP in April 2012, and were subject to very minor edits for brevity.
DOE Completion Report
RPP's main mission is to promote sustainable and least-cost decentralized electrification through
public-private partnerships and investments.35 Its key assumption is that with an appropriate
policy framework and incentives, subsidies and capacity building, the private sector would be
encouraged to market solar PV systems to off-grid households. The major activities focused on
increasing direct sales of solar PV systems by the participating companies (PCs).
During project implementation, RPP encountered major challenges including policy and
regulatory innovations, sustainable service, market changes including disruptive increases in the
price of PV modules in 2006-2008, limited capacity base for dealer model, and limited
affordability as the project targets poor communities in rural areas that are too remote or too
dispersed to be connected to the grid.
Despite these challenges, the Project exceeded most of the targets for key performance indicators
as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and as amended. The total number of new
connections through mini-grid and PV systems for both households and public facilities reached
16,81736 compared to the project target of 10,000. The seven new RET suppliers accredited by
DOE exceeded the target of four active PCs. The Project, however, was not able to meet the
avoided emissions target of 40,000 tons as it only achieved an estimated 10,962 tons of avoided
emissions from mini-hydro and solar PV systems.
This report then evaluates the factors affecting implementation results and outcomes as well as
the design improvements and other changes made during implementation. It also presents an
assessment of the performance of both the DOE as borrower, and the World Bank.
RPP learned a number of lessons in the course of project implementation. The original RPP PV
market development has had limited success given limited capacities and willingness of private
companies to take risks in remote rural communities. DU mainstreaming of regulated services
using decentralized PV systems is viable subject to establishment of appropriate regulatory
framework for services in remote areas. Early social preparation is critical in the selection of site
and beneficiaries, community organizing, O&M of PV systems, and collection of payments. It
should be made an integral part of project design and implementation.
Among the major recommendations and strategies that can be considered to replicate and scale-
up the RPP results are follows:
a. Pursue the implementation of the fee-for-service model using the EC regulated service
and with various financing support.
3 The RPP brochure may be accessed at http://www.doe.gov.ph/rpp/documents/rpp_brochure.pdf
36 This figure in the DOE's completion report is based on September 2011 data, which have since been updated by
DOE.
59


﻿b. Engage the ERC in developing the appropriate regulatory framework for decentralized
electrification using PV systems.
c. Mainstream the RPP business models in the DOE electrification program. An integrated
approach to rural electrification using RETs should be reflected in the updated MEDP
and the roadmap for 90% household electrification by 2017.
d. Continue building the capacity of DOE and partner agencies to implement large-scale
decentralized electrification using RETs. Disseminate best practices and learning stories
to stakeholders to build confidence in the program and institutions.
In conclusion, RPP was able to successfully put in place strategic policy and regulatory
frameworks and implementation mechanisms to replicate and even scale-up business models to
attract greater private sector and consumer investments on off-grid RETs.
DBP Completion Report for RPP
The strategies adopted to achieve the objectives of the project were: a) to transform Electric
Cooperatives into empowered, competitive, efficient and financially viable organizations through
financial and technical support; and b) to increase electrification through decentralized approach
and by piloting various types of mechanisms that would attract private sector participation while
minimizing the government subsidy for non-viable off-grid areas.
At the start, DBP was successful in implementing the US$ 10 Million RPP APL I as the lending
facility was fully disbursed 8 months ahead of its closing date. Achieving the triggers for APL II
and with the influx of pipeline projects, DBP pursued the US$ 40 Million additional financing.
However, it encountered major challenges such that projects identified for financing despite loan
approvals did not materialize thus causing project delays in the disbursement of the additional fund
for lending. The low interest rate regime that started in 2010 also affected the Project performance
making the cost of fund uncompetitive in the market resulting to lesser appetite for potential
clients to avail the loan facility. The catch up plan to finance power distribution investments to
address low disbursement rates on the other hand was affected by the Electric Cooperatives Partial
Credit Guarantee program which provided a better package for electric cooperatives in terms of
interest rate charges by its accredited PFIs. For the GEF grant, most of the Technical Assistance
components were almost fully utilized except for the Project Preparation Fund (PPF) due to
procurement issue. The prior review threshold of US$100,000 for consulting firm and US$ 50,000
for individual was too low and restrictive to allow access to the PPF. Normally, proponents from
the private sector who want to avail of PPF have already consultants. Even though the process of
procuring their consultants is in accordance with acceptable commercial practices, the prior review
threshold makes it ineligible following Appendix I of the World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Request for threshold increase was not considered during the loan negotiation for the additional
financing, hence the low disbursement on the PPF component.
Despite these challenges, the Project has satisfactorily achieved the set targets in the key
performance indicators based on the Project Appraisal Document and as amended during the RPP
Additional Financing in 2009. RPP supported the electrification of five (5) off-grid areas namely:
Romblon, Mindoro, Palawan, Batanes and Masbate which resulted to additional energy capacities,
consumer and government savings and improved energy services. It also demonstrated the Public-
Private Partnership through the realization of the 2.5 MW Sevilla Mini-hydropower Project in the
Province of Bohol. Finally, RPP catalyzed financing for electric cooperatives which opened the
lending window for private banks. At the start of RPP, private banks did not have the experience
or capacity to finance such type of projects. However, as the implementation of RPP progressed,
the PFIs became capacitated and were exposed to such type of project financing. Much more with
60


﻿the guarantee mechanism made available through the EC-PCG, the PFIs became more aggressive
and eventually were into the RPP market.
The factors that affected implementation results and outcomes are Philippines Credit Market low
interest rate regime and the delayed implementation of the incentives under the Renewable Energy
Law of 2008. Design improvements were introduced such as blending of funds to lower the
effective cost of fund and lowering of DBP credit spread but still RPP remained uncompetitive and
thus the low disbursement the additional financing.
In terms of project sustainability, all projects funded under RPP APL I are operationally and
financially sustainable having been managed by competent management teams. Three (3) out of
thirteen (13) projects funded are already fully paid while the remaining eleven (10) projects are in
up-to-date status.
DBP PMO learned a number of lessons during project implementation. World Bank procedures
and requirements are peculiar thus require handholding of projects to ensure compliance.
Although it is tedious, it ensures that projects comply with standards. Technical assistance
enhanced the performance of RPP having been capacitated on renewable energy that paved the
way for the financing of 4 renewable energy projects. Review of key performance indicators
should have been undertaken to adjust targets and include other relevant impacts of the projects
(e.g. additional connections from the grid, savings on government subsidy). There is danger in
implementing two (2) projects that cater to the same market. World Bank implemented the
Electric Cooperatives Partial Credit Guarantee and the Rural Power Project which indirectly
competed in the market particularly on interest rate. The EC PCG interest rate offering became
the benchmark for electric cooperatives.
Overall, RPP achieved certain level of success in the power sector where if not on the change in
credit market condition as it could have accomplished more. The World Bank decision of not
extending the RPP is timely and appropriate considering that the project design is not that flexible
enough to adapt to changing market and pushing further may just lead to crowding out of the
market which is no longer consistent with the project objectives. The challenge remains in the
off-grid areas on how to improve energy services and make it affordable to the energy consumers.
At present, off-grid areas remain dependent on subsidy which can be reduced through
development of more renewable energy projects as shown by examples of Romblon Electric
Cooperative and Oriental Mindoro Electric Cooperative. Efficiency in the distribution system can
also help reduce subsidy. Therefore, the next phase of the rural electrification should consider
renewable energy and energy efficiency in the off-grid areas.
B) Borrowers' Comments on Draft ICR
Comments from DOE
Overall, the ICR captured very well the journey that the project took from its design to
implementation. It presented an in-depth analysis of the project achievements including the
reasons for missing out on the significant attributes that could have contributed to the project
success. Observations are well-intentioned.
Comments from DBP
Section 2.1.2 Assessment of project design. In reference to the discussion of design weaknesses,
in paragraph (a), DBP commented that the factors contributing to pipeline projects not
materializing could also include government policy issues (e.g. delayed ERC approval,
availability of RE law incentive mechanism, TRANSCO's lease purchase agreements and
offering lower interest rates compared to prevailing market rates).
61


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A
62


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Preparation of the Rural Electrification Project: Japanese Grant Agreement
(TF026103-PH) between Republic of the Philippines and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, April 16, 1999
The World Bank, Second-Phase Preparation of the Rural Power Project: Japanese Grant
Agreement (TF026668-PH) between Republic of the Philippines and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, April 20, 2001
Peter Meier, September 15, 2002. Draft Economic Analysis, Off-grid, stand-alone systems for
individual consumers
The World Bank, Rural Power Project: Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 24284-PH),
November 3, 2003
The World Bank, Rural Power Project: Loan Agreement (Loan IBRD 7204-PH) between
Development Bank of the Philippines and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, December 8, 2003
The World Bank, Rural Power Project: Guarantee Agreement (Loan IBRD 7204-PH) between
Republic of the Philippines and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
December 8, 2003
The World Bank, Rural Power Project: GEF Project Agreement (GEF TF 052188-PH) between
Development Bank of the Philippines and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility, December 8,
2003
The World Bank, Rural Power Project: Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant
Agreement (GEF TF 052188-PH) between Republic of the Philippines and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
Environment Facility, December 8, 2003
Project Implementation Plan for Development Bank of the Philippines, September 1, 2003
Operations Manual for Development Bank of the Philippines
The World Bank, Additional Financing for Rural Power Project: Project Paper (Report No.
45763-PH), March 12, 2009
The World Bank, Additional Financing for Rural Power Project: Loan Agreement (Loan IBRD
7673-PH) between Development Bank of the Philippines and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, May 25, 2009
The World Bank, Additional Financing for Rural Power Project: Guarantee Agreement (Loan
IBRD 7673-PH) between Republic of the Philippines and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, May 25, 2009
The World Bank, Aide-Memoires for the Rural Power Project (Loan IBRD 7204-PH), (Loan
IBRD 7673-PH), and (GEF TF 052188-PH), from 2004 to 2012
63


﻿The World Bank, Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Philippines Rural
Power Project GEF TF052188-PH approved on December 4, 2003 to the Republic of the
Philippines, December 13, 2010
Republic of the Philippines, Rural Power Project Borrower's Report, Submitted by the
Department of Energy, December 15, 2011
Republic of the Philippines, Rural Power Project Borrower's Completion Report, Submitted by
Development Bank of the Philippines, May 2013
64


