RESTRICTED
Report No. P-709
'FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL ESTATES REHABILITATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 5, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AN\1D RECOMMiENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR AN AGRICULTURAL
ESTATES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US$16.0 million for an agricultural estates
rehabilitation and development project in Indonesia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The Government of Indonesia has asked for an IDA credit to help
finance the rehabilitation and development of two groups of government-
owned estates in North Sumatra. This would be the second credit in the
agricultural sector. The first IDA credit to Indonesia (No. 127 IND of
September 6, 1968) was for the rehabilitation of irrigation works and was
aimed at increasing the production of rice, the principal foodcrop. Soon
after it was made, a Bank mission went out to assist the Government in
identifying and preparing a project for the rehabilitation and development
of an estate project, in order to help increase the production of rubber
and palm oil, which are important export crops. The resulting project was
appraised in January-February 1969.
3.       Negotiations for the proposed credit took place from May 12 to
May 16, 1969. The Borrower was represented by: Mr. A. Muluk Lubis,
Director-General of State Estates, Dr. Saleh Afiff, Chief, Agriculture
Division, Bappenas, Mr. S. Sundaru, Director of International Affairs,
Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ismail Saleh S.H., Counsel, Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Mr. Djamhur Gandapura, First Director, PNP V and Mr. lMawardi J.
Lubis, First Director, PNP VII.
4.       The following is a summary statement of IDA credits to Indonesia
as of May 31, 1969.                                      $ 1llions
Credit
No.    Year   Borrower    Purpose                 Amount   Undisbursed
127     1968   Indonesia   Irrigation                5.0       5.0
Rehabilitation
135     1968   Indonesia   Technical                 2.0       2.0
Assistance
Total                                          7.0       7.0



- 2 -
Disbursement of the credit for irrigation rehabilitation has been delayed
because it was declared effective only on March 25, 1969, considerable
time having been needed to finalize negotiations with the consultants
particularly on the choice of personnel. It is difficult to foresee the
timing and the specific purposes for which the credit for technical
assistance will be used. It was intended to be drawn upon only when
other financing sources are not readily available. First use of it will
be made shortly for a national fertilizer study, for a tourism study on
Bali, and for preparatory work on the Tarum irrigation project.
5.       The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a major study of
Indonesia's road system, financed by the UNDP. As a first result of the
work done so far under this study, I am also presenting a proposal for a $28
million credit for the rehabilitation of the road system.
Further credits under active consideration include one for power distri-
bution in Djakarta and another for the expansion of the Pusri fertilizer
plant and related gas supply facilities.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.       Borrower:                    Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                      Various currencies equivalent to
$16.0 million.
Purpose:                     The rehabilitation and development
of two groups of government-owned
estates in North Sumatra, as well
as a development survey of other
government-owned estates, a feasi-
bility study for the rehabilitation
of smallholder rubber, and related
technical assistance.
Amortization:               In 50 years with a 10-year period
of grace through semi-annual instal-
ments commencing December 15, 1979
and ending June 15, 2019. Each
instalment up to and including pay-
ment due on June 15, 1989 to be 1/2
of 1 percent of such principal amount
and each instalment thereafter to be
1-1/2 percent of such principal.
Service Charge:             3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.       A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "North Sumatra Estates Project" (PA-19 ) dated
June 2, 1969.



- 3 -
8.       The government-owned estate sector is generally in a run-down
condition because of inadequate finance for replanting and expansion, and
the dissipation of scientific, technical and managerial knowledge and
experience. Insufficient attention has been paid to such important matters
as scientific fertilizer application and research and the maintenance of
processing facilities, vehicles and estate infrastructure. The estates
have been cut off from modern developments, and standards of financial
management in particular have declined. The proposed credit will, there-
fore, not only provide finance for investment in new planting and replant-
ing of trees, improvement of processing facilities, buildings, essential
estate infrastructure, and making up the accumulated "backlog" in ferti-
lizer applications; in addition funds will be made available for the
improvement of management services, including the purchase of foliar (leaf)
analysis services and technical assistance in marketing and plant breeding.
9.       The project consists primarily of a planting and replanting
progran to be carried out in and by PMP V and PNP VII, two groups of
government-owned estates in North Sumatra. Day-to-day management of each
PNP has until very recently been in the hands of a three-man Board of
Directors, which however had only limited powers; important decisions in
respect of the appointment of senior staff, the approval of the budget and
major operational policies were reserved for the Minister of Agricultures
This organizaticnal structure was too centralized and too remotely controlled
to allow for efficient management of the estates as a commercial operation
For this purpose full decentralization of management with separation of
policy making and executive functions is necessary. Agreement has been
reached with the Government to place PNP V and PNP VII under the control
of reconstituted Boards of Directors to be appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture, with powers similar to the boards of directors of commercial
companies. A Government Regulation to this effect has been signed by the
President.
10.      The program of rehabilitation and development referred to above
involves (i) the planting or replanting and bringing to maturity of subs-
tantial areas of rubber and oil palm; (ii) the bringing to maturity of
similar areas of immature rubber and oil palm planted prior to 1969;
(iii) the rehabilitation by a fertilizer program of large existing areax
of mature rubber and mature oil palm. Provision has also been included
for the corresponding rehabilitation and development of palm oil processing
mills and rubber processing factories; for estate transportation vehicles,
for machinery for land clearing and estate road maintenance, and for the
construction and equipment of workshops. Technical assistance would be
provided for management of a Joint Marketing Office, plant breeding
programs and a development survey of government-owned estates covering
other PNPs in Atjeh and North Sumatra, and rubber producing estates
elsewhere; also for a feasibility study for rehabilitating and developing
the smallholder rubber sector in Atjeh and North Sumatra.



11.      The total cost of the project is estimated at $32 million, with
a foreign exchange component of $17.3 million which includes about $1.3
million for small, miscellaneous items vwith a foreign component but pur-
chased locally and some small quantities of imported fertilizer.  It is
proposed to make available a credit of $16.0 million to cover 50 percent
of the total project cost with the balance financed 9 percent by the
Government and 41 percent by the PNJPs themselves in the form of reinvested
profits.
12.      The Government's contribution to PNP VII, and the proceeds of the
proposed credit earmarked for PUP V and PUP VII, would be lent by the
Government to these two PNPs under subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory
to the Association. The Government intends to charge an interest rate of
12 percent and to set a repayment term of 16 years with a 6-year grace
period; there would be a maintenance of value clause for the funds relent
out of the proposed credit. That part of the credit earmarked for
technical assistance for the Joint Marketing Office (&J1I0) and for the
joint plant breeding programs would be made available by the Goverrinent
as a grant to the JMO and PUIPs respectively.  The Government would make
direct use of those parts of the credit allocated for the smallholder
feasibility study and for the survey of government-owned estates.
13.      All goods financed by the proposed credit would be procured
after international competitive bidding. Funds would be disbursed against
documents evidencing import of goods and against foreign exchange payments
made under approved contracts of service.
14.      Indonesia has excellent natural co,l1itions for, and lhas been in:
the past a very efficient producer of, rubber and oil palm. Assuming
managerial and technical improvu-mttp,since most of the necessary infra-
structure and processing facilities already exist, the return on the
various investments included in the project should be high, ranging in
rubber from 18 percent to 25 percent, and in oil paLms from 26 percent
to 36 percent. These calculations are at the Bank's present price pro-
jections, which are referred to in Annexes 13 and 14, respectively of the
Appraisal Report. If rubber prices should drop f-urther to 12 U.S. cents
per lb. cif INew York, and if oil palm prices should drop further to US$110
per ton cif Europe, the lowest ratesof return for investments in rubber
and oil palm would still be 12 percent and 15 percent respectively.
15.      The local demand projections for palm oil in the appraisal
report demonstrate the likelihood of a considerable expansion in local
consumption of palm oil as an edible product, indicating that develop-
ment of oil palm under this and other projects in Indonesia in the near
future is unlikely to have a major effect on patterns of world trade.
16.      The principal benefits of the proposed project are increased
net foreign earnings, increased revenues to the Government, the establish-
ment of a new organizational and management structure for two government-
ormed estates, which is expected to become a model for other such estates,



and an imqprovement in marketing facilities for the produce of government-
owned estates in the area. The project would also lay a foundation for
the further development of government-owned estates and of the smallholder
rubber sector.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMilENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
18.      The draft Development Credit Agreement includes the usual pro-
vision for agricultural projects and, for the parts of the project relat-
ing to the estates, includes special covenants in Section b.03 to ensure
that such parts of the project will be executed and the estate organiza-
tions operated in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
agricultural and engineering practices. Provision for the relending of
the proceeds of the Credit to the organizations is found in Section 3.01
(b).
PART V - THE ECOIOMY
19.      The last economic report (EAP-5a) was circulated on M1ay 16, 1969.
In the second half of 1968 and thus far in 1969, Indonesia ha-- been approaching
stability in internal prices,;and it has experienced a stab3;e cxphang6crate
since October 1968. These favorable developments were combined with a
fair measure of economic growth, mainly because of increases in the pro-
duction of rice, crude oil and tin. The growth in GNP in 1968 is esti-
mated at about 5 percent, compared to a negligible growth in 1967, partly
because of a relatively poor rice crop in that year. Led by petroleum
products, exports increased by 12 percent in 1968, while imports remained
at about the 1967 level. There was a marked decline in the import of
finished consumer goods and a corresponding rise in raw material and capital
goods. In 1968 foreign aid disbursements were at about the same level
as in 1967, i.e. about $265 million. But the share of project aid in
total aid-financed imports decreased in 1968 largely because of a reduc-
tion in disbursements for on-going projects and slowness in preparing
and implementing new projects.
20.     In 1968 and the first quarter of 1969, the Central Government
budget was in balance. However, an appreciable part of the increased
counterpart fund from commodity aid was applied to meet extra-budgetary
needs, of which the extension of credit to maintain an incentive price
for rice production was a major element. The upward revision of interest
rates in October 1968 resulted in an increase in bank deposits and prcmoted
some repatriation of private capital.



- 6 -
21.      The success of the stabilization measures in 1968 made it possible
to devote more attention to development needs. Symptomatic of the change
was the announcement of Indonesia's new Five-Year Plan in December 1968.
The primary focus of the plan is on agriculture and the rehabilitation of
infrastructure. The Plan is expected to be reviewed each year in the
light of changing circumstances. In the first year of the Plan (1969/70)
the development budget, albeit modest in size, shows a sharp upturn.
22.      To assist Indonesia to achieve her economic objectives, the
participants in the recent IGGI meeting at Scheveningen (April 14 and
15, 1969) indicated their readiness to provide new aid commitments in
1969/70 totalling $h80 million as compared with $370 million for the
preceding year. This increase, together with the Government's program
of fiscal and monetary management,is expected to result in greater econo-
mic stability and a more rapid pace of development in 1969/70. To meet
any unforeseen needs for foreign exchange, a new Stand-by Agreement has
been concluded with the International Monetary Fund.
23.      The Government still confronts a number of serious problems on
which action needs to be taken in order to promote economic development.
Overstaffing in Government departments and enterprises results in low salary
levels which hamper efficiency and invite corruption; the tax structure
requires substantial modification, coupled with changes in tax rates in
order to obtain the resources needed to rehabilitate and maintain produc-
tive assets in the public sector and to raise the level of investment;
Government enterprises need reorganization; and with price stability, the
practice of paying part of wages and salaries in kind should be discon-
tinued.
24.      Despite the progress achieved so far in raising domestic revenues,
a significant portion of Indmesials development outlays will have to be
financed by external aid for the foreseeable future, and in view of the
critical debt service position of the country, external assistance should
be on the softest possible terms. Even after taking into account the
substantial debt rescheduling which has been undertaken for the years
1967 - 1969, Indonesia's external debt service, on debts incurred before
1967 alone, will amount to around $220 million per annum during the 1970Qs.
This would leave little if any room for additional external loans on con-
ventional terms unless there isfurther extensive debt_ rescl-eduling.sa subject
which is currently under study by Mr. Abs on behalf of the "Paris Club"
of Indonesia's creditors. In the absence of special security arrangements,
Indonesia is not creditworthy for loans from the Bank, but is eligible in
all respects for IDA credits such as that recommended herein.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREXEMET
25.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 7 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.      I reconimend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
June , 1969



