RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-19
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
INDONESIA
June 2, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All projections in this report are made in US dollars for
the reasons stated in para. 2.1h. Where necessary, con-
versions have been made from Rupiahs (Rp) at the Bonus
Export (BE) rate of US$1 - Rp 326.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)        2 a        2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km ) -       0.386 square miles
1 (metric) ton            =      1,000 kilograms (kg) - 2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 miles
1 millimeter (mm)         -      0.0h inches
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
FFB   - Fresh Fruit Bunches
JMO   - Joint Marketing Office
PNP   - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan (State-owned Estate Enterprise)
RISPA - Research Institute of the Sumatran Planters Association



INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                             i
I.       INTRODUCTION                                               1
II.      BACKGROUND                                                 1
A. General                                                1
B.  The Estate Sector                                     2
C.  The Government-owned E8tate Sector                    3
D.  The Smallholder Sector                                4
E. Check Prices, Export Duties and Exchange
Rates                                              4
III,     THE PROJECT AREA                                           5
IV.      THE PROJECT                                                7
A. Project Definition                                     7
B.  Estate Development                                    8
C.  Processing Facilities                                11
D.  Technical Assistance                                 12
E.  Cost Estimates                                       13
F. Proposed Financing, Disbursement and
Procurement                                       15
VI       ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                               16
VI.      PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCING RESULTS               19
A. Yields and Production                                 19
B.  Marketing and Prices                                 20
C.  Financial Results                                    22
VII.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                23
VIII.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                           24
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission com-
prising Messrs. Eccles, Gold, Stubenitsky and Kerwood (Consultant),
assisted by Messrs. Creyke and Phillips of the Bank's Resident Staff
in Indonesia, which visited Indonesia in Januaary/February 1969.






ANNEXES
1.   The Government-owned Estate Sector
2.   PNP V and PNP VII Planted and Cultivable Areas
3.   Planting Program
4.  Planting Material and Plant Breeding
5.   Foliar Analysis and the Fertilizer Investiaent Program
6.   PNP V Rubber Processing Facilities
7.   PNP VII Oil Palm Processing Facilities
8.   Investment Costs
9.   Disbursement Schedule
10.   PNP V and PNP VII Organization Chart
11.   PNP V and PNP VII Financial Statements
12.   Yield Assumptions
13.   Market Prospects for Natural Rubber
l4.   Market Prospects for Palm Oil and Palm Kernels
15.   Cash Flow Projections
16.   Effect of the project on the Government's Budgetary Position
17.   Economic Return Calculations - Investments in Rubber
18.   Economic Return Calculations - Investments in Oil Palms
MAP






INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
SUMMAa
The Government of Indonesia has asked for an IDA credit to help
finance the rehabilitation and development of two groups of Government-
owned rubber and oil palm estates in North Sumatra. Technical assistance
would be provided for the management of these estates, for a Joint Mar-
keting Office, for rubber and oil palm plant breeding programs, for a
development survey of other Government-owned estates, and for a feasibil-
ity study for the rehabilitation of smallholder rubber in the project area.
ii.       The Government-owned estate sector of the econorry has suffered,
as have most other sectors, from the political instability, corruption
and severe inflation that has been endemic for many years. The new Gov-
ernment which took over in 1966 is committed to stabilization of the cur-
rency, orderly economic development and the encouragement of foreign
investment. It recognizes the importance of a rehabilitated and developed
Government-owned estate sector in providing mach needed foreign exchange
and Government revenues.
iii.      The rehabilitation and development program involves planting or
replanting 6,550 ha of rubber and 13,670 ha of oil palms; bringing a fur-
ther 7,070 ha of immature rubber and 5,750 ha of immatuure oil palms into
bearing; rehabilitating by a fertilizer program of 9,660 ha of mature
rubber and 23,990 ha of mature oil palms; and rehabilitating, replacing
and expanding processing facilities, estate transportation, buildings,
workshops and agricultural machinery. The management of the two Government-
owned estates would be decentralized and would serve as a model for future
decentralization of other Government-owned estate groups.
iv.       Most of the rubber and oil palm products produced under the proj-
ect would be exported, although the local demand for palm oil is expected
to increase. At peak production in the late 1970's, incremental annual
net foreign exchange earnings would reach some US$18.0 million, and in-
cremental revenues accruing to the Government (from duties, taxes and
dividends) would reach some UStl0.0 million. The estimated rates of return
to the econormy of the various investments in the project range from about
18% to 36% per annum at projected prices for rubber and oil palm products
on world markets.
v.        The project is estimated to cost some US$32.0 million over the
period 1969-1973, with a foreign exchange component of some US$17.3 mil-
lion. It is technically, financially and economically sound and suitable
for an IDA credit of US$16.0 million, covering 50% of project costs.  Some
US$l1.9 million of the IDA credit would be on-lent by Government to the two
estates, at 12% per annum interest with a 16-year term. Remaining finance
would come from self-generated funds of the two estates (US$13.1 million)
and from G9vernment (US$2.9 million). All goods to be financed from the
IDA credit would be procured through international competitive bidding
procedures.






LDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has asked for an IDA credit to help
finance the rehab-litation and development of the Government-owned estate
and smalIholder rubber sectors.
1.02      Bank Economic Missions to Indonesi in 1967 and 1968 recommended
that priority be gi-ven to these two sectors.- , and in October/November 1968
a Bank mission, comprising Messrs. Wadsworth and Gold, assisted the Gov-
ernment in preparing a project for the rehabilitation and development of
two Government-owned estate groups in North Sumatra: Perusahaan Negara
Perkebunan Antan V (PNP V), specializing in rubber; and PNP VII, special-
izing in oil palm.  The project was later expanded to include technical
assistance for a development survey of other Government-owned estates and
for a feasibility study for the rehabilitation of smallholder rubber.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission,
comprising Messrs. Eccles, Gold, Stubenitsky and Kerwood (Consultant),
which visited Indonesia in January/February 1969, and which was assisted
by Messrs. Creyke and Phillips of the Bank's Resident Staff in Indonesia.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Indonesian archipelago has a surface area of some 1.9 million
km2 and a population estimated at some 115 million. The population growth
rate is estimated at about 2.5% per annum and is increasing.
2.02      Smallholder and subsistence agriculture piedominates in a dual
economy. The modern sector comprises mainly estates, subsidiary industries,
infrastructure and commerce, with most investiment caning from foreign
companies, mainly Dutch. The production of crons, livestock, fish and
forest products accounts for over 50% of national income; provides a live-
lihood for about 75% of the population; accounts for more than 70% of all
exports (more than 80% if petroleum exports and excluded); and provides -
by way of export taxes - more than 20% of Governument revenues, apart from
external aid.
1/ Asia Department Reports:
No. AS-132a of February 12, 1968 - Economic Development of Indonesia;
No. AS-143a of October 1, 1968 - Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Indonesia.
2/ Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan Antan V = St.ate-owned Estate Enterprise
Unit V. There are 28 such units in Indonesia, see Annex 1.



- 2 -
2.03      The political climate during the past 30 years has not been
favorable for economic development; first, the Second World Wdar, followed
by a war of independence and internal conflicts, the nationalization of
Dutch-owned properties in 1957/58, and the taking over of most other
foreign-owned enterprises in 1964. These developments were accompanied
by severe inflation, at times reaching astronomical levels. Not surpris-
ingly, the performance of the agricultural sector, like most other sectors
of the Indonesian economy, has been unsatisfactory over the past 30 years.
Between 1958 and 1965 overall agricultural output at constant (1960)
prices increased by less than 12%, with food crop production increasing
by 24%, farm cash crop production stagnant and eotate production declining
by 2%. Agricultural exports have declined and food imports have had to
be maintained or increased, especially rice.
2.0h      The present Government, which took over in 1966, is committed to
stabilization of the currency (in which it has had a large measure of
success), orderly economic development and the encouragement of foreign
investment. First priority has been to increase production of food,
especially rice; for which purpose an IDA Credit of US$5.0 million was
made in 1968 (Credit No. 127-IND). One of the most urgent needs now is to
increase foreign exchange ew.rnings and Government revenues, the shortage
of both being serious bottlenecks to further development. The Government
recognizes the importance of the estate sector in this respect, and espe-
cially of the Government-owned part of that sector.
B. The Estate Sector
2.05      Before the Second World War, Indonesia had the largest and in
some respects the most scientifically advanced estate industry in the
tropics. The productive areas of estates, which were largely European
owned and managed, then totalled some 1.2 million ha, accounted for about
8% of the countryls cultivated area, and produced roughly 60% of total
exports. Since the War, the Government has not taken full advantage of
this important sector, and the role of the estates in the economy, though
still important, has diminished dramatically. In 1964, estate produce
accounted for only 15-20% of exports. In volumetric terms,moreover, total
estate production has fallen by about 50% from 1938 levels. Scientific,
technical and managerial know-how have been dissipated and most estates
are now operating at sub-optimal levels. Some estate lands have been
diverted to food crops as a result of population pressures, especially in
Java, but even also in North Sumatra where other fertile land was available
for the purpose.
2.06      The total planted area on estates in 1966 was some 854,200 ha,
the major crops being:  rubber - 531,100 ha (62%); oil palms  - 105,800 ha
(12%); sugar - 76,100 ha (9%); tea - 72,700 ha (8%); and coffee -
42,700 ha (5%). Other estate crops are coconuts, cocoa and quinine.
(There is doubt about the complete accuracy of these figures, however, and
they exclude tobacco, which is an important crop.)



- 3 -
2.07      The new Government has approached all non-Dutch owners of estates
to negotiate return of management control, or formal requisition with
compensationi . A few companies do not wish te return to Indonesia, but
most have already recovered control, while one has entered into a joint
enterprise with the Government.  The previouly ')utch-oWned estates, how-
ever, are under State control and compensation terms have been negotiated
between the Indonesian and Dutch Governments.
C. Government-owned Estate Sector
2.08      In 1968, Government-owned estates (mostly ex-Dutch) comprised
about 227,100 ha of rubber (43% of the overall estate sector area),
77,600 ha of oil palm (75%), 39,600 ha of tea (5P%), 66,800 ha of sugar
(87%), 22,300 ha of coffee (50%), 14,400 ha of tobacco (100%), 122,000 ha
of pine forest (100%) and lesser areas of cocoa, sisal, manila hemp, kapok
and other crops. Annex 1 contains further details.
2.09      During their 12-year existence, the Government estates have been
taxed very heavily - 25% export duties and 60% corporation taxes were
levied. In addition, the Government kept operating and capital expendi-
tures to the minimum. Because of lack of funds the estates fell behind
in their replanting and expansion programs; and vehicles, processing
facilities and houses fell into disrepair. They were not allocated suf-
ficient foreign exchange for essential piurchases of fertilizers and chem-
icals. Management - particularly financial and marketing - was seriously
affected by the hand-to-mouth existence which was forced upon the estates,
exacerbated by political appointments to important posts and by frequent
reorganizations and regroupings. Wage and salary levels were fixed by
Government and fell, with the rapid inflation, to levels which provided
no incentives to higher production and lower costs. Management was over-
certralized. Corruption became rife and the military abused their position.
2.10      While there have been improvements during the past two years,
there is a long way to go before pre-war standards can be re-attained and
surpassed. Contacts with abroad are being resumed and efforts made to
upgrade research and to absorb modern techniques and management know-how.
Fertilizer has become available again through bilateral aid. The Govern-
ment, however, remains extremely short of cash and cannot afford to reduce
corporation taxes, although export duties on rubber and oil palm have been
reduced to 15%. The relatively large investments needed to rehabilitate
the sector must,therefore,come from abroad if it is to play its full part
in the economy in the near future.
2.11      The reorganization and partial decentralization of the Government-
owned estates which took place in April 1968 were an important step towards
rehabilitation of the sector. The estates were previously arranged in
five major crop groups, each centrally managed from Djakarta. Now they are
1/ Technically, these estates have only been managed by Government
since taken over in 1964; they were never formally requisitioned
as were the old Dutch estates.



-4-
grouped into 28 units krown. as PNP's (see para 1.02 and Annex 1) based on
geographical location, crop and management size considerations. Each PNP
unit has a Board of Direc',ors located on the estates themselves, though
certain important powers al  reserved to the Minister of Agriculture,
such as appointment of senior staff; approval of budget estimates and
financial statements; appi oval of main limes of operations; and powers to
give instructions to the Boards concerning the general discharge of their
functions. The Minister exercises these powers through the Directorate
General of Estates within the Ministry. The Government realizes that a
further decentralization is needed and the arrangements for organization
and management for the two PNPs involved in this project (see Chapter V)
would serve as a model which might well be followed by other PNPts at a
later date.
r,. r;he Smallholder Sector
2.12      Government estimates that in 1966/67, the smallholder sector
produced about 0% of Tndcnesiats sugar, 60% of its tea, 80% of its cof-
fee, rubber and tobacco and practically all its copra, kapok,pepper, nutmegs,
and cloves. Most of the sugar, tea, tobacco, kapok, nutmegs and cloves
were produced for internal consumption, but the smallholder sector pro-
vided about 75% of Indonesia's exports of coffee, 70% of its exports of
rubber and practically all its exports of copra and pepper. In terms of
volume, these smallholder exports amounted to about 60,000 tons of coffee,
420,000 tons of rubber, 310,000 tons of copra and 20,000 tons of pepper,
with a value of over USM2O0 million.
2.13      Smallholder rubber production, on about 1.5 million ha, is far
from its potential capacity, with average yields of about 200-300 kg per
ha being less than half those obtained on estates in Indonesia, even
under present conditions. Prices paid to smallholders by millers are
generally too low to provide them with adequate incentives, either because
of inefficient mill operation or excessive profit-taking. There are no
extension services to show smalTholders the latest techniques. A good
percentage of smallholder rubber is now old and low-yielding, but the
price situation does not encourage replanting or the use of fertilizer to
raise yields.
E. Check Prices, Export Duties and Exchange Rates
2.14      A particular feature of the Indonesian export sector is the
interrelated system of check prices, export duties, and exchange rates.
Under this, Governmlent peiiodically fixes check prices for export commod-
ities, including rubber and palm produce, at somewhat below anticipated
fob values.  Check prices are the basis on which export duties (now 15%
on rubber and palm produce) are paid. The exporter can convert foreign
exchange earnings, up to the check price, into rupiahs at the Bonus
Export (BE) rate which is currently US$1 = Rp 326. Earnings over the
check price are convertibWe into rupiahs at the preferential (DP) rate
which is currently US$1 - Rp 385. There are many reasons for the use of
this system, but none are specially pertinent to the proposed project.



-5 -
Since check prices, export duties and exchange rates are subject to change,
possibly frequent change, during the life of the project, all financial
and economic projections in this report are expressed in US dollars;
wherever necessary, conversions from rupiahs have been made at the BE rate.
The combined effect of present check prices, export duties and exchange
rates is an "effective" dut,r of about 13.8% on palm produce and from 5 to
8.5% on rubber, depending on grade. These 11effective" rates of duty
would probably remaih substantially the same, whatever the individual
changes in any of the check prices, export dutiei and exch6nge rates.
For the purposes of financial projections in this report "effective" rates
of 15% for palm produce and 7.5% for rubber are assumed.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      PNP V and PNP VII lie within the province of North Sumatra
(see Map). The 12 estates comprising PNP V have a total planted area of
about 27,200 ha, and are spread over three administrative districts; group
headquarters are at Sungei Karang. The 10 estates comprising PNP VII
have a total planted area of about 34,700 ha and are p2ncentrated in one
district around the group headquarters at Bah Djambi.-   Annex 1 provides
information on other PNP's in the project area and Annex 2 on the charac-
teristics of each estate on PNP V and PNP VII.
3.02      There are about 300,000 ha of estates in the project area.
Grovernment owns about 200,000 ha of these, well known international com-
panies own about 60,000 ha and private Indonesians own about 40,000 ha.
There are some 200?000 ha of smallholder rubber. Substantial areas of
virgin_jungle remain, much of it suitable for agricultural development.
3.03      Soil and climate conditions are outstanding for the production
of the principal estate crops, rubber and oil palms. While there is a
variation in soil types, only a very few PWIP V estates have soil related
problems, which occur on alluvial flats where the water table is high due
to the silting of river estuaries.  Oil palm will tolerate such conditions
better than rubber.  This condition has arisen because the estuaries have
not been dredged since the beginning of T1!orld W4ar II.  Such dredging is
high on the Government's priority list, but cannot be economically justi-
fied by the benefits that would accrue to PNP V estates alone.  Apart
from river flats the terrain generally is slightly undulating with few
areas in which terracing is needed for tree crop cultivation. In the
central region of the province, the area of PNP VII, annual rainfall
averages 3,500 mm with a very good distribution and is excellent for oil
palms. South and north of this region rainfall is appreciably lower -
about 1,800 mm in the north and 2,300 mm in the south - but again is well
distributed and is very well suited to rubber production; the PNP V
estates are located in these regions. Temperatures, an almost constant
mean of 270C, and an average sunshine of six hours daily are ideal for the
cultivation of both crops.
1/ PNP VII is in the course of moving its headquarters from Medan.



-6-
Infrastructure
-3.(l o)    North  umiatra has no road or rail contact with the south of
the island and all project imports and exports would be handled through
tihe port of Belawan, whichi has facilities for handling palm oil and con-
centrated latex, most of which are shipped currently in freighters of up
to 15,000 tons. The use of bulk tankers for palm oil, which would be
desirable, would necessitate a considerable amount of dredging. Regular
comrercial air services connect Medan (the province's administrative and
commercial capital) with other Sumatran towns, Djakarta, and Penang
(Malaysia).
3.05        The bulk of PNP V and PNP VII export produce is moved from
their processing facilities to Belawan by the State Railway system. The
average distance of PN? V estates from Belawqan is 160 km (range7O-2lh0 km),
and that of the more compact PNP VII group, 150 km.
3.06        Within the project area tarmiac roads in reasonable condition
link project estates with both Medan and Belawan.  Exceptions are two
roads of importance to management of the PN? V group of estates - that
linking Tebing Tinggi to the Pematang Siantar-Kisaran road, and that from
Aisaran to Sungei Silau estate - which become barely passable in wet
weather.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
would improve and maintain them to permit use by ordinary estate vehicles.
Labor
3.C'7       Labor is generally in good supply in the project area and is
well able and prepared to work on estates. Most estates employ more
labor than is required; consequently no increase is needed in the labor
force to implement the project. Should labor shortages occur, however,
there would be little problem in recruiting workers from Java.  Because
of severe inflation the estates, as other employers, pay a large propor-
tion of wages in kind such as rice, cloth and kerosene. The Government
is anxious to return to solely monetary wages, but this has not yet
proved possible. Currently, wages for estate workers are Rp 7 per day
plus some Rp 1h3 in kirnd, equivalent to just less than US$0.50. This
rate is very low compared with those in other countries -with a major
estate industry.
Agricultural Research
3.08        The Research Institute of the Sumatran Planters Association
(HISPA) was established early in the century (under the name AVROS) to
provide a common research service for the estate sector, and it developed
a deserved and world wide reputation for the qtqality of its work. Since
the expropriation of Dutch owned estates, however, RISPA has been unable
to maintain a satisfactory service. The main reasons for this have been
shortages of funds and qualified staff. Consequently, over the past tan
years the estate sector has received inadequate research support despite
the efforts of individual estates to conduct their own research progranms,
in particular their own plant breeding programs.



-7-
3.0<?        TIhe importance of agricultural research in general, and of
itISPA programs in particular, is now recognized by the Government.  iWfith
bilateral technical assistance from a range of sources, it is making every
effort to improve research services, although the exact institutional
basis for agricultural research is y't to be determined. Particular
research priorities for Sumatran estates are plant nutrition and plant
breeding. Both the Federal Republic of Gennany and the Netherlands have
offered to provide XISPA With facilities for the soil and leaf analyses
essential for the efficient estate fertilizer programs that have been so
notably lacking over the last decade, and it is anticipated that these
offers rill be taken up by the Government. Under the proposed project
?NPs V and VII 4jould contract for leaf analysis services with overseas
agencies until the proposed new RISPA facilities are operative on a
sufficiently large scale in 1971 (para. 4.06). Provision also would be
made under the project for technical assistance for the oil palm and rubber
plant breeding programs which are essential for the economic future of both
the estate and smallholder sectors (para. L.05). Since the project would
provide for scientifically based fertilizer recommendations, and the intro-
duction of the results of applied research from other countries, technical
problems which might restrict the two PNP&t competitive position in rela-
tion to producers elsewhere of palm oil and rubber are not anticipated.
IV. THE RROJECT
A. Project iDefinition
h.01         The project is the rehabilitation and development over the
five years 1960-1973 of two groups of Government-owned estates, PNP V and
PNP VII, and involves:
- planting or re-planting about 6,550 ha of rubber and
13,670 ha of oil palms;
- bringing to maturity the above areas and about 7,070 ha
of immature rubber and 5,750 ha of immature oil palms
planted prior to 1969;
- rehabilitating by a fertilizer program about 9,660 ha of
matiure rubber and 23,990 ha of mature oil palms;
- constructing two new crumb rubber factories, expanding an
existing pilot crumb rubber factory and rehabilitating and
expanding three concentrated latex factories;l/
-  constructing a new palm oil mill, and rehabilitating and
expanding four other mills;
- rehabilitating and expanding estate transportation services
and buildings;
1/ The main characteristics of these two types of rubber are described in
Anne  6.



- providing machinery for land-clearing and estate road
up-keep;
- providing equipment for a central workshop; and
- providing technical assistance, involving an estate and
factory inspection service, technical and financial advisers
and the purchase of foliar (leaf) analysis services.
Also included in the project is technical assistance for a Joint Marketing
Office; for rubber and oil palm plant breeding programs; for a development
survey of other Government-owned estates; and for a feasibility study for
smallholder rubber rehabilitation.
B.  Estate Development
Planting Program
4.02         The presently available cultivable areas of the PNP V and
PNPVII groups of estates are 27,910 ha 42,392 ha respectively.-1_irther
details of these areas, by individual estate and by crop and year of
planting, are given in Annex 2.  Zhe proposed planting programs for PNP V
and PNP VII are designed to replant those areas which have become uneconomic
to harvest 1/, and to plant up all other suitable land not presently
cropped as fast as considerations of management and labor force allow.
These programs cover seven years for PNP V and five years for PN? VII, and
are phased as followfs:
Project
1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  Sub-Total  1974  1975  Total
PNP V
Xubber        722 1,040 1,628 1,617 1,545   6,552    1,306   934  8,792
Oil Palms       -   335   362  203   178   1,078           -     -  1 078
Sub-total    722 1,37T  1,990 1,820 1,723   7,630    1,306   934  9,870
.iNP VII
Oil ?alms   4,748 3,063 3,203 1,329   251  12,59)4         -     - 12,594
Total       5,470 ,3138 5,193 3,109 1,974  20,224    1,306   934 22,4L64
1/  Rubber trees usually becormie uneconomic imder Indonesian conditions
after about 25 years, due to exhaustion of bark for tapping and
declining yields. As oil palms get older and tallMr, the yield falls
Mid the cost of harvesting increases since the fruit must be cut by
hEnd from the crown of the palm. It is no longer economic to harvest
tthe crop under Indonesian conditions when the palm is about 30 years old.



iurther details are given in Annex 3.  Af-ter these programs have been
completed, normal re-planting programs rfyould bs followed, based on a
25-year cycle Cor rubber and a 30-year cycle for oil palms.
Ii.03        Of the 9,870 ha that would be plahted by PN? V, some 9,148
hia are currently in old rubber, and the remaining 722 ha are vacant land
recently cleared of old rubber but not yet re-planted.  Abouit 1,078 ha of
old rubber would be planted with oil palms, rather than re-planted with
rubber, because of the drainage problems referred to in para. 3.03.
)4.04        Of the 12,594 ha that wDuld be planted by PNP VII, 1,309 ha
are currently in old oil palms; 464 na in old rubber; and 3,127 ha in sisal
and Manila hemp.  4,802 ha consist of vacant land recently recovered from
illegal settlers or recently tleared of old estate crops (in&nly sisal)
bu  r.ot `yet ro-planted; and 2,892 ha are virgiln Jungle on the recently
established Bukit &clima estate.  Processing considera-l;ions dictate that
old rubber areas be re-planted with oil palms (para. li.17), and it is more
economic to grow oil palms than sisal or Manila hemp on the types of soils
and under the climate enjoyed by PNP VII.
Planting lHaterial
4.05          Hfigh-yielding planting material needed for the project can be
provided by PNP V and PNP VII from their own resources.  Assarances were
obtained during negotiations, however, that all futumre oil palm plantings
would be high yielding tenera. Annex 1a gives further details of the
planting material and plant breeding situation.  For the future of both the
estate and smallholder sectors it is important that plant breeding programs
be improved and, as part of the project, it is proposed to finance periodic
visits by plent, breeding experts, the training abroad of Indonesian
personnel, and the purchase of requisite equipment. Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that selection of the visiting experts and of
the training programs would be subject to IDA approval.
Fertilizer Investment Program
4.o6        - Efficient fertilizer programs can be based only on scientific
analysis techniques, such as the foliar (leaf) analysis described in
Annex 5. Until services for applying these techniques are available lo-
cally, expected to be by 1971 (para. 3.09), provision is made in the
project for obtaining them abroad through contracts with suitable research
agencies.  These arrangements would start in the latter half of 1969 and
would allow properly balanced fertilizer applications from 1970 onwards.
Ii.07        '1ie yields of all Indonesian estates, including PNP V and
PNP VII, are seriously depressed due to the lack of balanced rertilizer
applications for many years (para. 2.09). If maximum yields are to be
realized, it is especially important that the existing mature areas on
PNP V and PNP VII are properly fertilized as soon as possible. As signifi-
cant yield responses will not, occur from such applications for about two to
three years from the time they are made,l/ application of such fertilizers
l/  Annex 12 contains yield projections for rubber and oil palms, including
yield responses expected from applying correctly halanced fertilizers
to existing mature areas.



- 10 -
in 1970 and 1971 are capital items and it is proposed to finance them under
the project. Application of fertilizers in 1969, prior to foliar analysis
results being made available, could be totally wasted for rubber but would
be a useful preliminary to the 1970 and 1971 applications for oil palms -
see Annex 5 for further details. Fertilizer for application to mature
oil palms in 1969 would, therefore, also be financed under the project.
Fertilizer for immature areas - which in estate accounting is normally con-
sidered as a capital item - would be financed throughout the project period.
Agricultural Machinery
h.08         With labor paid only very low wvages (para. 3.07), agricultural
machinery can only be economic for plowing and harrowing old sisal and
abaca areas, squatter land which has been reclaimed and areas infested with
lalang grass; and for felling and root extraction when re.anting rubber
and oil palm areas where the risk of future pest: and disea," attack is high
- this is likely to be the case for practically all rubber areas and for
about 20% of the oil palm areas which would be re-planted under the project.
Existing machinery is old and suffers from poor maintenance due to past
difficulties in obtaining spare parts. Consequently, the replacement and
addition of equipment required for the limited purposes described above is
included in the project.
Transportation
42.09        All PNP V produce is transported from the fieid to processing
factories by road.  On PNP VII, there is an estate rail system (see Map),
and only a small proportion of short-haul work is done by road. There are
a large number of vehicles, locomotives and rolling stock on both PNPs,
although they are not fully utilized due to age, shortage of spares and
sub-optimal organization (which would be improved as a result of proposed
technical assistance - see pares. 5.05 through 5.08).  Because of the high
cost of capital replacement of the PNP VII rail system, there would be a
progressive replacement of rail haulage by road, except for longer distances.
The PNP VII estate road system would become of increasing importance; thus
mechanized road maintenance would be introduced and simple structures to
facilitate transfer of fresh fruit-bunch (FFB) from road to rail would be
built.
4.10         It is proposed to finance under the project the construction
of FFB road/rail transfer structures, the purchase of road graderf and
grader attachments for standard wheeled tractors, the replacement of old
steam locomotives with diesel units, the replacement of old persorfnel
transportation (such as buses, cars, jeeps and motor-cycles), and the
replacement and addition of crop transport equipment (such as trucks and
rolling stock) as needed to handle the increased crop expected from the
project. Estimates of requirements have been made on the basis of improved
utilization.
Buildings
*.11         Cash shortages in recent years have led to the inadequate
maintenance of estate buildings, particularly of workers' housing; on some



- 11 -
estates much of the workers' accommodation is sub-ii5tandard and needs to be
replaced; and accommodation has to be provided for resident staff and
workers on the new Bukit Exlima estate. It is proposed to include in the
project new and replacement accommodation, as required. Rehabilitation
maintenance on the remaining buildings would be carried out from the PNP's
operating budgets.
C. Processing Facilities
PNP V
4.12      The current PNP V rubber crop of about 15,000 tons per annum is
adequately processed in 2 sheet rubber plants, 4 crepe rubber plants,
3 concentrated latex plants and a pilot crumb r-ubber plant; 7 other sheet
rubber plants and 2 other crepe rubber plants are held in re;serve.l/ Their
condition is generally satisfactory. However, in order to assist marketing
in the face of competition from synthetic rubbers (para. 6.07), it will be
necessary in future to restrict processing mainly to concentrated latex and
crumb rubbers which are capable of precise quality measurement and control,
with only reserve capacity for-sheet and creDe rubbers. For the same
marketing reason, it is important that, by the end of 1969, the Government
lays down precise quality standards following internationally accepted
forms; that these standards are backed up by scientific checking methods
(which could be carried out by RISPA laboratories); and that these stardards
are rigorously followed by PNP V. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
4.13      To cater for this change in marketing needs and for the increased
crop due to the project (expected to reach a peak of about 32,000 tons by
1960), the project would include enlargement of the present pilot crumb
rubber plant at Sungei Patih (to serve the northern section of PNP V); the
construction of new crumb rubber plants at Rambutan (to serve the central
section) and at Sungei Dadap (to serve the southern section); the enlargement
of the three concentrated latex plants, with corresponding additional
storage capacity; and the provision of equipment for production quality
control laboratories. Annex 6 gives further details of existing plants and
proposed investments.
4.14     Satisfactory arrangements have been made for the relatively small
crop from PNP V oil palm plantings to be processed by PNP VI, whose main
crop is-oil palm.
PNP VII
4.15      The current PNP VII oil palm crop of about 310,000 tons of FFB
per annum is adequately processed in five mills. With the exception of the
Marihat mill (built in 1929) - and, to a lesser extent, Majang mill - their
condition is generally satisfactory. The Marihat mill has reached the end
of its economic life and would be closed down as soon as alternative process-
ing for the Marihat estate crop can be arranged. Quality control checks
acceptable internationally are carried out by RISPA laboratories. Indonesian
palm oil is naturally of a very high standard, with a low "tfree fatty acid"
1/ The main characteristics of these various types of rubber are described
in Annex 6.



- 12 -
content of about 3%. (Premiums are usually given for contents below 5%.)
4.16      To cater for the increased crop due to the project (estimated
to reach a peak of about 840,000 tons of FFB in 1978) and to allow for the
closing down of Marihat mill, extension of the other four mills and con-
struction of a new mill on the Dolok Ilir estate, with corresponding addi-
tional storage capacity, would form part of the project. In addition,
each of the five mills would be equipped with incinerators to obtain
valuable potash fertilizer from empty bunch waste.l/ Annex 7 gives further
details of existing mills and proposed investments.
h.17      PNP VII rubber is concentrated on Marihat estate., and is pro-
cessed into crepe rubbers in PNP VIl's own plant, which is very old, not
worth rehabilitating and currently supervised by the management of the
Marihat oil mill.  TWhen that oil mill is closed down, art%gements would
be made to have the small amount of PNP VII rubber (from bout 500 ha)
processed elsewhere.
Central Workshops
4.18      The PNP VII central workshop on the Dolok Ilir estate is well
staffed and with suitable machinery it could efficiently manufacture an
increasingly large proportion of spare parts for the oil mills and transpor-
tation equipment. Tne machinery needed for this purpose would be provided
under the project. Annex 7 gives fur-ther details.
D. Technical Assistance
Smallholder Rubber Development
h.19      Thq project would include the retention of consultants to carry
out a feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the smallholder rubber
industry in North Sumatra. Particular attention would need to be paid to
the introduction of crumb rubber processing and one of the major problems
to be solved would be the organization of this processing 'and related
marketing. Some existing private millers might wish to cooperate and up-
grade their mills, some of the PNPs and large commercial estates might be
prepared to carry out the processing and marketing on a contract basis or
new mills might have to be operated expressly for smallholder production by
a cooperative or Government agency. A scheme for crop collection, exten-
sion services and credit facilities would have to be worked out.
Development Survey of Other Government-owned Estates
4.20      A consulting firm would be retained under the project to conduct
a surxey of other Govermment-owned estates in the project area, and of
rubber estates elsewhere in Indonesia, on which the Government can base a
development policy. Feasibility studies would be prepared.
1/ Tie remnants from the harvested fresh fruit bunch, after the individual
fruits have beep removed for processing, are known as "empty bunch
waste".



- 13 -
Other Technical Assistance
4.21      Reference has already been made to technical assistance for
rubber and oil palm plant breeding programs (para. )4.5o).  Technical
assistance would also be provided to strengthen and up-date the management
of each of PNP V and PNP VII (paras. 5.05 through 5.08), and to strengthen
the joint marketing arrangements used by the PNPs (para. 6.06).
l
4i22      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, to carry out
technical assistance under the project, the Government and the PNPs would
employ consultants satisfactory to IDA, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA.
E. Cost Estimate8
h.23      Total project costs are estimated at US$32.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$17.3 million.  The table on the nesct page
gives a summary of the cost estimates. Further details are given in
Annex 8.



- 14 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
Local   Foreign             Exchange
Currency  Exchange   Total  Component
-(us$'ooo) -----                  %
A.  PNP V Group of Estates
New plantings                         1,816          -    1,816        -
Immature Areas                        1,481        440    1,921       23
Fertilizer Investment Program            67        468      535       87
Estate Buildings and Housing            283         32      315       10
Agricultural Machinery                  106      1,059    1,165       91
Transportation Equipment                287        373      660       57
Processing Facilities                   383       500       883       57
Foliar Analysis Services                  -         73       73      100
Technical Assistance Personnel            -        529      529      100
Contingencies (approx 10%)              437        346      783       44
Sub-total:            4,860      3,820    8,680       44
B.  PNP VII Group of Estates
New plantings                         2,757          -    2,757        -
Immature Areas                        1,613        766    2,379       32
Fertilizer Investment Program           632     4,514    5,146        88
Estate Buildings and Housing          1,367       152    1,519        10
Agrizultural Machinery                   42        420       462      91
Transportation Equipment                391     1,258    1,649        76
Processing Facilities                 2,151      3,545    5,696       62
Foliar Analysis Services                  -        132      132      100
Technical Assistance Personnel            -       498        498     100
Contingencies (approx 10%)              907     1,115    2,022        55
Sub-total             9,860    12,400   22,260        56
C.  Other Technical Assistance
Plant breeding programs                   -        100      100      100
Joint Marketing Office                    -        360      360      100
Government Estates Survey                 -        340      340      100
Smallholder Feasibility Study             -        200      200      100
Contingencies (approx 10%)                -       110       110      100
Sub-Total:                -     1,110    1,110       100
Grand Total:           14,720    17,330   32,050        54



- 15 -
4.24      In view of recent severe inflation, past costs are not a goodl
guide to future costs. Wherever possible, therefore, cost e;timates have
been built up by considering man-day requirements and compounding tle,se
b;* the daily wage rate assumed,l/ or by comparing conditions elsewh6:re,
a.'ter suitable adjustments. Estimates for the rehabilitation and/c,:
replacement of existing buildings and transportation are necessarily crude
since it was not possible to appraise each item and it would be dAifficult,
in any case, to forecast the precise life left in some of the items con-
cerned. In practice, items would only be replaced or rehabilitated as
necessary, according to annual budgets approved by the PNP Boards after
examination by the Inspection Se:vice (para. 5.05).
G. Proposed Financing, DisburE ement and Procurement
4.25      It is proposed to make available an IDA credit of US$16.0 million
to cover 50% of total project costs, with the remaining finance provided
by the PNPs themselves in the form of reinvested profits (after tax) and
by the Government. Finance for the project would thus be as follows:
SUMMARY PROPOSED FINANCING
Technical
PNP V         PNP VII       Assistance       Total
uS$'000   %   us$'ooo   %   US$o00oo        US$'o0o   %
Reinvested profits   5,220    60    7,930   36         _      -   13,150   h1
Government                -     -    2,900   13         -     -    2,900    9
IDA credit            3,460    40   11,h30   51   1,110   100   16,000   50
Totals:   8,680   100   22,260  100   1,110   100   32,050  100
4.26      The Government's contribution to PNP VII, and that portion of the
IDA credit earmarked for the PNPs, would be lent by the Government to the
PNPs under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, signature of
which  would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.  In
view of the inflationary situation, and since the PNPs' income arises mainly
from exports, these Subsidiary Loan Agreements would be expressed in
US dollars, or in Indonesian rupiahs with a maintenance of value clause for
principal and interest. The subsidiary loans would carry an interest rate
of 12% per annum, which the Government intends to make standard for all
lending to State enterprises in future, and would have a term of 16 years5.
including a 6-year grace period.
1/  Currently only Rp 7 per day, with some Rp 143 per day in kind, for a
total real wage of just less than US$0o50 equivalent. It has been
assumed that this wage will rise continuously at 3% per annum cumula-
tively throughout the project life, compared to the general level of
other costs. For the investment period, however, it has also been
assumed that an annual retrenchment of labor at a rate of 3% would be
achieved with improved management practices.



- 16 -
4.27      The Government would make available as a grant that part of the
IDA. credit earmarked for technical assistance to the Joint Marketing Office
and to the plant breeding programs. The Government itself would make direct
use cf those parts of the IDA credit earmarked for the smallholder feasi-
bility study and for the survey of Governaent-owned estates.
Disbursement
h.28      IDA funds would be disbursed against full CIF documentation for
fertilizers, processing machinery, building materials (for processing plants,
oil storage tanks and FFB road/rail transfer structures), central workshop
machinery, agricultural machinery and transportation equipment; and against
foreign exchange payments for the purchase of foliar analysis services, for
consibltantst services and for training abroad of Indonesian personnel. A
disbursement schedule is given at Annex 9. Savings under one part of the
project should be usuable for other parts, but overall savings should be
cancelled.
Procurement
h.29      All goods to be imported under the project, and to be financed by
IDA, would be procured following international competitive bidding proce-
dures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained to this effect and
that, for all contracts over US$50,0oo, draft tender documents would be
submitted for approval by IDA before issuance, and analyses of bids submit-
ted for approval by IDA before award of contracts.
h.30      The import and procurement procedures would be followed by each
of PNP V and PNP VII. Assistance in the preparation of tender documents
and analysis of bids would be given by the Inspection Service (para. 5.05).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.ol      Government-owned estates have been isolated for many years from
developments occurring outside Indonesia in modern estate technology.
Mbdernization could be achieved in one of two ways: either Managing Agents
could be given full executlve control for a number of years, or consultants
could be appointed to advise and work closely with the Indonesian management.
The latter is recommended in the case of the PNP V and PN? VII groups of
estatos since their present managements are generally competent and hard
working, and have done well considering the difficulties under which they
have had to operate in the past (paras. 2.09 through 2.11). This is shown
by the gener,ally satisfactory conditions of their estates and factories.
There are exceptions, but these mostly exist in estates and factories only
recently transferred to present management. Significant improvements can
be achieved by a further decentralization and by the introduction of an
Inspection Service, as described below.
Boards of Directors
5.02     ETh e Government has recently issuec. a Regulation establishing new
Boards of Directors for PNP V and PNP VII wiich are directly responsible to



- 17 -
the M14inister of Agriculture, with the.Directorate Oeneral of Estates con-
sequently losing its management control (para. 2.11). The new Boards have
powers similar to the Boards of Directors of commercial companies, with
full authority for determining and im,plementing all administrative, finan-
cial, technical and commercial:policies and programs of the two PNPs.
Each Board would consist of a 3hairman and at least two other members who
would be appointed by the President of Indonesia, on the proposal of the
Minister, for an initial period of five years. The members of the Boards
would be Indonesianc! with experience in estate business, Eastate management,
banking, the commercial or any other relevant field. A.ssurances were
obtained during negotiations that appointments to the new Boards would be
subject to prior consultation with IDA. Initial appointments would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Day-to-day Management
5.03      Day-to-day management is now in the hands of the three Directors
who make up the current Boards of Directors of PNP V and PNP VII--a First
Director, a Production Director and a Commercial Director, Under the new
Government Regulation referred to in para. 5.o2, their management functions
would be exercised by three managers--a General Manager, a Production
Manager and a Commercial Manager--who would be appointed by the MLnister on
the recommendation of the new Boards. The initial appointments would pro-
bably be the holders of the present Directorships, but assurances were
obtained during negotiations that appointments would be made only after
prior consultation with IDA, and initial appointments would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Organization below this group
Manager level would be unchanged. The group Managers would have a direct
line of command to the managers of each individual estate, and would be
assisted at Head Office by staff Departments of Agronomy and Technology
(reporting to the Production Manager) and of Finance, Commerce and General
Affairs (reporting to the Commercial M4anager). PNP V also has a Department
of Mechanized Agriculture, responsible for all mechanical clearing and
reporting to the Production Manager; on PNP VII the amount of mechanical
clearing does not warrant a separate Department. Marketing is organized
through a Joint Marketing Office (para. 6.03). An organization chart for
the reorganized PIT V and PNP VII is shmon at Annex 10.
5.04      Further regroupings of Government-owned estates should be
avoided so as to introduce a period of stability in management, and assur-
ances were obtained during negotia-tions that no changes would be made in
allocation of management responsibilities to PNP V and PNP VII, without
IDA's approval during the investment period or without prior consultation
with IDA thereafter. IDA's involvement with these PNPs, and the introduction
of foreign advisers, will probably lead to the end of military interference
in the affairs of these estates - as has been the case where foreign owners
of estates have recently recovered management control (para. 2.07).
Inspection Service
5.o5      Management would be strengthened by the establishment of Inspec-
tion Services, for each of the two PNPs. These services would comprise
highly experienced estate managers, accountants, agriculturists and



- 18 -
engineers and would be responsible directly to each of the Boards of the
two PNPs. Inspection Service personnel would visit each estate and factory
of the two groups at least twice a year to review operations of the preced-
ing six months, and to ascertain whether these operations were in line with
Board directives and annual budgets; to propose actions for future opera-
tions, and to comment on draft annual budgets; and to report on general
standards of technical and financial management. These two Inspection
Services might eventually be combined and expanded into a nation-wide serv-
ice, administratively independent of any particular group of estates, and
responsible for inspecting all Government-owned estates. Reports of the
Inspection Services would be made available to the Government. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that an experienced plantation company
or companies satisfactory to IDA would be engaged by the PNPs for an initial
period of about five years on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to
provide the Inspection Services. Companies qualified to provide the neces-
sary services would need to have considerable experience of the development
and management of rubber and oil palm plantations, including experience of
modern field and factory technology and marketing. Terms of reference would
include providing in-service training to selected Indonesians who would
thereafter take over, as well as assisting in the preparation of tender
documents, and the analysis of bids, for goods and services to be purchased
under the project.
Management Advisers
5.o6      PNP V and PNP VII would each engage an adviser on financial
management for an initial period of about two years to help them correct
present financial management deficiencies. The adviser would show each
PNP how to use the comprehensive and accurate financial data already being
collected monthly. (This data collection was instituted by the previous
Dutch owners, but most of the analysis was carried out in the Netherlands.)
He would also carry out a review of the financial management structure of
each PNP and would assist in the revaluation of assets which is now necessary
after the long period of severe inflation.
5.07      PN? V and PMNP VII would each also engage an adviser, for an ini-
tial period of two years, to give general advice to the General Managers on
all aspects of estate management, as required. In addition, PNP V would
engage an agricultural adviser for about two years; he would spend his time
mainly on ind^vidual estates within the PNP V group, training estate
managers and field assistants in modern rubber estate practices, but he would
also advise the Production Manager.
5.08      During negotiatioiis, assurances were obtained that the plantation
company providing the Inspection Service to a PNP would, under the same con-
tract, also suipply the advisers required for that PNP and the necessary
supporting services.
Accounts and Audit
5.09      The first audits of PNP V and PNP VII, which came into being only
in April 1968, have recently been carried out by Government auditors for
the period ended December 31, 1968. Summarized audited balance sheets and



- 19 -
profit and loss statements are reproduced as Annex 11 to this report. In
future, it would be more appropriate to have the audits carried out by
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
6.01      Growing conditions for rubber and oil palm in the project area
are among the best in the world. The yield projections used for plantings
under the project are as follows for the time up to peak production:
Rubber
Year after planting:             6      7      8      9        10      11
Kg of dry rubber per ha:        500   700   1,000   1,200  1,400   1,700
Oil Palm
Year after planting:             3      4     5    6    7       8    9   10
Tons of FFB per ha, on
land cleared from virgin
jungle:                          5    10    15   20   25       28   30   30
Tons of FFB per ha, on
land previously cropped:         -      6    10   15   20      25   25   25
Oil extraction rate (%)          -    14    16   17   18.5   20   21   22
Further details, the expected decline in yields after the years of peak pro-
duction, and yield responses for existing mature acreages as a result of the
fertilizer investment program, are given in Annex 12.
6.02      Total annual production on PNP V is estimated to rise from about
2,000 tons of palm oil, 400 tons of palm kernels and 15,000 tons of rubber
in 1968 to a peak of about 8,000 tons of palm oil, 1,100 tons of palm
kernels and 32,000 tons of rubber in 1980. For PNP VII, production is
estimated to rise from about 58,00o  tons of palm oil and 10,000 tons of palm
kernels in 1968 to a peak of about 168,000 tons of palm oil and 26,000 tons
of palm kernels in 1978. Peak incremental production is therefore some
116,000 tons of palm oil, 17,000 tons of palm kernels and 17,000 tons of
rubber.



- 20 -
B. Marketing and Prices
Joint Marketing Office
6.03      The nine PNPs in Atjeh and North Sumatra (PNPs I through IX)
have joined together to form a Joint Marketing Office (JMO), headed by a
Managing Director appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, on the recom-
mendation of the First Directors of the PNPs concerned. Headquarters are
in Medan. There are three main sales departments covering rubber and latex;
palm oil, palm kernels, resin and turpentine; and tea, sisal and cocoa.
Control is vested in a Joint Board of Directors which consists of the nine
First Directors and which meets once a fortnight.  This is cumbersome since
each PNP generally concentrates on one major crop and has no knowledge of,
or active interest in, the marketing of other crops. At the same time, the
Directors cannot pay as much attention to their own particular crops as they
would like. During negotiations, therefore, assurances were obtained that
the Joint Board of Directors would establish Committees by the end of 1969
to deal with the marketing of particular crops. These Committees would
meet once a fortnight and would have the powers to lay down JMO policy for
that crop.
6.o4      Most of the major rubber purchasers are represented directly, or
by agents, in Medan, and dry rubber for export is marketed by JMO through a
local auction system. Concentrated latex has a limited number of buyers
and is sold on negotiated forward contracts, usually for six months at a
time.  Palm oil and palm kernels are sold by a system of continuous offers
and bids carried out directly between the JMO and puirchasers all over the
world. These export marketing systems allow all the PNP produce to be sold
to widely diversified markets such as West Europe, East Eirope, Japan,
Pakistan and the USA.
6.05      Local sales of rubber are handled by the PNPs themselves, with no
bidding procedures. This is unsatisfactory but assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all PNP V and PNP VII rubber for local sale would
be handled by the JMO using its standard procedures. Local sales of palm
oil are already satinfactorily handled by JMO with prices determined by
averagg prices obtainied for recent exports.
6.o6      Although difficult to quantify, PNP produce appears to sell at a
small discount under ruling prices elsewhere for products of equal - and
sometimes inferior - quality. This can be explained by a variety of causes,
inter alia:
-  it is well known that the PNPs are often in desperate need of
cast. and are not usually willing to withhold stocks if offers
are not high enough. For the same reason, sales are almost
invariably on an FOB basis, rather than CIF, although the latter
can often be advantageous to the sEller;
- the JMO's knowledge of world market conditions is not up-to-
the minute and staff are not sufficiently well informed of
general trends; and



- 21 -
- the JMO usually offers the maximum crop that could become
available. Quite often this crop does not materialize on
time and buyers are left with only a partial shipment.
Better coordination is required between the JMO and the individual PNPs,
and JMO's internal organization needs to be strengthened. The Managing
Director has therefore asked for a consultant to be made available to
advise him on all aspects of his organization. In addition the JMO would
improve its knowledge of world trends and market conditions, in particular
relation to Indonesian products, in two ways. First, consultants would be
employed to carry out, with JMO's assistance, a market survey for oil palm
and rubber products which would relate work already done in this field to
Indonesian conditions, and would recommend basic methods of marketing to
be followed in future.  Second, the JMO would retain marketing consiltants
whowould be continuously available for giving marketing advice.  The
consultants specified above would be financed under the credit, and assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that they would be obtained from
a single organization satisfactory t'o IDA, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA.
Market Prospects - Rubber
6.07      Most Indonesian rubber is, and for the foreseeable future will
continue to be, exported. Annex 13, which was prepared by the Bank's Trade
Policies and Export Projections Division, examines market prospects for
natural rubber on the world market. It concludes that a deficit would
develop if some replantings or plantings do not take place in the immediate
future but stresses the need to process natural rubber into forms which can
improve its competitiveness with synthetic rubber, such as into crumb rubber
(provision for which is made in the project - see paras. 4.12 and 4.13).
In future, natural rubber cannot be expected to command prices above the
costs of production of synthetics; and average prices CIF New York are
expected to fall from about 20 US cents per lb through 1970 to about 15-17
US cents by 1975. Thereafter, prices might stabilize but, if there is a
technical breakthrough allowing further reductions in synthetic production
costs, prices could fall to about 12 US cents. (The chances of such a
breakthrough are considered to be about even.) For the purposes of making
financial and economic projections in this report, the followiing price
assumptions are made
1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 onwards
US cents per lb
CIF New York           20    20    19    19    18    17          16
Tne effects of a further decline to 12 cents by 1980, and of intermediary
prices, are also taken into account in the economic analysis (para. 7.02).
Market Prospects - Oil Palm Products
6.o8      Current production of palm oil in Indonesia is some 170,000 tons
per annum, with some 30,000 tons used by local soap manufacturers and almost



- 22 -
all the remainder exported. Local consumption of soap is likely to double
by 1980 but this is not important in absolute terms. It is probable,
however, that a considerable demand will develop for local consumption as
an edible oil, as supplies of coconut oil, which Indonesians currently
prefer, will become insufficient in the immediate future and there are no
alternative local sources of edible oil other than palm oil. Assuming a
continued population growth of 2.5% per annum, that annual per capita con-
sumption of edible fats and oils remains at about 4 kg and that coconut
oil cannot supply the implied increased demand, local sales of palm oil for
edible purposes could be expected to reach about 160,000 tons per annum by
1980, with overall local sales at about 220,000 tons. By that time, pro-
duction from project estates would be about 176,000 tons, and overall
Indonesian production might be in the region of 340,000 tons assuming
average increases of 50% in the production from non-project estates. This
would only leave about 120,000 tons for export, which is less than present
exports of about 140,000 tons. While this is necessarily a somewhat
speculative projection, it does indicate that oil palm development under this
project is unlikely to upset wor].d trade patterns in the long term.
6.09      Annex 14, which was prepared by the Bank's Trade Policies and
Export Projections Division, examines market prospects for palm oil and
palm kernels on the world market. It concludes that during the life of
the project the CIF Europe prices for palm oil and palm kernels will be in
the range of US$155-165 and US$134-138 per tcn respectively. For the
purposes of making financial and economic projections in this report CIF
Europe prices for palm oil are assumed to be US$160 per ton and for palm
kernels US$136 per ton. The effects of other palm oil prices within the
range US$110-185 per ton CIF Europe are also taken into account in the
economic analysis (see para. 7.02). These prices compare with average
1968 European market prices of US$170 for palm oil and US$155 for palm
kernels.  During 1968 the price of palm oil fell to a low of US$140 per ton,
due to supply of fish oil, soybean oil and sunflower oil in large quanti-
ties. Whilst palm oil prices are currently improving, the price levels
experienced prior to 1968 are unlikely to be achieved in the foreseeable
future.
C. Financial Results
PNP V and PNP VII
6.10      Cash flow projections for PNP V and PNP VII are given at Annex 15,
assuming rubber and palm product prices as projected in paras. 6.07 and 6.og.
The PNPs should be able to meet all their operating expenditures and debt
obligations even if the present high rates of export duties and corporation
taxes continue. Moreover, self-generated funds should be sufficient to
meet future investment needs arising from the projected increases in pro-
duction, regular replacement of plant, buildings and vehicles and regular
replantings, while leaving substantial sums for reserves or to pay dividends
to the Government; except that PNP VII would need a Government loan of about
US$290,000 in 1974 beyond that indicated in paras. 4.25 and 4.26. No
financial rates of return can be calculated since the value of assets em-
ployed is not known because of the long history of inflation in Indonesia
(para,, 2.03).



- 23 -
Government
6.11      The effect of the PNP V and PNP VII sub-projects on the Govern-
ment's budgetary position is shown at Annex 16, assuming present rates of
export duties and corporation taxes but ignoring the relatively minor import
ditties (except in the investment period) and personal income taxes. The
two groups of estates remain at all times net sources of revenue to the
Government, despite the Government's need to advance a loan to PNP VII in
the early years. Taking as a base the payments the Government would have
received from N{P V and PNP VII in 1969 had there been no project, the
incremental effect on the Government's budgetary position is a deficit of
US$2.6 million in 1969, of US$1.0 million in 1970 and of us$o.6 million
in 1971, followed by annual surpluses reaching US$10.0 million in 1977.
Actual net revenues to the Government from the two estates are expected to
reach some US$16 million annually by 1977.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The principal benefits of the project are:
- increased net foreign exchange earnings, rising from a current
US$14 million per annum to about US$32 million by 1978. Inso-
far as this latter figure may not represent exports because
of inbreased local consumption, it would represent foreign
exchange savings from import substitution.
- increased budgetary support to the Government, rising from a
current US$6 million per annum to about US$16 million by 1977.
- improved management arrangements for two Government-owned estate
groups which would serve as a model for other estate groups to
follow.
- improved marketing for all Government-owned estates in Atjeh
and North Sumatra.
In addition, the foundations would be laid for further development through
the survey of Government-owned estates, the plant breeding programs and
the smallholder feasibility study.
7.02      The annual rates of return to the economy of the proposed invest-
ments in the project are as follows, assuming CIF Europe prices of US$160
and US$136 per ton for palm oil and palm kernels respectively, and assuming
that CIF New York prices for rubber do not decline further than to 16 US
cents per lb:
Rabber     (a)  Fertilizer investment program        25%
(b)  Replanting old rubber, mechanical
clearing                            18%



- 2  -
Oil Palms   (a)  Fertilizer investment program             36%
(b)  Replanting old oil palms, mechanical
clearing                               26%
(c)  Replanting old oil palms, hand
clearing                               32%
(d)  Replanting old rubber, mechanical
clearing                               27%
(e)  Replanting other crops and vacant
land                                   33%
(f)  Establishment of new estate (Bukit
Exlima)                                29%
18 and 19 give further details for rubber and oil palms respectively,
and include analyses of the sensitivity of these rates of return to varia-
tions in produce price assumptions. In no case does the rate of return on
oil palm investments drop below 15% (when a CIF Europe price of US$110 per
ton is assumed) or below 12% on rubber investments(when it is assumed that
the CIF New York price drops further to 12 US cents per lb).
7.03      No rates of return have been calculated for investments in the
replacement of rehabilitation of items such as buildings, transport and
processing facilities needed to be able to continue to handle crop from
existing plantings. These must be speculative for the reasons given in
para. 4.24.
7.0k      In making the above estimates, it is assumed that the opportunity
cost of land is negligible since there are considerable areas of virgin
jungle awaiting development in the project area, and the costs of clearing
existing crops is as expensive - sometimes more expensive - than clearing
virgin junale. Labor is costed fully, on the assumption that labor rates
would rise by about 3% per annum in real terms throughout the project.
Staff salaries are assumed to rise by about 15% per annum during the next
five years and by about 3% per annum thereafter, in real terms.  Future
possible inflation has been asauumed to affect costs and benefits equally
and has been ignored.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOFIENDATIONS
8.01      The project is technically, economically and financially sound
and suitable for an IDA credit of US$16.0 million. The assurances obtained
during negotiations included:
(i) that selection of vipiting experts and of training programp for
Indonesian personnel for the plant breeding programs would be
subject to IDA approval (para. 4.05);
(ii)  that Government would establish precise quality standards for rubber
export; by the end of 1969; that these standards be baclced up by
scientific checking methods;and that these standards be rigorously
followed by PNP V (para. 4.l2);



- 25 -
(iii) that consultants employed by Government and the PNPs for
technical assistance under the project be satisfactory to
IDA and engaged on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para. 4.22);
(iv) that international competitive bidding procedures would be
used for all imports to be financed under the Credit; and
that, for all contracts over US$50,o00, draft tender docu-
ments would be submitted for approval by IDA before issuance,
and analyses of bids would be submitted for approval by IDA
before award of contracts (para. h.29); and
(v) that appointments to the Boards and to the positions of
General Manager, Production Manager and Commercial Manager,
on each of PNP V and PNP VII, would be subject to prior con-
sultation with IDA (paras. 5.o2 and 5.03);
8.02   The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the IDA
credit:
(i) signature of subsidiary loan agreements between Government and
each of PNP V and PNP VII in a form satisfactory to IDA
(para. 4.26); and
(ii)  initial appointments to the Boards of Directors and group
Managers of PNP V and PNP VII (paras. 5.02 and 5.03)
June 2, 1969






NORTH SItMTRA ESTATES PROJECT
THE GOVERNEWNT - OWNED ESTATE SECTOR (1968)
Arsbiea      Robusta
Province              Unit            Oil Pain      Rubber      Coffee        Coffee      Cocoa       Sugar        Tea      Tobacco      Nard Fibres       Kapok       Other Crops         Total
i!tj hPNP I                             1,732       11,316          76              _          -          _           _            _             _             _       122,051 (a)        135,175
North Sumatra         PNP II            9,367       23,397           -                      278            -          -            -             -             -                            33, 042
PNP III               -      22,106            -             _          -           -           -            -             -             -             -             22,106
PtP IV                -      27,283           _-                                                                                                       -             27,283
PUP V               969      25,873           -              -          _-                                                                             -             26,812
PNP VI           33,180          921           -                      564           -           _            _                                                       34665
PNP VII          30,h63       1,108           -               -         -           -           -            -        3,127              -             -             34,698
PNP VIII              -         681           -              -        381           -     12,667             -             -             -             -             13,729
PNP II                -            -           -             -          -           -           -       4,769              -             -             -              4,769
South Smtra           PNP X             1,872       18,203           -              -          -          -         739            -             -             -             -              20,831
west Jaa              PUP XI                 -      30,368           -              _          _           _      1,608            -             -              -        1,293 (b)          33,269
PNP XII               -       9,476            -              -         -           -     11,661             -             -             -           182 (c)         21,619
PNP XIII              -      11,045          15                                            l o 10,264        -             -             -         1,014 (c)         22,338
PNP XIV               -            -          -              -          -       7,650           -            -             -             -             -              .7,dAO
Central Java
and Kalisntan       PNP XV                -            -           -                                                                                         -8,96         -              8,964
PNP XVI               -            -           -              -         _       6,956                                      - _  .   _    _                            6,9e6
PNP XVII                                  -           -          -                        -           -                5,40                            -              5,M
PNP XvIII             -      25,253            -         2,242      1,676           _         784            -             -        1,763              -             31, T1
PNP XII               -            -          -               -         -           -           -       4,431-                                         -              k,_ 31
Ea-t Jama             pop xx-                                                       -          -      6,.-                          -            -                           -               6,489
PNP XXI               -            -           -              -         -      12,120           -            -             -             -             -             l8filO
PUP XXII              -            -           -              -         -       8,6b4           -            -             -             -             -
PNP XXTIT             -      10,586           -          9,678        770           -       1,540_                     1,278           426           41. (a)         24,722
PNP XXIV              -            -           -              -         -       9,748           -            _-                                        -              9,740
PNP XXV               -            -           -              -         -       6,197                        -                           -                            6,197
PtP XXVI              -        9,530      3,917          6,368        766           -         363            -             -           45                            21,403
P!P xXVII             -            -           -                        -    -                  -        5,190             _5,19
Noluccas              PNP XXVIII (d)        _            -           -              -          -                       -            - _
Totals:          77,583     227,1h6       4,008         18,288      4,435      66,768      39,626       14,390         9,813         2,648       125,284            589,989
(a) Pine
(b)  Gutta Percha
(c)  Kir 
(d)  No precise data available
NOTE: The Government also controls some 9,200 ha of rubber and 21,400 of oil palm in a joint venture with the Belgian SOGFTN company, aid still holds 4,758 ha of
rubber in estates for wlhich negotiations continue with previous owners.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP V CRUP 0 ESTATES
PLANTE3 AND CULTIVABLE AREAS AS AT JANUARY 1, 1969, BY ESTATE AND BY YEAR OF PIANTING, IN HECTARES
Year          Estate   Spngei      Tanah      Suagei           Sungoi         Rambutan       Sungei     Dusun       Sungei      Hessa      Sungei        Ambulutu/        Palau Mandi/
of Plantirg             Putih      Radja      Simudjur      Bamban Priok                    Mankei       Ulu        Dadap                  Silau       Sungei Kopah        Silau Toa         Totals
Pre-1935                  283           -          -             132             286            -           -           -           -      1,047L           514               535             2,797
1936                    270           _          _              41             208         335            -          39           -        306               -                -             1,199
1937                      -           -          -               -              42            -           -         735         304         72              20                -             1,173
1938                      -        328           -               9               -            -           -           -           -           -            48                 -               385
1939                    161          50          -              68             164            2           -           -           _        266              93               12               816
1940                    521           -          -              40             182          757           -           -          1}           -           171               137             1,819
1941                    110           -          -               -             129          213           -           -           _           _           11)4                -               566
1942                                          -                                  -           57           -           -                                   107                 -               164
1943                     38           _-                                         -           29           -           -           _-                                          -                67
1949                     30           _          _              24               -           79           -           _-                                                      -               133
1950                      -           -          -               -               -           29           -           -           -           -              -                -                29
Sub-total(a)            1,413         378           -            314           1,011        1,501            -        774         315      1,691           1,067              684             9,146(a)
1951                     16           5          -              15               -           86           -           -          17           -              9                -               148
1952                      -          11          -              25               -           55            -          -         148           -             23                -               262
1953                     33          73          -              68              56           42            -          -          19           _             _-                -               291
1954                    123          17          -               -             147            -           -           -          98           -              _                -               385
1955                     60           -          -              16             127            -           25          -           -           -              -               36               264
1956                    1,52          -          -              59              28            7         242          23           -           -              -              101               612
1957                    329           -          -              16               -           91           61          -          15         257             89               62               920
1958                     53           -          -              59              20           72         132           _          51         363            118               27               895
1959                     12           -          -              64               -           58         114           -           -          52              -               33               333
1960                      -           -         84               -             176           18         102         131          48           -             145              58               662
1961                      -           -        100              75             337          139         106          54          95         106              9              106             1,127
1962-                     -         195         47              43               -            9           16        387           -          83             114              34               828
1963                      -          35         68               -              60            -         139         265          28         206              -               76               877
1964                      2           1        116               2             664            6         193         274         294         384              8              112             2,056
1965                      -         231         91               -             120           41         203         165           -         285            109               82             1,327
1966                    131         115         89               2             242          121         199         285         141         310             45               92             1,772
1967                    117         245        115              93             696          137          352         41         104          91              -              348             2,339
1968                    190         224         65               -             275          197            -         86          74         126            162              228             1,627
Total Planted Area (Rubber) 2,631        1,530        775             851           3,959        2,580       1,884       2,485       1,447       3,954          1,698            2,079            25,873
Oil Palm                         -         601           -               -               -           -            -        3 68          -           -              -                                 969
Vacant Land (b)                   -        192                           -            252            -            -          88          -         138              -               52                722     ;; t
Rice                                         -           -             116            230            -            -           -           -          -              -                -                34e6
Total Cultivable Area:       2,631       2,323         775             967          4,44i        2,580        1,884      2,941       1,447       4,092          1,698            2,131             27,910
(a)  These are the areas to be re-planted during  1969-1975, some 8,070 ha to rubber and 1,078 ha to oil palms.
(b) "Vacant" land is land recently cleared from oil rubber plantings, to be re-planted during the project.
NOTE: At the end of the project, the cultivable area of 27,910 ha will consist of 25,517 ha of rubber, 2,047 ha cf oil palms and 346 ha of rice.






NORTH SDUI  RA ESTATES PAdOCT
WNP V1I OIEO?P OF STETIS
PLANTEU AND CULTIVABLE AREAS AS AT JANUARY 1. 1969. ST ESTATE AND BT TaR OF PLAITING. IN EROTARES
fear           Lolok      Tonduhan  Pag-r Diana  Bae  Djambi Ounung Banu Mllang  Bnkit Nxlis                         Larse                               Dolok Ilir                       Marihat                                FNP VII TOTALS
71Piaatin4    Sinusbah
--------------- (E-costly Oil Pai) ------------------------------  (Oil PFlb)  (M1anila Hp)  (Sisal)  (Oil Pain)  (Manila Hp)  (Sisal)  (Oil PalI)  (Rubber)  (Oil Pals)  (RDbar)  (Mnila HN)   (Sisal)  (Overall)
re-137              -          -             -          -           -             -           -            -            -             -           -           -             -           -          180           -         180             _            -       180
I y)Y-                    554             _           _           _            _           _            _            _             _            _           _             -           -           86         554          86            _            _        640
lJJY             -        177             _           -         41              -          -            -            -             -            -           -             -           -           96         218          98            -            -        316
,y41              _         -             _           _           -             _          _             -           -             -            -           -             -         160           73         16o          73            -             -       233
19W.              -         -             -           -         329             -           -           -            -                          _           _                         8           27         337          27            -             -361.
1)4t.          410           -10                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                  L a _o
3ub-Tota1        410(a)    731(-)           _           -        370(b)           -          -            -            _             _            _           _             -         168(a)       464(a)   1,679          464            -                   2,1.43
19Y0             -          -             -              -        -           44           -            _            _             _            _           _             _          18            -          62           -            -            -         62
19)0           1 479        -           181           -        100           486           -            -            -             -            _           _             -         400            -       1,646           -            -            -      1,646
l}50           748          _           137           -        316           506           -            -            _             _            _           _             -         41S            -       2,126           -            -            -      2,126
1951           464                        -                    4 _   21      il            -            -            -             -            -           -             -           -            -         996           _            _             _       996
1952            25          _            64           -           8          554           -            _-                                                                            8            -         659           _            _             _       659
1953           246          -             -           -         560          341           -             _           _             _            _          26             -         575            -       1,722           -           26             -     1,748
1954           685          -            97           -         696          412            --                                                                                        -            -       1,890                         -                  1,890
1955             6          _           236         65o         876          306           -                         -             _            _           _             -                        -       2,O0           -            -            -      2,080
lJ5b             8          -           213         425         599          253           -          275            _             _            _           _             -         107            -       1,8t            -            -             -     1,880
1,57             83         _             -         311         497          379           -          234             _            _           29           -             -          87           29       i,62o          29             _            -     16409
1,50            165         _             -         182         416            79           -         250             -             -         216           -             -         153           95       1.461          95             -            _     1,556
ly5y           310           -            -         100         219            70           -         264             -             -         309           -             -         101           34       1,373          34             -            -     1,uO7
lon           317          -             _         126         609           224           -          41             _             _         206           -             -         196           32       1.719          32             -            -     1,751
1961           291          -               -       106         409           178           -           87            _             -         101           98           99          89           71.      1,261          74            98           99     1,532
1962            150         _           128          90           -             -           -           18            _          525             -           -          353          50           21         436          21             -          468        925
1)63           154         94           101         140         284           107           -            -            _          277            -          38           383         174           52       1,054          52            38          660     1,804
19bo           220         98           156         229         261            10           -           30            -          305             -         74           324          44           86       1,048          86            74          629     1,837
laOS           136        108             -          80         239           100           _            -            _          161            -          79           303           -          114         663         114            79          464     1,320
loOn           229        290            51         102         436             -           -           53         120              5          34            -          235         274          107       1,169         107           120          240      1,936
1967            55        263             -           4         i1              -           -          274            -            26         206          37            69         128             -      1,041            -           37           95      1,173
1960           148        148            80         602          11           124         408          259            _             -         491            -             -        307             -      2,578            -            -            -      2,578
Total Slanted Area:  5,329       1,732         1,444      3,147       7,438         4,2814        408        1,785          120(a)        889(a)    1,592          352(a)      1,766(a)   3,304         1,108      30,463       1,108          472        2,655    34,696
Vcant Land (c           SS5        - -           120         140        250            6o       1,200                       737                                  1,713                               32                 -           -            -             -     4,802
Jungle (d)                --                                   -           -             -      2,892                                                                      -                         -                      -                                  -     2,892
Total Caltioablo      5,879      1,732         1,564       3,287      7,688         4,314       4,500                     3,531                                  5,423                           4,.444-                             -            -            -    42,392(e)
Area:
Notes:  (a)  These arc the areas to be re-planted with oil oales doring the project.  (b)  These oil palms are diseased; they  will be cut cut doring the project, but not re-plated ustil 1976.
()  'Vacant land" consists of on-planted land from uhich the jungle has already been cleared.  9e of It is land recently re-claimed from illegal settlers; the reainder is land previoesly cleared fes other estate crepe (oil palm, rubber,
elso1, Manila heap) bht not yet re-planted.  To be planted with oil p.l.. durieg the project.
(d)  Land under jungle, reoently ceded to PNP VTI by OGveonment..  To he cleared and planted with oil palme daring the project.
(e)  At the end of the projeot, this will all be actively cultivated, e-cept for 370 ha on Gunang Baju (es. footnote (b) above).  Thers sill be 41,378 ha of oil pal  and 644 ha of robber, .11 iDature _  in ecnic productiom.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP V GROUP OF ESTATES
RUBBER AND OIL PALM RE-PLANTING PROGRAM, BY ESTATES, IN HECTARES
Year of Planting:       1969        1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975        TOTAL
Estate and Crop
Sungei Putih             (Rubber)        -           134         81        195        304        315        384       1,413
Tanah Radja              (Rubber)      192(a)        190        188          -          -          -          -         570
Sungei Simudjur          (Rubber)        -             --                          -          -                           -
Sungei Bamban Priok    (Rubber)          -           130         80         80          -         24          _         314
Rambutan                 (Rubber)      252(a)        121        300        300        290          -          -       1,263
Sungei Mankei            (Rubber)        -           255        280        200        200        283        283       1,501
Dusun Ulu                (Rubber)                      -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Sungei Dadap             (Rubber)       88(a)          -                     -          -          -          -         88
(Oil Palm)      -           226        167        203        178          -          -         774
Sub-Total:    88(a)         226        167        203        178          -          -         862
Hessa                    (Rubber)        -             -         11          -          -          -          -          11
(Oil Palm)      -           109        195          -          -          -          -         304
Sub-Total:      -           109        206          -          -          -          -         315
Sungei Silau             (Rubber)      138(a)        210        332        486        394        269          -       1,829
Ambulutu/Sungei Kopas  (Rubber)          -             -        178        178        178        266        267       1,067
Pulau Mandi/Silau Tua  (Rubber)         52(a)          -        178        178        179        149          -         736
PNP V Group                               /
TOTALS:                  (Rubber)      722(a)      1,040      1,628      1,617      1,545      1,306        934       8,792
(Oil Palm)      -           335        362        203        178          -          -      1,078  X 
Grand Total:   722(a)-/   1,375'    1,990/   1,820           1,723 /   1,3061        93a.      9,870.
(a) These areas are all ex-"vacant" land. The remaining areas are re-plantings from existing rubber areas.






ANNEX 3
NORTH SUMkTRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP VII GROUP OF ESTATES
OIL PALM PIANTING PROGRAM, BY ESTATF, IN HECTARES
Year of Planting              1969      1970       1971      1972      1973          Total
Estate
and ource of Land
Dolok Sinuwbah            Ex-Oil Palm                     _         -       205        205        _            410
Ex-Vacant Land               550         -         -          -         -            550
Sub-Total:        550        -        205        205        -            960
Tonduhan                  Ex-Oil Palm                     -         -       240        240      251            731
Pagar Djawa               Ex-Vacant Land                120        -          -          -        -            120
Bah Djambi                Ex-Vacant Land                140         -         -          -        -            ILO
Gunung Baju               Ex-Vacant Land                250         -         -          -         -           250
Majang                    Ex-Vacant Land                 60        -          -         -         -             60
Bukit Exlima              Ex-Vacant Land                700       500         -          -         -         1,200
Ex-Jung3e                    792       500     1,000        600         -          2,892
Sub-Total:      1,492    1,000      1,000       600         -          4,092
Laras                     Ex-Sisal                       90      625        174          -        -            889
Ex-Manila Hemp                  -        -       120          -         -            120
Ex-Vacant Land               455         -       282          -         -            737
Sub-Total:        545      625        576          -        -          1,7h6
Dolok Ilir                Ex-Sisal                        -      906        860          -        -          1,766
Ex-Manila Hemp                  -      352          -         -         -            352
Ex-Vacant Land             1,559         -       154          _         _         1,713
Sub-Total:      1,559    1,258      1,01h              -   _           3,831
Marihat                   Ex-Oil Palm                     -         -       168          _        -            168
Ex-Vacant Land                32         -          -         -         -             32
Ex-Rubber                       -      180          -       284         -            464
Sub-Total:         32      180        168       284         -            664
PNP VII Gru               Ex-Oil Palm                     -        -        613        445      251          1,309
Totals:            Ex-Rubber                       -      180          -       284         -            464
Ex-Sisal                      90    1,531      1,034          -         -         2,655
Ex-Manila Hemp                 -       352       120          -         -            472
Ex-Jungle                    792       500     1,000        600         -         2,892
Ex-Vacant Land             3,886       500       436          -         -         LL,802
Grand Total:      4,748    3,063      3,203      1,329      251         12,594






ANNEX 4
INDONESIA                       Page 1
NORTH SUMATRA. ESTATES PROJECT
PLANTING MATERIAL AND PLANT BBEEDING
A. Oil Palms : Planting Material
1.        The oil palm fruit comprises a nut surrounded by a mass of oily
flesh. Palm oil is extracted from the flesh, and the nut contains the
palm kernel. Plant breeders have aimed at breeding varieties with a small
nut with a very thin shell surrounded by a large mass of oily flesh, in
other words a fruit containing the minimum of waste. Hybrid material with
these characteristics is now generally available throughout the world
including Indonesia and technically is known as DXP. A variety of DXP known
as EX-5 has been developed in Indonesia.  It has an exceedingly small nut:
with a very thin shell, but a correspondingly very large palm oil content.
PN\P VII palm oil mills have been having difficulty in processing EX-5 fruit
due to the small nits, and consequently management has been including DXT
planting material in its programs. DXT, itself a hybrid, was developed in
the process leading to the production of DXP and has lower palm oil yields
but much larger thick shelled nuts, and is economically less valuable than
DXP material. The objective of PNP VII in planting LXT is to raise the nut
content in its mix of palm fruit and thus overcome the processing problems.
Palm oil presses have been developed, and are in commercial use, which can
deal satisfactorily with material such as EX-5, and there is no doubt that
PNP VII's processing problems can be overcome by modification or replacement
of existing presses (these are only a single component of palm oil mills).
Consequently, the planting of lowq yielding DXT material should be discontinue-l.
and assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations. Ade-
quate supplies of DXP material including the EX-5 variety are available for
the project planting program.
B.  Oil palms   Pant Breedig
2.        In January, 1969, a leading authority on oil palm breeding, Dr.
J. J. Hardon, visited North Sumatra to study the oil palm breeding situation.
He found that while available planting material had a high potential, progre3s
in developing the best strains had suffered from a deterioration in the
techniques for selecting and producing seed. Fairly extensive programs of
selection have been carried out in Sumatra over the past 60 years, but the
periods of turmoil since World V'ar II have been reflected in breeding pro-
grams, Emphasis has been on the selection of individual palms for seed
production, and the exploitation of a small number of what appear to be
genetically superior palms. In this process, inbreeding has taken place,
and it is doubtful if exioting breeding programs will produce material
significantly better than that tow commercially available.  Fortunately,
however, since most of the selections on which today's commercial DXP seed
was founded are still available, the potential for further improvement of
oil palm planting material has not been lost.  Dr. Hardon has made a number
of recommendations regarding future oil palm breeding work ir. Indonesia.
Summarized, the most important are:






ANIEX 4,
Page 2
(a) Exerimental des&n - Due to inadequate design in the past
much effort has been wasted as the data from the experiments
cannot be analyzed on a scientific basis. These faults must
be avoided in the design of future experiments.
(b) Inbreeding - This should be avoided and greater care taken
in the combinations of progenies within an experiment.
(c) Pollination Techniques - In seed production there is a risk
that outcrossing may result if more care is not taken with
pollen collection, storage and actual pollination. (Nethods
in current use are somewhat primitive by comparison with thOse
used elsewhere).
(d) Recording and Analsis - There is considerable scope for 1nmprove-
ments in recording and analysis systems. Bunch analysis- is
rarely done and modern techniques and regular checks need to be
introduced.
(e) Organization and Control - The breeding program should be placed
under the control of the head of an integrated research organ-
ization so that the independent activities at present practised,
can be coordinated. The existing situation in which estate
managers are responsible for pollination should be ended.
(f) Exchange Programs - It is desirable that exchange programs
with other countries should be introduced to obtain new stocks
for breeding.
(g) Personnel - Whenever possible Indonesian research officers
should be given the opportunity to have periods of training
with research organizations abroad. It would also be of great
assistance to the industry in Indonesia if foreign experts could
make regular visits to Sumatra to advise on research matters.
C. Rubber : Planting Material
3.        Several high yielding rubber varieties are available in North
Sumatra, and are being planted on a large scale. Those most commonly used
by the Government-owned estates are GT-1, PR-107, AVROS 2037, and R 1124.
GT-1 and PR-107 are classed as Grade One by the Rubber Research Institute
of Malaysia (RRIf), the acknowledged authority, which classes only four
varieties as Grade One. Little is knowqn of AVROS 2037 and R 1124 outside
Indonesia, but in Sumatra they have given good results for several years.
1/ Bunch analysis determines the number of fruits per bunch; the weight
of fruit per bunch; and the percentage content in each fruit of mesocarp
(the fleshy oil bearing portion of the fruit), oil, kernel and shell.






Page 3
4.        There are a number of other potentially good clones available in
Sumatra, and use could be made of the other two clones classed by RRIM4 as
Grade One, namely PB-5 and RRIM 600. However, yield alone is an inadequate
guide to the suitability of different varieties and attention must be paid
to secondary characteristics, such as the susceptibility of a variety to
wind damage. Information available on the performance of clones other than
the four commonly used is limited to rather sketchy yield data and is
totally inadequate to justify the-r use on a large scale.  These newer
clones would, therefore, first be tried out on plots not normally larger
than about 20 ha and the advice of the Inspection Service and local
research officers would be sought before any decision to proceed to ful
scale planting. Such a decision would normally be taken at the highest
level, in this case the PNP V Board of Directors.






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
FOLIAR ANALYSIS AND THE FERTILIZER INVESTMENT PROGRAM
1.        In the past, fertilizer policy for oil palm and rubber has been
based on the following:
(a) nutrient deficiency symptoms which are visible in
the leaf;
(b) soil types;
(c) experiments; and
(d) management experience.
2.        Foliar analysis, as a means of determining deficiencies of major
elements, has become common practice in both rubber and oil palms in recent
years, but it does not provide an immediate and simple determination of the
quantities of fertilizers required.  At present quantitative requirements
of fertilizer can only be determined from fertilizer trials, but foliar
analysis does provide a reasonable guide to the main chemical deficiencies.
As more experience is gained, particularly by comparing fertilizer trial
results with determinations made by foliar analysis in the same area, foliar
analysis can become a most useful aid in determining fertilizer requirements.
3.        Modern techniques for appraising nutrient requirements would be
used for the first time in 1969. Annex 12 shows the anticipated yield
responses from the application of balanced fertilizers.  There will be little
or no response to fertilizers in the first two years, but thereafter the
effect of a correct fertilizer policy would improve yields in the younger
oil palm areas; in older areas where yield capacities are past their peak
the effect would not be so marked. Wlith rubber there are critical factors
in tapping policy and bark reserves which can have greater effect on yields
than fertilizers, but it is estimated that the effect of a correct ferti-
lizer policy would play a significant part in the recovery of rubber yields.
4.        The PNPs applied fertilizer in 1968 and intend to do so again in
1969 before the program of nutrient requirement appraisal can be instituted.
In the mature rubber areas, these applications could be totally wasted and
possibly even depress yields. For oil palms, however, visual deficiency
symptoms are widespread and it has been possible for PNP VII to make recom-
mendations for fertilizer applications which, although not optimal, would
form a useful introduction to fertilizer application from 1970 onwards.






ANMEX 5
Page 2
5.        In view of the two-year delay in yield response to balanced fer-
tilizer applications which would start in 1970, and in view of the consider-
ations in the inmediately precediing paragraph, it is proposed to consider
as an investment the application of fertilizer to mature rubber areas for
1970 and 1971 and to mature oil palm areas for 1969, 1970 and 1971.
6.        It is not possible, in advance of the actual nutrient require-
ments' appraisal, to recommend the precise quantities or types of fertili-
zer required for the investment program or thereafter. The following
assumptions are made for the purpose of projections in this report, based
on recent research and experience in Malaysia:
(a) Rubber. An annual application of about US$12 per ha
should be sufficient for mature rubber, except for the
last five years of productive life (i.e. years 21 thru
25) when fertilizer is no longer applied. The appli-
cations under the investment program would probably be
of the same order of magnitude.
(b) Oil Palm. An annual application of about US$35 per ha
should be sufficient for mature oil palms under normal
conditions, except for the last five years of their pro-
ductive life (i.e. years 26 thru 30) when fertilizer
is no longer applied. For areas in their prime, however,
where natural nutrient reserves are badly exhausted, the
investment applications would have to be substarntially
higher, at about US$87 per ha in 1970 and US$70 per ha
in 1971.
7.        Fertilizer is currently available to Indonesia from bilateral aid
sources, but the procurement mechanisms are not efficient enough to guaran-
tee the timely delivery of fertilizer in the critical years of 1970 and
1971. For the years 1969 (last half - PNP VII only), 1970 and 1971, it is
proposed that the PNPs procure their needs through international competi-
tive bidding and that IDA funds be used for the purpose. For other years.
the PNPs would procure all their needs through bilateral aid, via the
central Government in Djakarta.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INTDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP V RUBBER PROCESSING FACILITIES
Principal types of Rubber
1.        On PNP V estates most of the liquid latex harvested is manufac-
tured into concentrated latex and most of the scrap (that is, latex which
has coagulated before it can be brought into the factory, and other
oddments) into crepe rubber grades. Some ribbed smoked sheet and some
crumb rubbers are also manufactured. Further details of these main types
of rubber are set out below:
(a) Concentrated Latex - the latex is preserved in liquid form
by the addition of ammonia, which prevents coagulation,
and is centrifuged until the dry rubber content (DRC) is
increased from about 30% to 60%. The quality of concen-
trated latex can be scientifically determined and
positively controlled.
(b) Ribbed Smoked Sheet (known as RSS) - the latex is coagulated
by the addition of acid. The latex is then milled (rolled)
into sheets to which the final rollers give a ribbed effect.
The sheets are then dried in a smoke house. Quality controls
are largely visual and therefore subjective.
(c) Crepe - coagulated latex and scrap are macerated and then
extensively rolled into very thin sheets with a "crepet'
texture. The crepe is then air dried at a lower temperature
than are smoked sheets. Quality controls are largely visual
and therefore subjective.
(d) Crumb, or block, rubber - this is a relatively new process
in which either latex coagulated in the factory or scrap
grades are broken into small crumbs, which are intensively
dried in a few hours in an oil fired drier, and then com-
pressed into blocks. These blocks,  which resemble the form
in which synthetic rubber is marketed, are carefully packaged
to prevent contamination. Sanples can be taken of individual
blocks for scientific quality control testing.
2.        Both concentrated latex and first grade crumb rubber at present
receive a premium over RSS on world markets. (This is also true of crepe,
but costs of manufacture are also higher.) While sheet and crepe rubber
processing facilities would be kept in reserve, PNP V would restrict future
processing to concentrated latex and crumb rubbers to assist marketing in
the face of competition from synthetics.






INDONTSIA
'ORTH SUmATRA ES7TATES PEIoJlCT
PNP V RUBBER PROCESSING FACIIXTIES
PROJECTED RUBBER PRODUCTION
(Metric torn dry weight)
1969      1970       1971       1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980        1981
Sungei Putih Group
Total crop                      2,655      2,536      2,514     2,845      2,969      3,120      3,389      3,817      4,207      4,524      4,793      5,191      5,229
latex                     2,124      2,029      2,011     2,276      2,375      2,496      2,711      3,054      3,366      3,619      3,8314     4,153      4,183
concentrate               1,869      1,786      1,770      2,003     2,090      2,196      2,386      2,688      2,962      3,195      3.31       3,655      3,681
aki/sediment                212        203        201       228        238        250        271        305        337        362        383        415        418
cup lop                     531        507        503        569       594        624        678        763        841        905        959      1,038      1,0C6
crumb rubber                743        710        704        797       832        874        949      1,068      1,178      1,267      1,342      1,453      1,464
Ranbutan Group
Total crop                      6,046      6,556      7,114     8,481      9,115      9,949    10,528      11,303     12,133     12,633     12,966     13,136     13,006
latex                     4,837      5,245      5,691     6,785      7,292      7,959      8,422      9,042      9,706    10,106      10,373     10,509    10,405
concentrate               4,257      4,616      5,008     5,971      6,417      7,004      7,411      7,957      8,541      8,893      9,128      9,248      9,156
aklm/8ediment               484        525        569        679       729        796        042        904        971      1,011      1,037      1,051      1,C41
cup lup                   1,209      1,311      1,423      1,696     1,823      1,990      2,106      2,260      2,427      2,527      2,593      2,627      2,601
crumb rubber              1,693      1,836      1,992      2,375     2,552      2,786      2,948      3,164      3,398      3,538      3,630      3,678      3,6142
Sungei Dadap Droup
Total crop                      6,599      7,294      7,868     8,970      9,539     10,054    10,647      11,1418    12,007     12,678     13,308     13,721    114001
latex                     5,279      5,835      6,294      7,176     7,631      8,043      8,518      9,134      9,606     10,142     10,646     10,9T7     11,201
concentrate               4,646      5,135      5,539     6,315      6,715      7,078      7,496      8,038      8,453      8,925      9,368      9,660      9,857
skisediwt                   528        584        629        718       763        804        852        913        961      1,014      1,065      1,098      1,120
cup lmp                  1,320      1,459      1,574      1,794     1,908      2,011      2,129      2,284      2,401      2,536      2,662      2,7414     2,800
crumb rubber              1,848      2,043      2,203      2,512      2,671     2,815      2,981      3,197      3,362      3,550      3,727      3,842      3,920
PMP V Totals
Total crop                     15,300     16,386     17,1496    2O.29     21,623     23,124     24,564     26,538     28,347     29,836     31,067     32,048    32,236
latex                    12,240    13,109    13,996       16,237     17,298     18,498    19,651     21,230     22,678     23,867     24,853     25,639     25,789
concentrate              10,772     11,537     12,317     14,289    15,222     16,278    17,293      18,683     19,956     21,003     21,870     22,563     22,694
skim/sediamt              1,224      1,312      1,399      1,625     1,730      1,850      1,965      2,122      2,269      2,387      2,485      2,5614     2,579
cup lmp                   3,060      3,277      3,500      4,059     4,325      4,625      4,913      5,307      5,669      5,968      6,214      6,409      6,447
crumb rubber             14,284      4,589      4,899      5,684      6,055     6,475      6,878      7,429      7,938      8,355      8,699      8,973      9,026
Assumptions:   1. 806 of total crop will be collected as latex and 20% as cup lump (incltding pre-coagulum and tree lace).
2. All latex will be processed by centrifiBe to yield 88% concentrate and 10% skim/sediaent with 2% losses.
3. All lower grades and skim/sediment will be processed by crumbling/granulating into crumb rubber with
negligible losses.
\ /






TNDOOESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
FNP V RUBBER PROCESSING FACILITIES
PROJECTED FACTORY CAPACITY AND LOADING
(Metric tons dry weight per day)
1969      1970       1971       1972      1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980      1981
Sungei Putih -
Latex: concentrate capacity        13.6       13.6       13.6      13.6       18.0       18.0      18.0       18.0       18.0       18.0       18.0       18.0      18.0
PNP V average               7.1        6.8        6.8       7.6        7.9        8.3        9.1      10.2       11.2       12.1       12.8       13.9      34.0
PNP V peak                   8.9       8.5        8.5       9.5        9. 9      10.4       11.4      12.0      134.0       15.1       16.0       17.4      17.5
Skin/Cup Lump: crepe capacity          4.3         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -         -          -
crumb capacity          1.3       8.4        8.4        8.4       8.4        8.4        8.4        8,4       8.14       8.4        8.4        8.4        8.4
otal capecity       5.6      5-14         5.;       .14       -T         -9:1      -:!   ' 8:!:
PNP V skin              0.7        0.7       0.7        0.8       0.8        0.8        0.9        1.0       1.1        1.2        1.3        1.4        1.4
other skim              0.6        0.7       0.7        o.6        1.0       1.0        0.9        0.8        0.7       o.6        o.5        0.4        O.b
PNP V cup lump          1.8       1.7        1.7        1.9        2.0       2.1        2.3        2.6        2.8       3.0        3.2        3.4        3.5
total               3.1   J     I mI                3.3       T8      m              I         1S                     8        5.0 78:775
Surplus ex Rabiutan      -        0.7         -         0.9        1.3       1.8        3.2        3.6        -          -          -          -          -
Rambutan
Latex, concentrate capacity        21.9       21.9       27.1      35.9       35.9       35.9      44.7        44.7      44.7       44.7       44.7       44.7       44.7
PNP V average               16.1      17.5       19.0       22.7      24.4       26.6       28.1      30.1       32.4       33.7       34.5       35.0       34.7
PNP V peak                  20.2      21.9       23.8       28.4      30.5       33.3       35.2      37.7       40.5       42.1       43.1       43.8       43.4
Skin/Cup Lump: crepe caPa eci ty       6.5        5.9         -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -
crumb capacity           -         -         8.4        8.4        8.4       8.4        8.4        8.4       16.8      16.8       16.8       16.8       16.8
total capacity      6.5        5.9   ;8:                                  8.14      7:16 TT                                   IZ         I68        !7
PNP V akim              1.6       1.8        1.9        2.3        2.4       2.7        2.8        3.0        3.2       3.4        3.4        3.5        3.5
other skim              o.6       o.4        0.8        1.3        1.2       0.9        1.7        1.5        1.3        1.1       1.1        1.0        1.0
PNP V cup lump          4.o       4.4        4.8        5.7        6.1       6.6        7.1        7.5        8.1        8.4       8.6        8.7        8.7
total               62         37.5                 9.3        9         57   n    iM.        1.0         =         12.9      ITI  3.2
Surplus to S. Putih      -         0.7        -         0.9        1.3       1.8        3.2        3.6         -          -         -          -          -
Sungei Dada 
Latex: concentrate capacity        30.9       30.9       30.9       30.9      39.7       39.7       39.7      39.7       48.6       48.6       48.6       48.6      48.6
PNP V average               17.6      19.4       21.0       23.9      25.4       26.8       28.4       30.4      32.0       33.8       35.5       36.8       37.3
PNP V peak                  22.0      24.3       26.3       29.9      31.8       33.5       35.5       38.0      40.0       42.3       44.4       46.o       46.7
Skis/Cup Lump: crepe capacity          7.1        3.7        3.7        3.7        -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -
crumb capacity           -         8.4       8.4        8.4       16.8       16.8      16.8       16.8       16.8       16.8      16.8       16.8       16.8
total capacity      7         12, 1     U7         12.1         I        8    i 1"            18:                             I":5  I b ;  
PNP V skim              1.8       1.9        2.1        2.4        2.5       2.7        2.8        3.0        3.2        3.4       3.6        3.7        3.7
other skin              1.3       1.2        1.0        0.7        1.5       1.3        1.2        1.0        1.7        1.5       1.3        1.2        1.2
PNP V cup lump          4.4       4.9        5.3        6.o        6.4       6.7        7.1        7.6        8.0        8.5       8.9        9.2        9.3
total               7         ;         - 5W       '*7         Y        I"7              7;                          fX    T3             =72.      U
1/ Taking crop from Sungei Putih and Tanah Redja estates.
2 / Taking crop from Rambutan, Sungei Simudjur, Sungei Bamban/Prick, Sungei Mankei and Dusun Ulu) estates.
3/ Taking crop from Sungei Dadap, Hessa, Sungei Silau, Ambulutu/Sungei Kopas and Pulau Mandi/Silau Tua estates.
Assumptions: a) Peak daily deliveries of latex, vhich msast be processed without delay, may be up to 25% above the eBtimated average daily prodistion.
b) Concentrated latex plants will be operated at full processing capacity by takingin latex from other PNP's estates to fill any available spare capacity after
allowing for PNP V crops.
c) All skim arising frar. concentrated latex factories (i.e. including skim produced from latex from outside PNP V - see b) above) and all PNP V cup lump will be
processed into crepe and/or crumb rubber in PNP V factories. Any excess deliveries of cup lumps during peak harvest periods may beatockpiled, if necessary.
d) Changeover from crepe to crumb rubber production from skim and cup lump is plamned in stages to permit deployment of development resources and to minimize   D O 
unused crumb rubber processing capacity.
e) Average daily production estimates are based on projection in Table 1 and assume 300 working days per year.






ANNFX 7
Page 1
INDOMCESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP VII Oil Palm Processing Facilities
1.        Details of the present status of individual mills and proposals
for their rehabilitation and extension are as follows:
(a) Marihat (commissioned in 1929) - This mill is near the end
of its useful life and it would be closed down.
(b) Bah Diambi (commissioned in 1967) - Maintenance standards are
high although management is of a slightly lower standard. The
mill is capable of a throughput of 2h tons,of FFB per hour.
Current thLroughpat is below cptimum due to the low performance
of the presses and a shortage of ster:U izing capacity. Design
faults in the boiler fueling arrangements need to be rectified
to reduce current excessive labor requirements. With the
addition of more sterL.izers, presses, a boiler, and a clari-
fication plant, capacity can be raised to the 40 tons of FFB
per hour needed to meet additional production from project
plantings. The total cost of plant to be financed under the
project is about US$325,000.
(c) Dolok Sinumbah (commissioned in 1932) - Maintenance standards
are high, and the management standard slightly lower.  The
mill is capable of a throughput of 32 tons of FFB per hour,
and with the addition of a stand-by boiler and some replace-
ments of plant, throughput can be raised to the required 48
tons of FFB per hour.   Although this mill has been maintained
in very good condition, there are sections of the plant such
as the clarification station and steam boiler plant which due
to age are likely to need replacement in a few years. Although
their inclusion is not envisaged for the project, funds should
be set aside from profits to provide for approximately US$500,O0O
that will be required eventually for this purpose. The total
cost of the plant to be financed under the project is about
US$265,000.
(d) Gunung Baju (commissioned in 1929, partly rehabilitated in 19!556.
Both management and maintenance standards are high. The mill
is capable of a throughput of 24 tons of FFB per hour, With
an additional boiler, clarification plant and nut silo, through-
put can be raised to 36 tons of FFB per hour. PNP VII had
planned to extend the Gunung Baju mill so that it could treat
the projected increase in crops in its vicinity. However, in






ANNEX 7
PaOe~ 2
view of the age o.f the existing buildings and much of the
equipment, this plan will not be proceeded with. It is
anticipated that additional expenditure of approximately
US$ 2 million will be required in the longer term for the
extensive rehabilitation that will be needed to maintain
the proposed capacity of 36 tons of FFB per hour, and
funds should be set aside from profits for this purpose.
The total cost of the plant to be financed under the
project is estimated at about US$210,000.
(e)  Majang (commissioned in 194  - The standard of maintenance
of th   mill is indifferent but it is new by comparison with
some of the other mills and is the closest mill to the new
Bukit Exlima estate.  It is, therefore, proposed to increase
the existing throughput of 14 tons of FFB per hour to
48 tons of FFB per hour, in two stages by:
- commissioning additional sterlizers, presses and clarifi-
cation plant which are already on site.
- replacement of the kernel extraction plant; 4 sterilizers-
tresher and crane; additional presses; 2 boilers; oil
drier; and various replacements of service plant and
alterations to factory lay-out.
The total cost of the plant to be financed under the projecA>s
is estimated at some US$1,105,0000, with some US$50,000 for
an additional building-.
2.        It is proposed to include in the project the construction of a
new mill on the Dolok Ilir estate, to be commissioned in 1972.  The total
proposed capacity of 48 tons of FFB per hour would be reached in two stages5
at an estimated cost of about US$2,845,00o, of which some US$1,715,000 woull.
be needed during the project period.
3.        Table 1 gives the proposed phasing of capacity increases in the
various mills, and shows the relationship between this phasing and the
projected crop from the various estates.
4.        None of the mills are provided with incinerators and it is proposad
that their provision should be included in the project. It is estimated that
the eventual maximum PNP VII crop of 840,ooo tons of FFB in one year would
produce the equivalent of 2,500 tons of muriate of potash which would cost,
if purchased in the international market, about US$175,000 in foreign ex-
change. The total cost of providing incinerators and empty bunch conveyore
for the mills is estimated at about US$285,00o of which some US$255,000 would
be required during the project.
5.        It is proposed that the minimum palm oil storage capacity should be
sufficient for three months average production, of which up to two months
should be accommodated at the processing factories and not less than one month






ANNEX 7
Page 3
at the Deli Tank Installation at the port of Belawan. At full production
this calls for storage for some 48,000 tons of oil. Sone 39,500 tons is
already available, but badly distributed. The cost of the transfer of
storage between mills and the construction of an additional 8,500 tons of
storage, is some US$400,00} of which about US$280,000 would be required
during the project period.
6.        All PNP VII mills have their own workshops which are adequately
equipped for routine maintenance and running repair of mill machinery. In
addition, a Central Workshop for the PNP VII Group has recently been estab-
lished at Dolok Ilir utilizing som of the buildings left vacant after the
closure of an old sisal factory. This Central Workshop appears to be well
managed and is already producing a useful range of spare parts for processing
machinery as well as handling the re-conditioning of rail bogies and the
construction of road trailers. The concept of a Central Workshop would be
developed and the facilities at Dolok Ilir extended to permit manufacture of
a wider range of parts for palm oil machinery (e.g. digester blades, wearing
plates, nut and kernel grading screens, boiler fire-bars, fiber fans, etcetera)
and the maJor overhaul of internal combustion engines; for this purpose addi-.
tional machine tools, heat treatment plant and minor improvements to the
foundry would be financed under the project in 1969. At the same time any
special purpose machines (e.g. the multi-spindle drill in the wxorkshop at
Dolok Sinumbah) would be transferred from mill workshops to the Central
Workshop where they may be more fully utilized. The project also provides
for the expenditure of US$150,000 in 1972 on special purpose machines, addi-
tional tools, further extension of foundry facilities and building extensionsW
this would permit production of a wider range of spare parts and the origi2lal
manufacture of many of the simpler items of palm oil processing machinery
(e.g. conveyors, elevators, sterilizers, treshers, fans, nut crackers,
etcetera).
7.        Table 2 provides a summary of the investments proposed, by mill,
purpose and year, through 1975.






INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP VII OIL PALK PROCESSING FACILITIES
PROJECTED FACTORY CAPACITY & LOADING
('000 Metric Tons FFB)
1969          1970           1971          1972           1973          1974           in           1976       1977       1978      1979
MARIHAT
Capacity                          35(8)        nil            nil           nil            nil           nil            nil            nil        nil        nil       nil
Loadings Karihat only            33             -              -             -              -             -              -               -         -          -         -
3AH DJA118I
Capacity  2/                    105(24)        105            175(40)       175            175           175            175             175       175        175       175
Loading z Total                   59            941           116           121            139           151            161             166       166        163       152
3 Djambi               30             31            40             51            59             64             67             69         68        66         63
D. Ilir                13             13             17             -              -             -              -               -         -          -         -
Laras                  16             17            21              -              -             -              -               -         -          -
Marihat                 -             33            38             47            54             59             65             68         69         69        6b
P. Djawa                -              -             -             23            26             28             29             29         29        28         25
DOLOK SINU3BAH
Capacity   /                     140(32)       140            140           210(48)        210           210            210             210       210        210       210
Loading: Total                   84             88            107           111            19             149          L20              138       11.0       142       136
D. Sinvobah            60             60            67             78             91            97            103             106       105        104        96
To-duh sn                9            10             13            16             18            22             27              32        35         38        1'0
P. Dja-                15             16            19              -              _-                                                     -          - _
Maj -c                  -              -             -             66              -             -              -               -         -          -         -
B Exlia                                2             8             21             40             _              _               _         _          _         _
lara                    -              -             -              -              -            30(part)
ONUUNG B3JU
Capacity  2/                     105(24)       105            160(36)       160            160           160            360             160       160        160       160
Loaing   G BaJu only              814           87            103           121            133           137            139             1.0       136        131       126
MAJ AWG
Capacity  2                       60(14)       105(24)        105                          105           210(48)        210             210       210        210        210
Loadings Total                    52            52             60             -             73           136            is8             176       187        190       186
Maja ng                52             52             60             -             73            74             74              73        70         66        58
B. Exlia                 -                            -                            -            62             84             103       117        11        128
DOLOK ILIR
Capacity  o, nil                               nil            nil           105(24)        105            105           210(48)         210        210       210        210
Loading:  Total                   -                            -             65             91             95           154             187        204       210        208
D. Ilir                 -             -              -             33            50              72            92             115        126       130        129
Laras                  -              -              -             32            41             23(part)       62              72        78         t0         79
TOTAL
Capacity 2                       445(102)      455(104)       580(132)      650(148)       755(172)       860(196)      965(220)        965        965       965        965
Loading: Total Y                 312           321            386           488            585            668           742             807        833       836        808
70%           70%            67%           75%            78%        -78%             77%           -84S    - 86S    -87%              84
F Factory capacity is estimated on th, assumption that up to 12t% of annual crop may be harveoted is one ornth and thst the factory may be operated for up to
550 hours (25 days 0 22 hours) in one month. On thin basis, a capacity of 1 ton of FFB per hour allows an annual throughput of about 4,400 tons of FFB. The
figures in brackets after each increase in capacity indicates the capacity expreosed in terse of tons of FFB per hour.
2/  Limited to a nuxirum of about 853 of overall capacity to give some fle,ibility in case of plant breakdown and to permit any nece.sary replacment of outcIn
equipmnt (e.g. rehabilitation of Cunuug Baju mill) without loss of production.
3/ The replacementF req,ired for Majang mill are extensice and will probably force closure for part, if not all, of 1972.






INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP VII OIL PALM PROCESSING FACILITIES
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED INVESTlNTS
(US$ '000)
Project
1969     1970     1971     1972      1973     Sub-Total        1974       1975        Total
BAH DJAMBI       -  Plant & Machinery                    50      275         -        -        -         325             -           -         325
Empty Bunch Incinerators             30       30        -        -         -          60             -          -           60
DOLOK SINUMBAH   -  Plant & Machinery                   135        -       130        -        -         265             -           -         265
Empty Bunch Incinerators            45         -       15        -         -          60             -          -           60
GUNUNG BAJU      -  Plant & Machinery                    85      125         -        -        -          210            -           -         210
Empty Bunch Incinerators             30       15        -         -        -          45             -          -           45
MAJANG           - Buildings                              -        -         -        -       50           50            -           -          50
Plant & Machinery                   25         -        -      210       870       1,105             -          -        1,105
Empty Bunch Incinerators             30        -        -        -        30          60             -          -           60
Storage Tanks                        23        -        -        -        45          68             -         23           91
DOLOK ILIR       - Buildings                              -        -       260        -        -          260            -           -         260
Plant & Machinery                     -        -    1,455        -         -       1,455        1,130           -        2,585
Empty Bunch Incinerators              -        -       30        -         -          30            30          -           60
Storage Tanks                         -        -       61        -         -          61            48          -          109
PORT OF BELAWAN  - Storage Tanks                          -       50         -       5o       50          150            -          50         200
CENTRAL WORKSHOP                                         50        -         -      150        -          200            -           -         200
TOTALS - Buildings                                        -        -       260        -       50          310            -           -         310
Plant & Machinery                              295      400    1,585       210      870       3,360         1,130           -       4,490
Empty Bunch Incinerators                       135       45        45        -       30          255           30           -         285
Storage Tanks                                   23       50       61        50       95         279            48          73         400
Central Workshop                                50        -         -      150        -         200             -           -         200
Grand Totals:          503      495    1,951       410    1,045        4,404        1,208          73       5,685
Notes: 1. It is assumed that expenditure will be incurred in the year before scheduled commissioning dates.
2. These estimates include no provision for contingencies or import duties.
3. The foreign exchange component of the investments is estimated to be:
Buildings                 70%
Plant & Machinery         90%
Empty Bunch Incinerators  20%
Storage Tanks - mills    10%
Storage Tanks - port      40%



I



Table 1
NCth  SUATRA  ISTATZS  PROJECT
PIP V GROUP OF ESTATES
niTHET  COSTS  (UsSI'OO)
1969         1970          1971          1972          1973                       TOTAL      -of vhich
foreign
exchange
A.  Oil Pal                                                                      o
Planting Establishment      - _             (a)     --              98         107            60            52                       317
Maintenance of immatur areas                (b)      1               1          15            31            25 /                      73           --
Fertilizers - Immature areas                (b)     --               6          11            17            14                        48           42
- Maltre areas                 (c)     39              95           77           --            --                       211          185
Insnection Service                                   2               3           3             3             3                        14           14
Foliar Analysis Service                              2               2          --            --            --4 
Sub-total:                             44                          213          111            94                       667          245
B. Rubber                                                                )
Planting Establishment                      (a)    165             238         372           370           354                      1499           --
Maintenance of immature area.               (b)    325             297         263           231           230                      1346
Fertilizers - Immature areas                (b)    103              97          91            82            81                       454         398
- Mture areas                  (d)     __             151          173           _                                      324          283
Estate Housing                              (e)    63               63          63            63            63                       315           32
Vehicles - Road graders                             16              11          --            --            --                        27           25
- Bulldoasrs & Tractors           (f)    160             462          543                         _                       1165         1059
-Crop Transport                   (g)     95              87           63           16            12                       273          248
-General                                  22              22           22           22            22                       110          100
- Import duties                   (h)      61             59           56           37            37                       250
Processing - Machinery and Storage          (i)    154             130         104           231            24                       643          500
- Import Duties                 (j)     58              52           42           88            --                       240           _
Inspection Service                                 44              46           46           46            45                       227          227
Technical Assistance - Personnel                    -              144          144           --            --                       288         288
Foliar Analysis Service                             32              37          --            --           --                         69          69
Sub-total:                           1298            1896         1902         1386           868                      7230         3229
C. Contingencies on above                     (k)    138             209          215          123            98                       783          346
Total                                 1480           2310         2410         1420          1060                      8680         3820
- of which import duties                         130             120         100           140           40                        530
Notes to Annex
(>)  Felling, clearing, burning and planting; planting material; legue cover; and first year maintenance.  1xcludes any depreciation element on
bulldozers to be financed as part of the project.
(b)  Including immature areas planted before 1969.
(c)  Considered as an investment cost through 1971, see para 4.07 of main text.
(d)  Considered as an investment cost in 1970 and 1971, see par. 4.07 of the main text.
(e) Replacement of existing housing in serious dis-repair.
(f)  For mechanical clearing.
(g)  Tractors, trailers and trucks for increaeed crop and replacement of existing transport in serious dis-repair.
(h)  At current rates: 0% on tractors, bullozers and road-graders; 60% on trucks; 80% on jeeps; 140% on motor-cycles and 200% on personnel transcort.
(i)  See Annex 6 for further details of proposed processing investments.
(j)  At current rates: 40% on plant and machinery, otherwise 0%.
(k)  Approximately 10%.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT                                            AM11 
PNP VII GROUP OF ESTATES
INVESTMENT COSTS (US$'000)
- of Which
1969        1970         1971        1972         1973                      TOTAL         Foreign Exchange
Planting Fstshlishrent                    (a)         991          673         710          323          60                       2757
Maintenance of Immature Areas             (b)         253          433         344          276          199                      1505                 -
Fertilizer - Imm.ture Areas               (b)         188          241         206          143          96                        874                766
- Mature Areas                (c)         919         2122         2105          -            -                       5146               4514
Tqtate Housing                            (d)         297          351         339          270         262                       1519                152
Vehicles - Road Graders                                16           50         -            -             -                         66                 60
- BuIldozers                                 264         198          -           -             -                        462                420
- Crop Transport                (a)          119          68           56          26            9                       278                253
- Locomotives and
Rolling Stock                 (f)          202         202          198         176           26                       804                732
- General                                     28          28           28          22           22                       128                115
- Import Duties on
Above Items                   (g)           51          51           48          46           37                       233                 -
Processing - Buildings                    (h)          -                       260          -             50                       310                217
- Plant and Machinery                     295          400        1585          210          870                      3360               3024
- Bunch Incinerators                      135           45           45         -             30                       255                 51
- Storage Tanks                             23          50           61          50           95                       279                 73
- Central Workshop                         50                       -           150           -                        200                180
- Import Duties on
Above Items                 (i)          129         146          573         130          314                      1292                 -
Transport Transfer Foints                 (j)          -            35          35           35           35                       140                 98
lnenetion Service                                      30           65          69           71           71                       306                306
Technical Assistance Personnel                         -            96          96          -             -                        192                192
Foliar Analysis Service                                60           72         -            -             -                        132                132
Sub-Total                                       4050        5326         6758        1928         2176                    20,238              11,285
Contingencies                       (k)          410         534          672         192          214                     2,022               1,125
TOTAL                                           446o        5860         7430         2120        2390                    22,260              12,400
- of Which Import Duties                         200         220          680         190          390                      1680                 _
Notes To Annex
(a) Felling, clearing, burning and planting; planting material; legume cover; and first year maintenance. Excludes any depreciation elenent on buIldocers
to be financed as part of the project.
(b) Including i-mature areas planted before 1969.
(c) Considered as an investment cost thru 1971, see para 4.07 of the main text.
(d) New housing for the new Bukit Exlima Estate: otherwise replaceent of existing housing in serious dis-repair.
(e)  Tractors, trailers and trucks additional for the new Bukit Exlima Estate, for Marihat Estate after close-down of the factory and railway system, and for
increased crop; and replacement of existing transport in serious dis-repair. Some of the tractors would also be used for some agricultural tasis.
(f) Additional rolling stock for increased crop; replacement of old steam locomotives with diesels. Assumes reduction of estate railways to lono-haul operations only.
(g) At current ratest 0% on tractors, bulldozers and road-graders, locomotives and rolling stock; 60% on trucks; 80% on jeeps; 140% on e tsr-cycles and
200S on personnel transport.
(h) 2ee Annex 7, for further deteils of proposed proceesing investments.
(i) At current rates, 40% on plant and machinery, otherwise 0%.
(j) Strurtures to facilitate transfer of FFB fr'm trucks/tractors and trailers to rail.
(k) Approximately 10%.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT                          ANNEX 9
Disbureement Schedule
(US $t0OO)
A. PNP V Group of Estates                                         1969         1970          1971          1972        1973         Total
Fertilizer                                                 (a)   -          305           309             -           -           614
Processing    -  Concentrated latex Plant                        -           62            94           137                       293
-  Crumb Rubber Plant                           101           43             -            48            -          192
-  Latex Storage                                  -             -            -             3           12           15
Vehicles      -  Road Graders                                   15            10            -             -            -           25
-  Bulldozers and Tractora                      145          420           494             -            -        1,059
-  Crop Transport                                86            79           57            15           11          248
-  General                                       20            20           20            20           20          100
Inspection Service                                              46           49            49            49          48           241
Technical Assistance Personnel                                   -          144           144             -           -           288
Foliar Analysis Service                                         34           39             -             -            -           73
Contingency                                                (b)  43          119           113            28            9          312
Sub-Total:                    490         1,290        1,280           300          100        3,460
B. PNP VII Group of Estates
Fertilizer                                                 (c) 485        2,073         2,027             -            -       4,585
Processing   -  Builling Materials                               -            -           182             -          35          217
-  Plant and Machinery                           266           360        1,427           189          783       3,025
-  Storage Tank Components                         2           20             6            20           25           73
Central Workshop Machinery                                      45            -             -           135           -          180
Vehicles     -  Road Graders                                    15           45             _             -            _          60
-  Bulldozers                                    240          180             -             -            -          20
-  Crop Transport                                108           62            51            24            8         253
L locomotives arl Rolling Stock                  184           184          180           160           24         732
= General Transport                               25            25           25            20           20         115
Materials for Transport Transfer Points:                         -           25            25            25          25          100
Inspection Service                                              30           65            69            71          71          306
Technical Assistance Personnel                                   -           96            96             -            -         192
Foliar Analysis Service                                         60           72             -             -           -          132
Contingency                                                (b) 150          323           402            66          99        1,040
Sub-Total:                  1,610         3,530        4,490           710        1,090      11,430
C. Other Technical Assistance
Joint Breeding Program                                          10           40            20            20          10          100
Joint Marketing Offioe                                          10          120           120           110           -          360
Government Estates Survey                                        -          100           100           100          40          340
Swallholder Feasibility Study                                  30           100            70             -           -          200
Contingency                                                (b)  10           40            30            20          10          110
Sub-Totals                     60          400           340           250          60        1,110
GRAND TOTALt                2,160         5,220        6,110         1,260        1,250      16,000
of which contingencies                203           482          545           114          11B       1,462
(a)  Only disbursed against in years when all fertilizer needs are considered as investment items, namely 1970 and 1971 for
PNP V, and 1969 through 1971 fcr PNP VII.
(b) Approximately 10%.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR PNP V OR PNP MU
|MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE 
|  DIRECTORATE GENERAL      lif
F          OF ESTATES                                                              _                                                 JOINT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
i |                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~BOARD OF DIRECTORS               
-r- - - - -. - -  INSPECTION SERVICE                                                                                                                 CROP COMMITTEES
GENERAL MANAGER
JOINT MARKETING OFFICE
,l                     ~~~~~~~~~PRODUCTION MANAGER                                                           FCOMMERCIAL MANAE              - - - - --    I
f DEPARTMENT OF AGRONOMY       DEPARTMENT OF TECHNOLOGY   DEPARTMENT OF MECHANIZED          DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE              DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
,                                                           AGRICULTURE (PNP 3T ONLY)                                      OF GENERAL AFFAIRS
HEAD OFF/CE
f I- 1l                                                                                           1 l                   1;       ES TA TE LEVEL
ESTATE MANAGER       ESTATE MANAGER       ESTATE MANAGER        ESTATE MANAGER']    ESTATE MANAGER        ESTATE MANAGER        ESTATE MANAGER
| CHIEF OF WORKSHOP   CHIEF OF TECHNOLOGY     FIELD ASSISTANT      CHIEF OF FINANCE    CHIEF OF PERSONNEL   CHIEF OF BUI0LD NGS
O IVIS'ON
MArNAGEMEIN LIN.S                               FIELD ASSISTANT
------ OTHER LNKS
Tre   e I1 Est, te,l csers t-e p`p Y  I O for Prp eZ
T T      modr ol D s. .e   F   \ss  t. ts  3   eFr.i. 0n , h   sefe  dd rS   -tel  eslere                                                                                In
x
IBRD-4392  -
0






ANNEX 11
Table 1
INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   -
A. SUMMARIZED AUDITED BALANCE SHEET FOR PNPV
(as at December 31, 1968)
ASSETS                                         Rp. million       US$1000
Fixed Assets   1/                               88.3             271
Moveable Assets                                 23.0              70
P-arketable Securities                           1.1              4L
Inventories                                    407.4           1,250
Accounts Receivable                             97.2             298
Inter-estate Account   2/                       37.8             116
Cash                                             4.2              13
Total                                     659.0          24022
LIABILITIES
Equity Assumed from Predecessors                75.1             230
Reserves and Depreciation                      103.7             318
Special Funds                                    8.2              25
Long-term Debt                                     -               -
Accounts Payable - Taxes   3/                  109.0             334
- Other   /                  363.1           i,114
Profit (April - December 19F8) 5/                  - 3
Total                                     659.o          2,022
(apparent error due to rounding)
1/ Valued at original Rupiah cost less depreciation: no corrections
have been made for inflation. The figure does not represent present value.
2/  Sums arising from the re-organization of estates into PFPs in April 1968
whose final disposition not yet decided upon. Will probably be converted
into equity.
3/ For 1968 only (almost all taxes are paid in arrears); PNP V tax payments are
comparatively up-to-date.
4/ Local suppliers and bank short-term credit; and those parts of profits
hiich should have been paid over to the Central Government (which have been
re-invested and which will probably be converted into equity).
5/ Profit before corporation tax of Rp. 2024.3 million (US^$627,000) has already
been distributed for PNPV amongst the various other heads as appropriate.






ANNEX 11
Tikble2
INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
B. SUMMARIZED AUDITED PNP V PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(from establishment in April 1966 to December 31, 1968)
INCOME                                       Rp. million       US$1OOO
Export Sales Revenue                         1,027.2         3,151
Local S31es Revenue                           134.2            412
Inventories at December 31, 1968                84.5           259
Other Income                                    21.3            65
Total                                  1267.3           3,887
(apparent error due to rounding)
EXPENDITURE
Operating costs                                994.6         3,051
Selling Costs                                   4.5             14
Other Costs                                    l1.8             36
Inventories as at April 22, 1968                48.7           149
Depreciation                                     3.5            11
Profit before Corporation Tax                  204.3           627
Total                                  1,267.3          3,887






ANNEX 11
Table 3
INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
C. S10MARIZED AUDITED BALANCE SHEET FOR PNP VII
(as at December 31, 1966)
ASSETS                                        Rp. million       US$'ooo
Fixed Assets   1/                            1,731.4           5,311
M4oveable Assets                               300.1             921
Marketable Securities                           42.1             129
Inventories                                    930.7          2,855
Accounts Receivable                            238.7             732
Cash                                            18.0              55
Unrealized Profit on Long-term Debt
Obligations due to Exchange Rate Changes       123.9             380
Total
(apparent error due to rounding)
LIABILITIES
Equity Assumed from Predecessors                 1.6               5
Reserves and Depreciation                      441.6          1,355
Special Funds                                    7.7             24
Long-term Debt - Government   2/                41.3            127
- Dutch Suppliers   3/       1,137.3           3,488
Accounts Payable - Corporation Tax   4/        148.2            455
- Other   5/                 749.5           2,299
Inter-estate Account   6/                      526.5          1,615
Profit (April - December 1968)
before corporation Tax                         331.3          1,016
Total                                   3,385.0         10,383
(apsparent error due to rounding)                        --
1/ Valued at original Rupiah cost less depreciation; no corrections have
been made for inflation. The figure does not reflect present value.
It is much higher than for PNP V, however, because of the recent
(1966) purchase of Bah Djambi oil mill.
2/ INo repayment schedule exists, nor is interest paid.  Probably to be
converted into equity.
3/ Includes pre-determined interest element. For the Bah Djambi mill and
associated locomotives and rolling stock.
4/  For years prior to 1968.
5/  Local suppliers short-term credit; inter-PNP accounts; and those parts
of past years profits which should have been paid over to the Central
Government (which have been re-invested and which will probably be
converted into equity).
6/  Sums arising from the re-organization of estates into PNPs in April
1968, whose final disposition not yet decided upon.  WYill probably be
converted into equity.






ANNEX 11
Table 7
INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
D. SUMMAANIZ7D AUDITED PNP VII PROFIT AND LOSS STATENKT
(from establishment in April, 1968 to December 31, 1968)
INCOWE                                         Rp. million       US,'OOO
Export Sales Revenue                          1,571.7          4,821
Local Sales Revenue                             211.4            649
Inventories at December 31, 1968                289.8            889
Other Income                                     36.1            111
Total                                    2.109.1         6,h'O
(apparent error due to rounding)
EXPENTITURE
Operating Costs                               1,322.0          4,055
Selling Costs                                    95.8            294
Other Costs                                     143.9            W4.1
ILventories at iApril 22, 1968                  102.2            314
Depreciation                                    113.9            350
Profit before Corporation Tax                   331.3          1,016
Total                                    2 019.1         6,470






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
YIELD ASSUMPTIONS - RUBBER
(in kg of dry ruuber per ha)
Year                       Year
after planting             of barvesting             1969             1970           1971            1972 onwards
6                           1                    375              425             50                  500
7                           2                    525             595             630                  700
8                           3                                     850            900                1,000
9                           4                    900           1,0201          I080                 1,200
10                           5                  1,050           1,190                                1 400
11 thru 1l               6 thru 9               1,275            1,445              0
15                           10                 1,200            1,360          1,440                1,600
16                           11                 1,125            1,?75          1,350                1,500
17 thru 20              12 thru 15                975           1,105           1,170                1 300
21 thru 24              16 thru 19                900           1,020           1,080                 5
25                           20                   750              850            900                1,000
NOTES
a.  Example. Rubber planted in 1962 would be in its 8th year after planting in 1969.  Its average yield
in 1969 would therefore be about 750 kg.
In 1970 this same rubber would be in its 9th year after planting, and its average yield would
be about 1,020 kg.
In 1971 this seme rubber would be in its 10th year after planting, and its average yield would
be about 1,260 kg.
In 1972 this same rubber would be in its 11th year after planting, and its average yield would
be about 1,700 kg.
In 1982 this same rubber would be in its 21st year after planting, and its average yield would
be about 1,200kg,
b.  Assumptions.  The yields appearing in the "1969" column are the averages currently obtained on PNP V.            3
The yields appearing in the "1970" and "1971" columns are based on the assumption that improved
tapping and general management techniques have been introduced as a result of the technical            -A
assistance which will become available in the latter half of 1969.
The yields appearing in the "1972 onwards" column are based on the assumption that fertilizer
has been applied from 1970 onwards in accordance with a modern scientific appraisal of
nutrient requirements.
c.  Interprettion.  The improvement in yield levels from the "1969" column to the "1971" column are mainly
attirbutable to the technical assistance;  the further improvements to the "1972" onwards"
column are mainly attributable to the fertilizer investment program of 1970 and 1971, and
subsequent recurrent fertilizer applications.






NORTH SUM4ATRA ESTATES PROJECT
mI   ARSUMPTIO8S - 0O1, P0I2
(in tons of fresh fruit bunco (ff6) per ha)
Year of Planting   1969   19,70        1971   1972       19,73   1974,    1975   1976        1977   1978       1979   1980       1981   1982       1983    1984,    1989   1986         1987   1988        1969   1990       1991   1992   1993  1991,    1995  1996  1997  1998
1969           -       -         -        6        10      15        20      25        25      25        25      24,       24,    23         23       21        21      20         20      19        19      iS        17      16      15    11,       13    12    11    tO
1968           -       -           3      7        13      17        20      23        25      25        21,    21,        23      23        21       21         20     20         19      19        18      17        16      15      14    13        12    11    10
1 967          -       -          5      11        15      19        22      25        25      21,       21,     23        23      21        21       20         20     19         19      18        17      16        15      11,     13    12        11     10
1966           -       -           2     13        iB      21        21,    25    -21,         24,       23      23        21      21        20       20        19      19         18      17        16      15        11,     13      12    U         10
1 965                   a        12      16        19      22        21,    21,        21,     23        23      21        21      20        20       19        19      iS         17      16        15      Ib        13      12      11    10
1964            8      10       1IL      17        20      23        21,    21,        23      23        21      21        20      20        19       19         18     17         la      15        14,    13         12      Ua      10
1963           1n      12        16      19        22      21,       21,     23        23      21        21      20        20      19        19       18         17     1S         15      11,       13      12        U1      10
3 962          12      11,       18      21        23      23        23      23        21      21        20      20        19      19        18       17         16     15         14      13        12      U.        10
196,1          14.    16         18      22        22      22        22      21        21      20        20      19        19      18        17       16         15     11,        13      12        U1      10
1960           16      16        15      18        21      22        21      21        20      20        19      19        18      17        16       15         1.4    13         12      U-        10
3 959          16      13        15      18        21      21        21      20        20      19        19      18        17      16        15       11,        13     12         U-      10
1930           13      13        35      19        20      20        20      20        19      19        iS      27        16      15        11,      13         12     11         10
1957           13      13        15      18        i8      18        18      18        i8      iB        17      16        15      11,       13       12        11      10
1956           13      13        15      08        18      18        18      ia        i8      17        16      15        14,    13         12       11        10
1955           13      13        15      18        18      18        18      18        17      16        15      11,       13      12        11       10
1954,          13      13        11,     16        18      18        i8      17        16      15        i14     13        12      11        10
1953           13      12        11,     16        18      18        17      16        15      11,       13      12        11      10
1952           12      12        11,     16        16      16        16      15        j14     13        12      11        10
19~51          12      12        l1,    31,        lb,    31,        lb,               13      12        11      10
1950           12      12        13      13        13      13        13      13        12      11        10
1949           12      12        12      12        12      12        12      12        11      10
191,8          12      11        12      12        12      12        12      U1        10
WIJTES:   6.  Plantings fro  197  onoods would follow  th.sease pattern as for 1969, correspondingly delayed.
-;  t~oio--    cti -   " ~-  i  doat-t E,act-  csto   oooed f-oc virgin jungle ocolf'"I a crop, in the 3rd year after planting (rat-her than the 4hi  in the abuse table) , weld rise to
tics p-t -. fr yoaro  - toroogh 12 d-oppio,g         3toss per i. by year 25~.  Doe to .ore, roDde growt.,hove,  theow palms -old hase to be cot out at age 25 rather
than at age 32 for slower growing palms.
1.  The shov  table  -ao-Io  c-rect f-rtilioe  arpli-tthan.  The ylmlde that would have been  apeoted had .. fertilizer been applied  -a  be read aff the table, by faflaeing dea 'the
"1969"1 oulum rather than reading across. For ... mle, the yield build up of 1961 plantings from 1969 onards, with preper fertilizer epplisationo, wekld get U., 16, 18,
20, 22 tons, etc.; without proper fertilizer app1lication, however, it would go: 14,, 16, 16, 13, 13, etc. That is, th#re is no yield response in tis tist tan rare,
a mdest response of 2 tons per ha in the 3rd year, wIth mush larger responses in subsequent years.
Fertilizer appli-otione are aseumed to stop after 25 Years growth.






ANMEX 13
INDO.'ESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
MA2'KET PROSPECTS FOR. NATURAL RUBBER
I.  INTRODUCTrON
1.        Natural rubber (NR) is traditionally one of the malor primary
commodities traded between developed countries and LDC's. Generating aver-
age earnings of approximately one billion U.S. dollars per annum in the
period between 1955 and 1967, it has ranked between fourth and sixth posi-
tion in importance in foreign trade among all primary commodities traded.
2.        Concentration is particularly high in the export trade in natural
rubber compared to other commodities. In the postwar period more than 90%
of all exports have been shipped from four countries in Southeast Asia, i.e.,
Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Ceylon. The remainder is exported by a
group of some 15 relatively minor exporting countries, among which the leaders
are Viet-Nam and Liberia. The market share of the major exporter group as
a whole has changed remarkably little in the postwar period. There has,
however, been one rather striking change in market shares within this group
involving a declining market share for Indonesia which has been taken over
almost entirely by Malaysia, with almost no gain by the other two countries
As a result, as of 1967 nearly 50 percent of all of natural rubber supplies
were exported from Malaysia (Table 1).
3.        Ironically, the countries that benefitted most or suffered least
from this change in market shares also made the most progress in reducing
their dependence on rubber exports. Despite the remarkable increase in its
share of the market, dependence on foreign exchange earnings from natural
rubber exports has been continuously reduced in the case of Malaysia. Earn-
ings from natural rubber have also declined in importance for Thailand. In
Viet-Nam, Indonesia and Cambodia, on the other hand, dependence on natural
rubber was not reduced to any significant extent in the postwar period
(Tables 2 and 3).
Trends and Prospects
4.       iNatural rubber is a case of a commodity, whose share in the world
market has dropped in the past as a result of substitution by a synthetic
rubber and whose price is likely to decline in the future. From 1950-52 to
1967 consumption of new rubber (as distinguished from regenerated rubber)






ANNEX 13
Page   2
in the non-Communist world rose by an average annual rate of around 6%,
but the consumption of natural rubber increased at the rate of only 2.3%.
In this same period, accordingly, the share of natural rubber in the world
market declined from 65% to 37%, while that of synthetic rubber increased
from 37% to 65%. Initially this relative drop in natural rubber was due
at least partly to the inelastic supply of rubber in the postwar period,
but increasingly it has been attributable to the ability of industry to
produce a wide range of synthetics at qualities and prices that proved at-
tractive as compared with natural rubber.
5.        The single most important market for rubber is the transportation
equipment industry. Approximately 50% of all new rubber is utilized in
tires and tire products. Also, aside from tires, automobiles average more
than 100 lb of rubber per car. Other "non-tire" uses include a wide vari-
ety of industrial and consumer goods. Since end products of rubber have
a high income elasticity of demand, future world demand for rubber should
a priori depend to a large extent on the future rate of income growth and
especially of growth in manufacturing output. This reasoning is supported
by correlation analysis between world manufacturing output and world rubber
consumption which yields a coefficient (referred to hereafter as elasticity
of demand) of 1.1 for the period 1951-1967.
6.        Table4 presents a view of the probable course of world demand
for new rubber to 1975 based on projections made in the Economics Department.
On the basis of projections of GNP and projections of industrial output in
the OECD countriesl/ total world consumption outside the centrally planned
countries is expected to grow at just over 5-1/2%/0 per annum reaching a level
of 8.4 million long tons per year around 1975. In addition, net imports of
natural rubber into the centrally planned countries are projected to reach
700,000 long tons as of 1975. Of course, deviations in the growth rate of
GNP in OECD countries from the assumed growth rates as projected would have
an effect on the above picture, as would, too, a change in the amount of
imports into the centrally planned countries, or a change in the assumed
elasticity coefficient of demand../ The implications of a more pessimistic
assumption in these determinants can be quantified by taking as the growth
rate of GNP in OECD countries, the lower limit indicated above, i.e., 4.3%
p.a. (rounded from 4-1/4%), for the period of 1967 to 1975. The correspond-
ing growth rate of total new rubber consumption of 5.3% p.a. would then
yield an estimate of total new rubber consumption in the world as of 1975
of about 8.2 million long tons, compared with a possible optimistic fore-
cast of 8.5 million tons. Estimates of natural rubber imports into the
centrally planned countries range from 600,000 long tons, implying that any
increase in consumption in these countries could be met by expanded output
of their synthetic rubber industry to 850,000 long tons, which would reflect
1/  It was assumed on the basis of available projections by OECD, that GNP
in all developed countries would grow at a range between 4.3 to 4.8%
p.a. and industrial production at a range between 4.8 and 5.3% p.a.
2/  It should be noted, however, that the elasticity coefficient of 1.1 held
remarkably strong over the last 16 years.






ANNTEX L
Page   3
a technical relationship between tire production and natural rubber con-
sumption similar to that in the rest of the world.  If these views could
reasonably be regarded as "maximal' and "minima" a medium projection of
total new rubber consumption in the Free World, representing a growth rate
of 5.6% p.a. (yielding 8,400 million long tons as of 1975) would result.
Imports into the centrally planned countries could be assumed at 700,000
long tons as of 1975.
7.        Potential production from a'lready existing rubber plantings is
expected to increase to 3.6 million long tons in the mid-1970's with further
increases to approximately 4.0 million long tons in 1980 and 1985 in the
absence of replanting as of 1969.  Since it is expected that the centrally
planned countries would import about 700,000 long tons as of 1975, approx-
mately 2.8 million long tons of natural rubber would be left for sale in
the free world market in the 1970's. If output proceeced at capacity level,
therefore, natural rubber would have to capture a larger share of the grot
in demand during 1968 to 1975 than the 37% it had in the total free world
market in 1967. In essence this means that between now and the mid-1970's
natural rubber's share of totaI rubber demand would have to decline more
slowly than in the period before 1967.  As a consequence it is expected tha
prices for natural rubber would have to become more competitive with prices
of synthetic rubber.
8.        Natural rubber prices are likely to decline to about 16 U.S. cent--
per pound as of the mid-1970's (see chart).   This forecast is based on ou-
assessment of what will happen to the cost price of synthet'ic rubber. The
major development foreseen in synthetic rubber is commercial production of
the highly competitive stereo-regular rubbers (i.e., polyisoprene and Poly--
butadiene)   besides the more traditional SBR, and a decline in the price of
raw material inputs of such rubbers, except for polyisoprene. In assessing
the prospective price for butadiene-based synthetic rubber (SBR and PB) the
major development anticipated is the change in the status of butadiene from
being a product primarily produced for synthetic rubber conversion to a by-
product of another major chemical product, ethylene. In the case of poly-
isoprene, cost reduction in the raw material input is also foreseen, al-
though as a result of expected economics of scale rather than a change in
status from major product to by-product. The projected price of natural
rubber is based on the assumption that the cost/price of PI will serve as
a ceiling since protracted movements of natural rubber above that ceiling
would lead to an acceleration of capacity in polyisoprene.
9.        Over the longer run--and in particular for the period 1975-85
during which new and replanited rubber would be maturing--it is believed
that the price of natural rubber may either decline somewhat more, to a
level say, of approximately 12 U.S. cents per pound, c.i.f. New York or
stay at 16 U.S. cents per pound. This prognosis is based on the assumptiQou
of further technological progress in the synthetic rubber industry.  in wZ''
ing a longer term forecast for natural rubber, the key question is the pe.s
sible further price developments in polyisoprene,  which from the standpoiv-






ANNP.X l--
Page   4
of quality is the synthetic most likely to make progress at the expense
of natural rubber. There are presently research efforts by the industry
to adjust the petro-chemical prod-iction stream so as to derive isoprene,
the major raw material input, as a by-product. The history of success in
butadiene-based rubbers suggests that this aim may be achieved. However,
the present position is that an approach to such a technical breakthrough
has not yet been found. If a breakthrough were to be achieved, it is con-
ceivable that the price of polyisoprene would fall below 15 U.S. cents
per pound, compared to 21 U.S. cents as of 1968, and both polyisoprene and
natural rubber might be selling at a level in the order of 12 U.S. cents
per pound. A situation such as this is within the realm of possibilities
sometime between 1975 and 1985. If isoprene cannot be produced as a by-
product, however, prices for polyisoprene and natural rubber might continue
at the projected 1975 level, in real terms, for the period 1975-1985. Ac-
cording to repeated industry statements at IRSG meetings, however, efficient
producers of natural rubber operating on replanted high-yielding acreage
should be able to produce rubber profitably at prices as low as 12 U.S. cents
per pound c.i.f. consuming countries.
10.       The foregoing implicitly assumes that in the late 1970's and the
1980's all natural rubber produced at the suggested prices Till be absorbed,
ie.e., that price considerations will outweigh any possible additional tech-
nical advantages that synthetic rubber may present to consumers. On the
other hand, if this assumption were considered to be too optimistic, the
question would arise whether it would be desirable to improve or even main-
tain the existing natural rubber capacity.
11.       To test this proposition, prospective demand for new rubber in
the 1980's was compared with natural rubber output that would materialize
from existing capacity in the absence of replanting (see Table 5). In such
a case, even with the continuation of some substitution against natural
rubber, natural rubber production from existing trees would not, in fact,
be sufficient to meet demand (line 7).  In other words, the implicit natural
rubber shortage seen in the 1950's would be repeated.
12.       Only if replanting of all existing acreage at the rate of 3% per
year, which the industry considers to be the maximum rate achievable in
light of past experience,would be fully pursued would there arise a situa-
tion in which the supply of natural rubber might not be fully absorbed, if
technical substitution against natural rubber continued regardless of price
factors (see Table 6, line 9). A sensitivity analysis indicates that such
a situation would be avoided if on the average a "modified cost improvement
program" were followed in the case of the estate sector.  Such a modifica-
tion could be achieved by restricting the replanting program of estates as
a general rule to maintain the present producing capacity1 i.e., to replant
only part of their acreage so as not to produce significantly more rubber
in the late 1970's than they could produce from existing trees. (Because
of the gestation period of trees already replanted but not bearing yet,
output as of 1969 underestimates the full potential capacity output of the
estate sector as of today.) The production implication of such a modified
cost-improvement program  is shown in line 2 of Table 6, indicating that






ANNEX 13
Page 
>he resulting output of natural rubber would, in fact, be substantially
absorbed, even if technical substitution against natural rubber continued
(see lines 8 and 10 ).
13.       Of course, if  low prices for natural rubber, especially any well
below the future cost-price of synthetic rubber, were to halt, or even re-
verse substitution, then foreseeable supplies of natural rubber might not
be sufficient to meet demand even with an accelerated global rate in replant-
ing. The probable magnitude of the deficit is illustrated in line 7 of
Table6 . In this case new plantig, in addition to the program to improve
the cost-competitiveness of natural rubber against synthetic rubber by re-
planting, might be required.
14.       It has been shown, therefore, that under the uncertain conditions
pertaining to determinants of substitution in the long run as summarized
in paragraplh  8, natural rubber is faced with the possibility of a "surplus"
but also of a "shortage" in the long run. The case for not replanting seems
difficult to defend, however, on the basis of our present demand analysis
(Table 6). Given, in addition, the opportunities and need for increasing
the price competitiveness of natural rubber, the priority accorded by in-
dividual rubber producing countries to replanting with high-yielding trees
is certainly justifiable for purpose of cost improvement. Moreover, it may
be noted that it is far from certain at this point in time that a replant-
ing rate of 3% p.a. could be achieved on a global basis. Even if it is
achieved completion of the program would require between 13 to 29 years.
Such a long-term program would be subject to adjustment if the prospects
for rubber change over time.
15.       The case for initiating a replanting program is further strength-
ened by the prospects for improvement in the competitive position of natural
rubber through better preparation of the raw material which can proceed
along side a replanting program. Such improvements, involving production
of new forms of crude natural rubber such as "block rubber" raise the tech-
nical standards of natural rubber and make possible a reduction in the
processing costs of the rubber products manufacturer, who is the decisive
factor in deciding the issues of substitution between natural and synthetic
rubber.






AKNNEX 1-1.
Tablc 1
INDCNESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
NET EXPORTS OF NATURAL RUBBER 1950-1967
(1,000 long tons)
Years   Worldi/  Malaysia   Indonesia   Thailand   Ceylon   Others
1950-52   1,808        656        745        106       103       197
1955-57   1,822        690        686        132        93       221
1960-62   1,956        772        631        180        98       275
1962-64   2,067        88h        606        196       103       278
1965      2,270        983        684        213       122       274
1966      2,340      1,065        680        199       123       274
1967      2,558      1,237        726        206       134       255
Percentage Share
1950-52   100.0       36.3       h1.2        5.9       5.7      10.9
1955-57   100.0       37.9       37.6        7.2       5.2      12.1
1960-62   100.0       39.5       32.3        9.2       5.0      14.1
1962-64   100.0       42.8       29.3        9.5       5.0      13.5
1965      100.0       43.3       30.0        9.h       5.4      12.1
1966      100.0       45.5       29.1        8.5       5.3      11.7
1967      100.0       48.4       28.h        8.1       5.2      10.0
1/  Totals may not add due to rounding.
Source:  IRSG, Statistical Bulletin.






AtNEX 13
Tables 2 A 3
INDONESIA
NORTH SU14ATRA ESTATES PROJECT
NATURAL RUBBER: VALUE OF EXPORTS, 1950-1967
(US$ million)
Other De-
Rep. of            veloping
Years   Malaysia  Indonesia  Thailand  Ceylon  Viet-Nam  Liberia  Countries  Tot3L1
2950-52    614        681         72       94       49        25        35      1,563,
1955-57    477        397         76       66       43        30        46      L, ..3
1g62-664    497       280         97       57       33       24         49      12CYiC
_1965      498        332         86       64       26        25        44      1,116
19i66      479        310         90       70       18        26        49      1, o-7'
1967       415        276         75       59       13        25        42        922 
TIATURAL RUBBER:  SHARE OF EXPORTS lI TOTAL EXPORT EARNINGS, 1950-1967
(Percentage)
Rep. of
Years    Malaysia   Indonesia   Thailand   Ceylon   Viet-Han   Liberia   Camboc'ia
1950-52     63.9       29.8         27.5      27.4      44.5       21.4       n.a.
1955-57     65.7       42.1         23.7      17.6      66.2       19.2       39.3
1962-64     43.6       40.7         19.2      15.4      54.9        8.7       27.1
1965        38.7       46.8         15.0      16.0      72.0       21.0       33.3
1966        38.3        45.6        13.0      20.0      76.0       18.0       37.,
1967        34.3       43.1         11.0      22.0      81.0       17.0       n.a.
Source: IRSG, Statistical Bulletin.
FAO,  Trade Yearbook, 1965.
FAO,  Commodity Review, 1967 and 1968.
IFS,  International Financial Statistcs, various issues.






INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
CONSUMPTION OF NEW RUBBER:  BREAKDOWN B3Y TYPE
1968-1975
(1,000 long tons)
Free        Free        Centrally     Free         Centrally    World    Percentage of Frec
World       World        Planned       World        Planned       Total    World Natural in
Total i    Natural 2/   Countries    Synthetic 4/ Countries                 Free World T')tal
Natural 3/                 Synthetic 3/
1968           5,740       2,030          640         3,710         20         6,4oo        35.4
1969           6,020       2;220          650         3,800         20         6,690         36.8
1970           6,360       2,340          650          4,020        30         7,040        36.8
1971           6,700       2,1470         660          4,230        30         7,390        36.9
1972            7,150      2,590          660          4,560        40         7,850        36.4
1973            7,500      2,640          670         4,860          40        6,210        35.2
1974           7,900       2,700          700         5,200         40         8,640        34.2
1975            8,400      2,800          700         5,600          40        9,140         33.3
Growth Rate       5.6         4.7         3.8            6.1         -           -             -
1/ Elasticity of demand 1.1
2/  NR consumption equals production of NR according to IPSG plus  70,000 long tons per annum from U.S.
surplus disposal.
3/ IRSG estimates of net imports.
4/ SR Consumption equals Free 'Jorld Total minus Free T,Morld NR consumption
SOURCE   IRSG, Provisiona' Mirct.s of 92nd Noeting of IPSG.






ANNEX 13
Table T
INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
WORIDL/ CONSUMPTION OF NEW RUBBER: BREAKDOWN BY TYPES, 1965-1985
(1,000 long tons)
Actual                     Projected
1964/66   1965   1967   1970   1975   1980    1985
1.  Total Rubber
Consumption_/       4,770   4,729  5,176  6,400  8,400  10,900  14,100
2. Production of
Natural Rubber      2,399   2,343  2,454  2,900  3,600   3,900   4,000
3. Exports (Natural)
to Soviet Bloc3/      547     540    575    650    700       700     700
4. Natural Rubber
Consumption to
1967 then avail-
abilities           1,852   1,843  1,893  2,250  2,900   3,200   3,300
5. Share of Natural
Rubber in World
Total (%)            38.8    39.0  36.6  35.2  34.5    29.4    23.4
6. Line 5 minus 37%
of line 1             -        -      -     -120   -200    -850  -1,900
7. Line 5 minus de-
clining perceTA-
age of line 14/       -        -      -         -  +150    -100   -700
1/  Excluding centrally planned countries.
2/ Rate of growth:  5.6% p.a. to 1975, then 5.3% p.a.
3/  For purpose of projecting the share of natural rubber in world rubber
consumption, net imports of natural rubber into centrally planned coun-
tries are deducted from projected total supplies of natural rubber.
4/  Assumes decline in natural rubber share by 1/2 percentage point p.a. to
1985.






AiNE) 13
Table  6
INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
IMPLICATIONS OF ALTERNATIVE REPLANTING PROGRAMS DT WORLD!/
NATURAL RUBBER INDUSTRY
(1,000 long tons)
Actual          Projected
1967   1970   1975    1980   1985
I.    Production of Natural Rubber
(1)  3% Replanting Program       2,454   2,800  3,500  4,500  5,300
(2)  Modified Program            2,454   2,800  3,500  4,100  4,500
II.   Exports to Soviet Bloc             -575    -650   -700   -600   -700
IIT.  World (ex Soviet) Consumption
of Total Nlew Rubber: 2/         5,176   6,400  8,400 10,900 14,100
IV.   World (ex Soviet) Consumption
of Natural Rubber:3/
(3)  3% Replanting Program       1,893   2,150  2,800  3,800  4,600
(4) Modified Program             1,893   2,150  2,800  3,1400  3,800
V.    Share of Natural Rubber in
World Consumption:
(5)  3% Replanting Program          37       34     33     35      33
(6)  Modified Program               37       34     33     31      27
VI.   Surplus (+) or Deficit (-) of
Natural Rubber if Share in Con-
suimption remained at 1967 level
(7)  3% Replanting Program         -       -250   -300   -250   -600
(8)  Modified Program              -       -250   -300   -650 -1,400
VII.  Surplus (+) or Deficit (-) of
Natural Rubber Assuming Share
to Decline by 8 per Year
(9)  3% Replanting Program         -       -100    +50   +500   +600
(10) Modified Program              -       -100    +50   +100   -200
1/ Excluding centrally planned countries.
2/ Projections were based on the following growth rates:
1967-75: 5.6% p.a.; 1975-85: 5.3% p.a.
3/ Except for 1967, equal to production minus exports to Soviet Bloc.






ANNEX 13
CHART
PRICES FOR NATURAL AND SYNTHETIC
RUBBER, BY TYPES, 1960-1975
(U.S. CENTS PER POUND)
40                         I l   l   l                           40
35                                                               35
NATURAL RUBBER
(Rss #1)
30                                                               30
\~~~~~-L OU I'YBUADIENE
25                                                               25
POLYISOPRENE
20                                                               20
SBR-(OIL-EXTENDED)
(ESTIMATE)
I                      I   I       I   I   I       I   I         
'60 '61 '62 '63 '64 '65 '66 '67 '68 '69 '70  '71 '72 '73 '74 '75
(5R) IBRD-4206






INDONESIA
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
MARKET PROSPECTS FOR PALM OIL AND PALM KERNELS
Palm Oil
1.        Trends in supply and demand for individual fats and oils are far
more difficult to judge than those for the total market, particularly since
most of the major oil products are produced either as joint products or by-
products. Thus, as in the case for soybeans, the production of specific
oils may be determined, not only by trends in the oils and fats market, but.
also by the demand for the joint or related products. Another feature
which also has to be considered in reviewing the market for a particular
oil product is the amount of substitution possible between different fats
and oils. Within a broad range, on technical considerations, one oil can
be substituted for another. Currently, the bulk of palm oil is used in the
food industry. Here it meets its strongest competition from soybean, ground-
nut and sunflower seed oils. Fish oils are also used for edible purposes,
but they are at a disadvantage compared with palm oil, owing to the high
processing costs involved in making them usable for this purpose.
2.        Usually, the associated product of the marine and vegetable oils
is a protein-rich cake or meal. The oil paln, hoaever, compared with some
of its competitors, produces a very low proportion of protein cake to oil,
and the cake is the by-product of palm kernel oil, rather than palm oil.
The overall ratio of palm and palm kernel oils to cake is about 9:1. In
comparison, the soybean produces oil to meal in the ratio of 1:4 in terms
of weight.
3.        Palm oil is produced almost entirely in four developing countries,,
Nigeria, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Indonesia and Malaysia. Table 1
indicates the production situation in these and other countries in recent
years. Compared with other major fats and oils (Table 2) the growth rate
for world palm oil production has been low, up to recent years amounting to
only 1.3% p.a. The only really significant expansion took place in Malaysia.
However, in a number of countries, particularly Malaysia, a considerable
further expansion in production is planned for the future. Some of these
plans have already been put into operation.  If these developments go accor-
ing to schedule, total world production will amount to approximately 2.5
million tons between 1975 and 1980. This would represent a growth rate of
slightly more than 5% between 1965-67 and 1980, compared with a yearly rate
of increase of 1.3% between 1954-56 and 1965-67. The share of palm oil
production on total fats and oils production would increase to approximate&L11
5%, compared with 3% in 1965-67.






-Vage 2
4.       IMany of tle deveiopnents are export-oriented and a considerab'e
share of the additional supplies will have to be absorbed by the interxn-n
tional market. Oil palm exports increased very slowly during the last
decade, largely owing to the slow growth in production rather than market-
ing difficulties. Actually, in the period from 1954-56 to 1965-67, palm
oil exports declined slightly (Table 3). It is estimated that by 1975
palm oil exports will amount to approximately 1.2 million tons, compared
with 550,000 tons in 1965-67. Consequently, the share of palm oil exports
on total trade will probably increase to 9% in 1975, compared writh 5.4%
in the earlier period.
5.        The palm oil economy thus faces two major problems in the future.
Firstly, it will have to face declining world market prices, a phenomenon
that is shared by nearly all major fats and oils. Secondly, it will have
to increase its share as an ingredient in the total usage of fats and oils.
Considering the fact that palm oil does not have all the quality character-
istics enjoyed by some of the ot.,her oils (e.g. coconut oil), this could
only be achieved through price declines larger than those expected for
somrie other oils.
6.        It is in food uses where palm oil will have to increase its markt3t
share. In the past, this was only possible to a certain degree, mainly
because of limitation in availabilities. Among other factors, this apparen'-
ly prevented processors from undertaking the necessary research into the
technical and economrc difficulties which would have to be overcome if palir
oil is to be incorporated as a major ingredient in food products. One major
difficulty, particularly at the relatively high palm oil prices of the past.
appears to have been the disposal at remunerative prices of the inedible
portion resulting from palm oil processing, which would make large-scale
processing feasible.
7.        The Chart (IBRD-4199) indicates that palm oil prices have general-
ly followed the trend of all fats and oils prices, declining to a low leve'.
in 1962 and experiencing a sharp fall after the high l965 prices. Of par-
ticular importance is the narrowing of the large price difference between
soybean oil and palm oil which prevailed in the 1950's. Since 1963, prices
for both products have moved closely together, which indicates that their
future fortunes will also be tightly knit.
8.        In the second half of 1968, palm oil prices dropped sharply to
approximately $140 per ton, compared with $222 per ton in i967. This steen
decline was caused by large shipments of soybeans and soybean oil and un-
usually large exports of sunflower seed and fish oil. It is believed that
this is a short-term situation and that palm oil prices will recover to a
higher level. In view of the large anticipated exports and the technical
difficulties mentioned previously, however, it is unlikely that they will
reach the 1967 levels. Future prices have been estimated to fall by the
mid-1970's into a price range between $155-165 per m ton c.i.f. Europe.
9.        These projections have to be seen in the light of the uncertain-
ties which surround any price forecast and of fats and oils in particular.
For example, if soybean exports under P.L. 480 are reduced or cease






Page 3
altogether without compensating changes in TJ.S. production Dolicy, the
above price forecast may prove to be optimistic. On the other hand, if
only part of the large requirements that would be needed to meet the needs
of fat deficit countries could be turned into effective demand, the fore-
cast may be pessimistic.
Palm Kernels
10.       The fruits of the oil palm contain two separate sources of oil:
the fleshy and fibrous exocarp (pulp) from which palm oil is obtained and
a nut kernel in a hard shell from which palm kernel is extracted. The
pulp of the fruits deteriorates rapidly after harvest and extraction has
to be carried out in producing areas. Palm kernels, in contrast, deteri-
orate very slowly. Also, their processing into dls is a relatively more
complex operation. Extraction is, therefore, usually performed in large
crushing mills, mainly in the importing industrialized countries. Only in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo have palm kernels been crushed on a
large scale and the country's exports consist almost entirely of oil,
rather than kernels.
11.       Wild palm fruits have a low proportion of pulp and a high pro-
portion of kernels. In plantations now in the process of development,
however, the ratio of pulp to kernel is expected to increase. Thus, the
future expansion in palm oil output will not be matched by a commensurate
increase in palm kernel oil output.
12.       Palm kernel oil, unlike palm oil, is a lauric oil and as such
closely resembles coconut oil. These types of oils are regarded in many
countries as a desirable ingredient of margarine and shortening, and for
use in confectionary and bakery products. Lauric oils also possess special
qualities which make them an essential constituent up to a certain minimum
in soap manufacture; they also have a wide variety of other industrial uses.
such as in the manufacture of synthetic detergents.
13.       All these factors account for a more inelastic demand than for
most other fats and oils. This became very apparent in 1967-68 when prices
of nearly all major fats and oils decreased. Prices of lauric oils, in-
cluding palm kernel oil, remained high, mostly because of short supplies,
but also because of the limited degree of substitutability. Presently,
there are some indications that new industrial processes will make it pos-
sible to produce synthetically the special component of the lauric acid
oils which are the cause of the inelastic demand. This, of course, would
limit the special role these oils play in the market. However, so far no
definite information is available which indicates that industrial manufac-
ture of lauric oils will be undertaken on a large scale.
1h.       The price, production and trade situation for palm kernels and
palm kernel oil are indicated in the Chart and Table 4. It is assumed that
palm kernel oil, in line with other fats and oils, will follow a downward
trend in the future. Since palm kernel oil will not increase in output at
the same rate as palm oil, however, it is unlikely that its price will
decline as much as has been projected for palm oil. It is estimated that
a price range of $134-138 per m ton for palm kernels will prevail in the
mid-1970's.






ANI
Table 1: WORLD PRODUCTION, EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF PALM OIL
BY MAJOR PRODUCING, EXPORTING AND IMPORTING COUNTRIES
AV1RkGE 1955-59, ANNUALLY 1963-67
(thousand metric tons)
Average
1955-59   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967
Production
Nigeria                     200      151    150    167    132       33
Congo, Dem. Rep.            224      224    209    162    168    200
Indonesia                   155      148    160    163    185 2/ 163 _/
Malaysia                     64      130    128    155    194    231
Others ./                    49       54      61     62     57      57
World Total              692      707    708    709    736    684
M orts
Nigeria                     180      128    136    152    146      17
Congo, Dem. Rep.            160      143    124      79     85    116
Indonesia                   121      110    133    126    153    125
Malaysia                     62 Y    115    125    143    184    188
Others                       33       48      48     48     38      38
World Total              556      544    566    548    606    484
Retained Imports
EEC                         226      247    279    249    267    252
United Kingdom              198      114    116    117    150.   98
United States                13       11       3      3     34     29
Japan                        20       17      18     16     20     22
Iraq                          4       28      29     50     36      47
Others                       92      118    107      76     91      72
World Total              553      535    552    511    598    520
/  Preliminary.
2/ Unofficial estimates based on import returns.
3/ Excluding trade with Singapore.
Source: FAO
February 3, 1969






ANX14
Table 2
Table 2: WORLD PRODUCTION BY TYPE OF OIL OR FAT
AVERAGE 1954-56 AND 1965-67, OIL EQUIVAIENT
Average 195k-56     Average 1965-67
Output as           Output as
Output   Percent   Output   Percent    Percent Change
(1,000   of Total    (1,000   of Total    P.A. in Output
Type of Oil          m. tons)  Output   m. tons)   Output    1954-56 to 1965-67
Edible soft oils       10,889     40.3    17,421
Cottonseed           1,906       7.1      2,507       6.62
Groundnut             2,084       7.7      3,037      8.0             3.5
Soybean              2.,451      9.1      5,200      13.7             7.1
Sunflower            1,118       4.1      2,860       7.5             8.9
Olive                1,044       3.9      1,238       3.3              1.5
Sesame                 541       2.0        582       1.5             0.7
Rapeseed             1,601       5.9      1,562       4.1          - 0.2
Others i/              144       0.5        435       1.1            10.6
Industrial soft oils    1,521               1.868       4.9             1
Linseed                          3        1,042       2.7             0.8
Gastor bean            213       0.8        307       0.8             3.4
Tung                   103       0.4        112       0.3             0.8
Others                 250       0.9        407       1.1             4.5
Hard oils             3J479       12.9      3.922      10.3             1.1
Coconut              2,01k       74       2,1.0
Palm kernel            422       1.6        455       1.2             0.7
Palm oil             1,001       3.7      1,157       3.0             1.3
Babassu                 42       0.2         58       0.2             3.0
Animal fats           10,298       38.0    13,638      35.8              2.6
Butter               3,893      14.4      5,063      13.3             2.4
Lard                 3,549      13.1      4,163      10.9             1.5
Tallow                2,856     10.5      4,412      11.6              4.o
Marine oils              87                 113.2                       3.0
Whale                   84        1.8       288                        -4 
Fish                   373       1.4        898       2.4             8.3
World Total        27,o44    100.0    38,035      100.0              3.2
1/ Mainly safflower and maize oils.
Source: Based on Unilever statistics.






ANNEX 14
Table 3
Table 3s WORLD EXPORTS OF FATS AND OILS
BY GROUPS AND TYPE OF OIL,
AVERAGE 1954-56 AND 1965-67s OIL EQUIVALENT
Average 1954-56       Average 1965-67
Fxports as            Exports as  Percent Change
Exports  Percent    Exports   Percent        Per Annum
(1,000    of Total    (1,000    of Total     in Exports
Groups & Type of Oil  a. tons)   Exports   a. tons)   Exports  1954-56 to 1965-67
Soft oils                          3                     ,50.0            6.4
Edible               1,41        26- .4,29             41.5             7.9
Cottonseed           367 1/     5.3        263 1      2.6          -  3.0
Groundnut            754       11.0      1,029       10.1             2.9
Soybeans             506 v.1    7.4      1,845 V    18.1             12.5
Sunflower             26        0.4        509        5.0            31.0
Olive                101        1.5        158        1.6             4.2
Sesame                40        0.6         74        0.7             5.8
Rapeseed              47        0.7        341        3.14           19.7
Industrial             623        9.0        674        6.6             0.7
Linseed              470        6.8        446        4.4          -  0.5
Castor bean          108        1.6        183        1.8             4.9
Tung                  45        0.6         45        0.4              -
Others, n.e.s.         106        1.5        188 2/     1.9             3.5
Hard oils              2.164       31.4      20183       21.4             0.1
Coconut            1,209       17.6        X     281 12.5
Palm kernel          394        5.7        345        3.4          -  1.2
Palm oil             558        8.1        550        5.4          -  0.1
Babassu                3         -           7        0.1             8.0
Total vegetable        4,734       68.8      7,264        71.4            4.0
Animal fats            1,473       21.       293         20.6             3.3
Butter              1430         .2        529 2      5.2             1.9
Lard                 320        4.7        288        2.8          -  1.0
Tallow               723       10.5      1,276       12.6             5.3
Marine oils              6          9.8        821        8.0             1.8
'Wbale               48         7.0        288        2.8          -    7
Fish                 190        2.8        533        5.2             9.8
Total animal           2,147       31.2      2,914       28.6             2.8
World Total      6,881      100.0     10,178      100.0             3.6
1/  Includes U.S. donations.
2/ Of which 63,000 tons safflower oil.
Source: Based on Unilever statistics.






AM=EI 14
Table 4
Table 4:  WORLD PRODUCTION, EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF PALM KIL
AND PALM KERNEM OIL BY MAJOR PRODUCING, EXPORTING AND IePORTIMG
COUNTRIES, AVERAGE 1955-59, ANNUATLY 1963-66
(thousand metric tons)
Average
1955-59       1963        1964      1965      1966
Production 1/
Nigeria                       442         420         407        450      422
Sierra Leone                   57          54          54         51       56
Congo, Dem. Rep.              142           91        122         97      102
Dahomey                        53          51          55         66       49
Indonesia                      38          33          35        36        36
Malaysia                       17           31         31         35       42
Others                        157         159         144       158       152
World Total                 906         839         848        893      859
Palm Kernel Exports
Nigeria                       439         404         400        420      400
Sierra Leone                   57           54         53         50       56
Congo, Dem. Rep.               41            3          1
Dahomey                        50          51          55         25        6
Indonesia                      38          31          32        30        32
Malaysia                       16           16         12         13       23
Others                        129         120         109       117       155
World Total                 770         679         662       655       622
Palm Kernel Oil Exports
Congo, Dem. Rep.               50           32         44         34       32
Others                          2          10           5        22        28
World Total                  52          42          49        56        60
Retained Imports of Palm Kernel
EEC                           371         356         381        336      331
United Kingdom                301         211         194        207      168
Japan                          28          26          25         22       23
Others                         57           71         77         80        6
World Total                 757         664         677       645       528
Retained Imports of Palm Kernel Oil
EEC                            13            7         -           3       32
United States                  23           38         39         38       50
Others                         14            8          8        10         7
World Total                  50          53          47         51       89
1/ Commercial Production.
Source: FAO
February 3, 1969






INDEX OF PRICES FOR EDIBLE AND SOAP OILS, AND IMPORT PRICES
FOR PALM, SOYBEAN, COCONUT OILS AND PALM KERNELS
(U.S. DOLLARS PER LONG TON)
500                         I       I       I      - |      I          I       I       I           ITI E                           500
AVERAGES
CEYLON COCONUT OIL,WHITE, 1% BULK (c.i f. EUROPE)
U.S. SOYBEAN OIL (ci. EUROPE)
400                                                                                                                                 400
3 0 0                   ..... ......                                                                                               300
MALAYSIAN PALM OIL 5% %_
NIEIN PALM KERNELS (c.i.f. EUROPE)
200                                                                                                                                200
'~\FAO PRICE INDEX OF EDIBLE AND SOAP OILS AND FATS (EXCL. BUTTER)
(1952-54 =100)
0                                                I          I               IOII                               I0
'54    '55    '56      '57    '58    '59    '60    '61        '62    '63    '64    '65       '66    '67    '68    '69
(JAN-                     Z
OCT )Z
(rn
1x
(4R)IBRD- 4199-






NORTH SUHATRA ESTlTES PROJECT
PNP V GROUP OF EST&TIS
CASH FLOW PROJhCTION (us$'ooo)
1969  1970  1971  1972   1973  1974   1975  1976  1977   1978   1979   1980  1981   1982   1983   1984  1985 
CROP PRODUCTION ('000 TONS)
Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bmch (FFB)                             12     12    14    15    18    21        26    31      35    38      38     38    34    31       29    30      29
Rabber (Dry Rubber Content)                                15     16    17    20    22    23    25    27           28    30      31     32    32    32       31     31     30
VALUE OF CROP (us$'ooo)
Oil Palm Flresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) (a)                      210   210   250   270   320   380   460   550    630    670    690    690   610   560   530    530    520
Rubber                          (b)                      6,210  6.650  6,720 ?79dV7.830  7,880  7,840  8J470  9.040  9.520  9.910 10.220 10.2O0 10.140  9,950  9,880  9.630
GROSS INCOME                                                 6,420  6,860  6,970  8,060  8,150  8,260  8,300 9,020  9,670 10,190 10,600 10,910 10,890 10,700 10,480 10,410 lo,15o
Less Export Duty                (c)                        2 470   500   500   580    590   590    590   630    680    710    740    770   770    760   750    740   720
Research Cese              (d)                         60    70    70    80    80    80    80    80           90    90   100    100   100    100    100    100    100
Recurrent Expenditure      (e)                      3.330  3.240 3,390  3,910  4.080 24.320  4J670 4,990  5.240  5J470  5,670  5,990  6,020  6,010  5,990  6.040  6.180
NET INCOME (BEFORE INT1EST. DEPRECIATION. TAXES, ETC)        2,560  3,o50  3,010  3,490  3,400  3,270  2,960 3,320  3,660  3,920  4,090  4,050  4,000 3,830  3,640  3,530  3,150
LESS INTEREST ON                    (f)
Working Capital                 (g)                         80   100   11o    90    90    90          90    90      90    90      90     90    90    90       90     90    90
On-Lending IDA Credit                                       10   140   290   390   410   420   390   350    310    270    220   180   140   100              60      20   -
LESS Corporation Tax                (h)                      1,340 1,450  1,360  1,620  1,560  1,490  1,340 1J560  1,760  1,920  2.040  2.040  2,040 1,970  1,880 1,850  1.650
NET INCOME (BEFORE DEPRECIATION, AFTER TAX AND INTEREST)     1,130  1,360  1J250 1,390  1,340  1,270  1,140  1,320  1,500  1,640  1.740  1,740 1,730  1.670  1,610  1,570  1,410
POSSIBLE APPORTIONMENT OF NET INCOME
Reinvestment in PNP V                                      990 1,020 1,130  1,120    960   870   670    680    350    350    250    230   340   530    490    440    480
Repayunt IDA Credit On-lending                             -      -      -      -      -     -      350    350    350    350    350   350    340   340   340   32o    -
Available For Reserves And/or Dividend To Government       140   340   120   270   380   400   120    290    800    940    540   560  1.050   800    780   790    930
1,130  1,360  1,250  1,390  1,340  1,270  1,140 1,320  1,500  1.64o 1.140  1,140  1.730 1.670  1,610  1,570  1,410
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES WULD THEN BE FINANCED FROM
On-Lending IDA Credit                                      490 1,290  1,280    300   100   -         -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Re-Invested Profits                                        990 1,020  1,130  1,120    960   870   670   680    350    350    250    230   340   530    490    440   480
(i)                     1J480  2,310  2,410 1,420  1,060    870   670   680    350    350    250    230   340    530    490    440    480
NOTE: Footnotes are on the following page.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
ANNEX 15
Table 1, continued
Notes to Cash-Flow Projection for PNP V Group of Estates
(a) Fresh fruit bunch processed outside PNP V, paid for according to sales price
realized on processed products less actual processing and selling costs,
cesses, duties, taxess depreciation and profit: assumed to be US$18 per
ton of FFB delivered to the processing factory (equivalent to CIF European
price of US$160 per ton for palm oil, and US$136 for palm kernels).
(b)  Rubber FOB price assumed to be US$406 per ton in 1969 and 1970; US$384,per
ton in 1971 and 1972; US$362 in 1973; US$341 in 1974 and US$319 thereafter
(equivalent to CIF New York prices of 20, 19, 18, 17 and 16 US cents per
lb, respectively).
(c) At "effective" rate of 7~9 FOB value of rubber (see para 2.14 of main
report).  Duty on oil pilm products already deducted (see note (a) above).
gd) Not yet finalized. Assumed here to be approximately 1% FOB value of rubber.
(e) Detailed in Table 2 of this Annex.
(f) Assumed to be 12% per annmm in real terms.
(g)  It is assumed that Working Capital equivalent of 2 months operating expenses,
plus 3 months of capital expenses to be refinanced by IDA Credit, would be
required.
(h) Assumed at 1969 rate of 60% of not income after depreciation and interest
charges.
Ci) For first five years, see Annex 8 for further details.  Thereafter, invest-
ment is restricted to the regular replanting program, processing facilities
to deal with increased crop and regular replacements of investment items.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP V Group of Estates
Operating Expenditure Projection (US $1000)
1969    1970   1971   1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984            1985
A.  Oil Palm
Maintenance of Mature Areas        (a)    23       23     23      23      31      41       48      54       55      57       59      60       52      47       46      54        56
Fertilizer for Mature Areas        (b)    - (c)   -(c)   -(c)   39        52      67       75      69       60      56      52       43       43      43       43      56        65
Harvesting and Loading             (d)      8       8     10      11      12      16       20      24       29      30       33      33       30      28       28      29        30
Transport to Factories             (e)    18       18     21      23      27      32       38      46       52      56       58      58       51      47       44      44        44
Foliar Analysis                    (f)    -        -       2       3       4        5       4       4        4       3        3       3        3       3        4       4         4
Overheads                          (g)    24       32     41      47      51      54       56      56       56      56       56      56       56      56       56      56        58
Oil Palm Total                             73      81     97    146      177     215      241     253      256     258      261     253      235     224      221     243       257
B. Rubber
Maintenance of Mature Areas         (h)   414     413    408    419      417      416     431     479      528     577      617     654      660     662      664     685       693
Fertilizer for Mature Areas         (i)   132     _(j)   -(j)   201      219     223      235     248      258     267      280    -284      270     262      254     231       218
Chemicals                                   8       8      8       8       8        8       8        8       8       8        8       8        8        8       8        8        8
Tapping                            (k)   704      642    705    687      754     831      909    1012    1114    1207    1294    1374    1425    1448    1463    1496          1502
Transport to Factories             (1)    46       50     52      61      65      69       74      80       85      90       93      96       97      96       94      93        91
Foliar Analysis                    (m)    -        -      40      42      44       49      51      54       55      57       57      55       54      52       48      47        45
Direct Estate Costs                      1304    1113   1213   l418    1507    1596    1708    1881    2048    2206    2349    2471    2514    2528    2531    2560            2557
Processing - Variable Costs         (n)   344     369    394    457      487     520      553     597      638     671      699     721      725     715      702     697       679
Processing - Replacements           (o)    -       -      -       -       -        -      -        45       48      51       53       54      55       54      53       53       51
Transport to Port                   (p)    52      55     60      69      73       79      83      90       96     101      106     109      109     108      106     105       102
Direct Processing Costs                   396     214    454    526      560      599     636      732     782      823     858      884     889      877     861      855      832
Building Maintenance                       -       70     70      70      70       70      70       70      70      70       70       75      75       75      75       75       75
Selling Costs                       (q)    40      45     48      61      65       72      78       86      94     100      105     108      109     108      105      104      101
Inspection Service                  (r)    --      -      -       -       -        49      49       49      49      49       53       53      53       53      53       57       57
Other Overheads                     (s)  1216    1208  .199)  1331    1327    1327    1463    1463    1463    1463    1463    1601    1601    1601    1601    1601             1737
Overheads                                1256    1323   1317   1462    1462    1518    1660    1668    1676    1682    1691    1837    1838    1837    1834    1837            1970
Rubber Total                             2956    2860   2984   3406    3529_ 3713    4004    4281    4506    4711    4898    5192    5241    5242    5226    5252              5359
Contingencies                           (t)   301     299    309    358       374     392     425      456     478      501     511      545     544      544     543      545       564
'RAND TOTAL                                 3,330   3,240  3,390  3,910   4,080   4,320   4,670   4,990   5,240   5,470   5,670   5,990   6,020   6,010   5,990   6,040    6,180
NOTE: Footnotes are on the following nage.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
ARME 15
Table 2, continued
Notes to Operating Expenditure Projection for PNP V Group of Estates
(a)  Mainly labor, initially at the rate of US$24 per ha. Wage rate assumed to
rise by 3% per annum (compound), being off-set by improvements in
productivity until 1973.
(b) Assumed to be US$35 per ha for palms less than 26 years old; plus 14%
allowance for port handling and transportation from the port.
(c)  Considered as an investment through 1971 (see para 4.07 of main report).
(d) Mainly labor, initially at the rate of US$0.65 per ton of FFB produced.
Wage rate increase of 3% per annum (compound) is assumed.
(e) At US$1.50 per ton of FTB, of which about US$1.00 is within PNP V,
the other US$0.50 being transportation to mill on the PNP VI group of
estates (see para 4.14 of main report).
(f) At US$2.50 per ha of palms from age 3 through 24 years.
(g) Allocation of general overheads (see note (s) below), and inspection
service charges at US$1.50 per ha.
(h) Namely labor, initially at the rate of US$22 per ha. Wage rate assumed
to rise by 3% per annum (compound), being off-set by improvements in
productivity until 1973.
ti) Assumed to be US$12 per ha for rubber less than 21 years old; plus 14%
allowance for port handling and transportation from the port.
(J) Considered as an investment in 1970 and 1971 (para 4.07 of main report).
(k) Mainly labor, initially at the rate of 10 kg of dry rubber per tapper
per -working day, increasing to 12 kg in 1970 and to 15 kg from 1972
onwards. Daily wage rate assumed to increase from present rate of
about US$0.50 by 3% per annum (compound).
(1) At US$3.00 per ton of dry rubber content, equivalent to US$1.00 per
ton of latex actually carried from the field. This figure includes
depreciation of transport equipment. With a well-established group
of estates such as this, it is assumed that the depreciation element
is approximately equivalent to actual costs of replacement of trans-
port equipment.
(m) At US$2.50 per ha of rubber from age 1 to 19 years.
(n) US$22.50 per ton of dry rubber content.
(o) Assumed to be about US$1.70 per ton of dry rubber content after invest-
ment period.
(p) US$3.40 per ton of dry rubber content, on average over widely dispersed
estates.
(q)  To POB only:  concentrated latex at US$0.50 per ton; dry rubber at US$3.50
per ton. Includes shipping documents, handling at port (including pumping
installation for concentrated latex), Joint Marketing Office expenses.
(r) Considered as an investment cost through 1973. Assumed to be US$1.50 per
ha for agricultural service, plus US$7,000 for engineering service.
(s) Covers PNP V Head Office, Estates and Factories. Due to current low
senior staff salaries, it is assumed that the salary element of these
overheads would increase by 15% per annum over the next five years,
thereafter increasing at 3% per annum.
(t) Approximately 10%.






NORTh SU1ATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PNP VII GROrUP OF ESTATES
CASH FL.OW PROJECTION (US$VOo' )
1969     1970      1971      1972       1973      1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981      1982       1983       1984      1985
CROP PRODUCTION ('000 Tons)
Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB)                          312      321       386        488       585       668        742       807       833        836       808        768       734        711       687        660       640
Pain Oil                                          58       61        75         97       116       132        1147      161       166        168       163        156       156        152       146        141       137
Palm Kernels                                      10       10        12         15        18        21         23        25        26         26        25         23        21         20        19         19        18
VALUE OF CROP (US$,000)
Produced During Tear (FOR)            (a)      8,49o    8,920    10,920    14,070    I6,800    19,160    21,310    23,230    24,070    24,270    23,570    22,510    22,300    21,630    20,880    20,080    19,470
Cash Sales During Te-r (FOR)          (b)      8,370    8,810    10,420    13,280    16,120    18,570    20,770    22,750    23,860    24,220    23,740    22,780    22 350    21,800    21,070    20,280    19,620
Less: Export Duty                     (c)      1,260    1,320     1,560      1,990     2,420      2,790     3,120     3,1410    3,580      3,630     3,560      3,420     3,350      3,270     3,160      3,040     2,940
Research Case                  (d)         80       90        100       130       160        190       210       230        2140      240        2140      230        220       220        210       200        200
Recurrent Expenditure          (e)      4,220    4,400     5,220      7,500     8,350      9,080     9,570     9,980    10,190    10,230    10,090       9,840      9,510     9,520      9,540     9,470      9,370
NET INCOME (BEFORE INTEREST,
DFPRECIATION, TAXFS, FTC.):                    2,810    3,000     3,540      4,660     5,190     6,510      7,870     9,130     9,850    10,120      9,850      9,290     9,270      8,790     8,160      7,570      7,110
Less Interest On:                     (f)
Working Capital                (e)        130      190        240       180       190        220       190       190        210      210         210       210        210       210        210       210        210
On-Lending IDA Credit                      30      400       880      1,190     1,300     1,360      1,290     1,160     1,020       880        750        610        470       340        200        70          -
Goverrment Loan                            70      260        250       300       330        360       360       330        290      250         210       170        130       100         60        30          -
Lesa Gcrporatiun Tax                  (i)        750        - (i)      -(i)  1,350     1,520      2,060    2,710      3,350      3,750    3,950       3,910     3,740      3,810     3,660      3,140     3,270      3,100
NET INCOIE (BEFORE IEPRECIATION,
AFTER TAX AND INRTREST):                       1,830    2,210      2,170     1,640     1,850      2,510     3,320     4,100      4,580    4,830       4,770     4,560      4,650     4,480      4,230     3,990      3,800
POSSIBLE APPORTIONMENT OF NET INCOME
Existing Debt Repayments              (h)        460         -         -       440       870        870       870        440                         -         -          -              -          -         -          -
Reinvestment in PNP VII                        1,370    2,210      2,170     1,200        980     1,640       190       170        890       210        960     4,230      1,9O        770      1,430     1,780      1,030
Repaysent IDA credit On-Lending                    -         -         -         -                    - -    1,140    1,140      1,140     1,140      1,140     1,140      1,140     1,140      1,1 lk    1,170          -
Repayment Govern,mt Loan                           -         -         -         -          -         -       320       320        320       320        320       320        320       320        320        310         -
Available for Reserves and/or
Dividend to Governsent                             -        -          -         -         _         -        800     2,030      2,230     3,160      2,350    (1,130)    1,250      2,250      1,3140      730      2,770
1,830    2,210     2,170      1,640     1,850     2,510      3,320     4,100     4,580      4,830     4,770      4,56t)    4,650      4,480      4,230     3,990     3,800
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES would then
be financed rrom,
On-Lending IDA Credit                          1,610    3,530     4,490        710     1,090          -         _         -          -         -          _                    -          -         -          -         -
Covernment Loan                                1,480      120        770       210       320        290
Reinvested Profits                             1,370    2,210      2,170     1,200        980     1,640       190        170       890       210        960     4,230      1,940       770      1,430     1,780      1,030
Total:        (j)      4,460    5,860      7,430     2,120      2,390     1,930        190       170       890        ?10       960      4,230     1,940        770     1,430      1,780     1,030
NOTES:   (i)  Footnotes are on following page
(ii)  Ignores rubber, sisal and Manila hemp areas, which are considered to at least cover their costs by sales income.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
ANNEX 15
Table 3, continued
Notes to Cash-Flow Projection for PNP VII Group of Estates
(a)  Palm oil FOB Price assumed to be US$129 per ton, equivalent to a CIF
European ports price of US$160. Palm kernel FCB price assumed to be
US$102 per ton, equivalent to a CIF European port price of US$136.
(b)  Assumes that sales take place after 3 months storage in Indonesia, on
average.
(c)  At "effective" rate of 15% FOB value (see para 2.14 of main report).
(d)  Not yet finalized.  Assumed here to be a.pproximately 1% of FOB value.
(e)  Detailed in Table 4 of this Annex.
(f)  Assumed to be 12% per annum in real terms.
(g)  It is assumed that Working Capital equivalent to 2 months operating
expenses, plus 3 months of capital expenses to be refinanced by IDA
Credit, would be required.
(h)  Existing debts:
(i)   Corporation taxes prior to 1968 (US$h60,000) to be repaid
in 1969.
(ii)  Debts to Dutch suppliers (US$3,490,000) for the Bah Djambi
mill, locomotives and rolling stock, including pre-determined
interest element.
These debts to Dutch suppliers, originally currently due in part, have been
re-scheduled as follows:
1972-12.5%; 1973, 1974 and 1975-25% each; 1976-12.5%.
(i)  Assumed to be at 1969 ra.te of 60% of net income after depreciation
and interest charges. Small, or absent, in 1970 and 1971 because
the heavy fertilizer applications in those years are considered
for tax purposes as operating expenditures, although assumed in
this cash-flow to be investment items.
(J)  For first five years, see Annex 8 for further details.  Thereafter,
investment is restricted to the regular re-planting program, and
processing facilities which need further expansion a.s crop matures
or which need further rehabilitation (the latter being the major
item in 1980 - Dolok Sinumbah mill - see Annex 7).






NORTH STTMATRA FSTATES PPOJFCT
PYP TII GROtlP OF ESTAlrS
OPFhATING EXPFNDITNRE PROdECTION ( U'S_'000)
1969      1970      1971      1972       1973      1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
Maintenance of Mature Areas       (a)        592       608       715        819       886       984     1,o46     1,085      1,118     1,150     1,152      1,119     1,125      1,189     1,238      1,244     1,233
Fertilizbr for Mature Areas       (b)          -(c)      - (c)        (c) 1,338     i,458     1,520     1,488      1,458     1,432     1,363      1,303     1,220      1,147     1,1248    1,174      1,159     1,117
chemioals                                    I          11        12         13        13        13         13        13        13         13        13        13         13        13         13        13         13
Harvesting and Loading            (d)       24         215       266        346       428       503       577        646       687        710       706       691        680       679       675        668       668
Transport to Factories            (e)       32t        321       366        488       585       668       742        807       833       836        808       768        734       711       687        660       640
Foliar AnalYs                     (r)          -         _        85         92        95        94        91         90        90                  90         90         90        90        90         90        90
DIRECT FSTATE COSTS:                       1,118     1,155     1,464     3,096      3,465     3,782     3,957    14,699      4,173     4,162      4,072     3,9C(L    3,789      3,830     3,877      3,834     3,761
Processing - Variable Costs       (g)        419       430       521       659       790        902     1,017     1,106      1,142     1,146     1,107      1,067     1,021        gg        9SS4       931       903
Processing - Additional
Maintenance of Old Mills       (h)       405        405       405       405       405        405       405       405        405       405        405       405       245        245       245        245       245
Bagging of Kernels               (W)          30        31        37        46        55         62        68         74        77        77         74        70        62         60        58         56        55
Transport to Port                 (J)        2c4       214       262       337       402        459       510       556        576       580       564        538       532        516       9S8        479       464
.uwping Installation Charges      (k)        87        91        112       145       174        198       221       241       250        252       245        23k       235       228        220       2U         205
DIRECT PROCESSIIE  COSTS t                1,145      1,171     1,337     1,592     1,826      2,026     2,221     2,382      2,450     2,460     2,395      2,3114    2,095      2,038     1,975      3,922     1,872
Buildirg Maintenance                          76        76        76        76         76        80        83         87        90        92         92        92         92        92        92         92        92
Salling Coote                    (3)         169       176       216       276       330        376       418       455        471       475        461        140      431        4,18      4h         388       376
Inepect-on Servios                (m5)         -                   _ -       -         -         72        72        72         72        72         80        80        80         80        so         86        86
Other Overheads                   (n)      1,330    1,426      1,650     1,776     1,894     1,917      1,917     1,977     2,007      2,o40     2,075      2,115     2,155     2,195      2,240     2,285      2,330
OVERHPADS:                                 1,575    1,678     1,942      2,128     2,300      2,445     2,520     2,591     2,640      2,679     2,708      2,727     2,758     2,785      2,816     2,851      2,884
Sub-Total                  3,838    4,004      4,743     6,816      7,591     8,253     8,698      9,072     9,263      9,301     9,175     8,942      8,642     8,653      8,668     8,607      8,517
cootinge,ries    o()         382       396       477        684       759       827       872        908       927        929       915        898       868       867        872       863        853
Total:                 1,,220   14,400     5,220     7,500      8,350     9,080     9,570      9,980    10,190    1n,230    10,090      9,840      9,510     9,520      9,540     9,470     9,370
NOTFS: (i) Footnotes are -n followinp pag-.
(ii)  Ignores rubber, sisal and Manila hevp areas, which are considered to at Irant cover their costs by sales i.n.o..






NORTH SUMATRA ESTAT&S- PROJUCT
Table 4., continued
Notes to Operating Expenditure ProJection for PNP VII Group of Estates
(a) Mainly labor, initially at the rate of US$ 24 per ha. Wage rate assumed
to rise by 3% per annum (compound), being off-set by improvements in
productivity until 1973.
(b)  Assumedto be US$35 per ha for palms less than 26 years old, plus 14%
allowance for port handling and transportation from the port.
(c) Considered as an investment cost through 1971 (see para 4.07 of main text).
(d) Mainly labor, initially at the rate of US$0.65 per ton of FFB produced.
Wage rate increase of 3% per annum (compound) is assumed.
(e)  At US$1.00 per ton of FFB. This figure includes depreciation of transport
equipment. With a well-established group of estates such as this, assumed
that depreciation element is approximately equivalent to actual costs of
replacement transport equipment.
(f) US$2.50 per ha of palms from age 3 thru 25.
(g) Materials - US$1.20 per ton of FFB. Labor, initially at the rate of
US$0.14 per ton of FFB, rising at 3% per annum (compound).
(h) Assumed to be US$1.00 per ton of FFB put through theold mills. Replacement
of new mills is considered as an investment cost - 50% of   machinery
replaced after 10 years' life, 100% after 20 years.
(i) At US$3.00 per ton of kernels.
(j) At US$3.00 per ton of product (oil plus kernels).
(k) At US$1.50 per ton of oil.
(1) To FOB only: oil - US$2.25 per ton; kernels - US$3.80 per ton.
Includes shipping documents, handling at port,
Joint Marketing Office expenses.
(m) Considered as an investment cost through 1973. Assumed to be US$1.50
per ha for agricultural inspection service, plus US$9,000 for engineering
service.
(n)  Covers PNP VII Head Office, Estate and Factory overheads.
Due to current low senior staff salaries, it is assumed that
these would increase by 15% per annum over the next five years,
thereafter increasing at 3% per annum.
(o)   Approximately 10%.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJFCT
EFFECT ON GOVFRNMENT BUDGETARY POSITION (Us$1000)
1969    1970      1971     1972     1973     1974     1975     1976     1977     1978     1979
A. RECEIPTS
From PNPV - Export Duty (Rubber)                         470      500      500      580      590      590       590      630      680      710      740
- Export Duty (Palm Products)                   50       50       60       70       80        90      120      140      160      170      170
- Import Duty (Investment)                     130      120      100      140       40        -         -        -        -        -        -
- Corporation Tax                            1,340    1,450    1,360    1,620    1,560    1,490    1,340    1,560    1,760    1,920    2,0s0
IDA Credit Interest                           10      140      290      390      410       420      390      350      310      270      220
- IDA Credit Principal                           -        -        -        -        -        -       350      350      350      350      350
- Possible Dividends                           140      340      120      270      380      4o0       120      290      800      940      540
Sub-Total:          2,140    2,600    2,430    3,070    3,o60    2,990    2,910    3,320    4,o60    4,360    4,o60
From PNPVII - Export Duty (Palm Products)              1,260    1,320    1,560    1,990    2,h20    2,790    3,120    3,410    3,580    3,630    3,560
- Import Duty (Investment)                   200      220      680      190      390        -         -        -        -        -        -
- Corporation Tax                            750        -        -    1,350    1,520    2,060    2,710    3,350    3,750    3,950    3,910
- IDA Credit Interest                         30      400      880    1,190    1,300    1,360    1,290    1,160    1,020       880      750
- IDA Credit Principal                         -        -         -        -        -        -    1,140   1,140    1,110    1,140    1,1h0
- Govt. Loan Interest                         70      200      250      300       330      360      360      330      290      250      210
- Govt. Loan Principal                         -        -        -         -       -         -      320      320      320      320      320
- Possible Dividends                           -        -        -         -        -        -      800    2,030    2,230    3,160    2,350
Sub-Total:          2,310    2,140    3,370    5,020    5,960    6,570    9,740   11,740   12,330   13,330   12,240
Total Receipts:         L,450    4,740    5,800    8,090    9,020    9,560   12,650   15,060   16,390   17,690   16,300
B. PAYMENTS
To IDA     - Administrative Charge                         -       4o       80       110     120       120      120      120      120      120      120
- Principal Repayment                          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -      160
Sub-Total:              -       hO       80      110      120      120      120      120      120      120       280
TO PNPVII   - Loan                                     1,480      120       770      210      320      290        -        -        -        -        -
Total payments:           1,480      160      850      320      440      410      1?0      120      120      120       280
NET GOVERNMENT TNCOME:                                      2,970    4,580    4,950    7,770    8,580    9,150   12,530   14,940   16,270   17,570   16,020
INCREMENTAL GOVERNMENT INCOME (a)                          (2,600)    (990)    (620)  2,200    3,010    3,580    6,960    9,370   10,700   12,000   10,450
(a) Over the export duties, corporation taxes and dividend to Government that would have been paid in 1969 without the Droject, namely about us$5,570,000






NORTH SINATRA SCATMS PJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RZTURN CALCOIATIONS - fl  STM3H2 Di RU2BMR
A. ReplAntip   1d Rbbr.(,1O0 H. Model)
19Y69      1970     1971     1.672    1973       1974  1_975    1976    1977 _1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1984    1986    1987    1988    1989  -1990    1991    1992   _122j.
dooro mtana)                          -         -        -        -        50       70    LO00      120     140     170     170     170      170    1.60     150      130     130     130      1 30    120     120     120      120     120
91010'7S (o)     -         -        -        -        -   ~~~~~~~~~~~17,100   22,400  32,200  38,409  44,800  54,400  54,400  54,400  54,400  51,200  48,000  41,600  41,600  41,600  41,600  38,4.00  38, 400  38,400  38,400  32,000O
PThn~.rn  EsO.abaohneat 31,493    6,018    6,018    6,0o18    6,018          -       -       -       -       -
Upkeep                                         -        --                -    2,265      2,335   2,41.0  2,485   2,575   2,625   2,700   2,785   2,860  2 ,945   3,040   3,135   3,230   3,330   3,435   3,340   2,975   2,725   2,450   2,100
F-rtAle-  aba Chem-.cls                                                        1,418     1, 418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,418   1,41a8   1,418   1,418        50       50      50      2 5      2 5
Thpping                              -         -        -        -        -    2,746      3,960   5,828   7,204   8,655   7,210   7,430   7,653   7,680   7,634   5,537   4, 264   4,391   4,525   4,659   8,556   8,814   9,080   9,347   8,340
Prooe..i.g C.st.                                                               1,210     1,694   0,420   2,904   3,388   4,114   4,114   4,114   4,114   3,879   3,630   3,146   3,146   3,1.46   3,146   2,904   2,904   2,904   2,904   2,420
5olling Co-tO                                                                    420        588     B40   1,008   1,176   1,428   1,428   1,428   1,428   1,344   1,260   1,092   1,092   1,092   1,092   1,008   1,008   1,008   1,008          840
nepe-tian Servi-ea
Fob-r A-aiyoos                  150i      100      iSO       400      400      400       1400     400     400     400     400     400      400     400     400      400     400     400     400      150     150     150      150     150      150
Ov-h-ed.sc "                         -         -        -      500      500       500     1,375   1,375   1,375   i,375   1,375   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600  6,175   6,175   6,1.75   6,175   6,175   7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000
Coaotng-1-n (Approx. 10%)  ~,167            632       632      682      682      941      1,130   1,509   1,706   1,913   1,830   2,110   2,102   2,200   2,087   1,915   1,970   1,948   2,014   2,025   2,217   2,299   2,283   2,316   2,025            " -:
TOTAL:      34,800     6,800    6,800    7,60C    7,600    9,900    12,900  16,200  18,500  '20,900  20,400  23,200  23,500  23,700  23,300  20,800  21,600  21,800  22,100  22,100  24,400  25,200  25,200  25,200  22,600
YT B97ENEFIS (Const)           (,4,800)   (6,800)  r6,800)  (7,600)  (7,600)    7,200    9,500  15,800  19,900  23,900  34,O00  31,200  30,000  30,700  27,900  27,200  20,000  19,80   19,5o0  19,500  14,000  13,200  13,200  13,290   9,L00
HOONOMIr RATE 0F RETURN: 18%
a)On 90B banio of US$ 3ll per tan in 1974, sQaielent to 77 02 cents p-r lb COP New York; and on FO8 b..si  of US8319 per ton fOOn 1975 omards, equaivalent t. 16 US cents per lb CIF Ne. York.
kO, 3at-,te cf Ith  red-otia-  - total -Lntat  -rrheads whic3h anld  -eslt if plantin,g did not take sice   sea-d to be zeo        1 7969 roslog to 1705 of o-erge -state overheads by 1990.






NORTH SUmATRA ESTATES PROJECT
ErCOIIOC RATE OF RETtEN CALCtItATTONS - INVESTMFNTS IN RUBBER
B. Fertilizer Investment Program For Existing Plantings on PNP V
-  ktin tUS$' )
1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    1983    1984   1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1990    1991    1992
INCREMENTAL CROP (in tons) (a)             -       -      -   1,800  2,034  2,228  2,354  2,428  2,450  2,406  2,308  2,190  2,032   1,836  1,670   1,572  1,470   1,322   1,200   1,052            800    652    lj30       162
ZEFITS (b)                                  -      -      -     572    602    612    596    614    620    608    584    554    514         464    422      398    372      314     304      266     202    164       108      40
COSTS (c)
Fertilizer                               235    235    235      232    228    222    218    210    197    184    179    170    154         142    130      100     82       56      23        -       -       -       -
Foliar Analysis                           35     42      47      44     39      38     37      35     32     32      30     27     25       23     18       14     10        s       -        -       -
Contingencies (Approx. 10%)               27      28     28      28      27     26      25     25     23      94     21     20      18      15      15      12       9       6        2       -        -      -        -       -
TOTAL!          297    305    310      304   294    286    280    270    252    240    230    217    187          180    163      126    101       66      25        -        _      _        _       _
NET BENEFITS (Costs)                    (297)  (305)  (310)    268    308    326    316    ih3    369    368    354    337    376          281,    259     272    271      268     279      266     202    164      108       40
COINOMIC RATE OF RETIRN: 25%
(a)  Estimated incremental production of dry rubber equivalent over the crop w)ich would cow from these areas without fertilizer application.
(b)  On the basis of US$318 per ton at the point of tapping in 1972, equivalent to a OTF New York price of 19 US cents per lb; of USP296 per ton in 1973, equivalent to 18 ItS cents per lb; of US$275 per ton in 1974,
equivalent to 17 US cents per lb; and of US$253 per ton from 1975 onwards, equivalent to 16 US cents per lb. These figures for benefits at the point of tapping include a depreciation deduction for additional
processing facilities.
(a)  Additional costs ever those normally required to bring crop to point of tapping.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS - INVESTMENTS IN RUBBER
C. SENSITIVITY OF RATE OF RETURN TO VARIATIONS IN C.I.F. RUBBER PRICES
16
z
0
cc    15
w
W                           ~~~~~~~~REPLANTING OLD RUBBER                     FERTILIZER, INVESTMENT PROG~RAM
~z 14
0 0
0
w 
m    1
u0
12:
m  13~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~        m
U-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iR-49






NfTl SOSTRA ESTATES pmarr
80oo040c R17018 0&000LATIO - niprncMrs IN OI, PAIxi
L. Reelontig Old OiLPlm91, 016d Rubber. end Other Cr011 (100 ha -l
1969        1970   1971   1072    1973    197h    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    i965    1966    1987    1968    3969    1990    1991    1992    1993   19,94    1995    1996    199               1996
PRODUCTION
P.ioi                     -          -             84     160      255     370     500      525     550     550      528     528      506     506     46      462      440     440      4,18    418      396     374      352     330   3-08      266     264      242     220
kernls .                                           15       26      45      60      75       75      75       75      72      70      69       69      63      63       60      60       57      57      50       S        48      16     42       39      36       33       30
R1V!N'JE (aW                                   12,366  23,496  37,485  53,850  72,150  75,375  78,600  78,600  75,546  75, 54   70,312  70, 312  66,024  66,08k 62,86   62,680  59,736  559.736  56,592  53.41,8  50,304.  47,160  4k.016 40,872  37,726  34,5f.  31,410
Oo.tablhel1,46o              ,10656 g                                                                     -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -
Psoilhtlee          -           -      -       -  6,150  6,150   6,150           -       -       -        -       -        -       -   3,75   3,075   3,075         -        -                -       -        -       -        -       --                       --
tlpkeep              -           -      -   2,400   2,400   2,470   2,546   2,622   2,701   2,782   2,865   2,951   3,040   3,131   3,225   3,322   3,422   3,525   3,631   3,7T40   3,652   3,966   4,067   4,210   4,336   3,904  3,446   2,968   2,445   1,869
Pertili-e &
(lhe.ieOl,           -          -      -  4,020   1,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,02    4,020   4,020   4,020, 4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020   4,020)  4,020                 30      30      30       30      30
Harveting,
Load-ng,
tranpopt to
factory             -      -  ~~~~~~~~~1,056   2,126   2,630   3,550   4,190   4,242   4,2%    4,348   4,207   4,285   4,158   4,214   4,227   4,291   4,232   4,296   4,066   4,130   4,31.1  I4.143   3,969   3,767T  3,599, 3.403   3,199   2,968   2,766
Guto               -                       ,410   0,350   3,025   3,740   4,4*5   4,425   4,425   4,425   4,236   4,236   3,997   3,997   3,561   3,861   3,320   3,3W    3,1.36   3,136   2,892   2,296   2,468   2,220            a"0  1.950   1.la    1,650   1.500
Saiing coas           -          -            669   1,220   2,029   2,906   3,885   4,055   4,223   4,223   4,051,  4,054   3,885   3,885   3,547   3,547   3,378   3,376   3,210   3,210   3,040   2,821   2,702   2,1534   2,3: 65  2,196   2,027   i,658   1,689
Folior
Analysis          100         1 51    400    400      o2 400      400      400  4M   0(        400      400     400      400     400     400      400     14  400      400     400 4        400     4.00     400     14O      150     150    150      150      150     15
Overhsad, (b)         -          -      -     420      420     420   1, 200   1,200   1,2000   1,200   1,200   3,180   3,184   3,180   3,180   3,160   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   6,600   6,700   6,700   6,800   6,900  LOW   7,200  7i,                7, 30
c.  Contoe~ocioo    1,294    630    69.  i,oSS   1,914   2,114   2,456   2,078   2,107   2.136   2,149   2,302   2,325   2,279   2,594   2,538   2, 924   2,455   2,473   2,426   2,442   2,509   2,493   2,441   2,383   1,900  1,82.   1,7626   1,639   1,534
TOTAL  i,2   (      , , 7,f1 11,630  21,39 0  23,260  24,970  22,309L  23,150  23,&LOf  23,ciil  25,317C  35,540  25,050  28,590  27,870  30,800  27,030  27,220. 26,720  26,890  27,760  27,430  26,910  26,030  20,900 19,990  :9,000  17,960  i6,860
(COST)        (1i,290)(c) (6,920) (7,690)    7 36   2,446  4.4,225  26,880  49,330  52,025  55,120  54,960  50,176  50,00   47,262  43,722  38,154  35,28*  35,850  35,6W   33,036  32,846  26,832  26,018  23,394  20,930  23,096 20,662  18,726  16,624  1430
100104C R06T0 OF 01r0kN - old oil pals areas, nanhia . slrs - 26%
old oil p,a3.  reras, bend ojAsrod    -32%
old rather ar-, schios  olmrar         275
ether ceease                           33%
(a   Os P00 ba-i  of 0S412, per too for palo oil and US$102 per ten of polio kernls, sqailent t. cTp Sorops prices of 024160 and 259136 per toe, r-apeotiely.
(b)  ho -sotosi  of Ito redactino in lta1 esttie ocrhead. Sloth  oold reelt if planting td net take plac.-   kss,d to ha ae- in 1969 rising t. 100% of average estate orhead. by 1990.
ojhi  O-ld- nol pal taoif acntitne cleared   -dOs  31,394 y1:.l.FIi                           d    .  ,   .  ,..th    dd.   .
()Tin inlods .Ik  cost ofplning onisiad  and fis   eroone1c   ny.Plioadc3o9Lc,  otteade   sflos
ci)  Old oil palo ares,had cleard           -  1ss l1,q16
iii)  old ribber area, notions cleard        -US$ 20,157
i)Octc- area  (soqatee,  osa,  etc.   - 02   89,65






NORTH SUM&TRA ESTATES PROJET
ECONOMIC RETURN CGLCULATIONS - TBVKSTMIDTS IN OIL PALM
B. Establirhsent of 4,500 Ha 3BU1IT EZIKA ISTATE
(in 531000)
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976    1977   1978    1979    1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
PRODUCTION
(in tons)
PolIo oci                        -      -    306  1,286  3,443  6,727  10,981 15,405  19,752  23,166  25,420  27,094  27,919  28,405  27,711  26,448  24,884  23,527  22,469  21,595  20,675  19,801  i8,881  17,8I6  16,905  14,738
Kernels 1-                                     -    40    187   601       993  1,423   1,861   2,223   2,480   2,556   2,550   2,492   2,4.O   2,300   2,164   2,046   1,951   1,878   1,798   1,722   1,642  1,552   1,470   1,282
REVENUE (a)                      -      -     40   170    663    929   1,518  2,132   2,738   3,215   3,532   3,755   3,875   3,918   3,821   3,646   3,431   3,244   3,098   2,977   2,850   2,730   2,603   2,460   2,332   2,043
EXPENDITURES
a.  Capital
Planting Establish-ent     130    405    400    428    288    103      40       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -                -       -       -       -        -
Processing Fa-ilities        -    25      74   156    237    271       267    242     167      86      47       -        -       -       -       5      63       77      74      34
Housing                      -    31      8o     69      -       -              -       -       -       -       -                                _       _        _ -             _       -        _       _       _        -       _
Agricultural Machimry
and Vehiclss               -      7     25    17      18       9       -      -       -       -       -      15                                                                                15        -       -       -        -
b. Current
Upkeep                       -      -      -    10      46     70       96   U15      118     122     125    129      133      137     161     145     150     156      159     168     173     179      184     189     195      201
Fertilieer and
Chemicals                  -      -      -    17      77   117      157    181      181    i8i      18i    i81      i8i      S1      1881    181     i81     181      181     181     181    i1i       181     181     181      164
Harvesting, loading,
transport to factory       -      -      4    17      35    69       109    139     1716    199     213     222      224     222     218     210     218      209     202     197     192      202     197     189     184      176
Variable processing
nost                       -      -      3    11      29     56       87    119     147    167      177     183     185      181     175     167     159      i5O     143     138     135      129     123     119      113      99
Selling nests                -      -      2      9     21    40        64     88     111     130     142     150      153     154     150     143      132     127     121     116     112      107     101      96       92      85
Inspection Service and
Follar Analysi             -      7      8    10    13       17      18      18      18      18      18      18 i8            18      18      18      18       18      18      18      18       18      18      18       18      17
Overheads                    6     29     59   113    113    135       142    145    146      150     150    lSO       155    i55    155    iS5        159      164     164     168     166      171     175     173     178      178
c.  C.n,geii.ncs
ipprox. 4l%                        66     65     83      83     93    100    103      108     107     107     102      101     102     102     102     110      110     108     1W0       93      98     101      95       99      90
TOTAL:      136   55U    72U    940    960    980   1,090  1,150   1,130   1,161   1,160   1,150   i,150   1,150   1,140   1,130   1,190   1,190   1,170   1,120   1,070   l,lWo   1,080   1,060   1,060   1,010
NET BENEFITS (COSTS)          (136)  (550)  (680) (770)  (4Y7)  (S1)       438    982   1,568   2,055   2,372   2,605   2,725   2,768   2,681   2,516   2,241   2,054   1,928   1,857   1,780   1,630   1,523   1,400   1,272   1,033
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN,  29%
(a)  On FOB bas-s of tUS$129 per tin  -or polo oil ao-l 1$102 per  on lor paln kernels,   oralent to CIF Euooe prime of U5$160 and US$136 per tn, renspectively.






NONTH SlUTRAA ESTATES PR3JC7
ECONJI(MC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS - INVETlNTS IN OIL PALhS
C. Fertilizer Investment Program for k  ting Plantirg  on PNP VII
1969      1970      1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
INCREMENTAL PRODCTION                   -         -        55     121     164      175     187     191      182     170     159     144      127     103      97       86      74      65       55      46      38       32      24       18      12
(in tons of FFB) (a)
RENEFITS (b)                                            1,485   3,267   4,428   4,725   5,049   5,157   4,914   4,590   4,293   3,888   3,429   2,781   2,619   2,322   1,994   1,755   1,485   1,242   1,026           864     648      486     324
COSTS (c)
Fertili-er                       1,048      2,305     1,868   1,081   1,165   1,099   1,011      970      942     872     795     709      632     565     504      448     378     325      308     264      221     193     134       89        -
Foliar.,aalys-o                     71         71        71      71       71      67      61      59       57      54      48      43       38      35      30       28      23       20      18      16       13      11       8        5
Capotal Outlay for Additional        -          -       677     812     529      135     148      49        -       -       -       -      334     406     265       68      74      25        -       -        -       -       -        -
Processing Facilities
Contingencies (Approx 10%)         111        234       264     196     175      129     120     102      101      94      87      78       96     104      81       56      45      40       34      30       23      20      114       9
TOTAL:    1,230     2,610     2,880   2,160   1,940   1,430   1,340   1,280   1,100   1,020        930     830   1,100   1,110      880     600      520     410     360      310     257     224      156     103        -
YK BENEFITS (Costs)                (1,230)   (2,610)   (1,395)  1,107   2,488   3,295   3,709   3,877   3,814   3,570   3,363   3,058   2,329   1,671   1,739   1,722   1,474   1,345   1,125          932      769     640     492      383     324
ECON(2IC RATE oF RETuRN: 36%
(a ) Estteated incremsntal production of FFB over the crop which would come from these areas without fertilizer application.                                                                                                                  --
(b) On the bcass at US$27 p-e ton of FFB at the pomnt of harvesting, equavalect to CIF Europe prices of U2$160 per ton for pals oil and US136 per ton for palm krnels.
(c)  AddiLional costs aver those normallyrequired to bhlog crop to poiet of harvesting, plus capitol costs of provi-drg extersion to processing facilities.






NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS- INVESTMENTS IN OIL PALMS
D. SENSITIVITY OF RATE OF RETURN TO VARIATIONS IN C.l.F. PALM OIL PRICES
210
REPLANTING OLD OIL PALMS, MACHINE CLEARED*
z
0
185                                                                                         _  _  _ _
w 
160-                                 DEVELOPMENT OF NEW ESTATE
w
0 160-
w                                                                                         FERTILIZER INVESTMENT PROGRAM
O 0                                                     .* .                   REPLANTING OTHER CROPS AND VACANT LAND**
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0 135
U-
0-
0-
O           14          18          22           26          30           34          38           42          46
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN-PERCENT PER ANNUM
* Replanting old rubber, machine cleared, follows approximately the some curve.                                      co z
se  Replanting old oil palms, hand cleared, follows approximately the same curve.                           IBRD-4394   r  a






UE N BORNEO         rIE ORE OF P*fI-IPPINES
PROJECT            MLAYSIA                                  PACIFAN
.ARA                                                         OCA
I N D O N E S I A                                                                                      NOR EO
NORTH SUMATRA ESTATES PROJECT
PORTION OF THE PROVINCE OF NORTH SUMATRA                                                                                                 ABd
AUSTRALIA
NOTE:THE PROVINCE OF ATJEH IS AT THE ITORTIHURRI  TIP OF
SUMATRA, IMMEDWA'ELY TO THE 1ORTH-WEST OF TIIE
PROVINCE OF NORTH SUMATRA.
PNP VII ESTATES               PNP V ESTATES
{   \  o                                          A GUNUOU .   SAJU              I SUNGEI PUTIH
B DOLOK SINUMBAH              2 TANAH RADJA
C<  C MAJANE 63 SUNGEI BAMBAN. PRIOK
D BUKIT EXLIMA                4 RAMBUTAN
E BAH DJAMBI                  5 SUNGET  SIMUDJUR
3-430'N r   MEDA  X                                                          \                                   F PAGAR DJAVIA                6 SUNSGEI MANEK 3I40 N
f  1;   C;+,   \>  G MARIHAT  7 DUSUN ULU
II. >%<   \   11 TONDUHAN     8 SUNGEI OAEAP
1 : vf \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~I LARZAS                                                   9 HESSA
SUNGCI K, AG J5                                                   \                 J DOLOK ILIR                  10 SUNGEI SILAU
11 AMBULUTO/SUNUEl KOPAS
12 PULAU MANDI/SIL-AU TUA
T EB I NG T I N GG  
tI-
. ESATES BELONGING To PNP  V          OTNTAR
.<_(HEADQUARTERS - SUJNGEI KARAN6G) >.5\'
2                  25' ESTATES BELONGIN N  To  PNP VlI
. (HEADQUARTERS    BAH DJAMBI )                            /<                           t~          
ROIADS                                              h                           e     
4 I  I   # t S TATE EA ILWAY S Y STEM(l...  --t- ; 
.........  PNP V I I ES TATE RA IL S Y STE M /$.*        
b _ PEtA ANS *I gU 0PEMATANG SIANTA
K ILOMFTFRS
MAY 19T9                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 2574R



