CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 155 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(North Sumatra Agricultural Estates Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 155 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(North Sumatra Agricultural Estates Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1969


﻿Drurtopmut Tubrit Agrugmu
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1969, between the REPJB-
LIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association) :
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Ap-
plicable to Development Credit Agreements being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several fwrms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth, and in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "PNP Y" and "PNP VII" mean, respectively, the
state-owned estate enterprises (Perusahaan Negara
Perkebunan) in North Sumatra, established and so
designated by Government Regulation No. 14, 1968
as amended and supplemented by Government Regu-
lation No. 17, 1969, and any successor thereto.
(b) "Joint Board of Directors" means the organization
of Managing Directors of PNP's I to IX, with offices
in Medan, established under Regulation No. 6/Kpts/
D/68 of the Director General of State Plantations
dated June 17, 1968, and any successor thereto.


﻿4
(c) "Joint Marketing Office" means the organization of
that name established under said Regulation No.
6/Kpts,'D/68, and any successor thereto.
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agree-
ments referred to in Section 3.01(b) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivaient to sixteen million dollars
($16,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the rame of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Sched-
ule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, as shall be
required to meet payments to be made) after the date of
this Agreement for the reasonable cost of goods and serv-
ices required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and to be financed under this Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that (i) unless the


﻿5
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments in the currency of the Bor-
rower or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territory of the Borrower and (ii), no withdrawals
shall be made for part A of the Project until initial appoint-
ments to the positions referred to in Section 6.01(b) have
been made in respect of PNP V, nor for part B of the
Project until such appointments have been made in respect
of PNP VII.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTIOx 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual instalments payable on each June 15 and Decem-
ber 15 commencing December 15, 1979 and ending June 15,
2019, each instalment to and including the instalment pay-
able on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per cent (-/I of
1%) of such principal amount, and each instalment there-
after to be one and one half per cent (1  %) of such
principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United States of
America is specified for the purposes of Section 4.02(a)
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall apply the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, or cause such proceeds to be applied, in


﻿6
accordance with the provisio-is of this Development Credit
Agreement exclusively to expenditures on the Project.
(b) For the purposes of parts A and B of the Project,
to be carried out by PNP V and PNP VII, respectively,
Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory in form and sub-
stance to the Association shall be entered into between the
Borrower and each of such PNP's, providing, inter alia,
that an amount of the proceeds of the Credit equivalent
to $3,140,000 shall be relent to PNP V and an amount
thereof equivalent to $10,380,000, to PNP VII, and provid-
ing for the performance by each PNP of the obligations
relating to it set forth in this Agreement, for the doing by
each PNP of all such acts as shall be required on its part
to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations under
this Development Credit Agreement, and for the lending by
the Borrower to each such PNP of the Borrower's contribu-
tion in its own currency to the financing of the Project.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing £or relending
of proceeds of the Credit shall provide for eventual adjust-
ments in the amounts of such proceeds relent thereunder,
to reflect reallocations pursuant to Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, until completion of the Project,
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying out the
Project.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Association in February 1968, and in ac-
cordance with such other procedures supplementary thereto


﻿7
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods
shall be subject to tLe prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
and shall cause the Project to be carried out with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with sound adminis-
trative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. Pursuant to Section 4.01, the Borrower
shall cause the road linking Tebing Tinggi to the Pematang
Siantar-Kisaran road and the road from Kisaran to the
Sungei Silau estate of PNP V, to be improved and main-
tained to permit use by ordinary estate vehicles.
SECTION 4.03. In respect of the carrying out of parts A
and B of the Project and of the management and opera-
tions of PNP V and PNP VII the Borrower shall, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a) ensure that all future commercial plantings of oil
palms shall be Tenera;
(b) (i) establish before the end of 1969 scientifically
determinable standards of quality for concentrated latex
and crumb rubbers which follow internationally accepted
forms; (ii) ensure that appropriate testing facilities are
made available in North Sumatra for verifying that such
standards are being met and (iii) cause PNP V to meet
such standards in its production of such products;
(c) ensure that PNP V maintains arrangements satis-
factory to the Association for the processing of the oil-


﻿8
palm products expected to result from plantings by PNP V
under part A of the Project;
(d) ensure: (i) that no land be added to or taken from
the lands currently under the management Pnd control of
PNP V and PNP VII, respectively, and (ii) that addi-
tional management burdens, not inherent to the manage-
ment of their estates, not be imposed upon either of those
enterprises without, in the case of either (i) or (ii), the
prior agreement of the Association during the period of
carrying out of parts A and B of the Project and prior
consultation with the Association thereafter;
(e) ensure that appointments of persons to the positions
referred to in Section 6.01(b) be made only following con-
sultation with the Association and that PNP V and PNP
VII be operated at all times according to sound administra-
tive, financial and agricultural practices and policies under
qualified and experienced management;
(f) cause PNP V and PNP VII each to engage a com-
pany qualified in the management and operation of planta-
tions, acceptable to the Association and engaged under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to
strengthen the management and operations of such PNP's,
including the provision of an estate and factory inspection
service for at least five years, a financial management ad-
viser for at least two years and such other technical ad-
visers and supporting services as may be necessary;
(g) cause the accounts of PNP V and PNP VII to be
audited at least once each year, and their financial state-
ments (balance sheet and statement of income and ex-
penses) to be certified, by independent auditors satisfac-
tory to the Association, and copies of such statements as
so certified, together with the report of the auditors there-
on, to be furnished to the Association within three months
following the close of each fiscal year;


﻿9
(h) cause the Joint Board of Directors to establish by
the end of 1969, and to maintain thereafter, a committee for
each principal crop produced by the PNP's represented
on such Board, each such committee to comprise one repre-
sentative of each such PNP producing substantial quanti-
ties of a given crop, to advise the Joint Marketing Office
on the marketing of such crops; and
(i) ensure that all rubber produced by PNP V     and
PNP VII be marketed only by the Joint Marketing Office
through the standard procedures of such office.
SECTION 4.04. The plant-breeding training programs and
the personnel to be trained thereunder pursuant to part
D of the Project shall be subject to the prior approval of
the Association.
SECTION 4.05. In carrying out parts C and D of the
Project the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable
to the Association and to an extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall cause all goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured
with responsible insurers against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of such goods to the place of use or installation,
and any indemnity thereunder shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the importer to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to show the use of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof); shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect any records and
documents relevant to the Project, including records and


﻿10
documents which the consultants employed by the Borrower
shall be required to keep for the purposes of the Project;
and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Project.
SECTION 4.08. (a) The Borrower and the Asso-iuion
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the administration, op-
erations and financial condition of PNP V and PNP VII,
the Joint Marketing Office, the Joint Board of Directors and
any other agency charged with carrying out any part of the
Project, and to the general status of the Credit. On the
part of the Borrower, such information shall include in-
formation with respect to financial and economic conditions
in the territories of the Borrower and the international
balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their represenatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof and to the matters re-
ferred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the mai-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford ll reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.


﻿11
SECTION 4.09. The principal of, and service chargos on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.10. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registra-
tion thereof.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower shall ensure that PNP V
and PNP VII shall be subject only to those taxes and rates
thereof which are imposed generally upon limited con-
panies or corporations in like circumstances.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately, together
with the service charges thereon, and upon such declara-
tion such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything in this Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:


﻿12
(a) The Borrower or any other authority shall have
taken any action for the dissolution of, or suspension of
any operations of, PNP V or PNP VII.
(b) During the life of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
or for a period of 16 years after the date hereof, which-
ever is longer, any change shall have been made in the ar-
rangement described in Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement,
or any provision of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
have been amended or waived, without the prior approval
of the Association.
(c) Either PNP V or PNP VII shall have failed to
carry out any obligation under its respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and such default shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and the PNP
in question.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, in form and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Association, have been entered
into by the parties thereto;
(b) there has been validly established an arrangement,
satisfactory to the Association, covering the organization,
composition, and respective functions and authorities of
officials having responsibility and authority for the policies
of PNP V and PNP VII and for the management of their
affairs, including physical, financial and other operations,


﻿13
by Boards of Directors and Executive Managements com-
prising general managers and specialized managers, includ-
ing production and commercial managers.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions be furnished to the Association:
(a) that PNP V and PNP VII are legal entities duly or-
ganized and operating under the laws of the Borrower,
with all rights and powers necessary to enable them to
carry out their respective parts of the Project and to enter
into, and carry out the terms and conditions of, the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the respective parties thereto and constitute
valid and binding obligations of such parties in accordance
with their terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this
Development Credit Agreement; and
(c) that the arrangement referred to in Section 6.01(b)
has been duly and validly adopted and is in full force and
effect.
SECTION 6.03. The date of September 26, 1969 is speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the parts of the Project concerned under Sections 4.02,
4.03, 4.04 and 4.11 of this Agreement shall terminate on
the respective dates on which the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment covering such part of the Project shall terminate, or
on a date 16 years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the later.


﻿14
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1974
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as the representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names and to be delivered in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, United States of America, as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ SOEDJATMOKO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ ROBERT S. AMCNAMArA
President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
A. For part A of the Project (PNP V)
1. Fertilizer                               610,000
2. Processing and storage facilities        500,000
3. Vehicles and agricultural machinery    1,430,000
4. Technical services                       600,000
B. For part B of the Project (PNP VII)
1. Fertilizer                             4,580,000
2. Processing facilities and workshop
equipment                               3,490,000
3. Vehicles, agricultural machinery,
locomotives and rolling stock           1,580,000
4. Materials for road/rail crop-
transfer structures                      100,000
5. Technical services                       630,000
C. Technical assistance for
1. Plant-breeding programs                  100,000
2. Joint Marketing Office                   360,000
3. Government estates survey                340,000
4. Smallholder feasibility study            200,000
D. Unallocated                                1,480,000
16,000,000


﻿17
Reallocations Upon Changes in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of any item included under
any of the Categories A, B or C shall decrease, the amount
of the Credit then allocated to, but no longer required for,
such item will be reallocated by the Association to Cate-
gory D.
2. If the estimate of the cost of any such item shall in-
crease, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such in-
crease to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will
be allocated by the Association, at the request of the Bor-
rower, to such item from Category D, subject, however, to
the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of the cost of the other items.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes a program of rehabilitation and
development of Government-owned estates as well as a
feasibility study for smallholder rubber rehabilitation in
Atjeh and North Sumatra, over the period 1969-1973. It
includes:
Part A-The rehabilitation and development of PNP V,
involving:
1) re-planting with rubber about 5,830 ha of uneco-
nomic rubber;
2) re-planting with oil palms about 1,080 ha of uneco-
nomic rubber;
3) planting with rubber about 720 ha of presently
uncultivated land;
4) bringing into commercial production the above
areas and some 7,070 ha of immature rubber
planted prior to 1969;
5) rehabilitating, through a fertilizer application pro-
gram in 1970 and 1971, about 960 ha of mature
oil palms and about 9,660 ha of mature rubber;
6) rehabilitating, replacing and expanding rubber
processing and storage facilities and transporta-
tion equipment, to handle the crop from the above
areas;
7) rehabilitating, replacing and expanding estate
buildings, personnel transport and machinery for
land-clearing and estate road maintenance, as re-
quired for the efficient conduct of estate opera-
tions;
8) employing a company qualified in the manage-
ment and operation of plantations to provide


﻿19
technical assistance to PNP V management, in-
cluding an estate and factory advisory and inspee-
tion service and a financial management adviser;
and
9) purchasing foliar analysis services.
Part B-The rehabilitation and development of PNP VII,
involving:
1) re-planting with oil palms about 4,900 ha of un-
economic crops;
2) planting with oil palms about 4,800 ha of presently
uncultivated land;
3) felling, clearing and planting with oil palms about
2,890 ha of virgin jungle;
4) bringing into commercial production the above
areas and some 5,750 ha of oil palms planted prior
to 1969;
5) rehabilitating, through a fertilizer application pro-
gram in 1969 through 1971, about 23,030 ha of
mature oil palms;
6) rehabilitating, replacing and expanding oil palm
fruit processing and storage facilities and trans-
portation equipment, to handle the crop from the
above areas;
7) rehabilitating, replacing and expanding estate
buildings, personnel transport and machinery for
a central workshop, land-clearing and estate road
maintenance, as required for the efficient conduct
of estate operations;
8) employing a company qualified in the management
and operation of plantations to provide technical
assistance to PNP VII management, including an


﻿20
estate and factory advisory and inspection service
and a financial management adviser; and
9) purchasing foliar analysis services.
Part C-The carrying out by the Borrower, utilizing the
services of firms of consultants, of :
1) a market survey for oil palm and rubber products
produced by Government-owned estates in Atjeh
and North Sumatra and technical assistance in
marketing estate products;
2) a development survey of Government-owned es-
tates in Atjeh and North Sumatra and of such
rubber-producing estates elsewhere; and
3) a feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the
small-holder rubber sector in Atjeh and North
Sumatra.
Part D-Implementation by the Borrower of plant-breed-
ing programs to service all Government-owned
rubber and oil palm estates and smallholders in
Atjeh and North Sumatra, involving:
1) employment of consultants to make periodic ad-
visory visits;
2) training outside Indonesia of personnel employed
on the programs; and
3) the procurement of requisite equipment for such
programs.


