Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c-a  /5S7- so
Report No. 7270-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS ]ESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
September 15, 1988
Agriculture Operations
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their o.licial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Exchange Rate 1/: US$   1.00 - 100 Somalia Shillings (SoSh)
SoSh  1.00 = 0.01 US $
Shadow Exchange Rate 2/: US$   1.00 = 203 SoSh
: SoSh 1.00 = 0.004 US
1/ In effect March 1988, during appraisal.
2/ Estimated for March 1988.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CALENDAR
Fiscal Year:   January 1 - December 31
Cropping Year: April - June (Gu Season)
October - December (Dayr Season)



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF      - African Development Fund
CRDP     -  Central Rangelands Development Project
CRDP I   -  Central Rangelands Development Project, Phase I
CRDP II  -  Central Rangelands Research and Development Project,
Phase II
FAO      -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FUA      -  Units of Account of the African Development Fund
GTZ      -  Deutsche Gesellshaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -  International Development Association
IFAD     -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILCA     -  International Livestock Center for Africa
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
MLFR     - Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
NRA      -  National Range Agency
PPF      -  Project Preparation Facility (of IDA)
RLA      -  Range and Livestock Association
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
WDA      - Water Development Authority
WFP      - Wnrld Food Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SOM(ALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS UESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
|                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
I.        PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.  Project Background .............................. 1
B.  Agriculture and Livestock in the Economy ........  1
C.  Government Institutions and Support Services .... 3
D.  Donor Support for Livestock Development .........  4
II.       THE PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES
A.  Agroecological Features Pnd P2pulations .........  4
B. Land Tenure and Land Use              ...  10
C.  Infrastructure       ................................. 15
D.  Marketing .      . ..................................... 15
E.  Institutions      ................................... 16
F.  Results and Lessons from Phase I         ...         18
III.      THE PROJECT
A.  Project Rationale. ..................  20
B.  Objectives and Description            . . .    21
C. Detailed Features                 ...   22
Systems Investigation and Monitoring ... 22
Extension                .... 22
Agropastoral Adaptive Trials and Forestry. 23
Animal Health and Livestock Production .... 23
Water and Infrastructure Development ... 24
Conservation               ...  24
Training ..................................   25
Project Management . ....................... 25
D.  Project Costs .      . ................................. 26
E. Startup Activities                 ... 26
F.  Financing               .........       . . .   27
G. Procurement .       . ................................... 28
H.  Disbursements .      . ................................. 30
I. Accounts and Audit                 ...   31
J. Women and the Project                ...  31
K. Environmental Impact                ...   32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
March 1988, which included Messrs. J. Coates and H. Walshe (Bank)
and Messrs. D. Peden and J.G. Stephenson (Consultants).



- ii -
Page No.
IV.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management          .     .      32
B.  Component Implementation ....................... 34
C.  Technical Assistance .......................... 40
D.  Planning, Monitoring and Reporting       . .    41
V.        PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Incremental Production   ........................  42
B. Markets and Prices .     . ........................... 43
C.  Beneficiary Income Levels . . .................... 44
D. Cost Recovery ............................. 45
VI.       BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Economic Analysis .............................. 46
B. Non-quantifiable Benefits            .      .      47
C.  Risks and Sensitivity Analysis ................. 48
VII.      AGREEMENTS REACHED
A. General Conditions ............................. 49
B.  Dated Covenants ...............................   50
C. Conditions of Effectiveness .................... 50
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 2:  Inflation and Exchange Rate Assumptions
Annex 3:  Project Cost Tables
Annex 4: Cost - Benefit Analysis
Annex 5:  Implementation Schedule
Annex 6: Ministerial Directive Separating NRA and CRDP
Annex 7:  Organizational Structure
Annex 8:  List of Supporting Documents in Project File
IBRD Maps No. 20786, 20787, 20788



SOMALII
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Credit and Prolect Summary
borrower:    The Peoples Democratic Republic of Somalia
Amount:      SDR  14.7  (US$ 19.0 million equivalent)
Termss       Standard IDA terms with 40 year maturity
Cofinancings ADF FUA 8.6 million (US$ 11.0 million equivalent)
Objectivest This second phase project is designed to maintain and improve
the long-term productivity of the Central Rangelands, and raise
the living standards of pastoralists. This would be pursued by
minimizing degradation of vegetation, improving understanding
of rangelands production systems, and improving the efficiency
of livestock production.
Componentss  The six year project is estimated to cost US$ 33.3 million and
includes: (i) Systems Investigation and Monitoring to study
production systems, formulate management plans and monitor
agroecological indicators; (ii) Zxtension to disseminate
improved technology, organize RLAs to manage project
infrastructure, and support village development initiatives;
(iii) Agropastoral Adaptive Trials and Forestry to test
improved agricultural practices, produce improved seed, and
expand forestry activities in the region; (iv) Animal Health
and Livestock Production to expand the program of village level
examination and treatment; (v) Water and Infrastructure
Development to construct and maintain boreholes, dugouts, and
wells and improve roads and airstrips; (vi) Conservation to
protect key flora and fauna in the project area and the
Northern Rangelands; (vii) Training to provide continued
support to the University and short-term and medium-term
training opportunities overseas; and (vAii) Project Management
to manage project and NRA activities in the region.
Benefits:    The main benefits will come from the reduced degradation of the
rangelands, due to: (i) improved range management and the
introduction of different types of reserves; (ii) research into
rangeland production (vegetation, climate, soils, herd
dynamics) to design further measures to maintain or increase
productivity, reduce erosion of natural resources, and improve
living standards; (iii) organization of pastoralists, resulting
in improved management and maintenance of common range and
water resources; (iv) improved NRA/CRDP control and management
of potentially exploitative practices such as charcoal
production, and private enclosure of rangeland; and (v) CRDP
actions to stabilize dunes, plant trees, grow forage, and
disseminate improved, less erosive cultivation practices. In
addition, there will be productive benefits due to the



- iv -
impact of an expanded animal health program. additional
temporary water points, and dissemination of more productive
cultivation techniques.
Risks:       A key risk is that pastoralists may be slow to adopt different
approaches to range utilization, due to the long term,
generalized nature of the benefits. Another risk is that
implementation may be delayed due to shortages of fuel and
supplies, and that inadequate local salaries may reduce local
staff effectiveness. The project is designed to minimize these
risks.
Local     Foreign   Total
---------(US$ million)----
Estimated Component Costs
Systems Investigation and Mionitoring    0.4        3.3      3.7
Extension                                1.5        2.5      4.0
Agropastoral Adaptive Trials/Forestry    0.4        1.7      2.1
Animal Health/Livestock                  0.2        2.1      2.3
Water and Infrastructure                 0.6        3.0      3.6
Conservation                             0.9        1.7      2.6
Training                                 0.4        2.1      2.c
Project Management                       2.0        5.3      7.3
Baseline Cost                  6.4       21.7     28.1
Physical Contingencies                   0.4        1.3      1.7
Price Contingencies                      0.9        2.6      3.5
Total Project Cost             7.7       25.6     33.3
_  l= ..=====    ===w=
Financing Plan
IDA                                      1.7       17.3     19.0
ADF                                      2.7        8.3     11.0
Government of Somalia                    3.3                 3.3
Total Financing                7.7       25.6     33.3
Estimated Disbursements From IDA Credit (US$ million):
IDA Fiscal Year                     89   90  91    92    93   94    95
Annual                             0.7  4.6  3.2   2.9   3.5   2.6   1.5
Cumulative                         0.7  5.3  8.5  11.4  14.9  17.5  19.0
-------------------------------------------------------------------__----
Economic Rate of Return:      10o
IBRD Maps No. 20786. 20787, 20788



SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
I. PROXACT BACKGROUND AND TEE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.1       The Government of Somalia (GOS) has requested that the
International Development Association (IDA) and the African Development Fund
(ADF) finance Phase II of the Central Rangelands Development Project (CRDP
II). The project will involve a continuation of research to improve the
efficiency and sustainability of livestock and crop production in the
region, and will establish infrastructure and disseminate techniques that
contribute to production maintenance objectives.
1.2       The Government began project preparation in October 1985 with the
assistance of consultants, and finalized preparation in December 1986 (para
3.2).  IDA preappraised the project in December 1987 and appraised in March
1988.
B. Agriculture and Livestock in the Economy
The Economy
1.3       Somalia is a poor country, with a per capita income of about US $
170 (in 1987 prices), a serious foreign debt-problem, and a harsh physical
environment that poses major challenges to economic growth. Its 5.7 million
people (and an sdditional 800,000 refugees) occupy some 64 million hectares
of land, and the population is growing at about 3.0 percent a year. The
country is located on the strategically important Horn of Africa, and shares
its borders with Djibouti and Ethiopia to the West, and Kenya to the South.
Somalia has a 3,300 kilometer coastlini to the East and North.
1.4       Since the early 1980's, the Government bRs taken steps to relax
controls on the economy. These steps include a shift from public to private
ownership and management of property, adjustments in the exchange rate,
liberalization of trade and the dismantl-i-'g of agricultural pricing and
marketing controls. These steps have stimulated an increase in production,
exports, and per capita GDP. GDP grew an estimated 5 percent a year between
1981 and 1986.
1.5       Despite these changes, the country continues to hava seriots
macroeconomic problems. Between 1975 and 1985, export ear.aings did not
cover more than half the value of imports. Trade deficits have been
financed by foreign grants, official concessionary loans, and private
transfers.  Domestic savings have been negative.   All of the Public
Investment Program is supported by donor funds. The country also has



serious external debt problems. Before June of 1987, the total debt was
estimated at US$ 1.4 billion. Large debt service arrears have accumulated,
and the current service obligation on this debt is about US$ 160 million a
yeir. This obligation is equivalent to over 90 percent of prajected exports
ar.d private transfers. Budget deficits are about 10 percent of GDP, and are
financed partly by foreign loans and grants. During 1986/87 an adjustment
program was put in place, supported by the IMF and IDA's Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (Cr. 1711-SO). The Government's dec4sion in September
1987 to stop floating the exchange rate affected IMF and IDA support, and
reduced the availability of foreign funis for production inputs. The
Government subsequently imposed price controls at the wholesale and retail
level, further restricting supplies. Recent discussions between the IMF and
the Government suggest an agreement may soon be reac4ed that will allow the
economic adjustment program to resume. A second agricultural adjustment
program may be developed for the medium term. The short-term economic
problems mentioned above do not affect the objectives of this project, which
address the production constraints and long-term sustainability of the
traditional livestock sector.
Agriculture and Livestock
1.6       The agricultural sector provides around 58 percent of GDP in
Somalia. Livestock, the largest subsector within agriculture, contributes
around 35 percent of GDP and 80 percent of exports. 1/    Over the 15 years
between 1970 and 1984, agricultural output grew by only 0.4 percent a year,
and per capita food production declined by nearly 3 percent a year. During
this period, the size of the national livLstock herd increased at about 1.4
percent a year, consistent with the possibilities of rangeland production
systems. Growth in the agricultural sector has improved markedly in recent
years. Between '978 and 1984 agricultural growth was 4.3 percent a year,
with livestock averaging 4.4 percent a year.   Exports of live animals
earned about USS 100 million a year between 1980 and 1982. These earnings
dropped to US$ 33 million in 1983 because of problems in the Saudi Arabian
market, but since have recovered. Exports in 1986 were valued at US$ 62
million. Each year 1 to 1.5 million animals are exported; about 47 percent
of these are sheep, another 47 percent are goats, and the remaining 6
percent are cattle and camels. Market prospects for small ruminants are
good (para 2.33 - 2.35).
1.7       The climate is semiarid. The highest rainfall -- between 400 and
600 mm -- occurs in a small area in the northwent around Hargeisa and in a
much larger area in the south between the Shebelli and Juba Rivers. The
rainfall pattern is bimodal, consisting of the Gu (April-June) and the Dayr
(October-December) seasons. The moisture produced is barely sufficient to
sustain crop production, and droughts are common. Moderate draughts occur
every 3 to 4 years, and major ones every 8 to 10 years. In this harsh
environme-t, low input low output crop production takes place over about 1
million hectares of land. A large part of the country's exports of cereals
1/ World Bank, Somalia Agricultural Sector Surve-, Report No. 6131-SO
of December 30, 1987.



and bananas export come from the 50,000 to 100,000 hectares of irrigated
land along the two main rivers.
1.8       The remaining 51 million hectares of the country is rangelands
given over to pastoralist, nomadic livestock grazing. This is the
traditional occupation of half of the Somali population, and the dominant
economic activity in the sector and the economy.   The national herd is
estimated to include some 38 million animals: 16 million goats, 12 million
sheep, 6 million camels and 4 million cattle. Pastoral livestock production
is very dependant on climate and ecology. Rangelands are subject to long,
cyclical periods of drought and regeneration. Herds are oriented towards
milk production and making a rapid recovery after drought.   Females
dominate the herds, since males are sold off at maturity and only a minimum               f
number are kept for breeding purposes. Pastoralist families live off the
production of milk; per capita consumption of milk is estimated at more than
200 liters per year. The normal diet of milk is supplemented by grain and,
occasionally, meat. As the human population grows, each new family require3
a basic stock of animals in order to survive. During the growth cycle,
overstocking and overgrazing occur, and range condition may suffer. After a
drought, vegetation recovers more rapidly than the livestock population.
The limits of the capacity of a range area to sustain animals is determined
by the availability of fodder within walking distance of a water source at
the en4 of the dry season. The rangelands of Somalia are generally
considered to have reached the upper limits of their sustainable, long-term
carrying capacity.
1.9       The short term development strategy for livestock set forth in
IDA's recent Agriculture Sector Survey (para 1.6) has two primary
objectives. One is to expand and diversify livestock marketing into new
areas and new products. The other is to improve ran&e management and animal
health in order to increase offtake and exports. Long term objectives of
the strategy include: (i) establishing supplemental holding facilities to
improve export quality and local meat and milk production; (ii) developing
pastoral associations to limit degradation by managing grazing, water points
and other communal resources; and (iii) introducing practices to limit the
adverse effect of shifting cultivation and make it more complementary with
livestock production.   This project addresses the production and rangeland
management aspects of the strategy.
C. Government Institutions and Support Services
1.10      The Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR) and its
National Range Agency (NRA) regulate all aspects of range use, animal
health, and wildlife and conservation activities in the country (para 4.1 -
4.2). Since 198C IDA and other donors have provided assistance to NRA
through the Central Rangelands Development Project (CRDP I). Within HLFR,
the Veterinary Services Department regulates the importation and
distribution of drugs, and maintains a staff of veterinarians, assistants,
and vaccinators in each of the country's 16 regions. The importation and
distribution of non-injectable veterinary drugs by merchants (formerly a



- 4 -
Government-controlled monopoly) was sanctioned under the Agricultural Inputs
Program (Credit 1612-SO) and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
(Credit 1711-SO), both financed by IDA. The licensing of private
veterinarians and decontrol of injectable veterinary drugs will be addressed
under a future agricultural sector adjustment project.
1.11      Government assistance for crop production is providec through the
Ministry of Agriculture and related projects and agencies. Of key importance
are the Central Agricultural Research Station and the Bonka Research Station
which is supported by IDA (Credit 972-SO). The Central Agricultural
Research Station conducts research on irrigated agriculture at Afgoi, and
the Bonka Research experiments with rainfed crops in Baidoa. A national
extension service is financed by IDA (Credit 1794-SO) and is active in the
valley of the Shebelli, located in the southern portion of the project area.
D. Donor Support for Livestock Development
1.12      The livestock sector has not received donor assistance
commensurate with its importance to the Somali economy. This lack of
support stems from the difficulty of improving on the traditional pastoral
production system.   The present system already makes efficient use of the
very scarce production possibilities in a harsh and arid environment and
marketing is relative..y efficient. Nonetheless, livestock has received some
support recently. The Central Rangelands Project, Phase I (CRDP I) with a
total project cost of US $ 46.2 million received support from IDA (Credit
906-SO for US$ 8 million), IFAD (SDR 7 million), USAID (US$ 15 million), WFP
and GTZ. A Livestock Pealth Services Project for US $ 11.6 million received
funds from IDA (Credit 1647-SO for US$ 4.3 million) and IFAD (US$ 6.3
million). A Livestock Marketing and Health Project for US$ 17 million was
approved by USAlD in 1984, and addresses some of the main constraints to
increased livestock exports. Over fifty percent of the funds are allocated
to the construction of three quarantine stat.Lons and holding grounds in
Kisimeyo, Mogadishu and Berbera. Funds are also prov'ded for studies on the
possibilities of increasing livestock exports, and to alleviate bottlenecks
n the provision of transport, credit and fodder production. The main
inclusions of the study on livestock export markets are noted in paras 2.33
- 2.35.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Agroecological Features and Populations
2.1       Project interventions and results are closely linked to climate,
soils and vegetation, and many of the project activities are focri'.ed on
land and natural resource management. In order for Government interventions
in this area to be beneficial, a clear understanding is necessary of the way
in which pa3toralists and their herds use this environment. The
agroecological, human, and livestock resources of the Central Rangelands are



described below, and the implications for the design of this project are
indicated. Much of the information presented has been garnered through
aerial reconnaissance and field surveys funded by CRDP I. The second phase
project will take full advantage of the information obtained during the
first phase.
Location
2.2       The project area covers the three regions of Central Somilias
Hiran, Galgudud, and Mudup. These regions encompass 149,000 square
kilometers and extGnd :onme 800 km northeast of the Shebelli River Basin.
The Ethiopian border and the rangeland areas of the Ogaden plateau are
located to the West and the coast is located to the East. One fifth of the
country and some of its best rangeland areas are included in the project
area.
Natural Resources
2.3       The Central Rangelands is a slightly inclined plain rising slowly
but steadily from sea level northwest to 400 meters above sea level, along
the Ethiopian border. The two major features of the plain are the Shebelli
River Valley and a 300-500 meter high ridge and sand dune. The Shebelli
River Valley runs north-south along the southern boundary of the region and
is bordered by a low but abrupt limestone escarpment. The ridge and sand
dune run parallel to the coast about 30 km inland, extending about 350 km
from the southern border of the region. The ridge has blocked the otherwise
dominant southeastward drainage of surface water and has forced the Shebelli
liver to run parallel to the coast in the south.
2.4       The climate of the area is semiarid.  Rainfall occurs during two
seasons (para 1.7) and varies between 150 mm a year in the north and
nort!o--   and 300 m  a year in the south and southwest.  Temperatures range
from 20 to -i- 4aQrees Centigrade. The evaporation rute is more than 2
meters a year, far exceeding precipitation.
2.5       Most of the soils are sandy and reddish yellow, with an alkaline
to neutral pH. Soil depth is related to parent material: shallow soils
(less than a meter deep) are found over limestones and gypsum in the central
and northern portions of the area. Soils up to 2 meters deep are found
overlying limestones. Soils generally are deep everywhere else, including
the northwestern slopes of the coastal ridge.   Natural fertility is low,
and cropping cannot be supported for more than two or three years without
additional nutrients. Long fallow periods are required to restore
fertility. The soils are composed mainly of rounded particles of quartz and
limestone sand. Their composition and their location in a zone of strong
monsoon winds make them unstable when binding surface vegetation is removed,
or when the algal/silt crust is broken.   Deeper alluvial silts and clays
occur in the Shebelli valley, along the southern and southwestern edge of
the region. These provide better possibilities for cultivation. The 20 to
30 km-wide coastal strip offers fine white sands overlying coastal
limestones east of the coastal fault. Although fairly stabilized, the sands
have contributed to the formation of active sarn dunes and partially
stabilized sheets of sand along the slopes of the coastal ridge.



-6-
Erosion
2.6       Wind is the principal erosive force in the region.  All of the
Central Rangelands, and particularly the 20 km wide coastal strip, is
subject to strong monsoon winds during much of the year. The strongest
winds blow from the southwest betwen June and Octuber. Between November and
March steady but softer winds blow from the northeast. Topsoils of fine,
unaggregated sands are easily moved by the winds.   The extensive bare areas
and stunted plants of the coastal strip are better described as aspects of a
natural wind desert than as the results of low rainfall or overgrazing by
livestock. Wind speeds are highest during the dry season, reaching 30
km/hour. Wind speeds increase towards the north, as annual rainfall
decreases.   This phenomenon produces a gradient with distinct
characteristics as one moves from the southeast to the northwest of the
project area. Generally, aridity increases, and vegetation cover,
vegetation height and cropping activities decrease.
2.7       The Central Rangelands contain both major and minor sand dunes.
The major dunes are about 10 km wide and cover about 3,000 square kilometers
within an area located 40 to 80 km from the coast starting in Ceel Dhere and
running nearly 300 km northeast.   They are estimated to have a northerly
movement of 20 meters a year. These large dunes are major geomorphological
formations, and little can be done to influence their size or movement.
Minor dunes are located in the neighborhood of villages and boreholes.
These have been caused primarily by the shifting cultivation practices in
loose sandy soils, and the presence of constant, intensive grazing. The
minor dunes are subject to management, and many have been successfully
stabilized and covered with vegetation in the past. These initiatives will
be continued under the second phase.
2.8       Water erosion is only important in areas with relatively greater
slope and more silt, where surfaces can be easily compacted. Spectacular
gully systems can be seen on either side of the coastal ridge, some 20 to 30
km inland from the coast in the Haradhere and Hobbyo districts. These
gullies appear fairly stable, however, and do not seem to pose a major
threat to land use.
Water
2.9       Surface vater supplies are scarce.  The Shebelli river is reduced
to a trickle in the dry season (hagai) between January and April, and has
limited use for irrigation in the project area, because of its salinity and
the poor quality of the soils. Apart from ephemeral streams which run for a
few hours after rainfall, the principal source of surface water is natural
or manmade depressions which collect runoff. However, high evaporation and
infiltration rates mean that these depressions are only useful for a few
months at a time. The standard project dugout holds between 2,500 and 3,000
cubic meters of water when full. The 34 dugouts constructed under CRDP I
have been designed to dry out before the end of the dry season, in order to
avoid the settlement and overuse patterns associated with permanent water
sources (para 4.18). Surface water runoff is also channelled into large
masonry-lined tanks that hold about 400 cubic meters of water capacity.
These privately owned 'burkaads' are located near villages and represent



- 7-
important sources of water for human consumption. Their construction and
operation is self-financed, and water from them is sold to the population.
2.10      The Central Rangelands is relatively well off with respect to
ground water sources. Few locations are more than 20 km from permantnt
water pointes shallow wells or boreholes. Under a recen~. program funded by
the Saudi Arabian Programme for Rural Water in Somalia, 21 boreholes were
drilled in villages across the Central Rangelands, in some cases duplicating
existing boreholes. Most of the drilling was successful, as they tapped
into aquifers which had already been identified. Under CRDP I, attempts
were made to locate new boreholes in areas where access was difficult. Only
8 of the 22 wells drilled under CRDP I were successful, and costs per we"
were about US$ 200,000 for each attempt. The well drilling program has een
limited to 5 borehole. during the second phase project in order to minimize
the degradation associated with permanent water points, but still provide
access to large underutilized areas (para 3.13).
2.11      There are about 75 shallow hand-dug wells which also are an
important source of permanent water. These wells are often dug 30 meters
deep through limestone. Water from them is dravn using hand-lifted buckets
arnd skins, making these wells more reliable than the diesel-powered
boreholes. Many wells are located along the coast, and make use of a layer
of potable water available before saline water is reached. Efforts to
rehabilitat:~ well heads and animal watering troughs under Phase I have been
well received and vould be continued under Phase II (para 3.13).
Human Population and Project Beneficiaries
2.12      The human population in these three regions is estimated at
800,000 and is growing at about 3.0 percent a year, a rate which threatens
to outstrip the productive resources of the region.  2!    Most of the
population is rural and nomadic. Health and sanitation facilities are poor.
Infant mortality is estimated at 15 percent, and adult life expectancy at 46
years. In addition, a number of refugees have been settled in Hiran along
the Shebelli in recent years. This additional population increases the
pressure on fuelwood availability and results in increased cultivation of
unsuitable soils. The main refugee camps are located at Jalalaxi (96,900
persons) and Beletwayne (124,000 persons).
2/ World Bank, Somalia - Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review,
Report No. 5468-SO, September 5, 1985.



Table 2.1:       Human Population in the Project Area (1987)
Urban     Rural     Nomadic   Total
Hiran                50         90       124        263
Galgudud            78         128       120        326
Mudug                52         49        112       213
Central Rangelands  180        266       356        802
Somalia             900        2000      1820       5700
Source: Bank Mission
2.13      The population of the project area depends on livestock husbandry
and cropping activities for subsistence.  Of the inhabitants some 10,000
farm families and 1,500 pastoral families are expected to benefit directly
from targeted project activities. All of the area population would benefit
from improved roads, additional water points, and reduced erosion and
degradation (para 6.1).
Livestock Population
2.14      The main economic activity in the region is livestock production,
which makes use of opportunistic transhumant strategies to raise goats,
sheep, camels and cattle on the rangelands. The region supports about 11
m'.llion head of livestock, as described below.
Table 2.2:     Livestock Population in the Project Area
Cattle    Sheep     Goats       Camels   Total
Hiran            208        360     1,360        364     2,292
Galgudud         129        878     3,209        291     4,507
Mudug              80     1,171     2,613        227     4,091
Central Range    417      2,409     7,182        882    10,890
Somalia        3,775      5,500    16,700    11,700    37,675
Source: Somalia Agricultural Sector Survey
2.15      The overall stocking rate is estimated at one Tropical Livestock
Unit (TLU) per eleven hectares.  3/      Project experts believe the maximum
sustainable carrying capacity has been reached. Herd expansion is limited
by the availability of fodder and water during the dry season, and financial
and labor constraints. The distribution of livestock varies across regions
and with the season, depending on the availability of fodder. Although data
3/ One Tropical Livestock Unit is equivalent to one 250 kg animal. One
camel equals 1.2 TLU, one cow, 0.8 TLU, and a sheep or goat, 0.1 TLU



- 9 -
on the livestock population is unreliable, there appears to have been little
change in the numbers of cattle, camels, and goats in the region over the
paat ten years. However, the numbers of sheep appear to have increased
significantly, reflecting their ability to make the be3t use of crop
residues and byproducts. This trend is expected to continue as cultivation
increases in importance. Camels are the most migratory of domestic
livestock and, together with goats, predominate in the areas where only low
browse fodder is available and water is scarce. The density of cattle is
uniformly low throughout the area, except in the alluvial soils of the
Shebelli Valley, where there are concentrations of cattle during the wet
season. Sheep are prominent in the coastal plains and in the agricultural
areas of the southeast. There appears to be a large influx of sheep and
goats into the project area during the wet season.
2.16      Herds are structured to maximize milk production and to obtain the
maximum regeneration capacity after drought. They look very much like dairy
herds.   Production coefficients are low and mortality is high.  The
composition of the herds is primarily female, as Table 2.3 shows.
Table 2.3t Characteristics of Sheep and Goat Flocks and Herds
X of Sheep Flock         Z of Goat Herd
Females:
Under 1 yr                    26 Z                 24 Z
Over  1 Yr                    52 X                 62 Z
Males:
Under 1 yr                    15 Z                   7 Z
Over  1 yr                     7 Z                  7 Z
Total                          100 Z                100 2
Agropastoral             Rangelands
Average Flock/Herd Size        85                   256
Crude Death (<l)               22.5 2               22.5 Z
Crude Death (>1)               14 2                 14 Z
Adult Female Fertility Rate   80 2                  94 Z
Average Lambing/Kidding Int.  10.5 months           11.5 months
Age First Lambing/Kidding      28.7 months          28.7 months
Source: GTZ Veterinary Team
2.17      Since females are milked, weaning weights for kids and lambs are
extremely low: about 8 to 10 kg at 150 days. Only 25 percent of these
animals ever appear to reach export weights of 25 to 35 kg liveweight.
Weight gains are limited by the availability of feed; the main bottleneck
occurs at the end of the dry season.  The project addresses this constraint
by including measures to improve nutrition without increasing carrying
capacity. The measures consist of (i) obtaining access to underutilized
forage through better distribution of temporary water points (para 5.4); and



- 10 -
(ii) increasing the production of crop residues and fodder crops in
agropastoral areas (para 5.3).
2.18      Camels are excellent dairy animals and make best use of the browse
available in the Central Rangelands at long distances from water. Daily
milk yields of 6-10 liters per milking camel have been recorded in the wet
season, and 2 liters per day have been recorded in the dry season. Camels
are usually milked, have lactation periods of 9 to 18 months, and yield
1,000 to 1,500 liters per lactation. Goats initially produce about 200 ml
of milk per day; their production declines to about 60 ml per day at the end
of the 150 day lactation. Yields of sheep milk would resemble those of
goats, but sheep are not usually milked and are kept only for meat
production. Milk produced by cattle for human consumption is about 2 to 3
kg per cow per day, over a lactation period of 150 to 200 days.
Animal Health
2.19      Experience under the GTZ Animal health component indicates that
herd productivity can be improved through the use of simple treatments to
reduce the parasite burden and improve nutrition. The 14 percent adult
mortality rate appears high and will be further investigated under the
project. Serological surveys on sheep and goat herds have shown that the
incidence of brucellosis and contagious caprine pleuropneumonia is below 1
percent, which is surprising. Surveys for theileriosis, anaplasmosis, and
babesiosis showed a prevalence of less than 1 percent for all three
combined. Surveys of camels showed that 50 percent had antibodies to
Trypanosoma evansi, 7 percent had active infections, and 2 percent showed
evidence of exposure to brucellosis.
2.20      There is little information on the incidence of other diseases
affecting livestock in Eastern Africa: rinderpest, small ruminant pest, foot
and mouth disease, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia. These diseases will
have to be addressed during the project. However, during Phase I the GTZ
team identified three cases in which veterinary treatment is profitable, and
livestock owners are eager to pursue these. First, there is a major
internal parasite problem in young sheep and goats during the early wet
season. Liveweight gains during the wet season have been enhanced by
strategic drenching with anthelmintics at the start of the rains and the use
of minerals to improve nutrition. Second, trypanosomiasis and other blood
parasites, a serious problem in camels and cattle along the Shebelli River,
can be treated and controlled with drugs and acaricides. Third, and of less
economic importance, antibiotic treatment has been successfully employed on
small ruminants afflicted with contagious caprine pleuropneumonia. These
three animal treatments will form the core of the animal health care
component under the project (paras 3.11-3.12, 5.2).
B. Land Tenure and Land Use
Land Tenure
2.21      Although rangeland was traditionally considered commonly-owned
public land, once enclosed it belonged to the person who built the fence.



- 11 -
Land tenure regulations in Somalia now are governed by the Agricultural Land
Law No. 73 of 1975, and subsequent decrees, notably Law 23 of 1976. Under
this law the State owns and controls all land, and the distribution and
management of land is the responsibility of the Land and Water Resources
Department within the Ministry of Agriculture. Access rights are provided
by variable term leases which differ in length and degree of restrictiveness
depending on whether the lessee is an individual, family, or corporate body
-- public or private. Individuals and families can use the land on the
basis of renewable 50 year leases. Lease rights are inheritable by the next
of kin. A ceiling of 60 hectares is placed on rainfed holdings for
individuals and families. Holdings by corporations, public agencies, and
private organizations are not subject to size limitations.   All land must
be developed within two years, or the lease can be revoked by Government and
the land repossessed. The leaseholder may not rent, sell, or subdivide the
land without forfeiting the lease. The Ministry of Agriculture does not
register leases or monitor land tenure claims in the Central Rangelands;
this task has devolved on local government, whose administrative
capabilities in this area are weak. Enclosures have been increasing
rapidly, and it is not clear whether enclosures for private use in the
rangelands still are legally sanctioned. This question will be studied
before Phase II of the project begins (para 3.21).
Land Use
2.22      Surveys conducted during CRDP I show that livestock are grazed as
much as possible within traditional use areas known as degaans". These
areas provide: (i) a source of permanent water around which dry season
grazing is based; (ii) adequate fodder, especially in the dry season, for
the animals belonging to the family groupings that graze together; and (iii)
kinship ties.   Somali pastoralists remain within their Idegaans' as long as
possible. In the wetter areas, where year-round water and fodder are
available, herds follow fairly distinct seasonal grazing patterns within the
Idegaan", unless drought (or malfunction at a borehole) forces a change. In
the drier areas towards the North and West, livestock movements are more
varied and movement outside Idegaan' bcamdaries takes place more often. In
the existing pastoral system, rangelands are rested only when they are far
frum water, or when access is prevented due to Government decree or outbreak
of biting flies. The 'degaan' has become the base planning unit under Phase
II of the project (para 4.11).
2.23      Several important trends in range use were identified during CRDP
I which have important consequences for CRDP II and the future management of
the region. First, the orientation of coastal pastoralists is becoming
increasingly commercial. These individuals are maintaining ever larger
sheep herds for the production of export animals, in addition to goats and
camels for the normal milk, meat and transport requirements for subsistence.
Second, the number of livestock owners who also grow crops to complpment
their and their animals' diets is increasing. Third, there is a related
increase in the enclosure of areas of rangeland for private use. Fourth,
the free ranging of livestock in some areas is increasing due to the removal
of predators. As a result, there is less control over animal feeding
patterns, and herding costs have been reduced. Fifth, the recruitment of
young pastoralists into the traditional system appears to be declining.



- 12 -
Research during the project would verify these trends (para 3.6) and develop
appropriate responses.
Agropastoralism
2.24      Shifting cultivation of annual grains and pulses by pastoralist
families in the better rainfall and soil quality areas in the southeast
quadrant of the region has existed for a long time, and appears to be
increasing. The CRDP I resource survey in 1979 identified about 370,000 ha
of cropped land in the project area. Cropping is more intensive around
permanent water sources.   A CRDP I study on agropastoralism in Nooleye  a
village in the Ceel Dhere District in the southeast revealed interesting
features of cultivation. 4/ For one, cultivation in Ceel Dhere has
increased as the number of permanent wat'-r points has increased. second,
cultivation takes place within a larger enclosure. The area cuILivated in
any season averages 1.5 hectares, within a subdivision of the larger 12
hectare enclosure. The subdivision under cultivation is shifted around
within the larger enclosure every two to three years to take advantage of
virgin land. The remainder of the enclosure is used for livestock grazing.
Third, a pastoralist may have more than one enclosure, to guarantee virgin
land and fodder during the dry season. Fourth, a cowpea-sorghum rotation is
the most common, yielding 400 to 600 kg/hectare. Finally, the average
livestock holdings by agropastoralists include 135 animals; about 60 percent
of these are goats, 25 percent are sheep, and the remainder are cattle and
camels. Surveys conducted under the animal health activities indicate that
the livestock in agropastoral areas have higher nutritional levels than pure
rangeland animals.
2.25      Inappropriate cultivation can have serious degrading effects on
rangelands. First, it increases the supply of low quality forage plant
species in the early stages of succession following farm abandonment.
Second, it denudes the fragile and sandy soils, exposing them to wind
erosion. The effect of cultivation in increasing the incidence of sand dunes
can be seen in Ceel Dhere district.  Here the increase in the availability
of permanent water has supported the sedentarization of much of the
population increased agropastoralism. Four simple techniques have been
developed under CRDP I to minimize these negative effects. One is strip
cropping, orienting the strips across the direction of the prevailing winds.
Another is fodder production on the non-cultivated strips or around the
cultivated areas. For this multipurpose trees and shrubs or perennial
grasses such as buffel grass are used. A third technique involves the use
of live fences, to diminish the need for repair and cutt4ng of surrounding
vegetation. A fourth involves the introduction of higher yield crops and
fertility enhancing rotations; these reduce the need to clear additional
areas for cropping. All four efforts will be continued under the project
(para 4.15).
4/ *Agropastoralism and Desertification in Ceel Dhere District, Central
Somalia. Preliminary Investigation and Trial Results', R. Holt, December 1985.



- 13 -
Rangeland Production Systems
2.26      Seven different production systems have been identified in the
Central Rangelands during phase I (see Table 2.4). The Coastal Plains
system has a deficit in the supply of energy and protein for human
consumption during both wet and dry seasons. The Agropastoral Sands and the
Agropastoral Clays are characterized by relatively high levels of residual
forage at the end of the wet season. This leftover forage probably is the
result of the large human and moderate livestock populations. The resulting
deficits in human calorie and protein requirements may be overcome thrcugh
cropping or the purchase of grains.   The Western Shebelli and the Interior
Shrubland systems suffer from energy deficiency in the dry seasons.   The
low rainfall pastoral production system characteristic of the Interior Dwarf
Shrub/Grassland and the Northern Plateau systems has a seasonal imbalance
between the demand and the supply of forage. Very little forage remains
unutilized at the end of the wet season and this lack of reserve could lead
to serious degradation and lower productivity over the long term. Pressure
on the forage could be reduced by the strategic location of temporary water
points.
Table 2.4: Characteristics of Central Rangelands Production Systems a/
Agro-   Agro-   West-            Inte-   Nor-
Pas-    Past-   Tern    Inte-   rior    thern
Coastal  toral   toral   She-    rior    Dwarf   Pla-
Plains   Sand    Clay    belli   Shrub   Shrub   teau
Forage Prod'n:   high b/  high    high    high       mid     low c/  low
Livestock Bio-
mass in wet:    low d/    mid      mid   high e/   low    high   v.high
Livestock Bio-
mass(dry/wet):    60Z      70Z    140Z      60Z     70Z     1OZ      3Z
Unused Forage
in wet:         high f/  high    high      mid    high  v.low g/ de'icit
Source: CRDP I, D. Herlocker.
a/see Annex 8, Document B.1; b/ 72 t/km2; c/ 35 t/km2; d/ 2.1 t/km2;
e/6.2 t/km2; f/ 640 kg/ha; z/ 56 kg/ha.
2.27      Seven interventions aimed at remedying the imbalance between
forage availability and livestock were developed during CRDP I. These
interventions would be continued under Phase II of the project and would
include: (i) increasing the availability of water in unwatered areas using
boreholes; (ii) using dugouts and shallow wells to better distribute
grazing; (iii) increasing forage production in agropastoral areas; (iv)
increasing the efficiency of forage use by deworming and other simple
veterinary measures; (v) selecting high water table sites to increase dry
season forage production; and (vi) upgrading poor condition areas using
management reserves. Under CRDP I seven controlled grazing reserves were
established: two in Hobbyo, two in Ceel Dhere (en the coastal plain) and
three in Bulo Burti (in the shrubland). Results have been positive,
although not spectacular.  The low rainfall limits vegetative response and



- 14 -
delays the acceptance of the concepts by pastoralists. Pasture
rehabilitation through pitting is under trial in Ceel Bur.
Wildlife and Conservation
2.28      Somalia is home to a diverse range of flora and fauna commonly
found in arid lands. There is a wide variety of Acacia and Commniphora
speciest over 90 species have been recorded, including C myrrh. In addition
there is the less common frankincense tree Boswellia, the yeheb plant
(cerdeauxia edulis) and terminalia. Some of these species are under severe
pressure due to construction use and charcoal production. Somalia has been
home to the large mAmmals found elsewhere in Eastern Africa: elephant,
zebra, giraffe, lion, rhino, hippo, and antelope. While these animals can
be found in Somalia, only Speke's gazelle, and various types of dik dik,
hyena, and jackal are now common. Some of the very rare species found only
in Somalia are threatened with extinction. These include Somali wild ass,
dibitag, Soemmerring's gazelle, Pelzen's gazelle, and Beira oryx.
2.29      Conservation activities are guided by Law No. 15 on Fauna and
Forest Conservation. This law was put into effect on January 25, 1969, and
amended on August 31, 1970.   The law covers forest conservation, grazing
and mining, as well as the establishment and control of protected areas.
Its purpose is to protect natural resources from degradation by regulating
their management.   The areas defined in the original legislation include
Game Reserves, Controlled Areas, Partial Game Reserves, and Forest Reserves.
New, more comprehensive legislation covering all aspects of wildlife
management is needed since the present legislation is obsolete and hard to
enforce.   5/    The law creates four game reserves, three controlled areas
and four partial game reserves. The Bush tash Game Reserve in the Southern
corner of the country on the border with Kenya is the only reserve where
antipoaching laws are enforced.
2.30      The survival of wildlife in Somalia is endangered by several
factors. One is inadequate enforcement of protection legislation. Another
is the lack of wildlife management infrastructure and professionally trained
staff. A third factor is the increased enclosure of public land and lack of
centralized land use planning. A fourth factor is the large number of
firearms owned privately. Fifth, drought and famine cause livestock owners
to fall back on wildlife for food. Finally, the boom in livestock prices
makes it more worthwhile to sell livestock rather than consume it. The
Government places high priority on preserving its natural heritage and is
disturbed by the alarming decline in the wildlife populations. Steps to
strengthen conservation will be taken under CRDP II (para 3.15).
5/ 'Directory of Afrotropical Protected Areas', IUCN, March 1987



- 15 -
C. Infrastructure
2.31      Within the project area the largest towns are Jalalaxi, Bulo Burti
and Beletwayne, located along the Shebelli River Valley, and Dusa Mareb and
Galcaio located along the Ethiopian border. These towns are served by a
surfaced road. Access to the interior bushland is poor however, and is
undertaken via geological lines cut by the oil companies during exploration.
These lines have become rough sand or rock tracks which are impassable in
the short rain} seasons and receive no maintenance. Airstrips are available
at Beletwayne, Galcaio, Hobbyo and Bulo Burti. Use is sometimes restricted
for military teasons. Only th. Hobbyo strip provides access to the interior
of the region. More air strips are needed to improve transport and
communications; these will be constructed under the project (para 3.13).
Under CRDP I ten NRA compounds were built at the district headquarters which
provide office and living facilities for project staff. Each compound has a
radio which provides the only regular communication with Mogadishu. There
are telegraph and telephone lines along the main road around the southern
and western perimeter of the area.
2.32      The three regional towns have a post office, police station, and a
branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia. Beletwayne, Dusa
Mar-b, and Galcaio have large Army outposts.  A small port located at Hobbyo
is used for exporting small quantities of livestock during the few months
when weather conditions are favorable.
D. Marketing
2.33      Livestock is Somalia's most important export.  Small ruminants
dominat't the trade, accounting for 90 percent of animal exports in 1980-
1986. 6/ The outlook for expanding small ruminant exports is good, if the
constraints noted in para 2.34 are lifted. Annual recorded shipments have
fluctuated dramatically -- by about 35 percent around an average of 1.3
million animals. Saudi Arabia is still the most important market for Somali
livestock exports, absorbing 95 percent of small ruminant shipments despite
a recent ban on cattle imports. Other markets include Egypt, Kenya and the
Yemen Arab Republic. Somalia's main competitors in the Arab markets are
Australia, Turkey, Sudan, New Zealand, and the Common Market.
2.34      Restrictive Government policies represent a major constraint to
profitable export operations. Too many exactions are placed on the export
trade, and the business environment is unstable. At the country level,
several measures would improve the export environment. These include: (i)
permitting livestock export earnings to be converted at the free market
exchange rate; (ii) removing the movement taxes on animals destined for
export; (iii) dissolving the government monopoly on shipping and insurance;
6/ *International Market for Somali Livestock', RONCO Consulting
Corporation, November 1987 sUSAID Contract).



- 16 -
and (iv) permitting export sales on an FOB basis. Measures at the trader
and producer level would reduce marketing costs, and improve the quality of
the animals exported. Some of these measures include: (i) giving priority
to livestock traders in allocation of fuel and transport requirements; (ii)
activating telex and telephone lines in Berbera, Burao, and Hargeisa; (iii)
putting in place holding grounds and fodder farms at aggregation and export
points; (iv) improving health standards on export animals through
vaccination and quarantine programs, and pastoral animal health schemes; (v)
providing credit to support the feeding and holding operations; and (vi)
improving the road network. The USAID sutpported Livestock Marketing and
Health project addresses some of these points (para 1.12). Others will be
improved as the infrastructure in the country is rehabilitated, and the
foreign exchange regime stabilizes under donor supported adjustment
programs.
2.35      The project area includes a large proportion of the small ruminant
exports -- about 23 percent of sheep exports and 42 percent of goat exports.
The region also contributes 10 to 20 percent of the exports of camels and
cattle. The traditional marketing system within the project area is well
developed and responds quickly to market signals. Animals are sold for cash
to the larger producers, and for a mixture of cash and goods as producers
get closer to subsistence levels. Prices vary according to animal quality.
Surveys of herd structure by GTZ show that all available males, and even
some females, are sold when ready. Offtake appears to be the maximum
possible for subsistence producers. Larger pastoralists are able to hold
their animals and play the market more. Cattle and camels are usually
trekked to market. Sheep and goats are either trekked or trucked to their
destination, depending on the availabilitd of feed to support a long march
and the timing obligations of the exporting merchant. Ceel Bur, Dhusa Mareb
and Galcaio are the major animal trading centers. Ceel Bur is located in
the geographical center of the area; Dhusa Mareb and Galcaio are on the main
road north to Berbera.
E. Institutions
Local Government
2.36      The three regions of Hiran, Galgudud and Mudug are headed by a
Governor appointed by the President. They are divided into thirteen
districts, each administered jointly by District Commissioners and Party
Secretaries. In addition, there are local development committees with
appointed and elected officials who assist in government. At the village
level the committees have influence within five kilometers of the
settlement.
Water Development Authority (WDA)
2.37      This organization is charged with maintaining drinking water
facilities, including boreholes. Most boreholes use pumps powered by diesel
engines. Village engine operators aro trained by the VDA. Fees collected
for water use pay for fuel, lubricants and the operator's salary. WDA is
supposed to provide periodic maintenance. However, the remoteness of



- 17 -
boreholes and organizational inefficiencies make the maintenance service
less than adequate. The lack of fuel and spares causes pumps to fail.
Because the continuous operation of boreholes in the project area is crucial
to human and livestock survival, Phase II of the project will provide for
regular maintenance services (para 3.13).
National Range Agency
2.38      This agency maintains a presence at each level of local government
down to the district, and has responsibility for implementing the Range Law
(paras 4.1-4.2).
Range and Livestock Associations (RLAs)
2.39      RLAs were organized under CRDP I to represent the interests of
those families who utilize a given 'degaan'. These families use the same
permanent water points and dry season grazing areas, have kinship relations,
and were judged an appropriate unit on which to build a more formalized
management structure. The RLAs were designed as the 'pastoralist
organization" with which the Government and the project could interact in
testing range management techniques (reserves) and in designing and locating
infrastructure (boreholes and dugouts). The governing committees included
the local government and party authorities, religious leaders, and elders.
Membership in an RLA is de facto and includes all those who use a given
"degaan". There are between 6 and 13 udegaaDsW per district, and each
covers from 1,000 to 3,000 square kilometers.
2.40      The establishment of these organizations has been slow due to the
time needed to contact the members of the 'degaan' and obtain their
acceptance of the idea. Some 14 RLAs have been established, 10 of them
since 1987. The two in Hobbyo and the two in Ceel Dhere have been the most
successful. Each of these has managed rest-rotational grazing reserves on
the coastal plain. RLAs also have served as the basis for the creation and
training of Nomadic Animal Health Assistants (NAHAs). The use of RLAs will
be continued and expanded under Phase II of the project (para 3.8). However,
the formation p:ocedures and structure of the RLAs will be adjusted
according to the recommendations of the study being funded by USAID.
Nomadic Animal Health Assistants
2.41      Under the CRDP veterinary component supported by GTZ, NAHAs have
been placed at the degaan' level. Through these individuals, the project
has sold imple drugs and provided minimal prescriptive advice to
pastoralists. NAHAs are chosen from within an RLA, and receive a ten day
course in the identification and treatment of local livestock diseases.
Drugs and medicines appropriate to the region are then sold to participating
RLAs by the MLFR.   These drugs are later retailed to pastoralists, who
purchase them on the recommendation and under the supervision of the NAHA.
The RLA pays the NAHA's salary, either in cash or in kind.  GTZ has financed
a rotating fund to finance drug imports.  Some 55 NAHAs are active in three
districts.  This successful program will be expanded under the Pnase II of
the project (para 3.11).



- 18 -
F. Results and Lessons Learned from Phase I
2.42      CRDP I was approved by IDA in 1979 (Cr 906-SO).  Its objective was
to consolidate and improve range and livestock production, ir rease
pastoralist income, and foster gradual concentrations of pastoral
communities in the Central Rangelands.  Within a total cost of US$ 46.3
million, the US$ 8 million IDA portion and the USS 9 million IFAD
contribution were used for civil works, vehicles, and technical assistance
in project management and informal training.  The USAID contribution of US$
15 million financed the technical assistance and vehicles for the range
management, soil and water conservation, formal education and livestock
development activities. Food provided by WFP supp.rted work on shelter
belts and sand dune stabilization. GTZ funded the animal health component.
A Project Completion report for CRDP I was finalized August 16, 1988.
2.43      The project got off to a slow start.  Activities funded by the
different financiers started at different times, and delays caused
inefficiency and frustration. GTZ replaced ODA in funding the animal health
component. Severe shortages of fuel and local funding reduced the
effectiveness of staff and scaled down accomplishments in the field. The
original desigr, was overly optimistic in what would be accomplished and in
estimating the returns from range and water management. However, the
project has been successful on several counts. It has helped to establish
an organization capable of gathering and analyzing range and livestock
related information, and to identify and intervene successfully in areas of
key interest to pastoralists: animal health services, water point
construction, and sand dune stabilization. Community level organizations
have been put in place, and management techniques that will help to sustain
rangeland productivity have been tested. The observations presented
throughout this chapter are the result of Phase I efforts. Phase II will
take advantage of the institutional base to further the investigative work
and to disseminate worthwhile interventions. Key aspects of Phase I not yet
touched on in Chapter II are described below.
Range Management
2.44      Establishing management reserves was an important target of Phase
I. These reserves were to cover 30 percent of the project area, or 50,000
square kilometers. Through them 70 percent of the production benefits were
to be realized from the returns to rest rotational grazing. These benefits
have not been achieved for three reasons. First, pastoralists have been
reluctant to accept the idea of grazing reserves. Second, there has not
been any pastoralist organization to manage these reserves, or indeed, any
project initiatives. Third, there is no evidence of returns to rest
rotational grazing in the bush and scrub which covers most of the reg'on.
As these problems became clear, activities were restricted to three priority
districts: Bulo Burti, Ceel Dhere and Hobbyo. A small but successful start
was made in establishing pastoralist organizations and associated rest-
rotation grazing reserves on the coastal plain (para 2.40). The reserves on
the coastal plain have shown slight imprnvements in vegetation quality and
production as a resul; of management.  Other reserves have been initiated to
provide relief at the height of drought, or to manage and revitalize



- 19 -
evergreen dry season fodder species such as yeheb (cordeauwia edulis).
Range field surveys covering 55,000 square km have been completed. These
include range condition classification, the mapping and description of 49
range sites, and the collection and identification of some 3,000 plant
specimens. Nine reservee w#hich cover 3,800 kilometers have been establishe'.
in the three priority districts. Pastoralists now acknowledge that reserves
can be beneficial and are willing to engage in range management practices
proposed under the project.
Formal Education in Range M..aagement
2.45      Under CRDP I, a Department of Botany and Range Management was
established at the Somali National University with the assistance of four
expatriate professors. This Department, located within the Faculty of
Agriculture, provides two years of specialized formal training after a first
two years of general agriculture. The degree offered is a Bachelor of
Science. So far 26 students have graduated since courses were first offered
in 1984. Graduates have been hired by the university and the NRA. Five
graduates are receiving further training in the United States and will
return to take up teaching positions in 1988. The project will continue to
support this activity until the university is able to continue it unaided
(para 3.17).
Midterm Review
2.46      The implementation of Phase I became an important learning process
for the Government and for donors. Many useful interventions were
identified and tested. Adjustments to the institutional aspects of the
original project were consolidated at the multi-donor Midterm Review of
March 1984. There five important decisions were taken. First, project
activities were reduced to only three of the thirteen districts (para 2.43).
Second, CRDP I was established as a separate operational entity within the
NRA having its own project manager. Third, biannual Steering Committee
meetings were set up to monitor project implementation. Members of the
Committee included donors and Government officials. Fourth, a Field Manager
was appointed and given responsibility for overseeing fuel and vehicle
allocations and for improving communications between Mogadishu and district
offices. Fifth, it was decided that greater attention should be given to
the issues raised by the presence of agropastoralism in the priority
districts (para 2.24). The institutional changes were successful in making
the project more independent from NRA's other activities and more focussed
on the Central Rangelands.
2.47      Valuable lessons also were learned on implementation.  First,
regular supplies of fuel, vehiclee, and spares were recognized as an
essential precondition to all other activities. Second, infrastructure
development and other modifications affecting pastoralists' lives should be
preceded by a thorough investigation of the consequences of these changes on
the local environment. Agreement on the nature of the proposed
interventions should be reached with the local inhabitants before the
intervention is implemented. Third, the project can only be effective if it
operates as a separate entity within NRA or MLFR. Fourth, RLAs should play
a key role in guiding project activities in the rangelands. These lessons



- 20 -
have been incorporated in the design of Phase 'I. A Project Completion
Report on Phase I is being prepared.
Other Donor Involvement
2.48      Support for Phase I of the project is coming to an end.  The IDA
Credit 906-SO closed on December 31, 1987. USAID's financial contribution
under its current project will terminate in mid-1989. USAID is not able to
support Phase II as its funds are fully committed to other endeavours. A
USAID review of project implementation in May 1987 concluded that the
project was close to meeting its targets but that activities had been
severely hampered by the failure of the Government to provide a dependable
supply of fuel.  7/    The Federal Republic of Germany has been supporting
the veterinary component of the project through GTZ since 1983. After
conducting a detailed review in 1987, Germany has agreed to continue to
support this component until the end of 1990. GTZ representatives
satisfied with progress under the component, and are very likely to extend
their support beyond 1990 if implementation is successful and if IDA and ADF
also remain committed to the project. The commitment of the WFP will
terminate in 1989, but WFP representatives indicate that they will probably
extend their support for this project into its second phase.   Coordination
of donor contributions in support of this project improved substantially
after the Mid Term Review. The continuation of the Project Steering
Committee (para 4.6) and the collaboration of all donors in the design and
appraisal of Phase II should further enhance cooperation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
3.1       The Central Rangelands are vital to the maintenance and increase
of livestock exports which form the backbone of the Somali economy.
Important advances in understanding range use and in maintaining und
increasing productivity have been made in the first phase of the project. A
second phase is considered justified because of; (i) the importance of
rangelands for the economy; (ii) the need to minimize the negative Cffects
of increased population pressure and cultivation; (iii) the need to take
advantage of productivity increasing techniques; and (iv) the opportunity to
use an increasingly effective range agency. This project will serve an
important testing and pilot function. Findings in this project are
potentially applicable in much of Somalia. The dynamics of range
management, operation of agroecological monitoring systems, delivery of low-
cost animal health services, and subsistence dryland farming techniques, all
have application elsewhere in the country. IDA's involvement in this
project in collaboration with ADF, GTZ and other donors provide the
opportunity to bring together a successful effort in rangeland develpment.
7/ Interim Evaluation of Somalia Central Rangelands Project, Consortium
for International Development, June 1987.



- 21 -
3.2       breparation for the second phase of the project began in October
1985 with at. IDA-funded consultant report. This report was completed in
February 1986, and served to highlight new perceptions of rangeland use in
the project area. The report lays the foundation for the approach adopted
in the Phase II. Further work by a Project Preparation Committee resulted
in a Project Preparation Report in December 1986. A formal request of IDA
for financing of the second phase was signed by the Minister of State for
National Planning on May 30, 1987. This letter reaffirmed the high priority
which the Goverranent places on investment in the rangelands. An IDA
preappraisal mission reviewed this proposal in December 1987, and an
appraisal mission was fielded in March 1988.
B. Objectives and Description
3.3       The second phase of the project is designed to maintain and
improve the long term productivity of the Central Rangelands and the living
standards of pastoralists.   This objective will be pursued by minimizing
the degradation of vegetation, improving on the understanding of rangeland
production systems, and increasing the productive efficiency of livestock in
the region.
3.4       Constraints encountered in traditional pastoral production systems
will be addressed through research efforts and specific interventions. The
research will focus on improving the efficiency and sustainability of
livestock and crop production in the region. Interventions will include
setting up infrastructure and disseminating techniques that contribute to
production maintenance.
3.5       The total cost of the six year project is estimated to be US$ 33.3
million. The project includes the following components (costs include
contingencies):
(i)    Systems Investigation and Monitoring (US$ 4.3 million) to
study production systems, formulate range management plans,
and monitor agroecological indicators;
(ii)   Extension (US$ 4.8 million) to disseminate improved
technology, organize RLAs to manage project infrastructure,
and support village development initiatives;
(iii) Agropastoral Adaptive Trials and Forestry (US$ 2.4 million) to
test improved agricultural practices, produce improved seed,
and expand forestry activities in the region;
(iv)   Animal Health and Livestock Production (US$ 2.7 million)  to
expand the NAHA program of village-level livestock examination
and treatment;



- 22 -
(v)    Water and Infrastructure Development (US$ 4.3 million) to
construct and provide initial maintenance for boreholes,
dugouts, and wells and to improve roads and airstrips;
(vi)   Conservation (US$ 3.1 million) to rrotect key flora and fauna
in the project area and the Northern Rangelands;
(v)    Training (USS 3.0) to provide continued support to the
University and short-term and medium-term training
opportunities overseas, and
(vi)   Project Management (USS 8.7 million) to manage project and NRA
activities in the region.
C. Detailed Features
Systems Investigation and Monitoring
3.6    This component would bring together the investigative and planning
aspects of rangeland work.  Knowledge gained about the constraints and
possibilities of rangeland production would be incorporated into project
investment activities through management plans based on homogenous
agroecological units, aggregated to the District level. Investigative
activities would include: (i) detailed study of broadly identified
production systems (para 2.26) by a multidisciplinary team; (ii)
predevelopment surveys of the districts to be worked in, prior to the
formulation of District Management Plans; (iii) monitoring of trends in
livestock numbers, rainfall, vegetation status, population, and health; (iv)
monitoring of the productive effects of project interventions: reserves,
water points, animal health treatments.
3.7    Implementation of this component would be coordinated from the
Systems Investigation and Monitoring Department of the CRDP II (para 4.7).
Items to be funded would include vehicles, equipment, photographic surveys,
local salaries and allowances, operating costs, and technical assistance.
Vehicles would include mobile field centers for the multidisciplinary team.
Equipment would include automatic agrometereological stations for district
headquarters and a Geographic Information System. Enough equipment and
airplane time would be provided to undertake four bystematic Reconnaissance
Surveys of the region. Existing photographs and satellite imagery of the
region would be purchased to monitor changes in resource use. Salaries and
allowances for local staff would include the Documentation Center and the
Herbarium. An internationally recruited Agricultural Economist/Systems
Analyst would head up the multidisciplinary team and coordinate the
collection, organization and use of agroecological and socioeconomic
information. A Sociologist/Rural Development Expert and a Range
Management/Ecology Specialist also would form part of the multidisciplinary
technical assistance team.



- 23 -
Extension
3.8    This component would provide for the further development of an
extension service to: (i) disseminate the productivity-increasing (or
degradation-decreasing) 'messages' developed by the project; (ii) organize
RLAs to carry out project interventions and transmit new technologies; (iii)
work with RLAs in the management of reserves, dugouts, and other
interventions; and (iv) manage a fund to support small, village-level
development initiatives. Up to US$ 2,500 could be used per subproject, with
up to 3 subprojects per RLA.   Some 24 District Extension Agents would work
through about 120 Village Extension Workers, one in each of the degaans,
contacted. Staff and would be concentrated in the 7 districts where
enclosure and cultivation are greatest (and returns to improved techniques
highest). Staff from the Extension Department would provide village-level
guidance and facilitate contacts for the field work necessary in all project
activities, including the formation of NAHAs. An internationally recruited
Extension/Training Specialist would help to establish the system and train
CRDP II staff. The project would provide financing for the vehicles,
equipment, salaries, allowances and per diems, materials and operating
costs, and technical assistance needed to carry out the above activities.
Agropastoral Adaptive Trials and Forestry
3.9    This component provides for a trials program, a seed multiplication
program, and continuation of seedling production and dissemination. The
trials program initially would be centered at Bulo Burti and Nooleye. It
would test improved husbandry methods, water harvesting techniques and crops
suitable to arid areas, with the objective of increasing the productivity
and sustainability of cultivation in a pastoral environment (para 4.15). In
particular the adaptation of cereal/legume associations would be pursued.
This would reduce farmers' need to shift locations and also reduce the area
required to produce sufficient grain to cover subsistence requirements.
New techniques would include strip cropping with strips sown to permanent
fodder such as buffel grass. This approach would reduce wind erosion and
degradation and provide additional dry season fodder for livestock. The
seed multiplication program would use a production site funded by the
project, and contract growers to bulk up the seed of improved crops and
forage species for dissemination through the extension service. Seedling
production, distribution, and other forestry related activities in the
region would continue.
3.10   The program would be managed out of the Agropastoral Department and
would have two field centers, located at Bulo Burti and Nooleye. Trials and
seed production would be focussed at these centers. A study on dryland
agriculture in combination with rangeland pastoralism (agropastoralism) and
private enclosures would be initiated under the PPF (para 3.21). An
internationally recruited Dryland Agronomist would set up the first series
of trials, establish the seed multiplication operation, and participate in
the multidisciplinary team analyzing przduction (para 3.6). The project
would provide financing for the simple civil works at Bulo Burti and Nooleye
and for vehicles, equipment, operating costs, salaries, allowances and per
diems, and technical assistance needed to carry out the above activities.



- 24 -
Animal Health and Livestock Production
3.11   This component would provide basic animal health services at the
village level. Major diseases and parasites affecting herd productivity in
the project area would be addressed as follows. The NAHA system (para 2.41)
would be expanded to cover the seven districts not covered by the existing
GTZ program. A fund to be operated by CRDP would be established for the
importation and resale of drugs to RLAs with NAHAs. The herd monitoring
program initiated under CRDP I would be continued.
3.12   This component would be directed from Beletwayne (para 4.18).  It
would include a team consisting of an internationally recruited
veterinarian, two local veterinarians, and three veterinarians' Assistants.
The team would be responsible to the head of the existing animal health
team. The project provides financing for the civil works, including housing
for the expatriate veterinarian at Beletwayne. Vehicles and equipment,
salaries, allowances and per diems, operating costs and technical assistance
would also be funded.
Water and Infrastructure Development
3.13   Under this component funds would be provided for infrastructure
development and water point maintenance.   The construction of water-related
infrastructure would follow recommendations in District Management Plans.
Provision in this component would be made for the construction of up to 70
dugouts, 5 boreholes and 56 shallow well head rehabilitations. The initial
maintenance phase of existing CRDP I boreholes, dugouts, and wells will be
carried out while RLA personnel receive instruction in maintenance. Five
airstrips will be constructed at key district headquarters: Ceel Dhere, Ceel
Bur, Harardhere, Jiriban, and Jalalaxi. There will also be regular grading
of priority tracks through the region.
3.14   Activities would be managed out of the Soil and Water Conservation
Department (para 4.20). Dugouts would be constructed utilizing the existing
CRDP construction unit with its two crawler tracto.s and grader. One more
grader would be purchased for road improvement and airstrip construction. A
transporter trailer would be purchased to increase the mobility and
utilization of the dugout construction unit. New boreholes would be
constructed under contract. An externally recruited Rural Engineer would be
brought in on short term consultancies to provide guidance in the location
and design of dugouts, and in borehole construction. Funds would be
provided for civil works contracts, vehicles, construction equipment,
salaries, allowances, per diems, operating costs, and technical assistance.
Conservation
3.15   The objective of this component is to assist in the conservation of
key flora and fauna.   Within the project area the goal would be to
establish and guard four Flora and Fauna conservation reserves to protect
key flora and fauna.   The reserves would be located at Bud Bud/Hobbyo
(4,000 square km), Harardhere (3,000 square km), Haxaas in Eastern Bulo
Burti (3,000 square km), and Derihow in Western Bulo Burti (3,500 square
km). In the Northern Rangelands the goal would be the protection of the
Somali wild ass, the Beira antelope, Pelzeln's gazelle, and other fauna and
flora.  Reserves would be located in the Dalo Forest Reserve, and important



- 25 -
wild ass habitats. The latter have still to be identified and may include
portions of the Nogal depression.
3.16   The Conservation Department within CRDP would supervise
implementation of this component in close collaboration with the Wildlife
Department of MFLR (para 2.21). The project would provide funding for an
internationally recruited Range Management/Wildlife Specialist. This person
would live in Galcaio and provide leadership and training in the early
identification and reserve establishment stages. The project also would
fund a system of wardens and guards to prevent the harvesting of wildlife
and extraction of protected trees and bushes from protected areas.
Arrangements would be made to permit pastoralists to continue grazing the
protected areas. The project would provide funding for minor civil works,
vehicles, equipment (including radios), salaries, allowances and per diems,
operating costs, and technical assistance.
Training
3.17   Project staff and pastoralists would be provided with training to
increase their awareness of new techniques and approaches to rangeland
management (para 4.22). Under this component support would be prcvided for
the undergraduate program at the Department of Botany and Range al. the
Faculty of Agriculture in the University of Somalia. This support would
cover recurrent costs, vehicles, and an internationally recruited Range
Management Professor. Local scholarships would also be provided to the
Faculty of Agriculture and the Afgoi Forestry and Wildlife Training School.
Training courses and seminars would be held by project personnel and
expatriates. Several overseas courses would be offered, including a limited
number of two year MSc courses.   A study tour would be undertaken at the
beginning of the project to provide firsthand information on agropastoralism
and rangeland management techniques in other countries. Funds would also be
provided to permit publication of research and other papers, including the
Somali Journal of Range Science, produced under the project. Finally, a
Training Center would be established in Bulo Burti District.
Prolect Management
3.18   The project would support a project management team and a workshop
dedicated to maintaining the project fleet. The management team would
coordinate project funded activities, ensure that project goals are met,
promote cost effectiveness, minimize duplication and enhance coordination of
effort. The existing NRA representation would be maintained at the regional
and district levels. Project activities be directed and adherence to the
Range Law monitored by regional and district range officers. District level
compounds would be constructed at Abudwak, Beira and Galdogob. Fuel storage
tanks would be provided at all district headquarters. Two additional fuel
tankers would be purchased to ensure fuel supplies at the district level.
The project General Manager would be assisted by a Financial Controller and
a Technical Manager. The internationally recruited Financial Controller
would assist the Directors of Administration, Finance and Field Services and
oversee international procurement. The Technical Manager, also recruited
internationally, would provide guidance on the technical aspects of the
project: rangeland research &nd monitoring, extension, agropastoral trials,
animal health. The project would provide funding for civil works, vehicles



- 26 -
and equipment, salaries, allowances and per diems, operating costs, and
technical assistance. Project implementation is discussed further in
Chapter IV.
D. Project Costs
3.19    The project is estimated to cost USS 33.3 million  (SoSh 8,333
million) including physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange
component is US$ 25.7 million (SoSh 6,176 million), or about 77 percent of
total cost. Project costs are summarized in Table 1.1 and presented fully
in Annex 3. These cost estimates are based on March 1988 prices and
exchange rates.
Table 3.1            Project Cost Summary
(SO SH '0001            oUS, 1000)
.  Total                            7  fotal
X foreign Base                        f foreign Base
tocal    Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs  local Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. SYSTEMS INVESTIGATION
AND RONlTORING               39S247.3  330 144.7  369.392.0  89    13  392 5 3,301.4 3.693.9      89    13
8. EXTENSION                   147 694 6  254. 175 9  401,870 5  63    14 1.476 9 2. 541.8 4.018.7  63    14
C. AGROPASTORAL ADAPTIVE TRIALS
AND FORESTRY                 38,651.2  167.855 8  206,507.0  8t      7   386 S 1.678 6 2.065 1    81     7
D. ANIMAL HEALTH AND
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION         26.029. 1  198,993.9  225.023.0  88     8   260.3 1.989 9 2.250.2    88     8
E. WATER AND INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMIENT                 58.067 6  299,666.4  357.734 0   84    13  580 7 2.996 7 3.577 3     84    13
F. CONSERVATION                 91,750.7  172. 171.3  263.922.0  65    9   917 5 1.721 7 2.639.2    65      9
G. TRAINING                     44.276.2  214.687 9  258. 964 0  83    9   442 8 2. 146 9 2.589 6   83      9
H1. PROJECT MANAGEMENT         194.681.7  533,873 8  728.555.5  73    26 1,946 8 5.338 7 7.285 6    73    26
Total BASELINE COSTS             640.398 32.171.569 7 2.811.968 0  77   100 6.404 0 21.715 7 28. 119 7  77   100
Physical Contngencies          36.243 7  132,513.4  168.757 1  79      6   362 4 1.325 1  .687 6    79     6
Price Contingencies          1.480.072 4 3.872.582 1 5.352.654 5  72   190  950 2 2.527 5 3.477 7   73    12
lotal PROJECT COSTS            2,156.714 4 6. 176 665 1 8.333.379 6  74   29b 7 716 6 25.Si68 4 33.285 0  77   118
3.20    Physical contingencies  for civil works are 15 percent, and between 5
and 10 percent for all cther items. Altogether, physical contingencies
represent some 6 percent of baseline costs. Price contingencies for foreign
costs are based on expected increases in world prices. Local price
contingencies reflect anticipated local inflation, as shown in Annex 2,
together with expected exchange rate adjustments. Over six years, price
contingencies would amount to 12 percent of baseline costs. ho taxes are
included in the project costs. All imports for development projects are tax
exempt.
E. Startup Activities
3.21    The first phase of the project closed on December 31,  1987.   In order
cover the gap in funding before the second phase begins, and to undertake
preliminary studies, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) number P 485-SO
for US$ 1.3 million was approved by IDA in a letter to the Minister of
Finance of February 12, 1988 . This funding covers 87 percent of the



- 27 -
proposed activities budget. The PPF program would support preliminary
studies to detail Phase II plans in the systems investigation and
monitoring, extension, agropastoralism, and project management components.
The PPF would also support the initiation of agropastoral trials and seed
multiplication, and provide for two study tours. The funds would be used to
purchase vehicles and equipment, minor civil works, operating costs,
salaries and allowances, per diems, and technical assistance as needed for
these activities. The breakdown of PPF costs is shown below:
Table 3.2             PPF Activities Budget
( USS Dollars '000)
Systems     Agro-    Exten-    Project
Investig'n   Pastoral   sion      Mgmt/Trng    TOTAL
Civil Works              -       182         -          6         188
Vehicles               18         54        36         -          108
Plant/Equipmt         206        116        22         18         362
Technical Assistance
and Training           70        140      100         220        530
Operating Costs        25         31        56         -          112
Subtotal              314        523      214         245      1,300
(IDA financed)
Local Salaries &
Operating Expense      72         52        48         28        200
(Government financed)
TOTAL                 391        575      262         272      1,500
F. Financing
3.22   The US$ 33.3 million project would be financed by an IDA credit of
US$ 19.0 million equivalent, an ADF loan of US$ 11.0 million equivalent, and
a government contribution of USS 3.3 million equivalent. IDA and ADF would
be financing 100 percent of the foreign exchange cests and 57 percent of
local costs.
Table 3.3               Financing Plan
Percentage
US$ Millions    SDR Millions 1/      Contribution
IDA                     19.0           14.7                 57
ADF                     11.0            8.5                 33
Government               3.3            2.5                 10
Total                   33.3           25.7                100
1/ At the US dollar/SDR exchange rate at negotiations: SDR 1.0 = US$ 1.2965



- 28 -
3.23   IDA and ADF each would finance the foreign exchange costs and a
proportion of local costs in separate disbursement categories, as described
in para 3.30. Donors would participate in financing local costs in the
following categories: vehicle and other operating costs, -er d.Lems and
allowances. The Government would finance salaries and contribute towards
local expenditures in the cost categories mentioned previously. The
government contribution in local currency would be provided from the
Development Budget, as is currently done. Assurances were given that
adequate funds to cover the Government's share of local costs will be
budgeted each year and made available at the start of each quarter.  An
initial deposit of SoSh 50 million will be made into the project account by
June 30, 1989, and replenished every six months. It is a condition of
effectiveness for the IDA credit that the Government have met the conditions
for effectiveness of the ADF loan.
G. Procurement
3.24   Table 3.4 below summarizes the amount each donor would finance from
each expenditure category. and the procurement procedure to be followed.
Table 3.4        Proposed Procurement Method
Project Item                    ICB       LCB      Other     Total   X Foreign
Civil Works                                2.6        2.4        5.0       85
(ADF)                                   (2.6)      (2.4)     (5.0)
Vehicles                         6.8       0.8                   7.6        95
(IDA)                        (6.8)      (0.8)                (7.6)
T.A./Studies/Training                                 9.3        9.3      100
(IDA)                                              (9.3)     (9.3)
Salaries                                              1.7        1.7
Allowances/Per Diems                                  3.2        3.2         0
(IDA)                                              (1.2)     (1.2)
(ADF)                                              (1.2)     (1.2)
Fuel/Vehicle Op'n                0.6                  1.3        1.9       85
(IDA)                        (0.6)                 (0.3)     (0.9)
(ADF)                                              (1.0)     (1.0)
Other Operating Costs            0.S       1.8        1.8        4.5       70
(ADF)                        (0.9)      (1.8)      (1.1)     (3.8)
Total Project Cost               8.3       5.2       19.8       33.3       77
IDA Financing                    7.4       0.8       10.8       19.0
ADF Financing                    0.9       4.4        5.7       11.0
S.25  TUnder the parallel cofinancing arrangements agreed at negotiations,
IDA would finance all eligible technical assistance, training, vehicle and



- 29 -
equipment costs. It also would participate in vehicle operating costs by
financing fuel and lubricants.   IDA would also finance allowances and per
diems, contributing 50 percent of the amount financed by donors. The ADF
would finance all eligible civil works and other operating expenditures. It
would also participate in expenditures for allowances, per diems, and
vehicle operating costs. Procurement procedures for each type of item would
follow the requirements of the donor agency financing it.
3.26   Civil works for buildings and district compounds are small scale and
scattered throughout the project area.   The construction of the 70 dugouts,
the grading of project roads, and the construction of five a'rstrips would
be undertaken by force account by the project, which already owns the heavy
machinery and equipment, and has developed the expertise in this type of
cnnstruction during the first phase project. Borehole construction would be
contracted out. Procurement for the different types of civil works will be
done according to procedures agreed with ADF at negotiations.
3.27   Vehicles, equipment and spares, and fuel and lubricants under the
vehicle operating costs would be financed by IDA. These items would be
bulked into packages of USS 150,000 or more, and procured under
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Purchases of less than US$ 150,000 equivalent would not attract foreign
bidders because of their smaller contract value and the availability of
local bidders. These items would be purchased under local competitive
bidding procedures up to an aggregate maximum of US$ 700,000 over the life
of the project. Purchases of less than US$ 50,000, and purchases of certain
specialized items such as spare parts, would be undertaken under prudent
shopping procedures vitn at least three bids, and through direct contract
respectively. These purchases would be allowed up to an aggregate maximum
of US$ 500,000 over the life of the project. Vehicles would be purchased in
three separate bids to be executed in 1989, 1991, and 1993. Prior to
approving vehicle purchases, IDA would ensure that vehicle administration
and use was satisfactory, and that annual vehicle audit recommendations were
being implemented (para 4.24).
3.28    Assurances were given that, for IDA financed items, IDA would
review all ICB, LCB, prudent shopping and directly negotiated contracts of
more than US$ 20,000 equivalent prior to terdering and award. Under these
procedures 95 percent of all contracts to be financed by IDA (US$ 8.5
million) would be subject to prior review.
3.29   Internationally recruited technical assistance and consultants to be
financed by IDA would be selected according to IDA's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers' published August 1981. Contracts
for consultant services would be grouped. The SIMP team (para 3.6) would be
grouped with the Technical Manager (para 3.18). The Professor and other
short term consultants at the Faculty of Agriculture (para 3.17) would be
obtained via a twinning arrangement negotiated with an appropriate overseas
University. The Extension/Training Specialist (para 3.8) would be grouped
with the Dryland Agronomist (para 3.9). The Veterinarian (para 3.11) would
be hired separately. The remaining positions and short term consultancies
would be awarded as appropriate.   Assurances were given that terms of



- 30 -
reference, qualifications, arid terms and conditions of employment will be
satisfactory to IDA. Government and IDA would ensure that items listed in
para 4.27 are included in the terms of reference and contracts.
H. Disbursements
3.30   The IDA credit and the ADF loan would be disbursed over eight years,
the average period for projects in Somalia. Table 3.5 shows the loan and
credit allocations by category of expenditure and the percentages of
expenditure to be financed.
Table 3.5            Disbursements Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
IDA      ADF        2 Expenditure
Total Disbursed   Credit    Loan 21        Financed
Civil Works                 4.2              -      4.2              90
Vehicles and                6.4             6.4       -        10C of foreign
Equipment                                                       85 of local
Consultant Services,        7.7             7.7       -              100
Studies and Training
Allowances and Per          2.0             1.0       1.0       85 declining
Diems                                                             to 45 17
Fuel and Vehicle            1.6             0.8      0.8       100 of foreign
Operating Costs                                                 95 of local
Other Operating             3.4              -       3.4        100 of foreign
Costs                                                            45 of local
Refunding PPF               1.3             1.3      -         Disbursed amount
plus charges
Unallocated                 3.4             1.8      1.6
TOTAL                      30.0            19.0     11.0
1/ For IDA: 432 until June 30, 1992; 38Z until June 30, 1993; 33Z until June
30, 1994; and 23Z until June 30, 1995. ADF will disburse at the same rates.
2/ ADF disbursement data estimated.
3.31   IDA disbursements would be made against full documentation, except
for disbursements covering vehicle and other operating costs, allowances and
per diems for government agencies, and all contracts of less than US$ 20,000
equivalent, which would be made against statements of expenditure. The
Closing Date for this project is June 30, 1995.
3.32   In order to expedite the disbursement of IDA funds, a Special Account
would be established in an off shore commercial bank in favor of CRDP. The



- 31 -
authrized allocation of the account would be US$ 500,000. The account would
be managed by the project Fiuancial Controller. All eligible expenditures
under IDA-financed categories would be eligible for payment from the
account. Assurances were given that the Special Account would be operated
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Replenishment applications
documenting expenditures from the Special Account would be submitted on a
regular monthly basis.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.33     The PMU would be responsible for the control and use of project
resources. The Financial Controller is already in place, with financing
from the PPF. A satisfactory accounting and record keeping system was
established under Phase I. Assurances were given that: (i) records would be
kept permitting identification of all receipts and payments under the
project. These records would be made available to IDA or ADF cn request;
(ii) financial statements including a balance sheet, income and expenditure
statement, and sources and uses of funds statement would be prepared by the
PMU at the close of the fiscal year; (iii) independent auditors satisfactory
to IDA and ADF would audit project accounts and the Special Accounts at the
Central Bank, and provide IDA and ADP with certified copies of the auditor's
opinion, the long form of the audit, and a management letter, within 6
months of the close of the fiscal year; (iv) a separate audit opinion would
be provided on records and accounts used to support disbursements against
statements of expenditure; (v) the CRDP would retain a Financial Controller
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and ADF. Assurances
were given that the audit reports for fiscal years 1986 and 1987 will be
deceived by IDA and ADF by June 30, 1989. It is a condition of
effectiveness that project auditors have been hired by Government.
J. Women in the Project
3.34   The project will work with the family production system in the
rangelands, and women are an integral part of this system. In livestock
husbandry activities women and children are often responsible for the care
and milking of the small stock (sheep and goats). Men and the older boys
care for the camels and cattle. In the agropastoral areas, women provide
much of the labor associated with land preparation and weeding. The onerous
task of taking the camel trains to and from the water source is shared
within the family. Although the woman plays an important role in the
family's productive activities, the man has the major role in deciding on
the allocation and use of the family's resources. More information would be
gathered on the role of women in this pastoral society as part of the
multidisciplinary investigation of pastoral production systems (para 4.8).
A rural sociologist would be hired to address issues such as this, and guide
project interventions according to the findings of these studies.
3.35   It is difficult for males to communicate extension mesaages to women.
Using female extension agents would help to overcome this problem and to



- 32 -
establish important links established with the people doing much of the
actual work. Assurances were given thrt the Government will include an
adequate number of qualified female extension agents in the project.
K. Environmental Impact
3.36   The project wil' have a positive effect on the rangeland environment.
Preventing the degradation of the long-term productive capacity of the
Central Rangelands is an important project objective, and is congruent with
national programs to prevent desertification. The project would test
agroecological monitoring techniques, and generate a lot of new information
to use in formulating a national anti-desertification program.   The
intensive multidisciplinary study and monitoring program supported by the
project (para 3.6) would lead to a much broader understanding of the factors
causing a deterioration of the rangelands. Soil conservation would be
enhanced from the proposed strip cropping techniques in cultivated areas,
live fencing of cropped areas and reserves, the establishment of town
shelterbelts, tree planting, and sand dune stabilization sites, and the
setting aside of grazing reserves. Stricter application of the laws
governing conservation of flora and fauna, and management of rangelands
(para 4.2) will reduce the extraction of endangered wood species for
charcoal and improve the protection of wildlife. The conservation component
(para 3.15) would establish reserves within the Central and the Northern
Rangelands. These reserves would protect endangered species of wildlife,
trees, and shrubs.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.1    Execution of the second phase of the project is the responsibility of
the Central Rangelands Development Project organization. Implementation of
the first phase was the responsibility of the NRA, which has a presence in
all regions of the country. In order to streamline the administration of
rangelands development in the Central Rangelands, the staff and
infrastructure corresponding to the three regions of Hiran, Galgudud, and
Mudug were separated off from NRA and given separate status as a project
implementation organization, known as the Central Rangelands Development
Project (CRDP). This separation was sanctioned by Ministerial Directive of
February 21, 1988 (Annex 6) and has strengthened CRDP's financial and
administrative independence which existed since the Mid Term Review of March
3984 (para 2.46). CRDP has to implement all the laws which come under the
responsibility of the MLFR, including those referring to Range Management
and Wildlife Conservation (para 4.2).
4.2    Activities pertaining to range management and fauna and flora
conservation in Somalia operate under four different pieces of legislation:
Law No. 15, Law No. 23, Law No. 68, and Law No. 3. Law No. 15 was signed in



- 33 -
January 1969 and addresses Fauna and Forest Conservation (para 2.29). Law
No. 23, signed in August 1976, created the NRA. Law No. 68, of October
1970, provided further regulation on forestry range and wildlife activities.
This Law was superseded by Law No. 3, signed in February 1979. Law No. 3 is
an Act for the conservation, development, and management of rangeland, and
the fight against desertification (Annex 8, Document C.7). This law gives
the Minister of Livestock, Forestry and Range the power to create grazing
reserves. It also permits the NRA, and hence CRDP to manage these reserves,
create Rarge and Livestock Associations, control and use water supplies in
the rangelands, take measures to promote rangeland conservation, manage a
Range Fund, and penalize all infractions.
Organizational Struzture
4.3    The organizational structure of CRDP is depicted in Annex 7. The
project General Manager heads the organization and reports directly to the
Minister of Livestock, Forestry and Range. The General Manager is assisted
in his duties by a Field Manager and an internationally recruited Technical
Manager. The Field Manager ensures that the logistical apparatus is
functioning satisfactorily. This function includes: (i) managing the fuel
supplies, particularly for Mogadishu and the field offices; (ii) maintaining
field offices and equipment; (iii) facilitating communications between field
offices and headquarters, and (iv) monitoring the allocation, use, and
repair of vehicles. The Technical Manager oversees the many research and
investigation activities in the project. This person also is directly
responsible for the coordination and implementation of the multidisciplinary
team to investigate production systems. A Somali director heads up each of
the departments within CRDP: Systems Investigation and Monitoring,
Agropastoralism, Extension, Water and Infrastructure Development,
Conservation, and Administration and Finance. All directors report to the
General Manager and are supported by a team of local and expatriate staff.
Assurances were given that the General Manager, Technical Manager, Financial
Controller and Field Manager will be in place by June 30, 1989.
4.4    At the field level, regional and district range officers will
continue to handle the logistical and administrative arrangements for all
field personnel. Technical guidance in specialized fields will be provided
by the appropriate senior technical staff. Extension, agropastoral, animal
health, and forestry personnel will report to the Extension Department,
based in Mogadishu. District range officers will handle follow-up and
supervision of project initiatives in their districts. This function covers
village shelter belts, forestry plantations, seedling production, sand dune
stabilization, monitoring information, maintenance of dugouts and boreholes,
and interaction with leaders and local officials.
4.5    A Project Management Committee will meet once every two weeks to
discuss policy questions, review problems, and improve awareness and
coordination across components. This committee will be headed by the
General Manager and will include all the Department Directors, the Technical
Manager, and the Financial Controller. The committee will make decisions
on: (i) the assignment of staff to training courses; (ii) proposals
submitted under the RLA Development Fund; (iii) the annual work program and
budget; (iv) District Management Plans; and (v) technologies for



- 34 -
dissemination th,ough the extension service. Minutes of the Project
Management Committee meetings would be reviewed by IDA and ADF supervision
missions. Assurances were given that the Project Management Committee would
be establised by June 30, 1989.
4.6    A Project Steering Committee was established under Phase I and meets
every six months to review project implementation, work plans, and budgets.
Assurances were given that this committee be chaired by the Minister of
Livestock, Forestry and Range, and include the project General Manager,
representatives from each of the concerned donors and a representative from
the Ministry of Finance.
B. Component Implementation
Sysrems Investigation and Monitoring
4.7    Implementation of these activities (paras 3.6-3.7) would be the
responsibility of the Systems Investigation and Monitoring Department. This
department will be headed by the Technical Director and receive technical
advice and support from the Technical Manager. The department would
include: (i) the multidisciplinary team for production systems investigation
and surveys; (ii) the ecological monitoring unit; (iii) the documentat..on
center; and (iv) the herbarium.
4.8    The multidisciplinary team for production systems investigation
would be headed by the Technical Manager, who would provide guidance, and
direction, and partial field assistance. The field team would include
internationally and locally recruited staff. Internationally recruited staff
would include a Range Manager/Ecologist, a Sociologist, and a Dryland
Agronomist. The Agronomist also would lead in the Agropastoral
investigation work. Locally recruited staff would include a Livestock
Specialist and range management personnel. The internationally recruited
Systems Analyst/Agricultural Economist, would assist the team in des:igning
surveys and analyzing data.  He would also head up the ecological monitoring
unit. The multidisciplinary team for production systems investigation
would carry out simple studies of the most important aspects of the
production systems tentatively identified in para 2.26. Two production
systems would be surveyed each year, so that all systems would have been
studied over a four year period. In surveying each production system, the
investigation team would be assisted by a team of locally recruited
extension staff, who would then stay on as permanent staff in the district
surveyed. Extension staff already placed in districts would be incorporated
into the multidisciplinary team for the survey. One function of the
multidisciplinary team would be to design and initiate monitoring systems to
study: (i) returns to range management, (ii) methods to improve soil and
water conservation; (iii) useful interventions in livestock production and
health; (iv) pastoral production systems; (v) pastoral husbandry systems,
and (vi) the agropastoral system. The Ecological Monitoring Unit would
follow up on the collection and analysis of this data.



- 35 -
4.9    Under the supervision of the Systems Anal st/Agricultural Economist,
the Ecological Monitoring Unit would be responsible fort (i) collecting,
receiving, and analyzing all ecological, agricultural, sociological, and
economic data collected by permanent district staff; (ii) implementing four
Systematic Reconnaissance Flights to estimate livestock and vegetation
biomass during sequential wet and dry seasons; (iii) interpreting sequential
stages of satellite and aerial photo coverage of the project area; and (iv)
compiling and analyzing data gathered by the automatic meterological
recording stations. Information obtained from these four sources would be
utilized to produce maps and charts and determine trends, changes and
correlations with other phenomena. A key tool in the manipulation of this
data would be the computer-based geographic information system to be
purchased by the project. Assistance in operating this system from the
Global Environment Monitoring System at UNEP in Nairobi would ensure that
the information stored is compatible with UNEP's Global Resource Information
Database (Annex 8, Document A.2).
Management Plans
4.10   The production system survey may only cover a small proportion of a
given district. In each district included by the project, the district
range officer and the district extension team would undertake a
predevelopment survey of the whole district. Based on the characteristics
identified for the production systems prevailing in the district, management
proposals would be developed for discussion with CRDP and local authorities.
Once approved, these proposals would become the District Management Plans
and would be used to guide project interventions and activities in the
district. Assurances were given that no dugouts or boreholes would be
constructed in the Central Rangelands that had not been approved by the
Project Management Committee and incorporated in the relevant District
Management Plan.
Extension
4.11   Under this component, extension work done under the non-formal
education component in Phase I (para 3.8) would be continued.
Responsibility for implementation will rest with the Director of the
Extension Department in Mogadishu, assisted by the Extension and Training
Specialist. The structure of the extension service would be as follows. A
village extension worker would be hired to work at the 'degaan' level with
local pastoralists and help form an RLA in priority districts where the
project is active. In agropastoral areas, a visitation schedule would be
established during the two growing seasons. A district extension officer,
while working with the members of the Odegaan,' would supervise and train
village extension workers. One district extension officer would be assigned
to up to three 'degaans', depending on the intensity of the work and local
receptivity to the project *messages.' Monthly training sessions would be
provided to the district extension officers by subject matter specialists
from the Mogadishu-based Extension Department, the agropastoral program, or
the animal health and livestock production program. Three training sessions
would be run per month, one for each of the regions. The training facility
at Aborey would be rehabilitated and used for some of the courses.



- 36 -
4.12   The extension service would serve as a vehicle for project community
development and technology transfer activities. Initial contacts with
district communities would be established during the pre-development surveys
(para 4.8) and the formulation of District Management Plans. Low key
interventions -- village shelter belts, stabilizatiorn of small dunes,
improvement of shallow wells -- would be coordinated through the extension
service. At the same time the extension service would be working towards
the formation of community groups and RLAs. The extension service would
have to (i) organize the community support needed by the animal health and
livestock production staff in their herd surveys and for the identification
and training of NAHAs; (ii) help to establish the demonstration farms under
the agropastoral trials program; (iii) transfer the improved cultivation and
water harvesting techniques developed under the trials program; (iv)
negotiate on the size, location, and purpose of grazing reserves, or flora
and fauna reserves; (v) negotiate on the location of dugouts and boreholes,
and organize and sustain the eventual RLA operation and maintenance of this
infrastructute; and (vi) administer an RLU 'velopment Fund (para 4.13).
Range and Livestock Association Development   ad
4.13   A fund of USS 300,000 would be established under the project to
support village-level initiatives sponsored by RLA's requiring small but
important cash outlays. Potential uses of this fund might include grants
for community infrastructure or loans for small production entei,rises.
Community infrastructure might include schools, community buildings, pumps,
wells, market places, and hand pumps where labor and some materials would be
obtained locally. Small productive enterprises might include fodder
production, honey or ghee production or marketing, production of improved
implements, or harnesses introduced under the project. Proposals would be
reviewed and vetted by the extension service. Final approval would rest
with the Project Management Committee. Assurances were given that the fund
would be established by December 31, 1989 and would be used only to support
proposals which: (i) supported an RLA which could have received up to two
prior grants; (i') had a contribution of at least 25 percent of the value
from local sources (in labor or materials); and (iii) did not involve a CRDP
cash contribution of more than US$ 2,500 equivalent.  Tn the case of support
to privately owned productive enterprises, assurances were given that funds
would be provided as loans, at interest rates consistent with those charged
by local commercial banks. Repayment terms shall not exceed five years.
Agropastoral Adaptive Trials and Forestry
4.14   The Agropastoral Department would be charged with the adaptive trials
program (para 3.9).  Most of the work would be in the Bulo Burti and Ceel
Dhere districts, the focus of water harvesting and agropastoral activity.
The team running the trials would use the extension service to set up
demonstration plots with the improved crops and techniques. New
technologies would be disseminated by the extension service once they are
tested and approved for distribution by the Project Management Committee
(para 4.5). The annual agropastoral trials program would be cleared with
the Directorate of Research at the Ministry of Agriculture. The project
team would periodically visit the dryland agricultural research station at
Bonka in Baidoa in order to ensure a sharing of results and experience.



- 37 -
4.15   The initial agropastoral trials program would be designed by the
Dryland Agronomist and Soils Specialist brought in under the PPF (para
3.21). The prominent features of this program are as follows. Live fencing
trials using varieties of Commiphora would be implemented to reduce tree
cutting for fences. Agroforestry trials would be implemented using
multipurpose fodder, wood, and shade trees mixed with local species such as
Terminalia Spii.osa, Acacia Senegal, and Acacia Albida. Strip clearir.g
trials would be done to determine the most appropriate width and placement
of the cropping strips being proposed in lieu of the circular areas cleared
now. Species elimination trials would serve to test the growLh rates and
usefulness of local trees, bushes, and grasses. Tests would be run on the
suitability of different crops -- millet and mungbean show promise -- and on
soil fertility and returns to fertilizer use, rotation measures, plant
densities, intercropping systems, and weeding rates. Water harvesting
trials would test means of making better use of rainwater runoff for
cultivation. Finally, trials would be run to make more effective use of the
high water table that exists in certain locations.
4.16   A seed multiplication and storage facility would be established to
support the trials and extension program. The site chosen for this facility
would have irrigation potential close to the Shebelli River in Bulo Burti.
The detailed program would be designed by a Seeds Specialist and Irrigation
Engineer to be brought in under the PPF (para 3.21).
4.17   The forestry component would complement the GTZ-supported forestry
activities in Beletwayne, Dusa Mareb, and Galcaio.   In these areas large
nurseries have been established and successful forestry trials are under way
using irrigation and water harvesting. Nurseries would be established in
the priority districts as these are extended. An Arid Land Forester would
be hired to design a seedling production, village tree planting, and shelter
belt program, and to supervise it periodically. This consultant also would
advise on the forestry aspects of the agroforestry and high water table
trials.
Animal Health and Livestock
4.18   Leadership for this component would remain with the GTZ Veterinary
Team in Beletwayne. The additional veterinarian to be hired under Phase II
would live in Beletwayne or Bulo Burti. The herd monitoring and NAHA
program would be expanded in the priority districts, and gradually extended
over the Central Rangelands (para 3.11). The same strategy used in Phase I
in the herd monitoring and NAHA program would be followed in Phase II (Annex
8, Document A.1). Preliminary surveys would establish the incidence of
disease, production coefficients, and husbandry practices. This information
would be used to establish a disease prevention and control program and to
develop improved nutrition and husbandry practices.
4.19   The supply of veterinary drugs and medicines is a chronic constraint.
Supplies can only be insured if the full cost of drugs and medicines is
recovered from the pastoralists, and if suffIcient foreign exchange is made
available to ensure that stocks can be replenished by imports. A provision
has been made for a US$250,000 revolving fund to be managed by the Financial
Department of CRDP. This fund would be replenished in local currency from



- 38 -
the sale of drugs to the RLAs and lAHAs. Assurances were given that
veterinary drugs and medicines from the CRDP revolving fund are sold to
RLA's at wholesale free market prices. The CRDP will prepare a regulation
satisfactory to IDA to govern administration of this fund by June 30, 1989.
Water and Infrastructure Development
4.20   The availability of water affects all activities in the project area
and is a key determinant of degradation patterns. The implementation of
this component would be the responsibility of the 'Water and InfrastrucLure
Development Department. Techniques for dugout construction have been tried
and tested, and a satisfactory standard design for a 2,500 to 3,000 cubic
meter pond has evolved (para 2.9). Because the pond is temporary, the year-
round carrying capacity of the range would not be affected, and the
nutritional status of animals would be improved. Successful filling and
water holding is still very much conditioned on skill in location and choice
of soil quality. Techniques to seal the more porous soils would be
investigated. The rehabilitation of wellheads with concrete and the
construction of watering troughs have been well received by herdsmen and
will continue. As many as five boreholes could be funded by the project, in
cases where large expanses of forage are underutilized, and access to
alternate water sources is not possible. These boreholes would be
constructed under contract (para 3.26). All other civil works included in
this component would be undertaken using the heavy equipment already owned
by the project entity. A borehole service unit also would be funded under
the project.
Conservation
4.21   A small CRDP Conservation Unit would be established in the Systems
Investigation and Monitoring Department. This uni* would work with the MLFR
Wildlife Department in implementing conservation activities (para 3.15).
The purpose of these activities would be to establish reserves which protect
select species of wildlife and vegetation from human exploitation and
destruction. Preliminary work in defining the boundaries of reserves within
the Central Rangelands would take place under the leadership of the Range
Management/Wildlife Specialist. The Specialist also would establish
agreements with local communities. In all these activities he would receive
the support of the extension service and range officers. Armed guards and
wardens would not be put in place until the reserves were established and
demarcated and infrastructure put in place. In the Northern Rangelands, the
Wildlife Department, under the leadership of the Range Management/Wildlife
Specialist, would identify and demarcate reserves, and conduct the community
work needed to declare the reserve and the establish guards. The CRDP
Conservation Unit would include the wildlife specialist mentioned above and
two locally-trained assistant wildlife specialists. Funds would be provided
from the Training component (para 3.17) to train personnel at the Afgoi
Forestry and Wildlife Training School and the Hweka Wildlife Training Center
in Tanzania. To the extent feasible, the conservation reserves to be
established would not infringe on the grazing and watering rights of the
pastoralists who normally use the land. This provision would not apply to
reserves set aside for climax ecological environments.



- 39 -
Training
4.22   Project training activities would be coordinated by the Technical
Manager and personnel to be trained would be approved by the Project
Management Committee (para 4.5).  Assurances were given that a proposal,
satisfactory to IDA, for a project training facility in Bulo Burti district
be submitted by June 30, 1989. Assurances were also given that the
training program would be run under the following guideliness (i) only CRDP
personnel with more than a year's experience in the project are eligible for
training; (ii) personnel only will be trained if they and the Government
agree they will return to work in a position that is predetermined prior to
their departure.
Prolect Administration
4.23   Fuel   The availability of fuel affects all project activities.
Fuel for project use is normally provided by the Government's National
Petroleum Agency. The project will need about 400,000 liters of diesel and
80,000 liters of petrol a year. Headquarters has storage capacity for
40,000 liters of fuel. UTnder the second phase of the project, an additional
20,000 litre tank will be installed in Mogadishu, and 3,000 litre tanks will
be placed at each district compound. In order to simplify the logistics of
fuel supply and reduce fuel consumption all vehicles purchased under the
second phase will run on diesel fuel. Assurances were given that, in the
event fuel is not available from Government sources, the project will be
authorized to purchase fuel from alternate sources, including direct
importation.
4.24   Vehicles   The careful maintenance and use of a large fleet of four
wheel-drive vehicles and heavy trucks and tractors is essential to a
successful project. Distances are long, and roads are in bad need of
repair. Under the second phase, the workshop and vehicle maintenance
facility established during CRDP I would be consolidated and expanded.
Vehicle purchases under the project would occur in three groups (para 3.27.
In order to improve conservation, assurances were given that an annual
audit be undertaken of vehicle use to verify the use of sound management
practices in vehicle maintenance and operation. This audit would certify
that, among other sound management practices: (i) log books be kept on
vehicles used in the project; (ii) project vehicles are only be used on
official business; and (iii) drivers are held responsible for the condition
of their vehicle, tool kit and spares, which would be ascertained every
20,000 km. At these inspection points, drivers whose vehicles are in better
condition than the norm would receive an increase in remuneration. The
vehicle use audit report would be provided to IDA and ADF by June 30 of each
year. Continued funding of vehicle purchases for the project will be
contingent on the use of sound management practices in vehicle maintenance
and operation (para 3.27).
4.25   Salaries, Allowances and Perdiems   Inadequate remuneration of local
staff has affected implementation of Phase I. To address this problem, IDA
and ADF would provide funding for allowances and perdiems. Assurances were
given that (i) the Government will put in place a revised structure for
project staff remuneration (including salaries, allowances and perdiems) by
December 31, 1989. The new structure shall be based on the one provided to



- 40 -
IDA and ADF at appraisal (Annex 3, Table 12); (ii) that remuneration for
locally hired staff will be adjusted annually in order to maintain the
purchasing power of the salary structure submitted to IDA and ADF as of
March 1988; and (iii) staffing levels will not exceed those indicated in
the appraisal cost tables (Annex 3), without IDA and ADF authorization.
4.26   Office Space   The Government has agreed that adequate offices and
other rooms in the NRA headquarters building would be allocated to CRDP
staff during Phase II.
C. Technical Assistance
4.27   Technical assistance requirements for the project are heavy. Some 45
person-years of technical assistance would be provided for ten positions
Technical Manager, Financial Controller, Systems Analyst/Agricultutal
Economist, Sociologist, Range Management/Ecology Expert, Extension Training
Specialist, Dryland Agronomist, Veterinarian, Range Management/Wildlife
Specialist, and Professor of Range Management. Requirements are heavy for
several reasons. First, the research, systems investigation, and monitoring
work to be undertaken is sophisticated and local expertise for this work is
not available. Second, guidance will be needed in new undertakings such as
agropastoral trials, wildlife conservation, and the rangelands extension
system. Third, a short period of specialized input is needed to perfect
techniques in financial management, and to teach range management in the
University.   In order to ensure that as much expertise as possible is
transferred, consultant contracts (to be reviewed by IDA (para 3.29)) would
include paragraphs to ensure that (i) trained local staff are assigned to
work with the expert; (ii) training priority is given to those local staff
who do work with an expert; (iii) each expert teaches and produces
documentation on his contribution to the project. The experts would be
expected to teach one short course each year, involving one week of
preparation time and 2/3 days of lecture time. Experts also, would produce
a short paper on the application of the concepts in their field to the
Somali situation. In addition, each expert would write a final report that
would be due before he received final payment. This report would review his
contribution to the project, summarize papers produced and research
conclusions, and provide clear guidelines for the continuation of work
initiated du.ring his tenure. Conditions to this effect would be included in
all technical assistance contracts negotiated under the project.
4.28   Technical assistance staff would be hired either individually, or as
a team (para 3.29), as determined by the nature of the task to be
undertaken. In the case of the technical assistance to the Faculty of
Agriculture, the most appropriate type of support would be a twinning
arrangement with an appropriate overseas University, so that a long term
teaching and training relationship can be established (para 3.29). Draft
terms of reference have been drafted for each of the positions (Annex 8,
Document A.6). All matters pertaining to the management of technical
assistance would be handled by the General Manager and the Technical
Manager.



- 41 -
D. Planning, Monitoring and Reporting
4.29   A small Planning Department would produce the annual work program and
monitor its implerventation. A system for doing this already is in place. It
is used to build up an annual budget based on submissions from each
district. Satisfactory indicators of performance have been defined and are
in use. The definition of each district's implementation targets is used to
determine the annual budget. The budget then is used as the basis for
submitting local funding requirements to Government. In order to provide
Departmental managers with the information on the resources available to
them, assurances were given that a budget for operating costs and a fuel
budget will be prepared. The shilling budget for operating costs would
cover per diems and supplies and would be prepared quarterly by each
department. The budget would be presented in shillings. It would include a
breakdown of funds available and funds expended as the fiscal year
progresses. The fuel budget also would be prepared by each department on a
quarterly basis. Managers would be advised of the fuel available and
expended each quarter as the fiscal year progresses. Assurances were given
that the Government will submit drafts of the annual work program, the
annual budget, and the shilling budget for personal and operating costs to
IDA and ADF by November 30 of each project year. The documents would be
examined and revised before they are submitted to the Ministry of Finance.
The final versions would be submitted to IDA and ADF on approval by
Government.
4.30   Monitoring information would be collected by the Planning Department
and compiled into semi-annual progress reports. Assurances were given that
semi-annual progress reports with both physical and financial information
will be provided to IDA and ADF by July 31 of each year, and annual progress
reports by January 31. Evaluation of project impact would be assessed under
the systems investigation and monitoring component, and periodic reports
would be provided as studies were completed. Assurances were given that
project management will prepare a mid-term review report after the first
three years of implementation assessing the progress and impact of the
project, identifying major problems and constra'.nts, and making
recommendations for modifications in organization and design. This report
will be prepared under terms of reference agreed with IDA and ADF, and
will be presented to IDA and ADF by March 31, 1992.   After the report is
reviewed, a joint mid-term review mission would be conducted, to ratify the
recommended changes. The mission would include representatives from all
participating donors and government agencies.
4.31   The indicative Implementation Schedule in Annex 5 shows when each of
the districts would be considered a priority for project interventions.
Precedence is given to those districts already worked in. Bulo Burti, Ceel
Dhere, and Hobbyo are all priority districts from Year 1. Jalalaxi,
Harardhere, and Ceel Bur are included in Year 2. Full project intervention
in a district could not take place however, until the District Management
Plans were agreed to (para 4.10). The Completion Date for the project would
be December 31, 1994.



- 42 -
V. PRODUCTION, MAURKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Incremental Production
5.1      Incremental production from this project would result from the
effects of the expanded anihial health assistance program, the agropastoral
trials and extension program, and the strategic dugout construction program.
Expanding the animal health assistance program would result in additional
animal and milk production. The agropastoral trials and extension program,
which would contain desertification, would reduce clearing activities and
increase the production of pulses, grains, and forage. The dugout
construction program would improve nutrition by making additional forage
available for consumption at the beginning of the dry season. This in turn
would boost animal offtake weights and milk production.   Estimates of these
increases are based on investigation work undertaken in the first phase,
including detailed surveys by the GTZ veterinary team. Detailed tables
supporting the estimates are presented in Aunex 4.
5.2    The incremental output from herds due to veterinary interventions is
as follows:
Table 5.1:   Annual Increase in Animal Production
from Animal Health Activities
Sheep/Goats         Milk
(No.)           ('000 1)
Agropastoral Herds                  1,070               193
Pastoral Herds                      3,670               975
This increase in production would be the result of a fairly modest program
under which some 120 NAHAs are trained and 1,800 herds assisted. Each NAHA
would be able to assist 15 herds. Two standard sheep\goat herds, one for
agropastoral areas 85 animals, and the other for pastoral areas with 256
animals. An adoption rate of 85 percent means that about 1,530 herds, half
agropastoral and half pastoral, would respond to project interventions.
This includes some 261,000 animals, or 3 percent of the region's sheep and
goat population. The animal offtake rate would increase from 26-27 percent
of the average herd size to 28 percent a year, an increase of 6 to 7
percent. The exact rate of increase would depend on whether agropastoral or
rangelands herds are considered. Increases in milk of 250 liters a year per
agropastoral herd, or 1,275 liters a year per pastoral herd are posited.
These would result from biannual deworming and the provision of mineral
supplements (para 2.19). The increased weight and health of animals sold
would yield additional benefits estimated at 15 percent of the selling
price. The deworming treatment is easily given, requires little additional
labor, and is actively sought by pastoralists. The treatment of sheep and
goats for pleuropneumonia and the treatment of camels and cattle for
trypanosomiasis and clamydiosis would generate additional benefits which
have not been quantified.



- 43 -
5.3    The estimates of incremental output from agropastoral activities are
as follows:
Table 5.2:   Annual Increase in Crop Production (tons)
Sorghum                    3,400
Cowpea                    11,800
Mungbeans                   1,800
Forage Dry Matter         93,400
These estimates assume that 70 village extension workers in agropastoral
areas work through some 2,800 contact farmers and are able to reach some
14,000 farmers. Of those farmers reached, 75 percent, or 10,500 are assumed
to adopt the improved technology. Production increases are the result of
techniques already in use (para 2.25), some of which will be further refined
in the trials program (para 4.15). Forage production is valued at a sale
price of SoSh 5 per kg of dry matter to include benefits resulting from the
availability of additional fodder during the dry season. Benefits to live
fencing from reduced erosion and have not been included, nor have benefits
from introducing millet and other crops, and increased fodder production.
5.4    The incremental output from the water development component are
estimated using the livestock herds analyzed for the veterinary component.
The increases are as follows:
Table 5.3    Annual Increase in Animal Production from
Water Development Activities
Sheep/Goats (animals)          6,900
Milk (liters)                185,000
The increase in areas available for grazing is assumed to take place within
a 10-km radius of the water point to be constructed. The increase would
amount to about 15 percent of the project area when the target of 70 dugouts
and 5 boreholes is completed. The additional grazing area utilized has been
reduced by 60 percent to reflect the overlapping coverage of water points,
difficulty of access, and variations in forage quality. The carrying
capacity of these areas is calculated based on the current average of some
15.7 TLU per square kilometer over wet and dry seasons. Improved nutrition
and reduced stress from lack of water would increase offtake from 26 percent
to 26.5 percent. Concurrent increases would take place in milk production.
B. Markets and Prices
5.5    The nature of the marketing system in the project area has been
described in paras 2.33 - 2.35. No problems are foreseen with having the
market absorb the additional offtake. Pecent analyses of the Middle East
market indicate that, even with increasing competition from Turkey, Sudan,
Australia and New Zealand, there is still an unsatisfied demand for Somali
sheep and goats due to their unique meat and fat characteristics. Peak



- 44 -
demand for small ruminants occurs during the Haj religious festivals. Some
of the constraints to livestock marketing noted previously are being
addressed under the USAID Livestock Marketing Project (para 1.12). Other
difficulties in livestock marketing should be taken up under future
agricultural policy adjustment projects.
5.6    The project area has a deficit in grain foods.  Incremental pulse and
grain production would be consumed by the producing families, or it would
be sold to supplement the meager supplies available in the region.   Milk
forms a large part of the pastoral4st diet and provides a large proportion
of the necessary calories and protein. It would be consumed locally.
5.7    Prices fluctuate during the year according to the availability of
fodder and water and changes in international market prospects.  Changes in
the exchange rate regime, taxation policy, and snipping alternatives all
affect the prices received on the range. The marketing system, which is
traditional, responds rapidly to price signals.  Although sales are made on
a per animal basis, a premium is received for quality. The price levels
prevailing at appraisal during the middle of the long dry season (March
1988), have been averaged across locations. They are presented below.
Table 5.4       Financial Prices at the Farmgate
(per animal)
(US$)     (US$)
(SoSh)  (official)  (market)
Sheep                       3,900      39          19
Goat                        2,900      29          14
Camel                      24,000     240         118
Cow                        14,400     144          71
Cow milk (litre)              104       1.04        0.51
Camel milk (litre)             70       0.70        0.34
Goat milk (litre)              89       0.89        0.44
These prices seem reasonable when are compared with a standard sheep/goat
CIF price of US$ 42 per animal in Saudi Arabia or Yemen as indicated in a
recent study (para 2.33). When translated to the rangeland, the export
parity price per animal is between SoSh 2,800 and 6,100, depending on the
exchange rate used.
C. Beneficiary Income Levels
5.8    Family incomes are hard to estimate in the absence of surveys which
might characterize production systems. Because each agropastoral family
engages in a combination of cropping and animal husbandry activities, it is
difficult to come up with estimates of incremental production as was done
for crop and livestock activities. While pastoral families concentrate on
herding they will have herds of varying composition and size, the
characteristics of which are still conjectural. Financial returns to the



- 45 -
different activities are calculated in Annex 4 and the results are shown
below:
Table 5.5    Financial Returns to Productive Activities
Without Project      With Project
SoSh     US$          SoSh    US$
Agropastoral Farm                 70:200    700        108,200   1,100
Per Cap   10,000    100         15,500   1,550
Per Day      250    2.5            330      3.3
Agropastoral Herd                185,400  1,850        222,100   2,200
Per Cap   26,500    260         31,700      320
Per Day      340    3.4            400      4.0
Pastoral Herd                    548,800  5,500        696,500   7,000
Per Cap   78,400    780         99,500   1,000
Per Day      330    3.3            420      4.2
These results should be taken as only indicative, as the data are rough.
Home consumption of milk, cereals, and occasional animals is included as
income. Returns appear to be well above the going wage of SoSh 150 per day.
Family size is estimated at 7 persons, although some surveys have shown
family sizes averaging 15 persons. The higher number would reduce per
capita earnings, which appear high.   Some 1.5 persons per year are
considered necessary to care for the agropastoral herd, and 4.5 persons for
the pastoral herd. The surveys undertaken in the project will permit a
refinement of this analysis.
D. Cost Recovery
5.9    To the extent the project is successful in maintaining and increasing
current levels of offtake, Government tax revenues will increase. Sales of
sheep and goats at local livestock markets are taxed as follows: the buyer
pays 15 percent and the seller pays 5 percent on the value of the sale. In
addition, if the livestock is exported, Government receives an export tax of
5 percent on the FOB price. Sheep and goats from the Central Rangelands
represent 20 and 40 percent respectively of the country's exports of these
animals (para 2.35). If livestock exports grow at only 1 percent per annum
from the 1985-87 levels, the additional revenues generated from increased
offtake from the project should cover recurrent cost requirements after the
project investment period has finalized (Annex 4, Table 8). As donor
disbursements for local expenditures decline, the Government capacity to
absorb them will increase, as tax revenues from livestock sales go up.
5.10   An objective under the project is to create RLAs capable of
maintaining project infrastructure (para 4.12). At present pastoralists pay
for water from boreholes and burkaads (para 2.9). Under the extension
component, RLAs would be encouraged to take over the administration of the



- 46 -
water points (dugouts, boreholes) constructed under both phases of the
project, and to charge suifficient to cover operation and maintenance costs.
Current borehole water charges of SoSh 3.0 per camel, SoSh 2.0 per cow or
bullock, and SoSh 0.5 per sheep or goat are adequate to cover the cost of
administering and maintaining a water point. Assurances were given that
charges adequate to cover maintenance requiremente -ill be assessed for the
use of water from dugouts and boreholes constructed under the project
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
6.1     The main benefits from this project will come from the reduced
degradation of the rangelands. This stabilization will be brought about
through several efforts. First, improved range management practices and the
gradual introduction of reserves of different kinds. Second, research into
rangeland production factors (vegetation, climate, soils, herd dynamics,
human population dynamics and characteristics) will permit the
identification of further measures to increase sustainable productivity, and
or reduce erosion of natural resources and improve living standards. Third,
organization of pastoralists would improve management and maintenance of
common range and water resources. Fourth, improved NRA/CRDP control and
management would limit exploitative practices such as charcoal production,
wood harvesting for construction, and private enclosure of rangeland.
Finally, CRDP actions to stabilize dtuies, plant trees, grow forage, and
disseminate improved, less erosive cultivation practices would prevent
further erosion. The impact from these activities has not been quantified.
The effect of these activities is difficult to measure since it takes place
gradually over long periods and can not be substantiated by reliable data.
The productive returns from interventions in animal health, crop production,
and water distribution have been modeled to derive an estimate of econo:ic
benefits.
A. Economic Analysis
6.2    Returns from the following improvements have been quantified in an
effort to portray the minimum conditions under which a 10 percent rate of
return could be attained: Mi) increased productivity from agropastoral
cropping in the agroclimatically more advantaged South and Southeast of the
project area; (ii) improved productivity from sheep and goat herds in
agropastoral areas and in purely pastoral areas, resulting from minimal
improvements in animal health; and (iii) enhanced nutrition in sheep and
goat herds due to the availability of additional water and pasture in the
first months of the dry season, associated with dugout construction
activities.   The critical production assumptions have ueen discussed in
paras 5.1 - 5.4. It should be noted that the returns to animal health
activities do not include the treatment of camels and cattle for
trypanosomiasis and other diseases, for lack of adequate data.
6.3    The economic analysis was undertaken in constant March 1988 prices. A
shadow exchange rate of SoSh 203 to the US dollar was applied to traded



- 47 -
commodities, yielding a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.5. Sheep and goat
output was valued CIF Saudi Arabia/Yemen and translated back to the Central
Rangelands on an export parity basis. Sheep and goat prices were projected
to rise along the trends forecast by the Bank in its Half Yearly Forecast,
published in January 1988. The output of sorghum was priced on an export
parity basis, assuming export to a neighboring African country. Prices and
real price trends were taken from the Bank forecasts mentioned previously.
Milk was valued at the local trice of SoSh 70 per litre, USS 0.34 per litre
at the shadow exchange rate. Labor was valued at the market wage of SoSh
150 per day. Farm costs included the cost of tools for farming, occasional
hired labor, and medication and mineral supplements for the livestock herds.
All of these costs were included when incremental benefit streams were
derived (Annex 4).
6.4    Off farm costs included all project investment costs with the
exception of the Systems Investigation and Monitoring, and Conservation
components.   These two components, whose costs represent 23 percent of
total project costs, are justified by their research and conservation
objectives. The Project Management and Training components were adjusted
downward 23 percent to reflect the overhead requirements of the two
components mentioned abcve. All remaining project costs, including physical
contingencies, were adjusted to reflect the value of traded items.
Recurrent costs equal to 50 percent of the recurrent costs incurred in Year
6 were applied to the remaining 19 years of the 25-year stream. This figure
provides an estimate of the continued effort needed to maintain project
benefits.
6.5    The economic rate of return of 10 percent could be attained if three
conditions hold. First, at least 10,500 farmers need to adopt the improved
agropastoral practices. The efforts in extension, trials, and seed
multiplication under the project should achieve this result. Second, a
minimum of 1,530 sheep and goat herds must adopt the improved animal health
practices put forward under the project. This represents some 260,000
animals -- less than 3 percent of the sheep and goats in the project area,
an attainable target. Third, the utilization of at least 15 percent of the
project area must be improved. This improvement will take place through the
strategic location of new temporary water points, and also appears
attainable.
B. Non-quantifiable Benefits
6.6    In addition to the benefits mentioned in paras 6.1 and 6.2, the
project will generate further important but unquantifiable benefits to the
country. These include:
(i)    clarification of the environmental situation in the Central
Rangelands and of the dangers of overuse and desertification;
(ii)   furthering understanding of the interaction among
pastoralists, range resources, and livestock, and identifying
areas for governmental intervention to improve productivity,
living standards, and sustainability of production;



- 48 -
(iii) conservation of endangered species of wildlife and plants and
development of wildlife canservation activities in Somalia;
(iv)   testing of an environmental monitoring system which, if
effective, may be extended to other rangelands areas;
(v)    improvement of urban areas and villages through tree planting,
shelter belt establishment, and containment of incipient or
encroaching sand dunes; and
(vi)   establishment of the prevalence of livestock disease through
continued epidemiological studies.
C. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
6.7    There is a risk that the production benefits foreseen in this
evaluation will not materialize if implementation mechanisms are slowed, and
the project is unable to meet minimum assistance levels for animal health,
agropastoral activities, and water development. There is also the risk that
adoption of project proposals by pastoralists will not proceed as quickly as
planned. Project targets are based on the implementation capacity
demonstrated in the first phase, and are achievable. Many of the
technologies to be used have been tested under the first phase. The
capacity of the project orgarization will be strengthened to carry out the
proposed plan and obtain the projected results. The effect of variations in
the cost and benefit streams on the economic rate of return is outlined
below.
Table 6.1     Economic Rate of Return
Baseline                             10X
Costs up 20 Z                         7?
Costs down 20       3                14?
Benefits up 20 Z   :                 13 Z
Benefits down 20 o  :                 7X
Benefits down 50 X :                  0X
6.8    Production benefits also would be affected if the Government or the
pastoralists were unable to maintain the services needed to secure benefits
beyond the project investment period. The profitability of the proposed
interventions in cultivation, water development, and animal health are
expected to motivate enough private support and maintenance to sustain the
projected benefit stream.  Although the availability and pricing of foreign
exchange will affect the availability of key veterinary inputs, the
adjustment process initiated by the Governhient in the mid-1980s should
allow for adequate supplies and incentives for the livestock sector.
6.9    The attainment of key environmental and conservation objectives could
be negatively affected by a proliferation of permanent water sources and an
acute increase in cultivation and livestock numbers. The continued
presence of the project regulatory structure and constant monitoring of



- 49 -
changes in ecological characteristics will control for phenomena which
threaten the sustainable productivity and human carrying capacity of the
rangelands.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED
A. General Conditions
7.1    The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)    adequate local funds will be provided to cover Government's
share of local costs (para 3.23);
(b)    procurement of IDA financed items will be undertaken
according to procedures outlined in paras 3.27 and 3.28; and
internationally recruited staff will be selected according to
IDA Guidelines (para 3.29);
(c)    physical and financial records will be maintained as set
forth in para 3.33; audits of the project accounts, the
Special Account and Statements of Expenditure will be
provided within 6 months of the close of the fiscal year (para
3.33);
(d)    an adequate number of female extension agents will be hired
(para 3.34);
(e)    a Project Steering Committee will be maintained as indicated
in para 4.6;
(f)    no dugouts or boreholes will be constructed in the project
area until agreed by Project Management after surveys and
incorporation in the District Management Plan (para 4.10);
(g)    the RLA Development Fund be utilized as indicated (para 4.13);
(h)    veterinary drugs financed from the project revolving fund will
be sold at wholesale free market prices (para 4.20);
(i)    the project training program will be administered as indicated
in para 4.22;
(j)    adequate fuel will be made available, and in the event
supplies are short, the project is authorized to import its
own requirements directly (para 4.23);
(k)    an annual physical audit on the operation of project vehicles
will be undertaken as indicated in para 4.24;
(1)    salaries for locally hired staff will be adjusted to maintain
their purchasing power, and there will be a ceiling on the
hiring of new staff (para 4.25);



- 50 -
(m)    quarterly fuel and shilling operating budgets will be
prepared, and the preliminary draft of the annual shilling
operating budget will be submitted to IDA by October 30 of
each year (para 4.29);
(n)    that six month progress reports be provided (para 4.30);
(o)    that water charges adequate to cover maintenance requirements
be assessed by project completion.
B. Dated Covenants
7.2    Agreement was reached that:
(a)    by June 30, 1989, SoSh 50 million will have been paid into the
project account (para 3.23);
(b)    by June 30, 1989 the project audit reports for fiscal years
1986 and 1987 have been provided to IDA (para 3.33);
(c)    by June 30, 1989, a Project Management Committee will be
established (para 4.5);
id)    by June 30, 1989, satisfactory rules for administering the
veterinary drug fund had been submitted to IDA (para 4.20);
(e)    by June 30, 1989 a satisfactory plan for a Training Facility
in Bulo Burti district had been submitted to IDA (para 4.22);
(f)    by December 31, 1989 the revised salary structure agreed at
appraisal had been put in place (para 4.25); and
(g)    by March 31, 1992, a Mid Term review report be provided to IDA
(para 4.30).
C. Condition of Credit Effectiveness
7.3    Agreement was reached that prior to credit effectiveness:
(a)    auditors have been hired (para 3.33);
(b)    the ADF loan effectiveness conditions be met (para 3.23);
7.4    With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR 14.7 (US$ 19.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with 40 years maturity.



-51 -                           Annex I
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS million equivalent)
IDA       Quarter               Quarterly
Fiscal Year   Ending              Disbursements           Cumulative
Total   IDA    ADB        IDA    ADB
1989    September   1988    0.1    0.1    0.0         0.1    0.0
December    1988    0.1    0.1    0.0         0.2    0.0
March       1989    0.1    0.1    0.0         0.3    0.0
June        1989    0.4    0.3    0.1         0.6    0.1
1990    September   1989    0.4    0.3    0.1         0.9    0.2
December    1989    0.6    0.4    0.2         1.3    0.4
March       1990    0.7    0.4    0.3         1.7    0.7
June        1990    0.8    0.5    0.3         2.2    1.0
1991    September   1990    0.9    0.5    0.4         2.7    1.4
December    1990    1.0    0.6    0.4         3.3    1.8
March       1991    1.2    0.7    0.5         4.0    2.3
June        199i    1.2    0.7    0.5         4.7    2.8
1992    September   1991    1.2    0.7    0.5         5.4    3.3
December    1991    1.3    0.7    0.6         6.1    3.9
March       1992    1.4    0.8    0.6         6.9    4.5
June        1992    1.6    0.9   0-.7         7.8    5.2
1993    September   1992    1.7    1.0    0.7         8.8    5.9
December    1992    2.0    1.3    0.7        10.1    6.6
March       1993    2.1    1.5    0.6        11.6    7.2
June        1993    2.1    1.5    0.6       13.1    7.8
1994    September   1993    1.5    1.0    0.5        14.1    8.3
December    1993    1.5    1.0    0.5       15.1    8.8
March       1994    1.2    0.8    0.4        15.9    9.2
June        1994    1.2    0.8    0.4        16.7    9.6
1995    September   1994    1.1    0.7    0.4        17.4   10.0
December 2/ 1994    1.0    0.6    0.4        18.0   10.4
March       1995    0.8    0.5    0.3        18.5   10.7
June  1/    1995    0.8    0.5    0.3       19.0   11.0
------------------------------..------------
1/ Project Closing Dates June 30, 1995.
21 Project Closing Dates December 31, 1994.



- 52 -
Annex 2
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Inflation and Exchange Rate Assumptions
1988   1989   1990   1991  1992  1993  1994
International
Inflation (Z)            3.0    3.0    3.0    4.0    4.0   4.0   4.0
Domestic
Inflation (1)           43.0   33.0   28.0   24.0   24.0  24.0  24.0
Constant Purchasing
Parity Exchange Rate  119.7  159.3  201.3  244.6  291.7 347.8 414.6



Annex 3
Table 1 (1)
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH ANO OEVELOPMENT PROJECT. PHASE It
SUMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
ISO. SH I0001                                          (USS  0001
I Total                                          S Total
S foreign  Base                                  S Foreign  Bass
Local      foreign       Total     Exchange   Costs    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL NORMS                        61.747.5   349,902.5   411,650.0            85      IS    617 5  3.499.0  4, 116.5           85       IS
B. VEHICLES/EQUIPMENT                 33. 000.8   627? 014.7   660. 015.5         95      23    330 0  6. 270. 1  6. 600.2         95       23
C. TECHNICAL ASSTANCE
AND STUDIES                               -   798. 295.0   798,295.0          100      28         -  7,983.0  7.983.0          tOO       28
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   94,748.3 1.t 75. 212. 2 1.869.960.5         95       67    947.5 ;. 752.  T8.699. B         95       67
Physical Contingtncies                 7,824.8   106,255.7   114.080.5            93        4     78.2  1.062.6  1, 140.8          93        4
Price Contingencies                  150,000.7 2.938.264.8 3.088.265.5            95      110     98.9  1,928.4  2.027.3           95        7
Total INCLUOING CONTINGENCIES           252.513.7 4.819.732.8  . 072. 306. 5         95      180  1. 124.6 20. 743. 1 21.867.7        95       78
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                         140.487.0             -   140.487.0           -        5  1.404. 9         -  1.404.9          -        5
S. ALLOANCES/PEROIEMS               267. 765.0            -   267.765.0           -       10  2. 677. 7        -  2, 677. 7                to
C. FUEL/VEHICLE
OPERATING COSTS                   22,728.6   128.795.4   151.524.0           85        5    227.3  1,288.0  1,515.2            85        5
*. OTHEQP 0DERATIN1i (tlqTq         114. 669. 5   267. 562. 1   382.231.5        70      14  1. 146.7  2,675.6  3,822.3           70       14
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   545.650. 1   396,357.5   942. 007.5          42       33  5. 456 5  3,963.6  9,420. 1         42       33
Physical Contingencies                28.418.9    26.257.6    54.676.6            48        2    284.2    262.6    546.8           48        2
Price Contingencies                t.330.071.7   934,317.3 2.264.389.0            41      81    851.3    599.1  1.450.4            41        5
lotal INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES         1.904,100.7 1,356.932.4 3.261.073.1           42      116  6.592 0  4.825.2 11,417.3           42       ;I
=:::::    ::-  :::======= z========  ===:zzz ::z:z :====  ==           ===-  == ======     == z=-=:= -z=::
Total BASELINE COSTS                     640,398.3 2.171.569.7 2.811.968.0            77      100  6.404.0 2-. Ii.7 28,119.7            77     100
Physical Contingencies                 36.243.7   132,513.4   168.757.1            79        6    362 4  1.325.1  1.687 6           79        6
Price Contingencies                 1,480.072.4 3.872.582.1 5.352.654.5            72      190    950.2  2,527.5  3.477.7           73       12
Total PROJECT COSTS                    2, 156,714.4 6, 176,665. 1 8.333.379.6         74      296  7,716.6 25.568.4 33.285.0            77     118
August 30. 1988  14: 19
August 30, 1988  14: 19



-Table 1 (2)
CENTRL NMKMau        RKSEAS  Of OEVELOAPENF PROJECT. PHASE 11
PrOect Coewta by letr
Totals Including Continpncies
(SO. SNI 000
1988        1989         1990         1991         1992         1993         1994        Total
;s:a:n;;t ::=t::ste==    :: = S;z:tsn   ss:ss;st:n;t:swt t.tsz. ..s: t;.snt .sasntst.t.t: = =:.;s.;
A. SYSTEMS INVESTIGATION                                                                                          a                =z-Zx
AND  tNITORING                       1t  791.9   1851 82.9   146,002.0   144. 010. 2   216. 372.9   195.810.5   173. 777.3 1 076.947. 6
S. EXTENSION                             17. 922.4   149. 618.4   1359 950.2   186,944.0   245. 076.9   234.145.9   300. 466.3 1.270. 124.0
C. AGROPASTORAL ADAPTIVE TRIALS
AND FORESTRY                          69. 630.4    75, 004.1    55. 279. 6    75. 001.8   118, 743.2    63. 665. 9    68. 028.3   525. 352.6
0. ANINAL HEALTH ANo
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION                          -   119.668.2    88,933.0    98. 450.2   133. 771.9   140. 997.2    77. 168.3   658. 98.&8
E. WATER AND IFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPIIENT                           1,530.9   172.354.8   144.377,6   188,551.6   311,851.1   179,023.0    66.646.5 1.060.335.6
F. CONSERVATION                                  -    94.537.0   165.211.7    86.307.7   191,692.3   110,696.9   160.080Q5   808.526.1
G. TRAINING                               8,037.2   116, 381. 9   142.523.0   164. 568.0   140,324.4    69, 871. 9    70 764.2   708. 470. 7
N. PROJECT NANAGENENT                     15,957.2   369,443.8   279,964. 1   304,845.5   379,018.3   413.863.7   461,541.6 2.224.634.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                       128.869.9 1.282.191.0 1.158.,241.2 1,248.679. 1 1.736.850.9 1.400.074.5 1.378.473.0 8.333.379.6
ats..:;:: 2.tt t;s;nt ;:;.;:tt:;s  .nnn..:             ... .m    ...t   n. ....          ...     ..._
Auest 30. 1988  14: 19
Totals Including Continge is
lUS$ '0001
988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    Total
A. SYSTERS INVESTICATION
AND MITORIN                        131.9 1. 162. 1   725. 1   588.7   741.8   563. 1   419. 1  4.331.8
a  ESTENSION                          149. 7   938.9   675. 2   764.2   840.3   673.3   724. 6  4. 766. 2
C. AOASTOItAL APTIVE TRIALS
AND FORESTRY                       581.7   470.7   274.5   308.6   407. 1   183. 1   164. 1 2.387.8
0. AINIAL HEALTH ANO
LID ESTM     PROUCTION                 -   751.0   441.7   402.5   458.6   405.4   186. 1 2,645.3
E. MATER AND INFRAST4 CTURE
NVEtOPRAUT                          12. A 1,081.6   717.0   770.8 1,069.2   503.3   160. 7  4, 315.4
F  CONSERVATION                                9 593.3   820.5   352. 8   657.2   318.3   386. 1 3. 128.2
6. TRAINING                            67. 1   730.3   707.8   672. 7   481. 1   189.4   170. 7  3 019. 2
N. PUWECT _ttM       T                133.3 2.318.4 1.390.4 1.246.2 1.299.5 1.190.1 1. 113. 1  8,691.0
ag    Na  mot                         1t,076.6 8.046.3 5.752.4 9. 104.4 5.954.8 4,026.0 3.324.5 33.285.0
=..ssaa.  a....... S=n=...  z   . .=.=.: a Z. ; a-a.... =.Z --.Z..:.
.    ............................... . . -------------------------------------------------------..---..-----. . ..



Annex 3
55~~~~~~~~T Sb le 2
CENTRAL RAEtLANDS RESEARCN AMD DEVELOPNENT PROJECT. PH4SE II
Sm4ry Account by Project Coqonhlnt
ISO. SR I 0001
AINIAL HEALIN
SYSTIENS                    AGROPASTO1AL          AND          HATER AND
INVESTIGATION                 ADAPTIVE TRIALS    LIVESTOCK    INFRASTRUCTURE
4110 ONITONINS   EXTENSION    A140 FOESTIT       PROOUCTION      DEVELOPNENT
4S$3$l ;U$Jt 1Z:$t$8 .............  ....... 8.4*    .......=,,.....  ........zss
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                             --                        , 150.0        6. 150. 0      197, 98.0
S. VEHICLES/EQUIPNENT               90. 443. 0    208. 111.5       46. 823.0       35. 512.0        79, 654.0
C. TECHNICAL ASS4tCE
AND STUDIES                    211.220.0      56.470.0          58.229.0       107.877.0         16.600.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                301.663.0    264. 581.5        123. 202.0      149,539.0        293. 952.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                        6. 048.0     60. 915.0          6. 195. 0       1, 386.0         4, 428.0
S. ALLOIUNCES/PERDIEHS             17. 028.0    76.374.0          10. 320.0        1, 386.0        10. 688.0
C. FUEL/VEHICLE
OPERATING COSTS                 11,645.0             -         19,763.0         8. 364.0        35. 228.0
D. OTHER OPERATING COSTS          33. 008. 0                      47,027.0        64,348.0         13. 440.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  67,729.0    137.289.0          83.305.0        75.484.0         63. 782.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                   369.392.0    401.870.5         206.507.0       225.023.0        357. 734. 0
Phylsical Contingencios              19051.9     20,093.5          12,221.0        11,976.9         29,533.0
Price Contingncgems                 688. 503.8    848. 159.9       306,624.6       421 988.9        673,063.6
Total PROuECT COSTS                  1.076. 947 6  t.270 124.0         25. 352.6      658.9U8.8      1.060.335.6
z- .......  ........... a-z .   ...... t......  ..... = ......., * s: 
Foreign Exchange                   948. 916.1    734,874.0         407.795.0       573.620.0        874,075.4
Augut 30. IOU   14: 19
Phys ic I
Cont gnona ies
PROJECT                  --------------
CONSERVATION  TRAINING   NANAGEILNT       Total      I7   Omunt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
4. CIVIL MORSS                    19.050.0   25,000.0    145,602.0    411.650.0  10.0  41. 165.0
I. VEHICLES/EQUIPIIENT            63,247.0   11,389.0    124,836.0    660,015.5   S.0  33.000.8
C. TECHIlCAL ASSTA4CE
AND STUDIES                   62. 000.0  145. 899.0    140. 000.0    798,295.0   S. 0  39,914.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              144.297.0  182.288.0    410.438.0  1.869.960.5   6. 1 114.080.5
lI. RECURNT COSTS
A. SALARIES                      26. 136.0    3, 069.0    32, 310.0    140,487.0   5.0   7.024.4
f, ALLOANICES/PEROIERS           46. 890. 0   22.149. 0   82,932.0    267. 765.0   S. 0  13.388 3
C. FUEL/VEHICLE
OPERATING COSTS                8,4 99. 0    4. 658.0   63, 367.0    151,524.0  10.0  15. 152. 4
D. OTHER OPERKTING COSTS         38. 100. 0   46.800.0    139.508.5    382.231.5   S. O  19, 111. 6
total RECURRENT COSTS               119, 625.0   76. 676.0    318. 117.5    942.007.5   5.8  54, 676. 6
aotal USELINE COSTS                  263.922.0  258. 964. 0    728.555.5  2, 81 1, 968. 0   6. 0 168. 757. 1
Phytsical Contingenct.t            14. 573.6   14. 431. 1    46. 876.2    168, 757.1   0.0       0.0
Prico Contingncies                530. 030.5  435.075.6  1. 449. 202.6  5. 352. 654.    5.6 300. 748.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                  808. 526.1 708. 470.7  2.224. 634. 3  8. 333. 379. 6   5. 6 469, 505.7
Foretig  Eachas                   489. 486. 7 570, 530. 1  1, 577. 367.8  6. 176, 665. I  S. 8 355.903.3
......--     - -- - --  - -- - -    ------- ---------------- ---- --------- ---- --- -------------........



- 56 -                                         Annex 3
Table 3
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECI. PHASE 11
Sumary Accounts by Year
totals Including Conitngenc as
(SO. SH  0001
1988        1989         1990         1991         1992         !993         1994        Total
. INVESTMENT cosTs
A. CIVIL WORKS                25,059 4   251,568 1   180. 619.5   204, t65.9   258.387.3   162.932.5    40,080.2  . 122.812 8
B. VEHICLES1EQUIPIIENT        47. 905 0   506. 097.4   221. 968.3   135. 512. 1   404,300.9   162.336.3   204.916.0 1. 683. 036. 1
C. TECHNICAL ASST"CE
ANO STUDIES               43. 795.2   295. 544. 1   398. 075. 0   449. 144.8   494,257.5   380.965.2   204. 675.8 2.266. 457 6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          I16, 759 6 1.053.209 6   800. 662. 8   788.822.9 I, 156. 945. 6   706.234.0   449. 672.0 5.012. 306. s
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                     279 4    29,578.9    43. 870. 1    66, 575. 1    88. 112 4   115.413.4   150,645.3   499.474.6
S. ALLOIANCES/PERDIEMS          398 0    60.412.9    94.866.0   127. 818. 1   166. 886 6   215,444.0   276.451.8   942.277 5
C. FUEL/VEHICLE
OPERATING COSTS             678 9    36.977 1    55,675.0    75.040 5    99.283.3   127,349.4   161.046.9   556.051 1
0. OTHER OPERATING COSrS  10. 753. 9   102. 012. 6   158. 167 3   190,422.4   225,622.9   235.633.7   340.657.0 1.263.269.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS            12. 110 3   228.981.S   357,578.4   459. 856. 1   579,905.3   693,840.5   928,801.0 3.2611.073. I
:::z:::::  ::::::::z :::::::::::     _:= ::=:::  :::== == =========  z=====:==::  ::::::
Total PROjECT COSTS              128,869.9 1, 282. 191. 0 1, 158. 241.2 2, 248. 679. 1 1, 736, 850.9 1. 400, 074.5 1.378.473.0 8. 333. 379. 6 .
August 16. 98u 12. 46
totals Including Continginncis
(USS '0001
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                 209 3 1.578 7   897.0   834 6   885.9   468.5    96.7  4,970.7
B. VEHICLES/EQUIPMENT          400 2 3, 176. 0 1, 102. 4   554.0 1. 386. 2   466.8   494.2  7, 579. 7
C. TECHNICAL ASSTANCE
AND STUDIES                365 9 1.854.7 1.977 0 1,836.0 1.694.6 1.095.5   493.6  9.317.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            975.4 6.609.3 3.976.5 3,224.6 3.966.6 2,030.8 1.084 5 21.867.7
=:zm: ::  ===:=:: :===:=:= :====z-z   -:::::  ::::::  ::::: _ ::::::::=
H. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                     2.3   185 6   242 7   272. 1   302. 1   331 9   363. 3  1 700 1
S. ALLONANCES/PERDIEMS          3 3   379 1   471 1   522 5   572.2   619. s   666.7  3.234 5
C. FUEL/VEHICLE
OPERATING COSTS             5. 7   232 0   276 S   306.8   340.4   366 2   388.4   . 96. 0
0. OTHER OPERATING COSTS    89 8   640 2   785 5   778 4   773.6   677.6   821 6  4.566.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS             101 2 1.437 0 1.775.9 1.879.8 1,988.2 1,995.2 2.240 0 11.417.3
:~~~~~~~~~ = ---= = == =z   z=z=z  z.__._. z=-   = ===
Total PROJECT COSTS              I. 076. 6 8.046. 3 5. 752.4 5. 104.4 5.954.8 4.026.0 3. 324.5 33. 285.0
Augus  30.  =:8 ::4.  ::===  :::::::  :::::  :       ==:::= =:==:==:
August 30. 1988 14.1l9



- 57 -                                                    A"3
NEW   (1)
UltetUi tt tRAW SIMI  "imlf*Ktw A"GV         IPMlrl  ft4U  1l
labl0 too SmSSlt tS ImMCU   Ati60O1 MD 9011 9    IIOI
eotalled Cosl table
,0 Slt *'XOI
Olmal sly                                                         Bas  tosts ,  S
U., IS 98 I8 8   I9I0 Il  Ifft   114wi3  MI4  total    t.,l . ost   IS"          It "      s"  1998   It992   M99I   19114   lo,I
.~~~~~.            ..   ,....  ...  .... .............................. 
I  llu8tsltl LOSIS
..........
*  9I86CItS MttO t4ul9PI
I 0t(t8088
motif ttu CAMS                          [A             2                                        2       60 0 00 20 00
081918G IOIlIPinUl
l,UAn  St l /a                      SI?                                           1            2                      11 t4 64               8a 2                    26 46
Gtf86A8t Fitto  60U1P11                SElT                   4     4      4     4             1 26       18t             10 02   6 68   6 68   b 68   6 b8   6 68   4d  47
VIt4C1tS 14.0 ST NIGHT lb               tO a                               2                    r      2 47              223 n                  49 so                  11 s3
st9ltt1s U4tO tt90                     t08             2                                        3       1.896        -    3d 32                  19 16                   57 44
PHOIO9 18218p802t81O6  EQUIP /c        Stl T                                                    2         3      I 82      I 92                                           7 84
9804601081360m                       18             2                                        2          90              I80                                            I60
PdPlO,tttO8I                        Ill             3                                        4         '00oo    00      300                                            40o0
rIogfCahfo                            $62             I                                       20          0     06        10                                              s
",1116t tU1111.l                       It I                                                                Is              ISSS      n^5
ItPOSeiStt"S                            (a       2     I                                        3          38    I8        0t O                                           2 31
AU1T0  tt81HtO Sf811015 6d               A             1                                       1         rn6             641 74 2s
61[cooS t7Jttit MtO
SOFtiE                               t8             2                                        2        4RT              92                                              9 82
G1OGitPNIC I8FOPitIIOt
SI(StE   IttSI                       EA             I                    I                    1.600                     60 t                                             00
82086 COR   800
GIS  80wtl                                                                                                               s I  1o780  780                             '380
Ull0 0 a8t0uP t10oo  6ti8C               t              I                                       I         100              I00                                             I00
Nol08 DRIVE CanvaS                       i             4                                        4         10 "I00                                                         6 00
FIlNt STOitItCt  l                      (A t           I                                                  "00              I0         -                                   I0
Olt LIi PRINTE(R f07 tASs              t8             1f I                                     2                          II cO                 3 co                     b 00
PHIOtooOPliS                            t8              I                                       2 2               192      392                    3 9t                    14
Ss* loat Gt8t08l                                                                                                    7 35   43tt  6U8   6 U   91 16   668   668 6            63 91
2  R03   mo  lR0I80
...   ......     ...... ..
FENCED PtOIS 11 UIA 16,                               . 1     I     I      1     I     4       38          02              614   S14   5 14   6 14   5 14   328    31 98
INtut(0Cl PA11S  113001I                8 tt         s00   S00   S00   00                  2.000 0                      250  230   2           2 so                    10 00
f18  Ct9 U1II1la6SIS                  $Ft           100   100  1100     00   100   100    ti00             3              300   300   3 00   I00   30   300    18 00
SOlt II TSIS                          SPt            100     1    00 0   100   100   10000                               300             3  00 0  00  0   3 00   300    l8 00
S120lo2.l 888u0  1t8Ott108                                                                                                   1434   2 24  21 24  14 24  It 74   928    77 98
t6tO Sol I86A8t  g                      TV       I                         I            I       3      4.000   40 00                            40 00          400      ' 20 00
8A181I 99O9ottttATI                            t $                                              I 2       1         1     42 Is                                          41 I8
taRtt SUct,( PttOt0                    Sk                     I                                 I I   3   220 00                                12 00          12 00    3b 00
mm1    8"                              VG              a      I              I                 tI          12              576   072   03 2   0 72   032   0172           936
1960                               $S                                                        I      2. 500   n00 2o o00
19109-O -                          $0 t      I                                              I         SO     S00                                                      500
01is5118   38ICS                    $t2       I                                              1        800    8 00                                                      800
f11   31 01                                      66 3t SO l0   360   10                                 2 1               0   1s  0                  66 s    3 SO    18 00
S,b lold, 28t8l01                                                                                                  9000    6 44   422   0 22  6222   6 22  S6 22   262 54
$16 2o08l 00Il99t2S AN0 69UtP20l6l                                                                                    97 83    60s36  35 174           6 K   15  12  24 64  12 28   904 43
202t9 ImlEVI0Il cosIs                                                                                                    913 S   6OS 36   2 12 21 A 152 12  24 64  *2 18   904 31
11  tCUR(utI COSTS
A  2I1CHlil86 *SStS1"C1
AND 52011S
I SIP llU



005Os    00 6   6006   00 6   0006   0065   0006                                                                                                            nilk 101  19101.910'
00o1    00       0 0 o00 t  00 t  00 t0 Oo                       OS          0*      0      0     0      0     0     0              111                       m        lwl 
00 91    00 0   00 I   00 t   00 t   00 I   00 t                 001    1   e        I c       c     C     C      C     C           1131AI0 AJO   1"1mn
1 W 1 13   WS 
00 6*    00c000t0000000 r00000                          00      1*S          01      a      0     0      0     0                   II                631159010 1   sA1I I IN
1618 misI
s1)1  Se 1    oar S01311     I
0 S      tt00, *I   O Oa  00t o  OO g  0  01 600 l S  of                                                                                                        $0161605 19101 9
st Os    t0o      90 L   901   90s  t   90s    9 o r                                                                                                  tow51ns  Ivan"  110111fs
9Ss      9        C i   gc 91    9.a   90 1   90 s               et1         to             I    0            A *                           1S AsAIMO.
05 S     06 0   06 0   06 0   O0 0   06 0   06 0                 el          0t       C     S     C      S     S      S             IA                      I$IE0/01L1n1933
00 S     060 0    0    Ob 0    01, 0   Ob 0    06              9t          01       6 C         S      S     0                    IA                         slmil  Illi
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .  .. .....
n0 9     SO I   90 I   90       90g   0        6O1O   IC                     C       CC                        C      Cli*SISSO
09 t      09  0   09 0   0        0  0   09 0   09 0   09 0      Of          tI                                                                                   S O W I I S Al  lIvIS "WtS ,ioo1
ilnin"lN p
090      09 00           9009 0090    09 0                       00f         0       0      0       0f0              0             AltS1 90INI11110                          4INS
O  I    O00 O0 0t         0 0         000   00 0                00          9       I      I     I      I     IoI                 Al                               M1iamiI
111i)3 11300   0
o0       0   o   or O0 Ot   0 O  0   Ot O   Ot                   0t          9                                                      A 1  I  *  *  i  Al      $10li0  V1I"
0 5      0t O   O  0 01 0   or   0            o 0 0 o00 ort                                                                         A 0  0  0l               S 0ol     I9 OIJ
O9 0     Ob 0   06 0   06 0   Oh 3     00    0   06 0            O0 91                t     t     t      t            I             Al                              SIU SOm
09 t     Os o   oll o   09 a   q9 0   09 O   Oq O                Or          Co       9     I     I      C     I      C             Al                     BlIJZmllU   01t"
t C      s9  0   9st 0   90 0   91 0    0t 0   90 0              9t          9        I     I      I     I     I      I             III               0315i50 001101191  $ I
el *     00 0   c0  0   el o   c0  O   el O   C0 O               90          0*      0      0     C      0     0      a             III         1   i0on oaiso5s U050m    6i9
sign q0l00 o1AM i1931101031 8
96 tI    91I   90 I   9       91 0   910   91            -Wil M1  10101-411
0t       o it     00 0    0    e 00 0    , 0   0e0               90          el      0      0     C      0     0      0             III C  Cr11 M0m  1                     11
0t I     0L 0   C0  0 '0t 0    0 0   00 0   0t 0                 9t          it      0      0     0      0     0      0             III 131510 Aso 066il
I 9039 13   695 
0t *     C0  0   el 0   It 0   et 0   el 0   00 0                st          el      0      0     0      0     C                    III V  693150 930 is Iall Ws
9W)1  1iS   I
slinlws o
00 oII  0 09 Pat O6 60* 00 nt OO 011 0n 505 0  60p   00 S0                                                                                                           Sl6n$S 4111
1335WSISS 193103i15 11*01 91f
o0 0     o0 06 l n0 09, o  o00   0000  O     C 0 " 6 9t;   0000 SC                                                                       sinwaiinsas     0oi6 s06l*l0  11101.9'S
00 Qc                                  00 ol  00o0               00          0 l  I                            I      I                                           3/ 16 aI  II
00 Ot                                  00 0*  00 0*              000 I       0                                 I      I                                  S63 0111     m11o3l
cO Oq    00 0     o 00 01  00   O 00 0   00  *  00 0l            000 I       I                           I I  I  I  I  i            -iNI6VU oIIIaWtVl
009                     000   000 0t 00 O 0 cO Oa               000 I       I                    I      t     c      0                                 nnisissw sup/oamra
00                     000 0  00 O0  00 OC 0   o 0C              00'0       I                    0      0                         111             10i16S 101 O1      6  VI31
00 0t                           00 Ol  00 0I 00 0I               000 I       0                           i     I      I            1111             IS16  O1 1IISI
Ct; AA  of tCl Os ev1                 Of pt1 O  lot             Ofi         916      "0t   oft                201   oft             " ON            I  S3111111     110 IN II 
00 0C                                                   00       n Sc 0o     S6 C                              -            S                a*                  f* l l  O
IsAiwli slnwin  gio
000I                                                     000000  000 00 OOt   0 00t 1OO5 O                                                                       1*16 16*ll-6 S
00 00*           00 a,  00 00 00000 000 000 000 of               900 o       o              c o                I                                            wseill  lOOM)
0 Oct            0o os  00o  0   e00 0010  001  00               9001        o              S 0    i     a                          At"                 W    Ill  a90 I0n
"31 0130S
0 0400           000 0    00W01 0  0001 00 00   1 O0t 4000                    0              0 *         I *  V                     AM fS    _ idIIiiiU   isa9/so3i 9
go. in su
..196169 -       uA  W " VI
of       oDin         iniu*    ~     m   "atominotIs)
I'm,



it el/ 961 91 1s169v
slltUIi  tt19e01titt tWI  v 00 ID sisa19vh on 901ln903 niun o04093 4in  at
19III0  h ' Iill " INV It 6 . S1M l903O1t0   Fitl *J t9tt UF  1i  lltti II  I 1181%10  11  IJI %IALMI OMII  dlI. 9I1 fmn S49I  MIHI I1 11% SolsoIII) 1111
131O%l0 Oill I  1$91Hd 18DI9llfhklI 19111ttl9 IHI tHltWn1  Wil dtU1  INI nllt $01t  11915 1DlS 1ti1 iul
0ISIFil993   l3lotd0l$ddt lil Iili  OM9t   SJS4l1SItS S111133$ 0   391 919/SIn  S0  l ISI 1913irS 9OIS3A01   W
4ttd  sIi iOIAOFid    A mi11931001911i,   90  DWI I S0 Silin$ 0 9    tD01/ D  'ISI4S990   l920190 sol$09111  (
SIR/ 114008 04 11319411$ 110114 4014A118 111 1499014119119  s0 192011 14 Nil" 12191103 Miii 0101 Nail"Ol 3 011111     AU 61
"a  tJOJStil9l$  ni Ml ni lnion  on  'tDS9iS 1Ill 1HI tl itiD  "IN tOIDi61 S190114 431NtSS1I1931n 31111131$$  '/
WI"91  $1S51I99  O9 SUlt99O  Dn9  001$S SlSS113101  'DlS ti 11111090tt AI*ItIgd  ntIl d8IS 10 Ind  41
IS603 1011S99ditd IS1d  000 o0t IV  OiFi ID9F 1961tiO 943  SliO$      S  *S/
WO/O 69SSn 6 1311S 40 14000  40 19401 '131$n9a1/U6 I 8 133$1M11$144 01  41319111'.0/I$34699     04 90J s9011g  I1
163113 OW So 001 '9I1I 0119Od41  099 $I$0d 19301 $S00111391  SO3   S10Oldft8 6ID 1101    '131aSIt0S3i d t a013Oi  Si011V  O/
StO1193111   lJ1343$IdS91 904 C OHt 'ON 13101510 091 9IT3Il   IHI BO0  03011ti UV9 S 19t1O100091 W
SIllS 1911 dllS1d990D1   9 /C o0r OH 13101510 til Ol4301  n9 01 olsn Ais oiscl43nd It 1iltI 9
113I4d 150169  4AIHU6O 311591d o1O13  $S11113D111   idO350itilS  2'
Is"  ))tw      1  1O1o   C Ot     MII          t 091111101 1,31901034
901  IS 0isa   I    II"1 0O l90    r I191001031 09I1
on.tt IS on  a                 5131IO 03aO lnl} rINS
1on.  IS GNP I           Id 3il  1O440 930161M lont
1091  IS o011  I        140411 33i0 Inntutte3i OI0OOS
on.  It 011 I            Idill ISA19     ISAS4t/10    Dt
S'31iOtAJ I in sOUOolit  (V
$313114S 40    O  101193319
..~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 .       . .    ..  .  ........  ...  ... ..
Oh I 1.  I    II( 16 111  6C 9Oq 0 t1 60S I  OFq Ft IS0  I el  /IC                                                                                                                           11104
60 b /l/ ItC S.  Le6 St 1, O%1, it 090/ It I9LE C'.%    1 91                                                                                                              SAS103 19391113i  19"0l
to Ott  tF C5l to CS  to CC  to CC  to CS  r6 CQ                                                                                                          SIS03 9$03 11998IO    13110 19104 CPS
00 11'.   00 St  00 SC  00 -i  00 CC  006  06 SC0 / OOC                         9        I      a     I      I      I      I             NA                          S1     li9  on0
s0i8ddns sImIO
00 'I    00      0 0/   00/   00       - 00 9                    10          1 q      I      I     I      I      I      I             oA                 Ur1ota391U4 010d  IV31191A
0R ql    09 C      Cy    OS C        09/   09     0SC              O9          9        1      I     I             1      I             FU                I41OId0310 0101d in8 II90
co0 ItC   O  06 3  0O      01    06 S 0 O OS  O   S 0               O1S          9        1      I     I      I      I      I             VA               1399919Jo19M  15101 Ii1ndO93
o0  11            -ol  l                                            O0t I        I                                          I             NA                    S113dd81150191 g13d803
00 06    00 Sl  00 Cl  00 Cl  00 St  00 Si  00 61                   OO  I        9        I      I      I     I      I      I              4                            siiddns 33s40
9  IC    6s t   S t   1 t             C 6 t   tS 1   t t                    q        I      I      I     I      I      I             VA                        1N0IIVMd1   unim 0n
SISO 3 Ot1IOl8      IO  I
St 911   91 61  el61  919 SI l                  1et361     LE InlIln  13t1A/l                                                                                                       19101 01s
Si 91I  SI 61  el 64  01 61  9i 61  el 61  el 61    it I    OtC                 S CF          t   t      t          A t    .     S 0    NA                       I901  i$ OO1I SI3131H
3I3KI911919 11311136/1111f 0
9/ Ol s S9 O/  91 O/  9 C /91 VE   9s or    S1 9C                                                                                                     SI10 eold o1n S1399  OII 1t100l qS
9311         '   16.       9.    966    9      . 6   .. 966                                                                                            4    508811$  1991N10191010C9
..  ~~~~        ~~. ....    .... .....  ......
sg /L    VI 1   9L 1   9 1   9/ I   e/ tC  9/ 1                    36           to       /      C     S      S      A      I              I                                  S934A90
016       06 0   06 0   060   06 0   060   06 0                     91           01       S      6     S      6      6      6              II                       I$S1dAl8 A U11931S
O00'      06 0   06 0   06 0   06 0   06 0 060                     VI           Ot             6      6S  S                6             IA                            swll3 DFIIII
1191$ 890881ns *nit1.9  6
to f1     3/4t I   / I               I. r / o   4/ t tC 1                                                                                                           91119l33W' 1         S101 15
119 1     3t I   l I   toI         i 33  to,     03                  5           Ce,         C  /l            C      /      /              A                               SllSISS1
00 01    09 I   1O6 I   09 I   O9 I   O0  I   O0  I                 06           /l       C      C     t      C      /      C             Al                      44t41 llOtlOISSIIti
/6/       /6o      o       t /611 E/  0/311    /00 I/f1 a10193 191141300 1910.199I
/C /C        0    /6 0     00    0   /c         3t 0             3 O                        I       I     I                           Al                                991  191
9113 Ui9ti4300  C
t  090 1 901  *101  11 01 101   1 01  e1 01                                                                                                      lltn   OlltBs   131901031 1010lps
/S        / 0t       0    / to '0   t/  0   /ll  CO O                Cg          9        I      I     I      I      I      I             Al                        O393W8 0llndk1
3 /1      36 0     or60   360    60o        360    36 0 o                        9        I      I     I      I      I      I             Al                             isa41    1VI"
06 S      06 0   06 06   6  06 0     0 6 0 0 001 0                  99           I        I      I     I      I      I      I             Al                         StJOllt0   ItIsIl
0/t 1 O1 /       & t   O0  0    Ot 0    O0  C                       11 C   0 1  et       1      1     C      t      I      t             Al                                131*9SSO9
go 9 0     O I   90 I   gO I   gO I   gO         t0o1 6                         Cl       C      C     a      C      C      C             Al                        iltFdOlltil OlOHd
00 6      06 I   01 I   061   0 1    OI      I    6 I    061@1                   I        I      I      I     I      I      I              III              t3331#0 ttl        low   S   1
00 9l    00 r   00 1    00 C   00 I   00         001                            C          C     C          /      / C      CI 11lin 09l13IS l3131 99IN
1lion 09901it114t   931901031  /
o    olli%   M44'n
E XOUUV ~~~~~~mm 611;
(C) 8 *Tq'z
t xeuwv-6 



- 60 -
Amex 3
Ta~ble 5 (1)
((8188t RUCIANOI"S 8ISIAUC1 me 1*VIIOUEUI1 PWOIcir. PHASE1 I
863., led Costn table
ISO SWI 0"I
Qua8fti;ly                                                        Bass Costs in S
Unit l II   19*9 It"0 19   1992 19913  191914  Total Unit Cost   1968   1999   1990   1991    1997   1993   1994   lola1
..   ... ....                             . ..    ..
A  99111(11.  AND (91J1P11911  /a
I V6(141(1(
4110 Sf81100 MAG600                          (A             2                2                   4       2.479            49 s8                   49 N8                     94 II,
4 we (me                                     (a             2    3    2    3        I      I    12       1.916            38 3797?48   A32  S? 48  4J 16  1416    229 92
4 110 PICKUP                                 (A             2    2    3    3        I           12       1. ,01           33 82  33 82  910 73  910 Il  it. III  lb 91   20? 9?
41101101II USEI RUC.6                        (A             2                                    2       47863            89 66                                                  fr
4 NO0 AUDIO VISUAL                           LA11           I                                    I       2.910            29 Jo                                             29 40
5(00118                                      [A             4                                    4          113            492                                               4?
S.b Total 41111C1E5                                                                                                         241 70  91 30  89 0%i WI 19  lb 07  lb, 07   f,i- 148
DOCUIIIMIAlIC"0 dM181
F06R1 1081 AND SHElVING                     siLI                                                 I         9*0             980                                               980
DARIt ROCI                                   (1       I                                          2         980    960o   9s0           -                                     9 60
Sub-folal 6001P6161
DocUNiWIIIION ((MIRE                                                                                               9860  19 60                                              29 40
3  LOIJIPNENI   (1100510KI
CONP11ER/SOFIMARE                           1*             I                                     I        491             4 91                                              491
1766811(8                                    (a             3                                    3          147            4 41                                              441
PIlOT OCILE                                  EA             3                                    3          344           10 32                                              t0 32
AUDIO VISUAL EQUIPUCWI
- P81611MG                             la       I    I                                     2         491    4 91   491t                                                98?
f it" PROOUJCIIOK                        EA        I    I                                     2         t00    9j00   9.00                                               10 00
-VIDEO PRODUCTION                         EA        I    I                                     2         686    6 86   686                                                1312
* StiIO  PROCESSING                       [A        I    I                       -2                      491    4 91   491I                                                9 A?
PORTABLE GUNLRAIORS                          EA             2     -    2                         4         700         -400            -400                                  a 00
ORAIIING/1111                                (A       -                                                    200             700                                               200
CAMIPING EQIJIPMNMI
IPER PERSUN)                             EA      40   2iS               t0                 II$           30   12700   790                     19,00                     3490O
Su   tta 101*1(91166(6    (RIENSIOU                                                                                  33 68  94 82             4 00   Is 00                    107 90
4. P8511U81 R(11A8 ARIAS
PASIURE P111(8                               (A             I                                              sea8              88                                              98*
Sub-total PASIURE REHARB AREAS                                                                                                 98 as988
5 VILlAGE 511(11(8 8(115
SNAIL 8(R8t8O0  S14931                       EA             3    3    3    2                    It         it8             3 S4   3 94       194   2 46                     12 98
0OMRE?AMO CA8F                              0811            3    3    3    2               -    it          24         - 0712   0 77    0 72   0 46                          264
Sub (otil VILLAGE S11(L1E6 81(                                                                                                4726   4 26   A476   2*94                         19 62
s..k-1ol*I VIIIICIIS AND E9UIPMNE*  /a                                                                                   43 48 32976  99956  97 31 175 63  36 07  36 07   80988l
lotal INVISIRINI COSTS                                                                                                      43.48 329 76  99 98  91 31 179 63  36 07  36 07   809 88
II RECURREMI costs
A  l(CIIMICAL ASSISIA"IrL
I  C111F1 FI1(N5ION OffICER IFXPI              tiC    0 9     I    I    I 0 9                      4      10.000   90 00 too 00 100 00  100 00  90 00                       400 00
2 COlISIII TANCI1S
ti(SIOD. t00C*6 8 IRAININIG                m         -    2    2    2             -      -      6       1.000        -  20 00  20 00  20 00                          -    60 00
811R*1 CR1011 MARKETING STUDY              Om             9     .                                       1. 000          90.00                                             90 00



- 61 -                                   ~~~~Annex 3
-61- ~~~~~Tabe  (2)
Owass Iii14 lof
Nosia VISUAl  ~~~~~~~~~~3AI8I8G  Ml  2                                2 ~~~~~~~~ t 000         20 00                                             20 00
A8DA8osiiSE                           No1            I                                              no0            '0 00   10 00   10 00                             30 00
lOCAL Su""?U IIAM,I3SI                     101            2                                     2         17b             3 62                                              3 67
811160311 P110*8*1108                       Is            2                                     2          69             I18
Sub folal CONSUt 1A8616$S                                                                                                  104170  3000o  30 00                              164 /0
Su'oaND C5100     tA1(5YAI                                                                                            60 00 204 10  130 00 130 00  SO000                       564 70
IHEAD oIIICI
01866108 lIlOESION sERVICIs                 II       -     I    I                               6          48             0 48   0 48   0 48   0 48   0 48   0 48           2 88
SENIOR 18818180 o1116(1                    II                                                   6          36             0 38   0 35   0 36   0 .36   0 36   0 36          2 16
RANGE/IIVFSIOCN SPOCIAtISTS                 IV             I    I    2    2       2      2     10          30             0 30   0 30   0 60   0 60   0 60   0 60           3 00
808088510886t SPLCIA1IISI                   IV             I    I    2    2       2      2     10          30             0 30   0 30   0 60   0 60   0 60   0 60           3 00
FAMILY ASSISIA8E                            IV             I    I    2    2       2      2     10          30             0 30   0 30   0 60   0 60   0 60   0fi0           300
FAMILY EIIENSION                            V              I    I    I    I       I      I      6          30               30   0 10   0 30   0 30   0 30   030            I80
5N8 RURAL 01866  OaInCEs                   III                              I      I     I      6          16             0 38   0 36   0 35   0 36   0 36   0 16           2 16
socio CO0INISI                             IV       -     I    I    I    I        I     1      6          30             0 30   0210   0 30   0130   0 30   030            1so
$88 comm8. OFFICERI                        III             I    I    I    I        I     I      6          36             0 36   0 36   0 36   0 36   0 3b   0 36           2 lb
PuBLIC81108S$OFFICER                        IV       -     I    I    I    I        I     I      8          30             03 0oo30   0 30   0 30   0130   eio               Iso
Fit" OfiSiCR                                IV             I    I    1    I       I      I      6          30             0 30   0 30   0 30   0.J0   0 30   030            180
TECHNIC"I                                                   I           I      I            6          240 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   024                         144
0118$                                              I    I    I.   I        I     I      6          24             0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   024            144
AUDIO VISUAL AIDSV                                 I    I    I    I        I      I     8          24             0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   024            144
-RADIO/MASS RIDIA                    V2    2    2    2                     2      2     12          24         -0480 48    0 48    0 48   0 48   048                 288
-PRI8TI8G                V              I    I    I    I       I    ~~~~I    6          24,            024,0  074    0 24    0 24    0 24    024         144
NIJICVIUAL PRODUCIIONISf                IV             I    I     I            I     I      6          30             0 30   0 30   0 30   0 30   0 10   0 30           I 80
COIIPUIIR OPEBAICR                          IV             I    I     I     I      I     I      6          30             0 30   0 30   0 30   0 30   0 30   0J0            Iso
ftoIEENOO NERA1oR$                          VI            4    4    4    4                     16          is             0372   0 72   0 72   0712                         28s
100153                                      VI            2    2    2    2        2      2     12          la             0 36   0 36   0 36   0 36   03lb   036            2lb
081 HERS                                    VI            9    9    9    9        9      9    64            is            t 62    I 62   I 62   I 62    I 62   I 62         '3  2
SECRIIARY/CiERK                             VI            2    2    2    2        2      2     12          t8             0 36   0 36   0 36   0 36   0136   036            216
6118818$                                   VII            2    2    7    2        2      2     12           12            0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   0324   024            I44
Sub,-total HEAD0 OFIICE                                                                                                      9 00   900o   9 90   9 90   9 18   9la    56616
2  01(10 OFFICES
DLSIRICI ARID tAND
FoRtSIER$                               IV             3    6    7    0       II    13    48            30            0 90    1650   2 10   2 70   3 10   390          14 40
01S181C1 (XIERSION OFFICERS                 IV            a   13   IA   20    22    24   106               30             2 40   3 90   6 40   6 00   6 60   7 20    31 60
(I1(RSIWO OIICER                            V             8   12   i8   20    22    24   106               24             1 92   3 12   4312   4 80   6 28   676          26 20
VILLAGE EAt'l8S108 118188                   V        -   6    68   81   94   307   120   626               72            39 00  48 96  6832  67 68  71 04  86 40   378 00
SIllF IECIIICI USV                                        12   16   is   21    22    23    I               24             2 88   3 60   4 32   6 04   6 26   6, 62    26 64
(88086RS IVURSIRIES (IC)                    UC           54   67   79   91   106   II7   SI16              It             8 10  t0 06  it 86  13 96  IS 76  1? 66    77 26
S4,6.totsi FIELD OFFICES                                                                                                 -  6  80  71 13  86 31 100 17 113 26 126 33   562 99
Sub,-total SAIARIFS                                                                                                             64 80  80 13  96i 21 110 07 122 43 136 S1   609 16,
C SLIOIINCLs AND PER DullS
IHEAD OFf ICE
DIRIC1OIEXENSION$0SERVICES                  III                 I     I     II                  6         166             16S6    156    t Sf   1656    16 1b6I6           936
SIRoloV RAINING  OIFICFR                   fit             I    I           I     I      I      6          60     ISO      Iso Iso    Is 16         so0   I6 so     0s     900
RINGE/LIVEsIocR  SPECIALISIS                IVI I                     2    2      2      2     10          90             0 90   0 00   I 80    I 80    I 80   I 80        9 00
AGROP8SIORAII SPECIAllSts                   IVI I                     2    2      2      2     10          90             0 90   0 90    I 80    I O  80 I8 80o            9 00
Family ASSISIAHI                            IV             I    I    2    2       2      2     10          90             0 90   0 90   I s0    I 80   I 80    I 80        9 00
IaHityE?EiERsIo8                            V              I I        I    I      I      I      6          s0             0 90   0 90   0 90   0 90   0 90   0g0           640
$88 RtURAL 068(1. OfIICLO                  III            I    I      I    I      I      I      6         160             I s0    I S0    I 60    I S0    I N0    I 60     9 00
socIOLicoIIIisI                             IV             I    I     I    I      I      I      6          90             0 90   0 90   0 90   0 90   o0  090  6q 40
$88 CO11810. OfIICER                       III       -    I    I    I    I        I      I     6          ISO             I to   I 60    I s0    I s0    I 6.0    ISt4     9 00
p681 1681108$ 0111668                       IV             I    I    I    I       I      I     6           64             06S4   06S4   0 4    0 64   0654   0S4           3 24
Film  oIIICER                               IV            I    I    I    I        I      I     6           54            06S4   06S4   0654   06S4   0654   064            324
TI  M1 LAN
PRINTING8                            V              I    I    I    I       I      I      6          36             0 16   0 16   0 36   0 36   0 36   036           216
f1lm$                              V              I    I    I    I        I      I     6           36            036b   0.36   0 36   0 36   0 36   036            216
AkIIDioVIStiAtLAIDS                V               I    I    I    I       I      I      6          36            0 36   0 36   0 36   0 36   0 36   036            216
RADIO,NSS  MEDIA                   V              2    2    2    2        2      2     12          36            0712   0 12   0 72   0712   0 72   072            432
P818118G                            V        -    I    I    I    I        1      I     6           36            0 36   0 36   0 36   03J6   0 16   036            2Il6
AUDIO VISUAl PRODIICIIORIISI                IV            I    I    I    I        I      I     6           64            0 64   0 S4   0 64   0 54   0 64   0 54           3 24
C0NPUIIIR   PEUAIOR                         IV            I    I    I    I        I      I     6           42            0 42   0 42   0 42   0 42   0 42   042            262



VI 00091  55   4v0/o;4  ss5  $190 o5l   A90/S3391 09  S$1191 0009    Lm 00191  9 06155061   I/
IFVIA silo 591   090/05155    4119 914414i5089550v   L  AP/
190.50   4  009490990000055   05MM   1953VNS4 991318 045      14391   i191195$19 0o5n q
9541 098 I  $904 49311499103/195551A 010519      091 ONO4 VI               4991118410 3999911494$ $345
955 098t I             IdlO NOS01511,4 90131910                 44/S 0118 I            I1511113595 9M191904  901590134
$4431440 b 00 9054V30119   *I
It 19108 98, 05$i 1I 44i gf 0b9 66  M5  LI L64 UE           St 6  084                                                                                                                             I1101
to90otI658il,t58 i85*          II 8   9  SM  t  I54   10If.6 fi 4 0 Lb                                                                                                       $15034959955319111o3
9L 089    61 III 40 885 6 661 bF 8 bl ZI b68 LtI 94 iL  10 Lo                                                                                               51503l 90119959  83111  49404 CP'S
5(541    9514~~I  it OI 85L     c 1 854  Ss I I cc     p 98                                                                                                   159310919d01  58009
5550:5 09191994 1#110 005
t08        1 et   51 et    SF 8     r 1   etLi            91 94 5   58             9    I          I  4     4I       I I        0    "A                                    SA90 01314
to09      c  1 5(8    5(   558     i 5(    58   518it       9145     CFO,            9    I             I    I    I       I    50       NJ                                     S$19545f19
8o095     c 5(      tIt    5(       C 51    at8  518it       91 I      i 1          94I         I      I4    I    I      I       0     OA                                    590115180
soI V       4      SI el180 c   p    tp i SIb    55   18    95S      L,           59    I       I                                0     NA                                     599115114
1594 03 94 1 11 18009
68SI    I $51    884     OI   VI it  9505O  950 ot      Sit  05(El                                                                                               900991  198484  10101 005
99 594    b I   IL 11  5 II  IL Li  55 El  98 9                     86            59    81    84    III   84    VI   L                 91                          6/ 9550119  091a11v9
65 8        9 0   LiI 5 18 I LIP I   8ItI 58I                        It            61     8      1      I     L           I             VI                           le S4S03 01119919d
It 0$     91 $   (06   40b t 6              F0O.506 CO0b              655          61:     p      L      L    L    A    L                a&                                    G/ $089110
955       95 0    et0    et0        9 90    Be0 et50                  I-            61     8             L     L                         VI                                P/ 1311343A5l
555          ~~~~~910    850   1,850    850    80                 84           845                  F        VI                      91                                  IV" 55e
095 it      85l I 85t   85I    I5   1L             5I               9t           58     5      8      9     8    9      8             VI                          O/ S91999A903
S9K  OL I   Oft sv IPI  ot Li    01      It                          4    1      6     9       aA           9111111119 1108~~~~~~~~~31111""   9011*30
00005t   00 09   00 %5   0005l  000 of  0058t  00 08                                                                                   905 1111*914111  511599011*3  s0t la0990   49404 05S
00005f   00 09  00 ;$   00 05   000$6  0058o00 08                     05            OI     I  0           1et i  1 O 0   84  1          91                        9/9190   4109d05
901491*8411 4I839905I180 8IID 3909J45)$ 5
56565   (19 18lEqt (98         5 '9 88  (988   (98   (98,8E  Lo it                                                                                       545I03 095498590O 01950 19401 005
is 5A I    I I Sp   81 el   I I     LI I LI A     ItLG8 60            LIP           $ 9   I       I       4                5     50       91                     18114 .5114  39441
ft I 1 S9 4   ;94   %9t 49 c   qga r.9c tt I    ;gC  ;9    1  1                         S0      NA              311 SdVN  'SISVWJ di9554 83115
IC5 it       5    59    59's   599    59         595qc E 14        59e           59    I       I      I     I    I      I    50       NA                                51011$
0 85      It a    ItI   ItI        It8     I t  45  It 55     919 5    58,           9    I          I  I        I     I I         0     90                          Mill 49494
Et La    53 I   59c 5    g9         9 5   59     9          f II 4    59          5      I8     I            I 4   I4    I     5 0    81                           $11114 0101*.-
5485;      18    (19E      (19El    1Et I Fl 9   58          Li 8    119            59    I       I      I    I      I     I    50       81A         09V4091/09N1193/54815919
06 65     0       OL % 0 oS 0S 0                  0SOL O5O; o      055           I      I      I      I    I    I       I    I        OA                           ONIlIlad 133941103
SC5go    0    055 O          s0 %I ;     05     05      I    OSS              59    I              I     I    I      I     50      8A                            534399555)9918)0
of44 5   L  81  LI8 4I            48  It         4 8Li   60s      18t           9    I      I      I     I    I    I    5 0    HA                 53119d5n5  835903 ficliviol1113fol
II415     L 54     t48    LII  11i   4              4 6fI0  0c     it             94I         I      I     I    I      4    50       OA91ldn 5149 050a 89
59 It     El F   EFI       Et(F     Er (4 5   (E Et (1        9 4    1               9    I5             I     I    4      4    5 0    NA                 53559905 905195090 954419d40
S4S03 910111195d90 8a1140 I
55503 094199090 811150 I
VIP06E   fit 089191585   (9   8859   54 Li       600O8                                                                                                  13998149499 3134111A/515n  4140l  -s5
5         Sb0    SLO    50        I 50    550     I510              114           85     8      I1     8    8    8P    8                lo                                          8140035
59 t     II F   It5    1 LI        Lo I   5tS itL                    lit1         9      I      I      I4          I      I             if                               4955S40 OIOAV ON I8
80589      414   94l84 e   IelV              l  fe  0  848s945   894 948  60        L                                                    VIM                                       II O1N515159 08
9t 004     9 41 le  EC l   0' b,  i Is 4   95 4 Is  i                14.4          55     54     II    0       6    9      8             9VI                                    d4551d19  09 
04 814    '4 85  '4r VI  91 Vs  01, it  It, 4  0 El                  85t         59     84     84    IPI      l04    8   $                                            NM 909994495   ONO
33999348499 113I5A11413I4 0
VI  (9  1    594g III 141 P4 6114 8554 t 8400085o                                                                                                       $11310 aid9999  543999045   49404 CPS
805       0 4    98tt  V141 0 (54 Os 96  806i  90 09                                                                                                           5405ii 450  544   48404 (0S
6 65i    9, 94  88 54  1 541   4. 5  08 01  1S9 9                               III   Et    a       It   el   SI   el                 A                            sm9941584fl4  I455
00 941    09 49  10 it  9  1 59  LIN 8$  96o, 014 65                   IL           51$    014    504    06    49   99    55q              A                 S949811  NS114549455  41154A
05 5      95$   951   S  $   08 8   54     is5      6 4b             VI           504    8     5     0   I      14    8               A                          8354440 lo04591454i
0% 85b    09 II  09 fit  00 94  0 94  0 II  0L                     O 0           %04    Pt     it      0   el   El   9                Al               59135440 904594454  41494549
0 48,    01 45  06b6  04 9 O0  9   0$ 8              1      05                     up0  8    .l (I  I   f.    A      5.    1             Al                                 5934549
04494 0489 :149555.0
to4       be 0    1le0    III0      lo 0    Olt0    80                ss            l                      I                         lift                                   591911
84 I      94 0   91 0   9  0   91.0 0    0   91 0                     VI            4     I            I              I               IA                             15443/AVWI5531
916 St      8g     998o   988      i 998    to8    988                 15           1;    pi      6      5.    6    4.    6               IA                                       SVIA*II0
S4       St109t0  940 it50940                      It0                el            s                                               IA                                        454dA5
veo sakl sin    mig  "      oio         w



- 63 -
Ann*x 3
Tab!;, 6 (1)
SOFA IA
ca.wu  mmimouslam  am uII Isls pacso fam m em
8816416  et 841
SI  Ill   low
4w_t lty                                                          ttls et s in1 S
..................................... ...          .       ............................  .. .......................... ....................................  .....................
unit  IOU   Ii   INS  S1S, 1H92 1193 5104 total  Unit Cost    Stl     tO            ISW    H91    I992   'S1i       IStS    foQIl
....  ..... .... ....            ..... ..... .....   .........   ...... ...... ......... 4 ................ ........ .......... ......... .............. .
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL tOtS
...........
I  ADAPTVIE TRIALS HOOtEETE
STOTtE/tSttOR/SHELTER               tt2     400     .         .     .     .          400           8   24 00                                                     24 00
OFFICE                              t2       100    .    .    .          .     .     .                     00                              a-       -       -       00
2 SR HOUSE 121
IO t2E                          t2       100          - o                        100            7    7 00       -       -oo
SINGLE QUATERS 121
170 1t2 Elb                      t2      140                           -         140            7    96t        -               -so
SJSH SHEtIER                        la         I                -              -                 200    2.00                 -                                    2 00
HtTER SUPPLY                       SET         I                                       I         So00       00                                                    5 00
Sb-Total ADAPTIVE IRIALS tOOLEETE                                                                           s80                                                -    55  o
2. AAPTIVE TRIALS SWLO tURII
..........................
STOE/MRSINOISKELIER                 tt2     400      .           .400                              6   24.00        -       -                                    24 00
OFFICE                              312  t00-                                        00            6  6 00                                                        A -c -  800
2 SR HOUSE 121
t0S2O    E2                              100                -    - -   -          00           1    1 00                -       -       -               -     7 00
SItGL.C QUATERS 121
ti7 1t2 E8I                      12      140                  .40                               7    9SO        -       -       -                       -     96 0
BUSH S'ELTER                         Ea        1.1                                               200    2 00        -       -       -       -       -       -     200
WATER SUPPLY                       SEIT                                                           00    5 00                                                      5 .00
S.*-Toll aDurttt(E TRIALS SULO BUIITI                                                                      55.60                                                      So t
3. SULO SOTII SEED
mJLTtPLICATIOS
2 6R HOU.ES (21
110 1t2 EA6                      t2      100.-    0                                            8    6t00         -       -      -       -       -       -     8.00
I SR HOUSES f4t
140 32 EA)                       1t2    I10.160                                                8   12 80                                        -       -    12.80
TRACTOR A ItPS  SHED                112      100 ISO                                               7   10 50        -               -       -       -Q 10.SO
M  ttRESA                            t2      100                                     100           7    700                                                       I -  -  -  -  100
OFFICE AlO ABLUTIOHS                2   100-                                        100           9  9 00    -                     -    -                 -   9.00
GENERAL STORE                       t'2  90 -t                                                     7  6 30                                                         . 230
SEED STORAGE SHED                   t12      90                                       90           1    630            L-       -       -              -          630
POHER A WATER COIRECTIOU           SEIT        I                                                 1 00      00       -                       -  -           -      100
CLEAR. LEVEL.
BUILDtIOANISELS                 L S         I                                                 100 I     00                                                     5 .00
S%A-Total SULO 8URTI SEED
ULIPLICAT IOI                                                                                           6S SO               -         -             -            E 60.90
SlA-Total CtVit HOSRtS                                                                                        181.;0                                                    a ; s0
S. VEHICLES ANO EQUIPNERT /a
..........................
I HEAD QUARTERS
- 4  O SH/1,1111                    EA         1    2                I                 4       1.916     9 16   8 32        -          19 16       -       -      6.64
2. ADAPTIVE TRIALS
...............
-4 NO  tti                        EA              4    -          2    -            6        t 916        -  76 64               -38 32                       114. 96
ROTOR BIKE                      EA              2                                 2          225        -   4 50            -   ;                             4  0
S.b-Total ADAPTIVE TRIALS                                                                                          81 14              8-   8 32        -          -   11945
3  TRACTOR. TRAItER. SCtET              E8A            2                                  2       t.141            42 82                                           *42  2
4. SOLO SURTI
-4 tO PICtuP                        EA                               I    -I           2       1.691           169t         -       -'6 iS         -       -      3 62
SOIL TESTIHG OtTS                   ES        4    4                 4                12         100    4.00   4 00         -       -   4.00        -      -    12 00
SURVEYING EQUIP                     la         -    3                                  3         200             6 00                                      -      6.00
FIRST AID S IITS                    EA             t                                  t5         150        -  2i0          -       -               -      -    22.50



- 64 -                                               Annex 3
Table 6 (2)
agting suIm                 m    as uwg mutI PSMACW.  iUSn  I1
SSN  *MP%IOI  aAp3I ISIAL11is as .QKStm
Ilesd l C ost lbi.
Sift Sil '
Sub lotl  RlltO 8UR11                                                                                    4 0o  49 41                  20 93                    74 12
$  lEAD QUAII8
MICRO COMPUTEER/SOITUtR(           tA         I                                      t        491    4 91                                                    4 91
6 ADAPIIVf IRitS
800113731
2 W7A R8OI0                       Sit              I                                 1        491            4 91                                            4 91
$014R POttO GCf'4ERAIOR            (A              I                                          2 7q4          2 94                                            7 4
fURtilIURL                         [4        - [                                     I      1. SOO           IS 00                                           5 00
rRDGit                             IA              t                                 I        too             I 00                                            I 00
St fIoil ODltPIIV IIRIALS
NOOLEEYEE                                                                                                   23 85                                           23 as
8SOLO RUIIII SEED
ttilitiC4110!4
IRA4COR AND IRAIIFR                EA        tI                                             1,803   i8 03                                                      O I1
CUIIIVAFION tQOtIPtN4SI $33                  I                                       1        686    6 86                                                      56
tEVEllfR                           Is        1                                       1        19b    I 96                                                     1 9b
SPRAY IOUIPtFNI                   Sl l       t                                       I        294    2 94                                                    7 94
FIRIIIISiR tCUlPtttit              tA        I                                       I        294    7 94                                                    2 '4
1ttClitC                          l S        I                                       I        Sil    568                                          *Sas
IRRIGAIION C1 ttPP AND
EQUIPHttit                     sty        I                                      I       2.940  2?  40                                                   29 40
S3UPIE GRINDERS                   Sit        I                                       t         49    v 4'1                                                   0 49
SEED CtEAtNR                       EA        t                                -      t        491    4 91                                                    4 91
3EI Of SlfVES                     SET        I          -                                     196    1 96                                                     I 96
CEMIN MIIER                        (A        I                                       I         98    098                                                     0 O98
SCARIfYING EOUIP                  SEI        I                                       I        294    2 94                                                    2 94
DIOISIURE COtlROI EQUIPtENt       SEt        I                                       I        491    4.91                                                    4 91
SEE0 EISl ROO  1EWIP            Sit        I                                       1      2.039   20 39                                                   20 39
CUPBOARDS AND 6tNCHtS             SEI        I                                       I        200    200                                                     2 00
GENERAIOR 1tV8                    Sfl        I                -                      I        493    4 91                                                    4 9t
ORYING ovE1N                      Sf1        2                                      2         491    9 82                                                    9 82
CUP8OARDS AND 8tNCHES             SEI        I                                       1        4S1    4 91                                                    4 91
Sub-total W10 EIURII SEEO
MUtIIPtICAIDON                                                                                      326 23                                                 126 23
Subtotl VEHICMES AND EQUIPftEl /a                                                                         154 30 235 S4                   78 39                   468 23
total INVEtSTitENt CoSIS                                                                                     33S 80 23554                    78 39                   649 73
It  RtCURRtNI COStS
A. ItECH1ICA  ASSISIANCE
AND stIDlES
I E80D AGROPASI
IDRTUAND AGR. I ItI               UC           0 $     I    I    I               3 S     10.000           SO 00 000000 30000 30 00                       350 00
2   IAIFR MARV ISHORI TERN)1          6           0e 7          1    2    2         6 ?       1.000            7 00  10 00  10 00  2090  20 00                b7 00
3  COtSUttANCIES
.. .........
8GRON801IS                        to        3          '                           3       1.000   30 00               -                                   30 00
IRRIGAIEt OUW                               I                                      I       1.000    30 00                                                  to 00
SOIt SCIlNIISY                    6t        2               t                      3       1.000   20 00                  10 00               -            30 00
SEEDPRDD PON  3ItOlttS           PR        I                                -     I         SOO    $ 00                                                    S 00
Sub 10181 C00SUIT3ACIES                                                                               65 00                  10 00                           7T  00
4  PRIVATE ENCLOSURE SUD'f
GCOCRRPHER                         8        3I                                     3       1 000   30.00                                                   30 00
ANIHROP0IDGISII
SOCIO ECSI.                    O         3                                             13 .000   30 00      -      -                                   30 00
RtttOt SEN51NG SPtCCIAISI           l       2                                      2       1. 000   20 00                                                  20 00
loCal COutRACI $Slll             I          I                    -                 I        353    3 $3                                                     3 53
RAPS AND PR8INiIN                Si-                                               I         500   5$00        --                                     -        00
Sub falal PRl41tV ENCtOSURE SIUDY                                                                     88. 53                                                 68 53
S oi0R toca0 CioNIRACr
S8fF                            6 S        3                               -                t76 8    76                                                    I t6
Sub total IICEICAI Afi 'tSlAIICF
M8D SlUDltS                                                                                           ISS 29  57 00   0 00 120 00 120 00  20 00              H^i 29



-65 -                                                   Annex 3
Ta-ble 6~ (3)
sof  u,a   lsisam: we wwiaeemui .WeCD. maSt ii
0*.  WSISI IOM.IA   "oil"           IM   U Isa    in10I1401
Sufa.il   Cool IIbe
"I NVCIo O8AGASIDUL                  I                II          I                    6          45             0456   045,   045    045    0486   0486           24816
SI  An510 LAND FontsII             IIII                        I           I                      35             0 3    0 36   035   0 36   01    0 3              2 I
1oiORSIONV O0FIFI'cER              [itI                I    I    I    I    I           6          35             0 36   0 36   0 35   0 35   0 36   0 36           21IS
CORpIIL  OP NIOR                   "I               I     I    I           I           6          10             0 30   0 30   0 30   0 10   0 10   0 30           I NO
ERIS                              VII                  I                      I      6          i             010   06    OIl09    090   090   090                40
DRIVE                              VI              5    5    5    S    5    5    30               IS            090     00      00      00        9       9         4
Sub Iotal HEAD OFfICE                                                                                               2SS 258   258       258   258   255         4     i~48
2  SEED NEILI  AND
SIDRAGE CENTR
SEED I'NOD4JCIIDN AGRFDIIDISF       IV        I    I    I            I    I    I       2          30    0 30   0 30   0 30   0 30   0 30   0JO1    0 30            2 10
FARM MANAGER                        IV        I    I    I    I       I    I    I       2          30    0 30   0.30   0 30   0 30   0 10   0 30   0 30             2 10
SEED IFCIINICIAN                    V         1 I    I    I          I    I    I       2          24    0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24   0 24             I 68
sLit  SIOAl1 ASSISIANI              VI        I    I    I    I    I    I    I          2           is    0la8   0lIa   0 Ia   0la8   0 Is   018   0i IS            I 6
SEED LS       ASSISIANF             V         I    I    I    I    I    I    I          2          24    024   024   0 24   024   024   024   024                   1fi8
TYPISI/C lERR                       VI        I    I    I    I    I    I    I          I           Ia    01   0 is   0 is   0Is   0 Is   0Is   0l 1             I26
PUMP OPERA*IR                       VI        I    1    1    I    I    I    I          2           to    01a   Ois   01la   01o   018   01    0to                 126
MORK(RS                             UC        I    6    6    6    6    6    6    32                Is    0Is   090   090o   090   090    090   090                 s55
DIFIVER                             VI        I    2    2    2    2    2    2         13           Ia    0is    0lb,   0 36   0.35   036   036   0.36              734
GUARDS                             VII        I    3    3    3    3    3    3    19                12    012   0.15   0 36   0 36   036   036   036                228
CLEANERS                           VII        1    2    2    2    2    2  -2          13           12    012   024   0 24   0.24   024   024   024                 156
SLhibotsI SEED PEIUL AMC
StORAGE CENIRE                                                                                           2 19   348   3 48   348   346    34    348   *23 07
3  ADAPIIVE IRIASS
ADAIPTIVE . TR'IA1 AIGRWONIST       IV        -     I     I    I    I    I    I        6          30             0 30   0 30   0 30   0.30   0 30   0 30           I 80
OFFICERINCFARG* .  IRIALS           V               2    2    2    2    2    2        12          24             048   0 48   048   0 48   048   048               288
TECHINICAI OfFICERS                 VI        -     3    3    3    1    3    3    is              is             054   0.54   054   054   0.54   054               324
GUARDS                             VI$             to   10   t0   t0   10   10    60               12            120    1.20   120    120    1 20    120           720
CLANERS                            ViI              6    6    6    6    6    6    35               12            072   0272   012   072   0172   022               432
DRIVER                              VI        -     2    2    2    2    2    2        12           Ia            036   0.36   036   036    036   036               216
MORSElS                             UC        -    2    2    2    2    2    2         12           is            030   0.30   030   0.30   030   030               Igo
Sub-toi:aI :ADAPIVE IRIAES                                                                                          3.90  _3_90  .3.90  _3.90  .3 90  _3.90  ..23. 40
Sub~ totla   SARIS                                                                                              2 19   9 96   9.96   9 96   9.96   996   996    6it95
C AtLON8NCES AND PEN DIENS
IHEAD OFFICE
OIRECTOR AGROPAStORAt               III                        I    I    I    I        6         156             1 56    1 56    1.56   1 56    I56    156         036
SR  ARIO LANIDFORESTER             III        -    I    1    I    I    I    I          6         150             9 50    Iso    Iso    I so    Iso    Iso          900
VORLEStaOROPFIF EE                 III        -          I    I    I    I    I         6         ISO             IS      I 50    1 5  s  .50    ISO    Iso        900
COMPUTEIR OPTRAIOR                  IV              I    I    I    I    I    I         6          42             0.42   0.42   042   0.42   042   042              252
Typist                              VI              I    I    I    I    I    I         6          la             015    018    0'a   018'  01    01               lOS'0
DRIVEN                              VI              5    5        5  S          5    3             41            270   2 10   220    210   210   220              16 20
S..b-lo.al HEAD OfFICE                                                                                              286   7686   256   786    786   786    47216
2  SEED NEIL?. ANm
StORAGE CENTRE
SEED PN0DuctIoN AGOONNISE           IV        I    I    I    I    I    I    I          7          54    0.54   0 54   0 54   0 54   0 54   0 54   0 54             3725
FAR"MNRAIGR                         IV        I    I    I    I    I    I    I          7          54    054   054   05S4   054   054   054   0St                   378
SEED tEECNICIAN                     V         I    I    I    I    I    I    I          7          36    036    036   0 36   036   036   016    036                 252
SlED SIORE ASSISTANI                VI        I    I    I    I    I    I    I          I          Is    0 IS   0IS   0 15   0 Is   0 in   0Ia   0 IS               I26
SEEDLtAS  ASSISTANT                 V         I    I    I    I    I    I    I          7          36    035    036   0 35   0.36   036   036   036                 252
IVAIST/CIERS                        VI        I    I    I    I    I    I    I          ?           o2 IS    018    0s 015      i0s   OIa   0is   018               126
PUqP OPfNAIER                       VI        I    I    I    I    I    I    I          7          is    0.1a   01    05s   01a   0to   0is   0la                1.26
DNIVEN                              VI        I    2    2    2    2    2    2         13          54    0 54    106 I08 IOS      lO      IOS    I08    I08         7 02
GUARDS                             VII        I    3    3    3    3    3    3    19               12    0 12   036   0 36   036   036   036   036                  2 25
CELANERS                           VII        I    2    2    2    2    2    2         13          12    0 12   024   0 24   024   024   024   024                  1is
Sub-IotaI SEED NEULI AND
SIONAGE QENIRI                                                                                           3 12   4 02   4 02   4 02   40'   4 02   4 02    27 24
3  ADAPIIVE  INIAiS
ADAPIIVE 1RIA1 AGRNOMDIST           IV        -     I    I    I    I    I    I         6          54        - 0 54   0 54   0 54   0 54   0 54   0 54              3 24
OfFICER INCIIARGE. IRISES           V              2    2    2    2    2    2         I2          36             0 72   0 72   0 72   0 72   0 72   0272           4 32



- 66 -                                                   Annex 3
Table 6 (4)
II CHNICA11 OFfICERS                VI              I    3    1    1    3    3    la              Is             0 64   0 64   0 54   0 64   0 64   0 64           9 24
G.ARDS                             vil             10   10   tO   to   go   10    60               12            1 20    1 20    1 20    1 20    120       270     720
CtLAEANS                           VII              6    6    I,    6    6    6    16             12             0 72   0 72   0 72   0 72   0 12   0 72           4 32
DRIVER                              VI              2    2    2    2    2    2        12          64             1 08    I0 Os       S    I 0A    IOB    I08       648
Sub-lot&I ADAPTIVE TRIALS                                                                                           4 80   4 80   4860   4890   480   480    2880o
Sub-foist ALLOWANCES AND PER DI18S                                                                              3 12   16689  16 68   1668i  lb 68   168 b 16fi68    103 20
0 IU6I/vtlICL6 IIAIRlIEIAICO
4 NOSIATION WAGONI                    /08              6    b    6    b    6    6    36             274             16 44   16 44   16 44   16 44   16 44   16 44    98 64
4 MDPICNUP                            /1,1             I    I    I    I    I    I         6b          8      193         1 93    1 93    1 99 3    1 g  91    193     1I1-i
TRACTOR ARD TRAILER                   /TR         I    3    3    3    3    3    3    19             371    3 71  it 13  It 13  It 1I  TI 13  TI 1i  II TI    70 49
NOTOR IIIKE                           IR          -          6    b    6i    6    6    36             41            2 82   2 82   2 82   2 82   282   282             16 92
Sub bloal IUEI/VTHICIE MIAINTENANCE                                                                             3 71  32 32  32 32  32 32  32 32  32.32  12 32    197 63
OIlIER OPt8AlINJLG COSTS
I MATERIAL1 SUPPLIES.
ADAPTIVE TRiIAS
ftWIING NATRIRAIS                 I 5      0 6t    I          1                     25 6         88    2 94   6 an             'j 88                             14 70
toots AND LI GM INPtEREIEIS        sit      0 6     I    I    I    I                45 6         647    3 24   6 41   6 47   6 41   6 17                          29 12
UIISPECIIIID. IN(:
COMIPENSATION                  IS5      065      I    I    I    I                46,         So0      2606 %0065006.3 Jo 600                                  22 60
Sub Total IIAIERIAI SUPPIIES.
ADAPtIVE TRIAlS                                                                                          8658  17 35   11 47   17 36   11 47                      16632
2  BUILDING NATNIENANCE /b             TR      0 6      I    I    I    I    I    I   6S              5 40    2 70   6 40   6 40   6 40   6 40   6 40   6 40    36 TO
3  HOUSE RENTAL
IVTSTIING6STAFFI                   OR               I    I    I    I    I    I        6         200              2 00   2 00   2 00   2 00   200   200            12 00
4  PLANt ARO EQUIP
111AT1NT*1CE/ IC                     R      065     I    I    I    I    I    I   b6            1.233    6 1712 33   12 33   12 33   12 33  12 33  12 33    go0is
6  PlANT AND SoIL,
ANAI7SIS /d                         78      065     I    I    I    I    I    I   66            1.000    50do10 00to00  10 00 1000   to00   to00                   65600
6  CONTRACT SEED PRODUCTION /a         YR      0 5      I    I    I    I    I    I   6b6           1.000    6 00  Io 00  ID 00  to 00  to 00  10 00  to 00   6ib 00
7  RFPIACERfIII SEED SUPPEiES          78      0 6      I I    I    I         I    I    6 6         491    2 46   4 9I1       R 4 91   4      VI 4 91   4  91        31 I  92
A  REPtACERNIN CHEMICAES               TR      0 6      I    I    I    I    I    I   6 6             491    2 46   4 V1   4 91   4 91   4 91   4 91   4 91           31 92
9  NURSERY OPERATION
MtATERIAlS                          TR      0 5     I    I    I    I    I    I   6 6             392     I 96i   3 92   3 92   3 92   3 q2   3 92   3 92    26 48
LABO0UR /I                         EAIY       3    6    9   13   13   13   13    70               82    2 46    4 92    7 38   10 66  1066b  1066b  106b6    b740
SubkTolaI NURSERY OPERATION                                                                                 4 42   8 84   II 30  14 68   p4 68  146So  14658    82 88
Sublotai OtHER OPERATING COSIS                                                                                 36 81   76i74  72132  81 48  76 60  64 13  64 II   470 27
loIal RFCURRENT1 COSTS                                                                                            201 IA  191 702741 28 260 44 264 66 143 09 123 09 1.416i 34
total                                                                                                              5 16 98 42? 24 241 28 260 44 332 96 143 09 123 09 2.065 07
/a  aLlOCATION OF I VEHICLES
DRYtAND AGRONOMIST             I 4110 (NO
DIRECTOR AGROPASTORAL          I 4WD two
SR ARID tltND FORESITR         I 4WD0 INB
SEED PRODUCI ION              I 4WD0 Pt
ADAPTIVE TRIALS               2 AND ENS
CONsLIETtANIS                  I 4WD SU4
/b  21 OF INVE5StM68T COSTS.
/C  1010Of INVESTMENT COSTS
/d  400 SAMPLES/YEAR P AVERAGE 01 USS 30 00/SANPtF
/a  67 EOtAL AGROPASIORAI ISIS
IT  3 tABOURLRS/NURSLH7 P S5160/DAT. 312 DAYS/YEAR. fIOAE/IIURSERY. SS140.0DO
Auqunt IS. 1988  12 46



- 67 -Ane3
50 Al1IA
utITRAt RANGItAIiDS 111%TAMIll AND 0tvTlOP4jt0I PRIJJICI. 1iHASI If
1.bl. 400  ANMA  fliiAl Ill AND I [VI '.101:K l'lROOIlLt 1(1
Detailed l.ost lablo
ISO 54 1'0001
Quanl sly                                                          Blase Costs  iS
Unit  1988 1989  1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 total  Unit Cosl  1988    1989    1990   1991   1992    1993   1994    Total
INVESTINE11i costs
A Civil WORKS
410058 FOR ETPAIRIATI
I8N/B NAYNIKI                        112            ISO                                 ISO           41           61 60                                              61 so
Sub~ Total Cl VII WORKS1                                                                                                   61 60                                              Si 50
6 01T1itils/1OUIPME18N
PURJCHiASE 01 GOAMIt/IUP /a              fA            ISO          ISO                     300         0 04            0 06            0 06                               0 I?
CANiISIOO1111YS   M4OF EACH)I            EA               8                                    8          40             120                                               3 20
CAMFItS  (SCOOP DENO)1                   FA              30                                   30          it           21 30                                              2i 10
CAHILS IlIDING 914101                    EA              16                                   lb          71           II 16                                              it 16
GEINRAiI 1VES10c88QuIP41  lb             TR               2     I      I    I    I    I        7         9410          I160   9 80   9860   9 80   9 80   vao0    68 60
CANIt  AI 5018  PUJRCHI*SIDl             [A               8                                    a           141           i04                                               3 04
CANIt SADDLES INANUFACtUR8EII            EA               a                                    a          25            2 00                                               2 00
CAMEL SCOOPS                             IA               t Is                               IS           Si            7 65                                               7 65
CAIIt PIOUGN4SANDiiIMI'84               SIFF              I                                    I         100             I00        -                       -               I 00
CAMEL AND0 004188  CARIS                SI                2    2                               4         too            2 00   2 00                                        4 00
GUTIFRING/IANKS IOR 01S1  NO             EA               I    3      2    2    2       I    Ii          246            7 18   7 38   4 92   4 92   4 92   2 46    ii qa
1NoV41to  o 1114WD)1                     EA               I    -                                       4.283        -42 83                                  -             42 83
PICKUP i4itOl                            FA               I                 1                  2       l.69i           16 91        -16 91                                33 812
4410 ii.                                 f*               I    -I                       -      2       1.961           19 61                    19 61                     39 22
(RIRA SPARES (OR  tiLEIMADNE             EA               I                 I                  2       2.000           20 00                   20 00                      40 00
GENERATOR IDOR TRUCII-E1AVAI             EA               I                                    I         so0            5 00                                               5 00
REFRIGERAIOR BOXES 140L FOR IN I    EA                    2                                    2         250            600                                                5 00
CAPPING TOJIPWIONI Ie                    is               I                                    I       I.S00           Is 00                                              Is 1  90
T8StINGILAS LOUIPW(INT Id                I5               I                                    I       2.000           20 00                                              20 00
SiAtTotal VEHiCLEsIIOIJIPM8NI                                                                                            222 94   19 18  148 71 I24   14 72   12 25    35- I"
total IN41FSIMINI costs                                                                                                      284 44  19 IS  14 78  71 24  14 72  12 26   416 62
11 RICEIRRIENt COSTS
A IICHINICAt ASSISI /S1U018S
VFtFRIWARIUN                            TR               I    I      '     I    I            6       17 647          116 47 176 47  176 47 176 47 176 47                882365
CAMEl ROIDIG J!CA41Et USE               41              3                                    3        1. 176          36 28                -       -                     36 28
ANiiAl TRACtION                        Om                    I                               I       I 000                   t0 00                                      tO 00
01UGOUI SCUP                            MM              2                                    2        I. 176          23 52                                              2J 62
MI11  UEiEisAIIOW STUDY                 Nm                    3                               3       I. 176                  35 28                                      36 28
LCA. R.APIO NEROll APPRAESAI           414             3    2       2                       7        illO?           35287  23 52  236?2                               41232
'SIsiANC .   (CA COMIPIJiER             TR               I    I      I    I    I    I        6          167            I b7    I67    I 67    t 67,   I 67    I 67       to 02
Syb bloat IECHNICAI ASSISI IStUMIS                                                                                      272 22 246 94 201 6b 178 14  741 14    I bl 1.078 77
6 SAIARIES
WETTIFNIARIAMS                          [A              2    2       2    2    2    2       12           42            084   084   0 84   0 84   0894   0 84              6 04
Wit ASSISIAMIS                          (A              3    3       3    3    3    3        is          36            I 0s    I 06    I OS    I 06    I 06    I 06       6 30
ORIVER                                  EA              2    2       2    2    2    2       12           21            042   042   0 42   0 42   0 42    0 42             2652
Sit lotal SALARIES                                                                                                        2 31   2 31   2 31   2 II   2 31   2 31           13 86
C AILOIiAC(SIPtR DI(MS
WEtINRIMARIA41S                         EA              7    2       2    2    2    2       12           42            084   084   0 84   0 84    0414   0864             6 04
VEt ASSiStANtS                          LA              3    3       3    3    3    3       to           36            I 06    I 05    I 0s   I OS    I OS    I 06        8 30
DRIVER                                  08              2    2       2    2    2    2       I?           21           042   042   0 42   0 42    0 42   0 42              26$2
Subloa  AtLOM4ANES/PFR DI8415                                                                                             2  i    2 31   2 31   2 31   2 31   2 31          13 86
tRUCK 10ION)lt                        IYR               I    I       I    I    I    '                   34            834   834   8 34   8 34   8 34   8 34             60 04



- 68 -                                                   Annez 3
Table 7 (2)
cfti6t  _If    *eS   *itStUl  An   KvtIOPNlFI 9WJCI.  5iASE 11
a*1 4ec. AIit i   UIStIN N    tilVSI8CI PIONCII1
tats led Cost fTeb
ISO. slt I O
490SflOllDtIO       ItNAM             /To                     I    I      I    I           6          274           2 74   2 74   2 74   2 74   27 4   27 4           If 44
PICKUPt   4fi                         /7r             It    I       I    I    I            6          7?7           2  27    721    2 77   7 2?    277   7 77         11 h2
Ct8tft 106                            /75               I    I      I          S I 1       6           69           09   09   0 S9   O 59   0 9    0  9               J i4
S.F lolcl #UEI/VIHICLE  H414t'A4CI t                                                                                   11 94  13 94  15 94  11 94  13 94  13 94    83 64
I  OlHtR OPIIAIIUG COSIS
.......   ........... I .. ..
HOUSING Rt'4At1 lOCAt 5IAII           /7R               I    I      I    I    I    1        6         529           5 29   6 29   6 29   6 29   S 29   S 29           It 74
VtI ORJG PURCHASE lUltD              /ER             0 S  O         I    I    I    I       S       S.000          2        5 00  2 S 00  so 00  so 00  6o 00   0    h00   26000
SUPPitS&/11ltilltS                    /TR               I    I      I    I    I    I       6        1.176           it 76  II 76  It 76  11 76  11 7b  11 76    10 Sh
FitiOS ttSTING COtSollt,1ES           naR              I    I       I    I    I    I       6       2.945           29 41  29 41  29 41  29 41  29 41  29 41   176 46
OFFICE 5JItR1*15    OH0tR            /7R               I    I      I    I    I    1       6        1.116           11 76  it 76  11 76  Of 76  11 76  11 76    70 56
AItINIItCE Of PROtECI CREtIS
RIDI'4C CUEtS                       LA             16   16                             32          48            7C8  7I68                                        Is 16
CAMEt SCOOP CAtLS                    (A       *    30   30                              60          48           l4 40  14 40                                      28 80
Ssh total OfNER OPERATING COSIS                                                                                       t05 30 t05 30 1082 2 508 22 108 22 108 22   643 48
Total RECURR52 I COSFS                                                                                                    396 W  370 80 328 44 304 92 304 92 128 45 1.833 fil
lIatl                                                                                                                      680 52 389 98 343 22 376 56 319 64 140 71 27.20 23
/a I5FRDS/ftOCKS tO OE 1IID1100RED Y TIHE PROJECT
/b  GCtiR4t vilI!4R5   "O 16t0SIOC8 NHUSS6OR7
Ic  Sil 10i   6 PEfSONS  10 CAMP  IDES. 6 CHA1INS  3 IU1IIS. I MAIER fill SR. 10 JERRY CAMS. 10 ESiS Of WIIER57 AND C0OKING UE4ISIL
/d  SENH5 CEN4RlFSiC. HtHIOIRII CENIRIfIUGE. TUBES. tICOSCOPE. PIPEIIls  StlDi  WtES
,ugsl 56.  .6   2 46. ..... . .. . ....  ..
Auwst 16. 19U 12 4S



-69 -Ane3
Ta~ble I (1)
CENTRAL RANGELMADS RtESEARCH AND OEVELOPNIENT PROJECT, PHASE 11
Table 500. MATER AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVEI.aPVSNT
Detai led Cost table
ISO. SN '0001
Quantity                                                         Base Costs in S
Unit  1938 1989 1990  1991  1132  1993 1994 Ttotl    Unit Cost  '9SU    1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   total
....... ... .....s ..... ...  ...  m...  ....             ...... . .... t,tSa  I.... .1S   4.... ...... ......  ....  niS   n
I. INVESTNIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MONS
CONSTRUCT ION
SaREmoLEs                          (A       -    I      I      I     I    I    -               13.000       -130.00 130.00 130.00 t30.00 130.00           - 650. 00
DUGOUTS Is                         EA       - 10    Is    Is    Is   IS                 70        g00o         80.00 120.00 120.00 120.00 120.00          - 560.00
DUGOUT SEINTENCE INECN.)               CA            5    t  10    10   10   10 to          5S         s0o          2.50   9.00   5.00   5 00   5 00   9.00    2? so
DUGOUT MtIST  EQUIP ICANELI            EA           10    t  10    10 I    10   10         s0          10           1. 00   1. 00   1. 00   1. 00   I 00   1.00c    6 00
MIELL REHABILITATION
FULL                               EA       -    5      5     5      5    5    3       28          100      -5.00  5.00  5.005S00  S00  300                    28 00
PART                                 EA            5     5      5     5    5    3        28          49      - 2.45   2.45   2.45   2.45   2.45   : 47           :3.12
NURSERY BURKAADS                       EA                   I     I      I    I             4       1.000          -  -   0.00  lO.gO  10.00  10.00                40 00
AIRSTRIPS /b                           EA       -    -     3      2                         S         50o       -        15.00 10.00          -              -    25 00
ROAD REHABILITATION                   /RN       -    - 200   300   500    -             1.000          60       -      -120.00 180.00 390 00                 - 600 00
PULLEY SYSTEMS IEOIJIP A CAIIELI       (A       -    3     3      -  -        -             6         151           4.53   4.53       -       -       -             9.06
RIVER ACCESS POINTS                    EA      -     -     S      S     S    -     -       is         II$              -   5.90   5.90   5.90         -            I  70
s-ij-total civiL MORsS                                                                                             - 225.48 418. BA 469. 35 579.35 273.45  10.47 1. 976. 98
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPME1r
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPVIENT Ic
GRADER /d                           CA      -     I.       .     .      .     .     .           12.961         129.61       -                                 129.61
SPARE GRADER BLADES                   SET      -     2                  2    -4                       200           4.00       -      - 4.00          -              .00
R116ER TYlEO FRONTEND LOADER           CA       -    I-I     15.000                                             -150. 00       --                                 ISO19  00
DOZER BLADES FOR LOADER                EA            2-2                                              200       - 4.00         -                             -     4.00
LON BOY TRUCK/TRAILER I.               CA            I-i                                           13. 524        1 35.24      -                             - 135.24
4WD PICKUP N/SOIL SAIIPLE DRILLER    CA        -     I.I                                           3.000        -  30.00       -      -       -              -    30.00
JACK NAINNER/CDNPRESSOR                EA      -     I-I                                           2.000        -20.00                -       -       -           20.00
TRUCK (4WD 10 TOM) /I                  EA       -    I     -      -     2    -              3      4.283        -42.83         -      -85.65         -            28.49
MAIER TANK 110001.1                    EA       -    2.2                                              135       - 2.70         -                                    2  .70
FUEL TANKI6O00LI                       EA      -     2.2                                              12S           2.90       -              -                    250o
4WD PICKUP Ig                          EA         -        2      2     2                   6       1.691          -  -33.82  33.82  33.82            -      -   101.46
4MD PICKUP H/TOOLS/SERVICE             EA            I            -      I                  2       1.691          16.91       -      -  15.91                     33.82
tRUCKt TANKER IbOOOLI lh               CA            I-I                                           5,072       -50.72          -                                  50.72
Sub-Totel VEHICLES AND EOUIPUEMT                                                                                   - 588.5:  33.82  33.82 140.39         -           796.54
total INVESTRENI COSTS                                                                                                -  13.90 452.70 503.17? 119.74 273.45  10 47 2.773 52
lI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. TECIINICAt ASSISTANCE/STUDIES
SOIL A MATER ENGINEER IEXPI                    -    4     4      2     2          -       12       1.000          40 00  '0.00  20 00  20 00                     1 ,0 00
SHORT TERNS CONSULtANCIES             U             2     2   0. 6     -    -     .     4 6        1. 000     -20.00  20.00   6.00           -       -           46 00
Sub-Tota I TECKINICAL ASSI STANCE/STUDIECS                                                                        -60.00  60 00  26.00  2000            -      -    66 00
B. SALARIES
CHIEF MATER AND INFRAST.             III            I      I     I      I   I    I         6          36           0 36   0.36   0.36   0.36   0.36   0.36        2 16
HEAVY EQUIP  CONTROLLER               IV            I      I     1      I    I    I        B          30           0.30   0230   0 30   0.30   0.30   0.30         1.80
ROVING HEAVYEQOUIPKRECHAIC            V       -    2      3      3     3    3    3        Il          24       - 0 48   0 72   0.72   0.72   0.72   0 72          4.08
NECHANIC HELPER                       V             2     3      3     3    3    3        I?          is           0 36   0 54   0 54   0.94   0.54   0954        3 06
DRIVERS                               VI      -     I     I      I     I    I    I         6          is           018s   0.18   01la   0.18   0.18   0.18    I108
NEAVY EWUIPRENT 0CME                  V        -   10     2      9     9    9    9        55          24       - 2 40   2 16   2.16   2.t6   2:16   2.16    13.20
sURVEYERS                            V              a B          8     8    a    a        48          24       -192  1.92  1.92  1.92 :92    1.92    11 52
FORENN. CAINEL DUrOUT NTCE           V              2     2      2     2    2    2        12          24      - 0.48   0.48   0 48   0.48   0 48   0 48           2.88
LABORERS                             UC             S     S      S     5    5    5        30         IS            0.75   07is   0.75   0.75   0 75   0 75        4950
Sib-Total SALARIES                                                                                                -    .23   7. 41   7 41   7 41   7 41   7 41    44 28
C. ALLONACES AND PER RICKtS
CHIEF WATER AND INFRAST.             [ifI     -                  I      I    I    I        6         ISO       - I so    IS       ISO 5    1.50   150   I so      9 00



- 70 -                                                     Asex 3
tabl  8 (2)
HEAVY EQUIP  CONTROLLER             IV       -    I     I     I      I    I    I       a          50          0.S0   0.S0  0.80   O.SO0   0SO   0tO        3 00
ROVING HEAVY EQUIP NECHM4IC         V        -    2     3     3     3    3    3       17          72      -   I44   2.16   2.16   2. 16   216   2 16    12 24
4ECHANIC HELPER                     V        -   2      3     3     3    3    3       I           18      -   6. 36   0 54   0 54   0.54   0. 54  0o4       3 06
DRIVERS                             VI      -    1      I     I      1    I    1       6          54      -  0.54   0.54   0 54   0.54   054   054          3 24
HEAVY EQUIPENT CREW                 V       -   10      9     9     9    9    9       55          72      -   720   6.48   6.48   6.48   648   648    39 60
SURVEYERS                           V        -   8      8     8     8    8    a       48          72      -  8.76   S.76   S. 76   8 76   816   S76    34 56
FOREMA. CANEL OUGOUT !TCE           V       -    2      2     2     2    2    2       12          Is          0.36   0.36   0.36   0. 36   036   036        2 16
Sub-Totel ALLOANtCES AND PER DIENS                                                                           -  17.66  17.84  17.84  17. 84  17 84  17.84   106 86
0. FUEL/VEHICLE MAINTENANCE
LOW BOY TRUCK/iTRAILER            /YR       -    I      I     1      I    1    I       6       1.513      -   18.13  18. 13  18.13  18. 13  1. 13  18. 13    90 18
4140 PICKUP                        /YR       -   2      2     4     6    6    6       26         193      -   3.86   3.86   1.72  11.88  It.S8  11 88    SO 18
4WD PICKUP it/SOIL DRILL            EA       -    I     I     I      I    I    I       6         193      -   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1 93   1 93    it s8
JACKt HAU4ER/CO'PRESSOR             EA      -    I      I     I      I    I    t       6         300      -   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   200   300    18 00
TRUCK 14W0 10 TON)                  E4      -   3       3     3     3    3    3       Is         t09      - 21.27  21.27  21.27  21.27  21.27  21.27   127 62
4ttO PICKUP H/TOOLS/SERVICE         EA       -    1     1     1      I    I    1       6         193      -   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93    11 58
TRUCR TANKER t600tlI                EA      -           I     1      1    1    1       6        709       -  7.09   7.09   7.09   7.09   7A9   7.09    42.84
S --Total FUEL/VEHICLE MAINTENANCE                                                                           - 84.21  54.21  58.07  61.93  61.93  61.93   352.28
E. OTHER OPERATING COSTS /1
REPAIRS. SORES A PUiPS              YR            I     I     I      I    1    I       6         100      -   1.00   1.00   1. 00   1. 00   1. 00   1 00    6. 00
BOREHOLE MAINTENCE 1/80REI /i       YR       -   18   20    25    25   25   25       138          30      -  8.40   6.00   7.80   7 80   7.80   7 80    41 40
PUtIPING FUEL AND OIL               YR       -    I     I            I    I    I       6          SO      -   0.80   0 SO   0 0   O.SO   0 SO   0.0         3 00
TOOLS AND FIELD SUPPLIES            YR       I    I     1     I      1    I    1       7       1.200  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12 00    84.00
Sub-Tot*l OTHER OPERATING CdSTS /i                                                                       12.00  18.90  19.80  21 00  21.00  21.00  21 00   134.40
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                        12.00 158.00 188.96 130.32 128 18 108.18 108.18  803 82
Total                                                                                                          12.00 971.99 611.66 633.49 847.92 381.63 118 65 3.5t7 34
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sz ..   z ..z  ..-..... ...-.   
1*  THE CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR DUGOUTS ARE BASED ON THE OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE COSTS OF THE 2 DOZERS AD I GRAOER
ALREADY OiRNEt BY THE PROJECT.
/b  ROAD REHABILITATION AND AIRSTRIP COSTS ARE BASED ON OPERATIOt ANDO MAINTENANCE OF PROJECT GRADER.
/c  TOO WORK UNITS: III TWO EXISTING OC HITH EXISTING GRADER; 121 GRADER AND FRONT LOAGER.
/d  COMPONENTS OF IEA  RtICH WOULD MUAE STRIPS. MAINTAIN DUGOUTS, REPAIR ROADS.
I.  FOR MOVING EXISTING DOZERS AROUND.
/f  PROVIDE SUPPORT TO HtELL REHAtILITATION WORK.
/g  PICKUP tItTH MECHANIC hOULD PROVIDE PERIODIC LIGHT MAINTENANCE IN THE FIELD.
/h  TANKER MOULO SUPPORT THE tiiO COiNSTRUCTION TEAMS.
hI  ROAD REHABILITATION AND AIRSTRIP COSTS ARe BASED ON OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PROJECT GRADER.
/j  BOREHOLE MAINTENANCE UNDER CONTRACT. UNTIL RLAS AND  GCA TAKE OVER.
August 30. 1988  14: 18



- 71  -                                          ~~~~Annex  3
riNIRAl  11*4.111*10*, 11101*r11      "a 1190DVIIapoPIIIUI   'UJ1Il I  11*     I I
I.1,14 b00   flu0solliVAIl   ofIo             DIII 01**4    *14
U-      1404  19119  19940   1991   11192   11011   1q944   latal  II.,l  Co%I   1919    1q09g   1490              19111     '192    1-111     P114    1-.
IUVISINiUI 1.10%10
KA: 1014 1101191  I7042  Wo'0/1,121               /112               I                                                         I 400              14 00   14 00                                              .000
"oust 0*16*10  1100142 P5200i421                  '42                                                                1         3 So00             10 00                                                      P'  00
GUARD  141 11CH1I  -20142 IN S?0/421              '12              IS      laI                                      lb           1010            27 110  1` 0I 0u4 00
IN 40111I111 RU 4141. /b,
11*10O1 11 III M  111       JI1170 02 11)0/21     '142                       I                                       I         I 400                       42 00                                             42 00
1,11111  141 "Oust1  120192 ti  1170/42'           142                     2'                    1                         It     O.                       II  10                                            II 'o
S$16  101*1  civil M10840                                                                                                                                 70 00  114 SO                                             1140 
:ml0 P1(4011                                       la               2                                                4         I 691l            31 6'                        it 812                         II  1,4
.11I.H                                            la                I                       I                       2         1 q14              19 16                       1-111,                          10 12
4110 Si 11*.04G4                                                                             I                       2         2 lo*             22 00                       .2) 00                          44 00
SPARE$/I00Is                                       SI'                                                              10           100              is 00                       l,00                           10 00
2 11*  RADIO$1                                                       .                                                           491              9 'lb                                                      29 4
$011111 Powell11  6141 11*11110                                     E.                                              1,           294               ? 04                                                      It 0,4
(*40s 111911 11*111                              sit               is      Is                                       J0            b0               9 00    q 00                                               11 00
(*4010  111111U*SIS  11111111414                   til             IS      101                                      10             10              4 '10    4 S0                                             '100
OFFIICI  100111904   10*1(1111                     tIl               I                                               I           0100             '1 00                                                       0 00
HINOCUIA114  Id                                    I&               10     to                                       60              I              2  10    2  '0                                             4 .0
IU1IUIG R     R*U  11PR1                    I                 II                                                            o               0 00                                                       1100
1014141.,       11*0 11     1*110141 S1Is, I                                I                                       2           200               2 00    2 00                                               400
6II111RUIIU   l0I.IIISI                          Sit               InI     is                                       lb           100             0.4 00   04 00                                             '00  00
S.h   lotl  IN (14111111 RANGE6                                                                                                                    214  oS   71 I,0             I1'  is1                       1800 
2 to1 4011141N RU 1*11,
I'll,PIC`""1                                       1A                                                                          I I  1141                   SOI               ',ifSO                         101 41,
.P*RI/1000 is                                                                                I               I       7           10                         9 00               7 00               I100      21 00
21MAY RADIO                                      OIl                        0                                        1,          491                       "4146                                            2-1 41,
001 *1  PO011110  G14(1R1J10                       la                       0l                                      11           2.                        17 64                                             t704
1114IS11p0    Ito1111                            "11                       12                                       I)            00                        7 20                                              I.1
r E1 111411" IIRRUIOS     iP111*194                til                     12                                       12             to                       I h0                                              IIO,
ofII1 (1    0 (IPI9SRI                           sit                         I                                       I            20                        0  Is                                             0is'
01,N(1Cull,",                                      IA                      10                                       00              I                          '9                                             2  '0
911R111U1110111111011   11*10141          '.11   I                                        1                               200           ,00                                   1, 00                    h
1111111011   IscoIJISI                           sit                       2'                                      21            t00                      6.  00                                             bI100
S'hlo,I  14 401194111  RARGI                                                                                                                               1110 411            SIf ?I                  00    J202.
Sob  loI6l 0141C110  &4O 19UIP1901                                                                                                                      ?111 019 21,1 0R             144  11              I 00    01.:' 4l
1401014141ilia   C0010                                                                                                                                 .194 019 17% SS              14-1 71               I 00    *212 917
t1C1141(41  ASMIAIOLI/010011
11Il0llII/ErO100v 111P111                            ut                I       I       I        I    0 S             4 '1       10 000             100 00  '00 00  '00 00  100 00   00 00                     400 00
%P,1(111   S10011%                                   -2                        I       I       3        I       I     I?         I 000            'I0 00   10 00   10 00   10 00   t0 00   10 00              110 00
%Ob  ITll  11(C1111(11   4S,1011A4(I/SlU0ll$                                                                                                           120 00  110 00  110 00  110 00   00 00   10 00    02  000
I  1N rtHIOAI  11A146
011R11101  LON%1R0111101   /s                    11                I       I       I       I                       6            411              0 411    0 48    0 40       0 40    0 411    0 d1,         2 As



-72 -                                                 Annex 3
Table 9 (2)
auIinO iiuln as  m  m NuwuUi ""Cl. fm Is
we    .lO   Csui  #la    m
Imaift *.41#
isau tt eae rtt
ECtSiATlls mt        itO               It            2     2      2     2      2     2    12           is     0*       t   02 0U12 0e12 U                @ U  1    4 32
SEI664T GIU                            IV            2     9      2     2      2     2    12          20       -   0 U    o  N   e UNo 0 soU             0o U          g
COOAIAL WM                             v -          1;    36   32    36    36    36   216             24           664    . .64   6 64          64   8.64   664 U St 4
GUANO                                  VI           54   1"   IOA   ION   I"4   I"8   554              1           e 912  1 44  19 44  1944  19U44  19 441  106St2
S.*-Tosal ttt CENTRAL  *16                                                                                         -  2016  29.e     24  296 6  29 8s   29S U               's96
2  Is NHOlU"4 to"6
CONSE6ttIOtt UMAI                     III       -    -     3      3     2      3     3    is          26                       I     ce    I e06   I 08 I            40
sE6iIcAUTGua                           IV       -                 3     3      1     3    IS         32                    O -    .  @0   0 .0 so   0.90         so  4 so
cot6      c6GUMA                       V                  21    21    21    21    21   I"             24                   S 04   5 04        04   5 04   2 04    25 20
GuA*                                   VI       -          U     6     63    62    62   21             la                 11.U  4  1134  11.t4  11.U  4  It 34     6 70
s-Totatel 1 NoTIIEfS r6                                                                                                     16. 26  U6.26  16.'6  16.36  Is 26    St 6O
s5b-Total SALA sIES                                                                                                     o20 1i 48. 24  46.24  48 24  46 24  46.24   261 39
C. ALLOtNICES AD PEnR DliNS
.. . ..... .    ..  ... ... .
1. IN CENtRAL NAVA
DIRECTOR COHSERV6tt"                  I        - t         I     I      I     I      I     6         156      -      S o   I 526   I 26   I 2S    I 26   I 56     9 36
COASEVSTINMARKS Iull                            -    2      2     2      2     2     2    12          ISO      -    00 2e00   2 .00   2.00   I 00   300    is 00
SERGE6 TGUA6O                          IV            2     2      2     2      2     2    12          90            I        60    1 e   I  1.0 g     0 U  I 6o    100 
CORPORAL    M                          V            26    36   32   326    26    2    216              12      -  2.92  2 92  25. 92  252.2  25 92 25 2 2   '55 52
CUUDo                                  VI                       106   108 IN    IO  I"8   594          16      -   912  19 44  IS 44  19.44  19 44  1944   106 92
sb-folal It CETUBL A8mu1                                                                                              42. 00  51.72  S1.;2  51 72  52172  51 ;2   300 60
2. In  0OT11ER16 1U1
...............
cushnAvlmT KAI              111       Ill                  3      3     3      3     J    is         ISO                   4.20   4.0   4.*  0   4.20   4 20    22.20
SERUT GUANO                            IV                   3            3     3 33    is              90              -   2.70   2.70   2.70   2.0   2 10    13.20
CORPO6A GUANO                          V        -    -    21    21    21    21    21   "05             t2      -       -  1.12  12.12  15. 12  15.12  15. 12    75 26
0UD                                    vl VI              f9    63    63    63    63   315             t8                 11.34  11.4 3   11.34  11.34   t 324    56 7o
Sub-lotol IN NHOTHE  R6AM 633 U 2 Et U2.96  33 69  22.96  22.96   168 30
Sth-Total ALLOM6CtES 4D PKR OIENS                                                                                     - 2 42 00     3 18 65.6 6s   s    2 .536  62.23   496 9O
D. FUEL/VEHICLE IaHINTEIItACE
Io CENTRAL 9*116
4MI SItGN1/.                          nR1       -    2      2     2     2      2     2    12          274          5       24 S    2. S4 8   246   24    2 4 6     32 28
4WD PICKUP                               /ye       -    2      2     2      2     2     2    12          193       -   32.6   2 86  32 6    3.66  32 .       6       2. 16
In mosltErtt RawtC
4IO PIcIUP                            /ye            -      3     3      2     3     J    is          193                  2. 9   2 19   5 79   S. 79        79    26 92
St-T-otal FUEL/VEHICLE NAINTENMCIE                                                                                        9 34  12 13  12 13  12.t3  1.123  t2 13    84 99
i. OIHER OPERATING COSTS
.....................
1. IN CENTRAL 9MU*6
UNIFORNS 'e                           SET           94    24          148          14    444           30       - 28 20  19 20        -44 40 *44 40   133 20
INFORNATION GANrHEING                 SET                                            I I  I  I   I  I  6  200  -  200   2.00   2 00   2 00   2 00   200    12 00
TRAINING PERSONNELSTUDENTS 2h         SET            I      I            I     I      I     6        400          4*00   4 00   4 00   4 00   4 0    400    24 00
SUPPLIES. MATERIALS MO teo9TS         SET                                                            S I  I  I  I  I    o  s000 o    s  S 00 So 00   2 00 s   oo    30 00
s5b-Total IN CENtRAL RlGCE                                                                                            3920  27 20  ;;00   S 240  11;00 e        240   199 20
2. IN NORTHERN RANGE
UIIIFORMS                             SET       -    -    90      -   148      -   14    386           30                 27 00       -  44 40       - 44 40   115 80
INFORItATION GATHERING                SET            I      I     I      I            I    6         200           2 00   2 00   2 00   2 00   2 00   200    12 00
tRAINING PERSONNEL/STUDENTS           SE        -    I      I     1      1     I     t      6        400       -    00   4 00   4 00   4 00   4 00   4 00    24 00
SUPPLIES, ATERIALS AD REPORTS         SEt       -    I      I     I      I     I      1     6        s0o           s00   2 00         5      o00   5 o     0 s o0    2000
Sub-Total ltt tlORTHEU RAN4C                                                                                                               ....  ....  .... U.o...o5s..tlo.s.ots
5th-Total IN NORTHEE 08*01                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 00  26 00  11 00  22 40  11 00  52.40   lot1s0
5h-fetal OTHER OPERATINGICitOSTS                                                                                      -20 20  6S 20  22 00 110 50  22 00 110 80   381 00
Total IEtuJIEIN  Cr T5                                                                                                      241 70 333 95 290 25 379 22 290 75 279 22 1.816 25
:  W:-   . :... . . .....   -  . ....  .-
fotal                                                                                                                        t36 J  109 53 20 75 529 26 290 75 282 22 2.939 22
rb  FUTEElfIOM 0F MILD A$S 6t6 ECOLOIT It LAS us 600 A0 SURROUNIJNGS. ERIGAVO "D COAST
/C CHIEL IN LAS A*e. OTHERS 1i CEERIGCAiO. LAASGORAT ION COASTI
/d  SINMOULAIS FOR MAIoENS. SEREUTS. CORPOURLS. 8O I PER POST PLUS INCENTIVES
/*  IN GALCAIO WITH EXPATRIAtE.
/f  STATIONED AT BULO tBURNI MO HOs6O.
/g  GROItOSHEET. *LAtEI. SAOALS. 1TWO SORTS. TWO BUSH JACKETS. MATEROOttLE. HAVERSACK
/h TRAINING OF PROJECT StIfF AT AFGOI. AND FIELO TRIPS FOR STuDENTS FROMt AFGOt FORE'TRT 8*0 IiltDLIfE SCCOOL.
.     .......... .................................................................................................... ....... ...... .............. .............. ......
tlrA    1. 19U1  11, 03



- 73 -                                                Annu  3
Table 10 (1)
awls
pgg~ muK Elaf :: agg                           Oma. .mm as
Wlte  Ci a                                                                ^l.
QUt. 0.  lowtAg
................................  .......................................  . ......................................................
Wa   XZ  lu l"O  baatgtp        X >    eo   tattttt                                Ba.. ceste .nX   Stt       i      o
!SU gi  ISM.  gigig 1011     Ills41 191. Itota   Urnt Cast  1W         INS    1919   11111   19    11)   I1194   total
SS  5*3  4*82  4*4  848  882  *4  3*--                     *88*   88--- -5*888- 5*fi882 244*  :s4*ss 4 4*sn.
I  INVIfSfETaNT cosrs
oncimtim cilia.
...... ...... ....
tultittc CENTER
It LuAlIaO  NILODINS                     I        -   as    -           -     -     -     - 240 2*0. 00                                                            250 00
.. .............  .......    ......   ......  ......    ......    ........
Sth-totel CiviL MGtS                                                                                                                             250 00  -  -  -  -   -   20 00
9. VElICLES  P0 E0ulPKNT
4I ttt fIOf * STUOSI                     l               I    I                            s -.s*               -  ltt   19.16         -       -               -    38 32
4U   NSo  I6 1                          Ea       -           -..                                   1.916          19S t                                             19 It
S11-Totel VEHICLES                                                                                                 -  3J.32  1.10          -       -       -        -    5748
2  TROINING CENtER EQUIP
.....................
CLAS1000N IUUITUI                        Ls       -I                                               2.o                     20.0 0 ee           -           -        20 00
OFFICE FUIINITUOt                        LS                                                 I       1.00               1*.oe                   -       -       -    10 00
4o0o SSEN.  EA                                                 I    -    -                                                  4.41                              4- 41
GOIEEUTOI ITIVA                          EA.I                                                                           - I *-                                        7 O0
RtFIOEBATONS                             f                          -.I                             1.0                    IS.00                                     I s 100
S.*-lotIl ITAINING CENtEi EQUIP                                                                                    -       -S.t            -                            56 41
SAt-Totl VEIIICLES AND  QIulJPUISI                                                                                    -  A32  75 5?                                       1 -   -  13 
Total INVISTNElT COSIS                                                                                                    - 2U .32  15151        -               -           363 89
If Riacum!l COSTS
..  __.... . . .
A. TECHICAL ASSISItaCtUtUlAliNG
.............................
1. OPT OF SOTANYIRAME
OFVESSOU OF  UrACE NA EtNtN             TO       -   0. s    I    I    I                3. 0     10. N       o      o 00 100.00 10  00 1oo 00                     350 00
cUoSULtAciEs
TEJTBooll PREPAIAIOlt               t               0    6    5            -          Is       *Ig o0                0 00   60 00                              I SO00
Sth-total OPT OF  OT80NYu*tACA                                                                                      Ito 00 IIS  00 160 00 '00 00                     S30 00
2. LOCAL 10-SEnVICE TRAINItG
.........................
tlPAT ASSISTtD  LOCAL CRSES             Ea       1     2    2    2    2    2              11      1.000  10 00  20 00  20 00  20 00  20 00  20 00                 110 00
sCatOto SOMALI PAT  UNIV                EA       -     4    4    2    2    -             12         262           11 2t  11 28   S 64   5 64          -            3  84
SCaOL. TO AFttC  IA                     E8A      *           5    S           - -        Is          141           7 0o    7 05   7 Os                             211S0
S,6-Total tOCAL 1N-SEOVICE fTUINIOt                                                                          a 00  38 33  38 33  32 69  25 64  20 00                  164 t9
3  EXTERNAL TRItNING
, .  .. .   .... .
SitOElt T IPE   COURSEI                 EA             3    5    S    5                  i s1     1. 000          30 00000   0 00  00  00             -           ISO 00
NEOIU  Itt OIPEN COURSEI                Ea             3    3    t    I                  12       2.000 a         Go  00 00  60 00  6000                          240 00
LONG IERN
PRP ENGLISH COIRSt                  EA       -      I    I    I    I    I    I         6         400              00   * 00   * 00   * 00   * 00       00       24 00
NasTESOGE             C            P                            2    2    I    I               3.000          30 00  30 00 60 0    60 00  30 00  30 00   240 00
$%&-total EXTERNAL TRAINING                                                                                         124 00 144 00 174 00 174 00  3400  34 00   634 00
4. PUiLICATIONS
SUUSCRIPTIOS CROP OC CENTER             To              I          I                      I    I  t  150      -     10           SO       T        I sO    1 00   SO  9 00
SUtSCRIPtIOtS FAC A                     t        -      I    I    I    I    I    I        S          ISO                   I t     I0     50    1 s 0  I s ISO   0S  9 00
IULTIPtICATI  CROP TEat RPTS            T        - is        I    I    I    I    I        5           SO           I s0    10    10 0 so      0      0 so   I s0    9 00
Sb-Totai PItILICAtIONS                                                                                            -    410      SO    4  0      SO   4 SO   4 10    27 00



,a-b1* T0 (2)
ones"                   meS.?   stvStso
"a.I    tint 1g
STUDY Touts /a ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ utu  ar
FARES                             ToT      to.t                                                 n iso 150                                                    is- .  00
FEES                               rytot.0                                          toI         so1  S.0 SO                                                  100
TRuNSPOol                         TOT      to.tO                                                1 I,   t                                                      I0 -  00
?ER 0lENS                          TOT     la.to                                               Is#  Is 00                                       -is 00
SMSsaOu*8A.S ETC                   toT      to.0                                                2    2. 00                                                    2 00
Su*-Ttato  A6ROpastoIAL tRAliING                                                                           5300                -                                   S   3 00
SublTot.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANcE/tRAtNING                                                                      02.00 210.03 346.03 371 to 304. 14  S4110  38 10 1. 450 09
B. SALO.IES
ICEPT OF sOTANY/RANGE
ALL STAFF (SEE GETAILI                 ye       -                   I t      I    I     S         Si16           S . to   S. to   S. 10   S 10   1 to   1 to    io 60
2  TRAINING CENTER STAFF
DIRECTOR                               IV       -      I    I          I     I    I     S         0.0I          0 01   0.01l  0.0of   0.0GI   0. 01   0 01       0 01
SECNTTANY/cLERU                        VI             2    2    2    2    2    2    12           OIla            0 00   0.00   0. 00   0 00   0 00   000         0 02
CLEANERS                              wit             2    2    2    2    2    2    t2           0.12       - 0.00   0.00   0 00   0.00   0 00   0 00            00GI
Sub-Ttot*  TRAINING CENTER STAFF                                                                                    0.02   002f   0 02   0 02   0 02   0 02         0 00
S,&-Total SALARIES                                                                                                 -    .12   1.12   S1t2   51t2   S1t2   112    30 69
C. ALLOWANCES 600 PER DIE1S
I OEPT OF SOFANY/RAmGE
ALL STAFf ISEE OETAILI                 YR            1I                  I              S       3.6S"0          26.0  26.90  25.00  2  g 36.03690  26.90   221 40
2  TRAINING CENTER STAFF
onigctam                               IV       .                 I    I     t    I     6         0.9        *00I    001l   0.01   C of   0 01   0 01            0 01
SECRITARV/CLERI                        VI             2    2    2    2    2    2    12           OIla            0.00   0.00   0 00   0 00   000o   0 00         0 02
CLEAxERS                              VII             2    2    2    2    2    2    II           0 12            0 00    00  000  0G   00G   0.0Of0  000        0OO
Sub-Total TRAINING CENTER STAFF                                                                                     0 02   0.02   0 02   0 02   0 02   0Of          0 09
Sub-Total ALLONACES ANO PER OLENS                                                                                     20.92  36.92  30.92  36.92  36.92  30. 12   221 49
0. FUEL/VEHICLE MAINTENANCE
4HO LI                                    Y               2    3    3    3    3    3    I?            274       .    .40   6 22   6 22   8 22   6 22   6.22    46158
&*-Totet FUEL/VEIIICLE MAINTENANCE                                                                                     1 46     2 622   8 2     22   822   8.22    46158
E OTHER OPERATING COSTS-
I   EPT OF BOTANY
BuItLOIG MAINTENARCE                   yRe                                   I    t     S         900           9 00   900   9 00   900   900   9 00    54 00
SuPPLIES RESEARkCH                     YRe                                              a         10o           100   S00   1 00   S00   100   1 00    30 00
SONALt.i OUREAtALR SC[                 ye                                               6         BoO       -   900   900   9 00   900   900   9 00    14 00
LOCAL SUPPOOT                          ye                                         I     G         so~           S 00    S00      000    1001500100              30 00
ENGLISHf LANGUAGE                      YR       -      I    1     I    I          I     6       1.250       .12 10  12 S0  12 .0  12 S0  12 10  12 10    7S 00
TEATISMS PURCHASE                     SET                 is   II                      30         110       -         112. 10 III 5t2 17                      221 00
5ke-Tot0l OEPT OF BOTANY                                                                                        - 40150  153 00 113 00  40150  40150  40150   468 00
5*b-Toltl OTHER OPERATING COSTS                                                                                       40.10 153 00 lIZ 00  40150  40150  40150   468 00
Total RECURRENY COSTS                                                                                             62 00 364. 64 110 08 114 44 394 80 140 21 129 21 2.225 71
total                                                                                                               620611616        61;;;  S114  a4 3,9,4,69 l 49 g  21  12'931218 2,g9,6,4
/a TWO STUDY TOUR$. ONE FOR AGROPASTORAL. AND ONE FOR RANGE rONITORING. At StARtUP. I PEOPLE On ECH touR.
Au~gust I, 1988  77 03



- 75 -
Annex 3
T bPl 11 (1)
Tale SW. einaCi  _ tma
hoeS led Ceet Ta le
*  CIVIL 121s
*    fit t thltOlttS
'a' 110 --- 4LI186*l 1016
F1.00111 a SICKmm                         t?      *                         * 'l11                                           2  e               .         .        .       .        310
n(OCAII 86LUIIPS        tt               tt7      -    a% l                                                                                  -  n  n                           . n  
KCtUPtIS8811110t 081Ctl6                 t        *      I                                *       I VEI                       1  E                             *               .       Si
OINIl e,  &S                              is      -      I                                                  SW                S.                                           
C1V  tMMt12S                             112           283t                                                  2                 e.800
am*=0                                    02      2      25                                                    I 6 2      LI     W                                                   100
c e S ats 1134h21  86                        S                                       .2                                        .         .                       0o
OIU l8683e .6ttt Sta mm                                                                           tt .      .lW"              to.t                                                   20 00
S    ftb-l rel M4141048T(6 tUILOIWIS                                               -. -4                                                                    . .  on12o
2 OlStSICT LVILt SU6O181S
........................
DISi6lCI HEAD eu itn  si 144121 /a           t              I      I     I                            3     I*  *               W*ee t I  leee          e         -       .  -        30 00
CUllUtINGfJtllahS tOt OiSt.o                 (A             3      3     2      a     2      I       13         245              1. 36     7 38      4 52      41    4.n 92   2 46    31 U
STOWS  Ia 1011                              [A              3     3      3      3     I              11       1.                4) 21     4 *1 24 *1 26    41 213 i                   1788 a
FUEL SIO6U GI     L                         (A t                  5 '           3 '                  17        353                12.     12. 12     20  22    6.0W   2. 02            3434
SItItiLs ILOCALA NIT(ILS1                   (        -      3     3      3      3            *       1         2W         -          eAG e 6.eo LW            see    2e               26 00
mSit      lt 1TTRAININ  CENTUS)             (A                                  .2                             4*                  W *   *   *                                          a .  .  800
SINOLW J 1o1S( 1"  m2a                       ill            3     2      2     2      2      3       13        66 t2 -             4411   17 64     1)64      11.t 4  118 4  11 64   114 66
itIO tZSE Itt 1t01                           (A             S      2     2      2     2      2       13       I.lls             "   86    38. 1t    3  52    31 52  39 52  319 S    256 88
S1*-otaol DISTIICT LEVEL tUIOtttS                                                                                                3605.2   2232 ;4 11 ll   II;  42  89 U   59 62   ;50 14
SII-totle  Cllit  M5S. tt oe                                                                                                           75tt      23.tl 4   210.36 t11 42  TO 85  If 62 i  456 02
a  VONICLIs AND tWIP9OtU
I No vt'tHIUS
...........
sLOOS                                       EA                    2                                   I       1- 121                      22 - 4 U                *       -       -    22
441 ISI MM          /b                      EA              S s                                              2-- -.            110  1e 0-0
4IO PICKUP                                    A             I                                         I       1..16             11.16                                                      I .  10
P8SStttCt6         Its PE11 I$=             EA t                                . *.653                                    *                   . *                .                      8 06
SCCDltD                                     tSt             3                                         I *t                       S *  *     } t3 
F5UCOT6=0  16000LI                          Is                    2             .2                           8.012                       lot1 VA.                                     101 44
s.btoata  No0 VOIIICIES                                                                                                            1661     122.6 .                   .                  212102
2  OISTRICT VEt ICLIS
40  ILos  IOISt 6Oe( OFF                    EA        .     3      2     2      2            2       13        ,l8ls            ST 46     38  n2    X3        3.3 3i    .32 332   24  08
40  1L121  16G OICMIW                        la             3 *      *      *     *          *        3       1.916        -    sr V                         -                -        5? 14
T81158 10 too                               Ge       .            I             .                     1      4433                   .      243'*                                       42863
tRACTO1  o0tt  tILIN                        LA              t;        2     2  i)                            I. *03             0 lot  t  38 36       . 08 0  368 to 10O             234 39
ST-olaI DIStViCt VEHIICLES                                                                                                        223. 14   Sit 31    14 38    14 36  SS 35 3S   32 383 18
3  Ii) OFfICE EQUIP t FUITU6R
PIIOOCOP(                                    (8l  E  4                          4                    6         344   13 16                                    13  i62 152
9008I116                                   SIT trt                              - '                            29          -    * 23                  ; 2  34                          264 6
MICRO  C61 l6   a  $6SF0T1                   EAt      I                         -                              491    4  f             *         *                -         -           4.9
16OIOUIIOirs                                la             to                 t0      -      -      20          s                     s*o                      9 AG8                   Is 60
1URITURt FOR EtS 0    St(                  Sit              a                                                  1 .0.   .           .s"                                    -            40 00
..................... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~..............                                             .............              ...     ....
Ifil NOI  Stt                                t6       -     2. -         -      -     -2                        164t            168 IS                   .       .            .         'S 16t
No ut1L1CC       6U ttt                                     *5 -0 -                                   *80U
V)8844lLc ...COt -------S---                 Et             2.Is  .e                                                                                                                    I  0 *



2   V  ....0                                                -------00---
N;7    SO .             0  0 .0 '      ss8              ol8*Zs"3  -                   @4"  '               :
0" .al _ _                  *qOQ0SC  --- e W e.- ------- -- 
*      .         . '  'C .0  _  .NNB  .t.eN_,                                              .      I
* ~  : ~    :3:::         2::'':           3~223:2:------------05:
+ :    +;    ..   :  :b:          22 88  : S      0000000 as-sON-C- *0    00aa-000  -   0
,~~~ ,-.:.0sa000to 00000 -0-       o0550'l    ooo0
*:  ~      - .:s   aS: :1::      822              00000500. st5s*:s" :0:   o0-o00.,   00:0
-       * ~:2       :       t:      :  :    ":         :                                 :00 0 0 0 0 - - .   00 00 :   :0
n:~~                   ~ : ,:        :~:::::: :g
------------0                  0~       -
_~~ .                 !   NC                          ,                             -  ^  j0   -   '   ''  s    oooooo-0C - o  o -o*- -.
3lee       0       * 0                                                        0s 05     -    O         - ::
a  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-j
| ~ ~     .. -Z -.                                  ':'s"~n        zeeeo6" R                      '           n
i~ * @ * *-  0     00           _        __ * *flC- Si--    :Zv  -
i~~~~~~r
| .... ....... . ___ ___ _____"___w_*"_g"Z __0*e_ __
S     ~         ~~  I     ~                                                                  = ~e*-----ww-"   - - _
u3,w,    0    ts4 -                                            * 8i'-IQ_|ijdg_fsi  *|.S;" W_*
s   e*:.   !.: _0 *                 3   Q.i_::-Na_                     S_ o:a.-80    _



flS- 'Rb    '"*                     ban        - i-- ---                         -  -                          -
i_-o8811        : :2w    o              ._&0_     &o  &,                                                   .-.~;  0    w_ g- etOl-n
I  =    0    ~~.p!;~~   ~       33  90~                -. ......            ..              ...0.
-    -  ,--  p  ~~~~s.w,na----------
|.  . -~on  ~-C":   2. a. az~~zB$   R i-B>oE                                                            -            . 5-."e
_gI,                               :.       n     *      |- -  -"                  CS8=*:    : ':8s
-- .maO- _w                                             -                 0-- -- -_--_--
0   ~        ~       -                               0~_0l -                                                     -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
., ..          .     ........  ..**.... -.. ....   .. .. -  ......   .......           . ...  -.. .  ................... ...
o       - 0               z.---^-            --         ----             -.---------------- 
_4_ 0~ .4        So---        -eb.5~-               5-.a-*- *-----------                            - ZS
' '34 t                                               9   4  z         o s o --  o ~- o  8: 00   .. Y S --
......    .............:..:....                  ...........
.     83 ..                  .b    .0.             .4b        4     4     5. 
..YSSo   2 * t S8"  1:82  *'2t                                        3 S'::S23:A:24Y4:_S-.                    2: .g__ON
::5 :* :*b b                                             :                                        ::                       *           te
r~..cb. .a.a...  .a.JI @b           -0..    0,                   0,-b00000000..                              *      .. ._ 
Mef_. 0. _ J                 . .       .:8     .4*       .         .        3              oSnS           Sa.5. .4-
CU:? 2:813                          ::u    1:a?                   :~2.                 .b                    : ..*0



- ~ ~  ~   '    - l o2 S   -S  t4w
*   888< --8.    3jj
*    *_ : :as:  5;;.4
i-s            - .'                                   C                iS'
Ni_ -   _s - - o-o~''i   
-        SS*o    *S  -                    gj:  
-   ': s  "-- '-' '  '  ' oii3
E   :            :: :":            :~"
t   :    *Sl$s2SS:j.j-jj.:   : --- i
I  _o-  jSj   
}_ ~ '~ Su   Uss2-;X-              ij   -   U
ao  X_~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| ~~ -                             i 00
=~~-                               *-s- a-I



- 79 -                                       Annex 3
Table 1 2 (1)
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
STAFF SALARIES, ALLOVANCES AND PER DIEMS
DAYS   PER   TtJTAL     ALLINCE    ALLUNCE       TOTAL    TOTAL
MONTHLY  ANNUAL      MONTHLY   PER   DIEM   PERDIEM   PERDIEM    PERDIEM      PACKAGE   PACKAGE
SALARY  SALARY      ALLWNCE  DIEM   RATE  PERMNTH   PERMNTH    PER YR         PER YR  PER YR
6RADE   POSITION                         (SS)  (SS'OOO)       (SS)    IMNTH  (SS)   (55)       (SS)    (SS'000)       (SS'OOQ) (US S)
I  PROJECT MANAI.ER                      7000      84   !   8000       10   500      5000      13000        156  i       240       2400
II  REsIONAL DIRECTOR                    4000      48   !   5000       20    400     8000      13000         156  !      204       2040
TECHNICAL DIRECTOR                   4000      48   ' 500          20    400     8000      13000        156  !       204       2040
DIRECTOR FIELD SERVICES              4000      48         5000     20    400     8000      13000         156  !      204       2040
DIRECTOR EXTENSION                   4000      48   !   5000       20    400     8000      13000        156          204       2040
DIRECTOR PLANNING                    4000      48   !   5000        5    400     2000       7000          84         132       1320
DIRECTOR ADMINISTRATION              4000      48   i   5000        S    400     2000       7000         84          132       1320
DIRECTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE         4000      48   !    5000       5    400     2000       7000         84          132       1320
!                                                        !
III SR SOCIOECONWRURAL BEV OFFICER       3000      36   !   4500       20    400     8000      12500         150  !      186       1860
SR RANGE MANAGER                     3000      36   !   4500       20    400     8000      12500        150  i       186       1860
ND REMOTE SENSING UNIT               3000      36         4500     20    400     8000      12500         150  !      186       1860
SR LIVESTOCK OFFICER                 3000      36   !   4500       20   400      8000      12500        150  !       186       1860
REM SENSING MONITORINg OFFICER       3000      36         4500     20    400     8000      12500         150  i      186       1860
SENIOR TRAINING OFFICER              3000      36   !   4500       20    400     8000      12500        150  !       186       1860
SENIOR COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER        3000      36   !   4500       20    400     8000      12500         150 I       186       1860
SENIOR AGROPASTORAL OFFICER          9000      36        4500      20    400     8000      12500        150  i       186       1860
ARID LAND FORESTER                   3000      36         4500     20    400     8000      12500         150  i      186       1860
SR FORESTRY OFFICER                  3000      36   !   4500       20    400     8000      12500        150  !       186       1860
DISTRICT RANGE OFFICER               3000      36   !   4500       20    400     8000      12500         150  i      186       1860
HEAD OF ADMINISTRATION               3000      36   !   4500        5    400     2000       6500         78  !       114       1140
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTANT                 3000      36   !   4500             400                4500         54  !        90        900
SENIOR MECHANIC                      3000      36   !   4500       10   400      4000       8500        102  !       138       1380
i                                                        i
IV  PROF STAFF HERBARIUM                 2500      30   !   3500       20    200     4000       7500         90  i       120       1200
LIBRARIAN                            2500      30   i   3500             200                3500         42  !        72        720
PHOTO INTERPRETER                    2500      30   i   3500        5    200     1000       4500         54  i        84        840
OBSERVERS - RANGE                    2500      30   !   3500       20    200     4000       7500         90  i       120       1200
FLIGHT MONITORS                      2500      30   !   3500       20    200     4000       7500         90  !       120       1200
DATA ANALYST                         2500      30   !   3500        5    200     1000       4500         54  !        84        840
COMPUTER OPERATOR                    2500      30        3500            200                3500         42  !        72        720
SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALIST            2500      30   !   3500       20    200     4000       7500         90  !       120       1200
SOCIOECONOMIST                       2500      30   !   3500       20    200     4000       7500         90  !       120       1200
AUDIO VISUAL OFFICERS                2500      30   i   3500        5    200     1000       4500         54  !        84        840
DISTRICT FORESTER                    2500      30        3500      20    200     4000       7500         90  !       120       1200
DISTRICT EXTENSION OFFICER           2500      30         3500     20    200     4000       7500         90  i       120       1200
AGRONOMISTS (SEED/FARM/TRIALS)       2500      30   !   3500        5    200     1000       4500         54  !        84        640
REGIONAL ACCOUNTANT                  2500      30   !   3500        5    200     1000       4500         54  !        84        840
COST ACCOUNTANT                      2500      30        3500            200                3500         42  !        72        720
ADMIN OFF (PERS/SUPPLY/CLEAR)        2500      30   i   3500             200                3500         42  !        72        720
HEAVY EQUIPMENT CONTROlLER           2500      30   !   3500       20    200     4000       7500         90  !       120       1200
!                                                        !
U   HERBARIUM ASSTS                      2000      24   !   2000       20    200     4000       6000         72  !        96        960
SMP SUPPORT STAFF                    2000      24   !   2000       20    200     4000       6000         72  i        96        960
FAMILY EXTENSION AGENT               2000      24   !   2000       20    200     4000       6000         72  !        96        960
AUDIOVISUAL TECHNICIAN               2000      24   !   2000        5    200     1000       3000         36  !        60        600



- 80-                                        Annex 3
Table 12 (2)
SMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPHENT PROJECT, PHASE 11
STAFF SALARIES, ALLOUANCES AND PER DIEHS
DAYS   PER   TOTAL      ALLINCE    ALL NCE       TOTAL    TOTAL
MONTHLY  ANNUAL      MONTHLY  PER   DIEN   PERDIEN   PERDIEH    PERDIEH       PACKAGE   PACKAGE
SALARY  SALARY      ALLWNCE  DIEN   RATE   PERMNTH   PERN1NH    PER YR        PER YR  PER YR
GRADE   POSITION                         (GS)  (SS'O00)       (S6)   /XNTH  (SS)    (GS)       (6S)      (SS'OOO)     (S5'000)  (US S)
VILLAGE EXTENSION UORKER             2000      24   !   2000       20    200     4000       6000          72          96        960
FARM FOREMAN/SEED TECHNICIAN         2000      24        2000       5    200     10V        3000         36           60        600
AGRO TRIALS OFFICER                  2000      24         2000      5    200     1000       3000          36  i       60        0OO
SITE TECHNICIANS                     2000      24        2000      20    200     4000       6000         72  !        96        960
HEAVY EQUIPMENT MECHANIC/CREU        2000      24         7 2000   20    200     4000       6000          72  !       96        960
SURVEYORS                            2000      24   !   2000       20    200     4000       6000         72  !        96        960
ASST ACOUNTANT                       2000      24   !   2000             200                2000         24  !        48        480
DISTRICT/CENTRAL STORE KEEPERS       2000      24   !   2000             200                2000         24  !        48        480
MECHANIC CENTRAL WORKSHOP            2000      24   !   2000             200                2000          24  !       48        480
VI  DRIVERS                              1500       18   !   1500      15    200     3000       4500          54  !       72        720
TYPISTS                              1500      I8         1500           200                1500         18  !        36        360
FIELD ENNUHERATOR                    1500      18   !   1500       15    200     3000       4500          54  !       72        720
CLERKS                               1500      18   !   1500             200                1500         18           36        360
TELEX OPERATOR                       1500      18   i   1500             200                1500-         18          36        360
PUMP OPERATOR                        !500      18         1500           200                1500         18           36        360
TECHNICAL OFFICER (AGP)              1500      18      i 1500            20                 1500          1E  !       36        360
TRAINEES SIMP                        1500      18        1500      15    200     3000       4500         54  !        72        720
ASSISTANT MECHANIC                   1500      18   i   1500             200                1500          18  i       36        360
TOOL KEEPER                          1500      18   !   1500             200                1500         18  I        36        360
!                                                        !
VII MESSENGER                            1000       12   !   1000            200                1000          12  !       24        240
CLEANER                              1000      12   i   1000             200                1000          12          24        240
UATCHHAN                             1000      12   !   1000             200                1000         12           24        240
SPANNER BOY                          1000      12   !   1000             200                1000          12  !       24        240
GUARDS                               1000      12   1   1000             200                1000         12  !        24        240
07-Jun-88
Dollar/Shilling axchange rate: S          100



-81 -                                          Annex 4
Table 1
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND OEUELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Costs and Benefits
1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993      1994     1995     1996      1997
OFF FARM BENEFIT STREAMS:                         ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
Agropastoral Fa: ns                                          -2722    -6027      8117    43622   101077   168489   233619   283117   309754
Agropastoral Herds                                            1025     3809      9146    13024    15670    16202    16646    16912    16912
Pastoral Herds                                                4774    18013    43563    62547    74715    75911    76799    77283    77283
Water Related Benefits                                       15550    63286   101258   139230   177202   177202   177202   177202   177202
Total                                                        18628    79082   162084   258423   368664   437805   504266   554515   SB1151
ADJUSTED PROJECT COSTS a/b/d/
Extension                                          23808   143210   100662   109011   126561    90471    93683
Agropastoral Trials                               104335    91367    44938    48660    60806    23916    23916
Animal Health & Livestock                                   159551    74354    64866    76322    64854    b4355
Water and Infrastructure                            2416   197731   119135   108228   1' 9    64763    23891
Training      c/                                    9475    74602    93024    86171    58318    22221    19213
Project Managesent      c/                         17813   300549   J82387   159841   159812   111144   106978
TOTAL OFF FARM COSTS:                             157847   967010   614500   575777   626377   377370   332036   265629   166018   111232
NET BENEFIT STREAM                               -157847  -946382  -535418  -413692  -367954    -8706   105769   238637   388497   469919
Internal Rate of Return:                              10I
NOTES:
a/ Off farm project costs include physical contingencies.
b/ Systems Investigation and Monitoring and Conservation components (23S of project costs) not included in productive analysis,
as they are justified for research, conservation and production maintenance objectives, whose benefits
are very long term and not easily quantifiable.
c/ Training and Project Managesent components reduced by 232 to deduct overhead attributable to Systems Investigation and Monitoring,
d/ Other adjustment parameters include
Official Exchange Rate                 100
Shadow Exchange Rate                   203
Recurrent Costs                         672  of Year 6 project costs.
Of Year 6 Recurrent Costs,              502  needed to maintain benefit stream.
Long Run Recurrent Costs are            342  of Year 6 project costs.
Systems/Conservation as
Proportion of Project Costs:            232
__-- --    -... ___ _    _       _ --  -  --  -_ - -   ----    -  --   -_- - - - -  - - - -    - - - - - - -



-82 -                                              Annex 4
Table 2 (1)
(Economic Prices)                                  S1IRLIR
CENTHRL RWilELRNOS RESEARCH RNO DEUELOPRIEHT PFRECT, PHASE lI
Incremntal Onfarn Benefits from Rgropastoral farmers
1989     1990      1991     1992     1993      199t    1995      1996      1997     1998
INCREME11RL BENEFITS
from bne Agropastwral farm:                -3630     2852    13154    21033    30912    30912    30912    30912    30912    30912
COUERRSE FACTOR
Uillage Extension Ucikers
In Agropastoral Rreas:
Incrementul                  5       15        15       15       10        10
CwWlative                   5       20        35       50       60        70
Contact Famers per UEU:                     10
Influenced famers per Contact farmer:           S
rarners Influenced:  (Incret)                1000     3000     3000      3000     2000     2000
(Cumul)              1000      1000     70      10000    12000    1N00
Rate of Rdoption of Technology:                751
farmers Adopting Each Yr:                  750      2250     2250      2250     1500     1500
Incinsiental Benefit Stream frm Rgropastoralisn
(SoSh '000)
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     199       1995     1996      1997     1998
Year 1 farers               750    -M2        2139     9865    15775    23181    73181    23181    23181    23181    23181
Year 2 farers             U250               -8166     6118    29596    17321    69551    69551    69551    69551    69551
Year 3 rarners             2250                       -8166     6118    29596    17321    69551    69551    69551    69551
Year i farrrs              2250                                -8166      6118    29596    17321    69551    69551    69551
Year 5 Farmers             1500                                          -Sll    1278    19731    31519    16367    16367
Year 6 f'a rs              1500                                                   -511      1278    19731    31519    1636?
Total farers              10500
Total Increental Benefits fron
fgropastoral Interventions:               -2M       -6027     8117    13622   101077   16N89   233619   283117   309751   321572



- 83 -                                            Armex 4
Table 2 (2)
(Economiic Prices)                         #IsLIR
CENTRAL RANSELANDS RESEARCH RAD DEUELOPhEHT PROJECT, PHASE 11
Return to Ogropastoral and Extension Pcitvitaes
(SoSh '000)
UNROJUSTED Off FA F   COSTS:              1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1991     1995     1996      1997
Rgropastoral Baseline                  53698    17021    23128    25011    35127    12309    12309
Uith Physical Contingencies          6X   56880    19810    21198    26528    37208    13038    13038
Extension Baseline           397    13751    82716    58111    62963    73100    52255    51110
Uith Physical Contingencies          5Z   11139    86852    61048    66111    76755    51868    56815
AOJUSTlENT FRCTORS:
foreign Exchange Content Ogropastoral Conponent:       81X
foreign Exchange Content Extension Cwnp nt:            63X
Shadowe Exchange Rate:                        203
Official Exchange Rate:                         100
Share Year 6 Costs Needed to Naintain Benefits:        tOX
ADJUSTED COSTS:                     1988      1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1991     1995     1996     1997
Rgropastoral Trials                 101335    91367    11938    18660    68252    23916    23916
Extension                       23808   113210   100662   109010   126561    90171    93683
Total Off fam  Costs                128113   23157?   1S5599   157671   194813   111388   117599    91079    17040    17010
NET BENEFIT STREM1:
rrom Agropastoral Rctiuities            -128113  -237299  -151627  -119554  -151191   -11310    50890   1395t0   236078   262711
Econmic Rate of Return:                    162



- 84 -                                 Annex 4
(Financial Prices)                      SOMhLIA                             Table 2 (3)
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1/
Agropastoral Farm: Financial Analysis
________________________________
Consolidated Farm Budget
W/O     Yr I    Yr      Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Gross Value of Production SoSh   94,750  94,283 107,981 121,080 130,878 140,677
3,14I5 /
Losses  SoSh   13,950  18,857  21,596  24,216  26,176  28,135
Consumption  SoSh   46,200  48,279  48,589  48,899  49,208  49,518
------------------------------------------------
Cash Sales  SoSh   29,600  27,147  37,796  47,965  55,495  63,024
Seeds  SoSh    3,060   3,010   2,938   2,938   2,938   2,938
Tools  ScSh    1,000           1,000           1,000
Hired Labour  SoSh    1,518   1,490   1,463   1,435   1,408    1380
------------------------------------------------
Net Cash Income      SoSh   24,022  22,647  32,396  43,592  50,149  58,706
Value of Consumption    SoS,h  46,200  48,279  48,589  48,899  49,208  49,518
------------------------------------------------
Return to Family Labour  SoSh   70,222  70,926  80,985  92,491  99,357 108,224
2/
Labour (Imputed Cos+)  SoSh   41,712  46,014  49,559  50,733  49,689  48,645
Net Benefit Including         ------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption    SoSh   28,510  24,912  31,425  41,758  49,669  59,579
Incremental Net Benefit  SoSh           (3,598)  2,915  13,248  21,159  31,069
Cash Income/Labour Day   SoSh     86.4    73.8    98.1   128.9   151.4   181.0
Total Returns/Labour Day  SoSh    252.5  231.2  245.1   273.5  299.9  333.7
NOTES:
1/ Model represents agropastoral farmers in Ceel Ohere, 8ulo Burti, Ceel Bur
2/ Labour valued at SoSh 150/day.
3/ Forage and crop residues valued at SoSh 5/- per kg dry matter.
4/ Losses at 20% of gross production include risk of inadequate rainfall.
5/ Family size of 7.0, and grain consumption going from 150 to 175 kg
per capita per annum.



- 85                          Annex 4
Table 2 (4)
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENI PROJECT
Farmgate Prices
Financial
Farmgate Prices      Unit              Prices
CROPS:                                         SS
Sorghum          q                  2,000
Cowpea           q                  5,000
Mungbeans         q                  3,370
Forage Strips        kg dm                 5
Forage Residues       kg dm                 5
INPUTS:
Improved Seed:
Cowpea           q                   5000
Mungbeans         q                   3370
Forage Strips         kg                1800
Labour:
Financial         day                  150
Shadow           day                  IS0



- 86 -                      Annex 4
Table 2 (5)
SOMALIA
Central Rangelands Research and Development Project
--------------------------------------------------------
Export Parity Price: SORGHUM
1988     1995     2000
FOB Gulf Ports        US$/ton (1987 const)       58       89       92
US$/ton (1988 const)      62       95        99
Freight and Insurance                            27       31       32
CIF Africa Destination                           89      126      131
Freight and insurance from Mogadishu             24       28       28
FOB Mogadishu         US$/ton (1988 const)       65       98      103
SS/ton (1988 const)    13243    19995    20851
Port Handling                                  2720     2720     2720
Transport Farm - Store                         1200     1200     1200
Farmgate Value                                 9323    16075    16931
1/ SS to the US Dollar (Shadow)                203       203      203



- 87 -                                      Annex 4
Table 2 (6)
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
Physical Crop Budget3 - Model I
CROP:           Sorghum
Unit    W/O      Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr S
YIELD:         Grain      q         3.50      3.6      3.7      3.8     3.9      4.0
Forage Residue      kg dm   1,050   1,080   1,110   1.140   1,170   1,200
SEED:    Local            q         0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03
LABOUR: Total             days        75       73       72       71      69       68
MARGIN:            Cash  SoSh   12,190  12,540  12,890  13,240  13,590  13,940
Inc. Labour SoSh        970   1,524   2,078   2,632   3,186   3,740
RETURN TO LABOUR: SoSh/day           163      171      179      187      196     205
CROP:           Cowpea
Unit    W/O      Yr 1    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
YIELD:    Beans           9         3.00      3.2      3.4      3.6     3.8      4.0
Forage Residue      kg dm       750     800      850      900      950   1,000
SEED:                     q         0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15
LABOUR: Total             days        51       50       49       48      47       46
MARGIN:            Cash  SoSh   18,000  19,250  20.500  21,750  23,000  24,250
Inc. Labour SoSh   10,377  11,766  13,154  14,543  15,931  17,320
RFTURN TO LABOUR: SoSh/day           354      386      419      453     488      525
CROP:           Mungbeans
Unit    U/O      Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr S
YIELD:   Gr.in            q                  3.15    3.41     3.68    3.94    4.20
Forage Residue      Ig dm               630      683      735      788      840
SEED:       Improved      q                  0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.1$
LABOUR: Total             days                 57       56       54      53       5
MARGIN:   -        Cash  SoSh              13,260  14,407  15,554  16,701  17,849
Inc. Labour SoSh              4,730   6,071   7,412   8,753  10,094
RETURN ro LABOUR: SoSh/day                    233      259      287     315      345



- 88 -                                   Annex 4
Table 2 (7)
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
Physical Crop Budgets - Model I
CROP:          Forage Strips
____________
Unit    W/O     Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    YrS
YIELD:                  q         600   960.0 1,320.0 1.680.0 2,040.0   2,400
SEED:  Improved          kg              0.04
LABOUR: Total           days               30      30      29      28       28
MARGIN:           Cash  SoSh    3,000   4,728   6,600   8,400  10,200  12,000
Inc. Labour SoSh    3,000     190  2,166   4,069   5,972   7,875
RETURN TO LABOUR: SoSh/day                156    223      291     362     436
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------_



- 89 -                                 Annex 4
SOMALIA                                     Table 2 (8)
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
FARM BUDGET IN PHYSICAL TERMS
Agropastoral Farm: Total Area Cultivated: 2.5 ha
-------------------------------------------------------
Land Use Pattern
CROP     Unit      W/O    Yr 1   Yr 2   Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Sorghum    ha        1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Cowpea     ha        4.00    3.50    3.50   3.50   3.50    3.50
Mungbean5   ha                0.50   0.50   0.50    0.50   0.50
Forage Residue  ha       2.50    1.00   2.00   2.50    2.50   2.50
------------------------------------------------
Cropped area            7.S0    6.00    7.00   7.50    7.50    7.50
Physical Area  ha       5.00    5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00    5.00
Cropping Intensity         150%    120%    140%   150%    150%    150%
Gross Production
CROP     Unit      W/O     Yr 1   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4    Yr 5
Sorghum     q        3.50    3.60   3.70   3.80    3.90   4.00
Cowpea      q        12.00   11.20   11.90  12.60   13.30   14.03
Mungbeans    q        0.00    1.58    1.71    1.84    1.97   2.10
Forage Residue kg dm     5550    5155    7066   8858    9989   11120
------..-----------------------------------------
Total Grain    q       15.50   16.38  17.31   18.24   19.17  20.10
Value of
Production:  SoSh    94,750  94,283 107,981 121,080 130,878 140,677
Seed Requirements
CROP     Unit      W/O    Yr 1   Yr 2   Yr 3    Yr 4   Yr-'
Sorghum     q        0.03    0.03   0.03   0.03    0.03   0.03
Cowpea      q        0.60   0.53   0.53   0.53   0.53   0.53
Mungbdans    q        0.00   0.08   0.08   0.08    0.08    0.08
Forage Strips   q       0.00    0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
------------------------------------------------
0.63    0.67   0.63   0.63   0.63   0.63
Value of Seed SoSh     3,060   3,010  2,938   2,938   2,938   2,938



-90-                                       Annex 4
SOMALIA                                           Table 2 (9)
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
FARM BUDGET IN PHYSICAL TERMS
Agropastoral Farm: Total Area Cultivated: 2.5 ha
---------.---------------------------------------------
Consumption Requirements
________________________________
CROP       Unit       W/O       Yr 1    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Sorghum       q          2.10    2.31      2.52    2.73    2.94    3.15
Cowpaa        q          8.40    8.26    8.12    7.98    7.84    7.70
Mungbeans       q         0.00    0.70    0.88       t.05      1.23    1.40
------------------------------------------------
Total             10.50   11.27   11.52   11.76   12.01    12.25
Market
Value of Consumption    46,200  48.279  48,589  48,899  49,208  49,518
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Production Available After Losse3 and Consumption
CROP       Unit       W/O       Yr 1    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Sorghum       q          0.70    0.57    0.44    0.31        0.18    0.05
Cowpea        q          1.20    0.70      1.40    2.10    2.80    3.50
Mungbeans      q          0.00    0.56    0.49    0.42    0.35    0.28
Forage Strips   q          4,440   4,124   5,653   7,086   7,991   8,896
------------------------------------------------
Total Grains    q           1.90     1.83    2.33    2.83    3.33    3.83
Losses of 20% of gross production (inc!udes drought risk)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------
Value of Marketable Production
-----------------------------------
CROP       Unit       W/O       Yr 1    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr S
Sorghum    SoSh         1,400   1,140       880      620      360       100
Cowpea      SoSh       6,000   3,500   7,000  10,500  14,000  17,500
Mungbeans   SoSh             0   1,887   1,651    1,415   1,180         944
Forage Strips SoSh        22,200  20,620  28,265  35.430  39,955  A4,480
Tota-Maret-S-e--9,60-27,47-3,79647,95-5-495   -3,02
Total Market Sales         29,600  27,147  37,796  47,965  55,495  63,024



- 91 -                               Annex 4
SOMALIA                                    Table 2 (10)
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
FARM BUDGET IN PHYSICAL TERMS
Agropastoral Farm: Total Area Cultivated: 2.5 ha
-------------------------------------------------------
Labour Requirements
CROP      Unit      W/O      Yr 1   Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Sorghum    days         75       73      72      71      69       68
Cowpea     days        203      175     171     168     165      162
Mungbeans   days          0       28      28      27      26       26
Forage Strips days          0       30      59      72      70       69
278     307     330     338      331     324
Farm Model
Parameters   Unit      W/O      Yr 1   Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Family Size  persons       7        7       7       7       7        7
Consumption
Sorghum q/cap      0.30    0.33    0.36    0.39    0.42    0.45
Cowpea q/cap      1.20    1.18    1.16    1.14    1.12    1.10
Mungbeans q/cap               0.10    0.13    0.15    0.18    0.20
Total            1.50    1.61    1.65    1.68    1.72    1.75
Losses                  20%      20%     20%     20%     20%     20%
(across all crops)



-92-                                Annex 4
SOMALIA                                     Table 2 (11)
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Labour Budget by Crop By Hectare
----------------------------------------
At Full Develooment
J    F    P    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D    Total
Maize
Prep/Plant   -    -    15    8   -    -    -             -    -    -        -        23
Weeding      -    -    -       S    7    5   10   -    -    -    -    -             27
Fencing      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
Harvesting   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -             5             5
Threshing    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -             7   -         7
10% Conting.  -    -        2    1    1    1    1   -    -    -          I   -         6
Total                  17   14    8    6   11                        13           s8
J    F    M    A l    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    0    Total
Cowpea
Prep/Plant    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    6    7              4     17
Weeding       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    5            8      13
Fencing       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -            -
Harvesting    8    -    -    -    -    -    -               -    -    -       -       8
Threshing      4    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -             -      4
10% Conting.    1                                                  1    1       1      4
Total       13                                                  7   13    13       46
J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    0    Total
Mungbeans
.___________
Prep/Plant    -    -    5    5    5    4    -    -    -    -    -             -      19
Weeding       -    -    -    -    5    6    5    -    -    -    -            -      16
Fencing       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -            -
Harvesting    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    8    -    -    -             -       8
Threshing      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4    -    -    -            -       4
10% Conting.                1    1    1    1    1    1                                 5
Total                   6    6   11   11    6   13                                 52



- 93 .-                                     Annex 4
SOMALIA                                           Table 2  (12)
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Labour Budget by Crop By Hectare
At Full Development
J     F      M      A      M      J     j      A      S      0      N     0      Total
Forage Strips
____________
Prep/Plant         -      -     -      8                -      -      -      -      -      -             8
Weeding          -      -      -      3      8     6      -      -      -      -      -       -       17
Fencing          -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -       -
Harvesting         -      -     -      -      -             -      -     -      -        
Threshing          -      -     -      -      -      -
10% Conting.                             1     1      '                                                   3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-
Total                              12      9      7                                                 28
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Actual Labour Use on Farm Model 1 at Full Development
--------------------------------------------------------
J     F      M      A      M      J      '     A      S      0      N     0      Total
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Maize                     16.5  14.3   7.7   5.5  11.0                          13.0                68
Cowpea    46.2                                                           23.1  46.2   46.2         162
Mungbean                    2.8   2.8   5.5   5.5   2.8   6.6                                         26
Forage                          30.3 22.0  16.5                                                     69
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Requirement  46.2             19.3 47.3 35.2 27.5  13.8   6.6                23.1  59.2   46.2   324.3
Available
fr/family        50    58    SO    SO    50    50    50    50    50    50    50              50       600
Hired                                                                               9                 9
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-



- 94 -
Annex 4
iable 3 (1)
01-Jun-88                              5011WL
CENTIM  IWELMN  OVEILOPET PIOJCT, PIS  11
ACAPASTOR. S1EP/GT OER  (10 MU106 AUCE SIZE O5 EACH)
191      1988      199      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995     1996
Opening Stock:                    640      640       640       640      640       640       640     6h0        640       640
Births                406       06        06       408       *08      40        408       408      408       408
Deatils ((1 yr)                181      177       172       167      167       167       16?      167       167       167
Closing Stock:                    640      640       640       640      640       640       640      640       640       640
Total Sales!Conusuption           227      232       236       241      241       241      241       241       241       241
Offtake  (Avge Herd of 86)         272      27S       282       282      282       282       28       2 2826t             28B
Mortality (0-1)                    232      21S       20S       192      192       192       192      192       192       192
Incresental Sales Animals:                   5         9        14       14        14        14       14        14        14
Price of one sheep/goat (SoSh):           6172      6600      7027     7455      7882      8310     8737      9165      9083
Incresental Value Offtake (SoSh):        29132    62300    99504   105559   111613   117668   123722   129776   128615
Incr. Milk Prod'n (litres per herd)         84       168      252       252       252      252       252       252      252
UValue of I litre milk (SoSh/D)             70
Inc. lilk value (I herd)    (SoSh)        5880    11760    17640    17640    17640    17640    17640    17640    17640
Inc. Milk Value (10 herds)  (SoSh)       58800   117600   176400   176400   176400   176400   176400   176400   176400
Increase in Ueight in Young Animals:
Price Effect of       152              4370      9345    14925    15834    16742    17650    18558    19466    19292
Cost Medecines/ignerals
Per herd (SoSh)                        1190      5127     9064      906t      9064     9064      9064      9064     9064
Per 10 herds (SoSh)                   11900    51270    90640    90640    90640    90640    90640    90640    90640
Net Incremental Benefits
10 Agropastoral Herds (SoSh)            802   13797T   200190   207153   214115   221078   228040   235u03   233668
De:ivery Nechaniisms and Phasi--.
Additional NAHAs in                                      -------------------------i----
agropastoral Areas:                         10        20        30
(umulative NAHA's available:                10        30        60       60        60       60        60        60       60
Herds Assisted per NANA:           15
Incremental Herds Assisted:                150       300      450
Cuaulative Herds Assisted:                 150       450      900       900       900      900       900       900      900
Adoption Rate:                     85S
Incremental Herds Adopting:                128       255      383
Cumulative Herds Adopting                  128       383       765      765       765      765       765       765      766
Increeental Benefit Streaus from Agropastoral Sheep/Goat Herds
(SoSh '000)
Accumulatior, of Benefit Stream           1988      1983      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994      1995     1996
Year I Heras            128               1025      1759     2552      2641      2730     2819      2819     2819      2819
iear . Herds            255                         2050     3518      5105      5282     5460      5637      5637     5637
iear 3 Herds            383                                  3075      5278      7657     7924      8190     8456      8456
Total                   765
Total Incrementa! Senetit,                1025      3809     9146    13024    15670    16.02    16646    16912    16912
Note: All estimates ot benefits and coefficients supplied by UTZ Veterinary Team,
and represents what they felt was reasonable to achieve given their experience.



9.5 _                                        Anuex 4
Table 3 (2)
531W
CENTRRL RRHEELAMOS DEUELOPIIET PROJECT. PMMGE 11
RROPRSTORfL SNEEP/6OAT IOEL (RU6E SIZE 85) UITNOUT PROJECT
UIIHOUEI rENLES
AI                    0-1      1-2      2-3      3-t      4-S      5-6      6-?      7-8      8-9     9-10
OREEDX                                 0.80     0.80     0.80     0.00
DERIHX               0.23     0.1t    0.1       0.1      0.1t    0.1t
SALESI                                                            0.05
IRLES                                                 IILE
DERTHX               0.23     0.1t    0.1t    0.1t                                                         RATIO
SALtSt               0.6t    0.30      0.2?     0.85                                                           0.!5
rECRLES
A6E                   0-1      1-2      2-3      3-t      t-5      5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9    9-10   TOTRL
Opening Ntmler                   8       13       16       13        9                                           59
Purchases
Natural Increase       20                                                                                        20
Deaths                  5                 2        2        2        1                                           13
Sales                                                                0                                            8
Closing Htmber         16        7       11       11       11        0                                           59
NALES
AGE                   0-1      1-2      2-3      3-t      t-5      5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9     9-10  TOTRL
Opening fumber                   2        2        1                                                              5
Purchases
Natural Increase       20                                                                                        20
Deaths                  5        0        0        0                                                              5
Sales                  13        1        1        1                                                             15
Closing Kumber          3        1        1        0                                                              5
HALES REQUIRE! -         3 IMLES WlRILULE *         3
TOARL
AGE                   0-1      1-2      2-3      3-t      t-5      5-6      6-?     ?-8       8-9    9-10  IOTRL
Opening HNuber                  10       15       17       13        9                                           6t
Purchases
Natural Increase      t1                                                                                         tl
Deaths                  9        1        2        2        2        1                                           18
Sales                  13       1        1         1                 8                                           23
Closing Ihuber         19       8        12      1l       11         0                                           6t
Sources: 61Z Ueterinuy Tetm S,ve s of Project Brea Herds



- 96-                                            Annex 4
Table 3 (3)
SLTIR
CENTRAL RRINELAIIOS DEUCLOWlENT PROJECT, PHRSE II
R6ROPRSTORRl S(EP/60RT NlOOEl (AU6E SIZE 85) UIIN PROJECT
UIIH                                                fElRLES
R6E                   0-1      1-2      2-3      3-4      1-5      5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9     9-10
OREEOZ                                 0.dO     0.80     0.80     0.80
E"THlRX              0.19     0.14     O.1t    0.14      0.11     0.14
SALESZ                                                   0.05     0.85
HALES                                                 HALE
OERIAX               0.19     0.11     0.14     0.14     0.1      0.1                                      RRTIO
SOLESX               0.66     0.50     0.30     0.85                                                           0.05
rMIRLES
R6E                   0-1      1-2      2-3      3-4       5       5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9     9-10   TOTRL
Opening Nwtber                   8       13       16       13        9                                           59
Purchases
Natural Increase       20                                                                                        20
Deaths                  4        1        2        2        2        1                                           12
Sales                                                       1        8                                            8
Closing Nwber          17        7       11       14       11        0                                           59
HALES
ROE                   0-1      1-2      2-3      3-1      1-5      5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9     9-10   T8T181
Opening Nukber                   2        2        1                                                              5
Purchases
Natural Increase       20                                                                                        20
Deaths                  4        0        0        0                                                              5
Sales                  13        1        1        1                                                             16
Closing Nuiber          3        1        1        0                                                              5
tRLES REQUIREO'          3 HlLES RURILR8LE -        3
TOTAL
R6E                   0-1      1-2      2-3      3-4      I-S      5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9     9-10   TOTAL
Opening Nuber                   10       15       17       13        9                                           61
Purchases
Natural Increase       41                                                                                        41
Deaths                  8        1        2        2        2        1                                           17
Sales                  13        1        1        1        1        8                                           24
Closing  imber         20        8       12       14       11        0                                           64
Sources: 6TZ Ueterinary Tem Surueys of Project Area Herds



- 97   -                                     Annex  4
Table 4 (1)
01-Jun-08                                   SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS DEVELOPtENT PROJECT, PHASE II
RANGELAND SHEEP/GOAT MODEL (10 HERDS AVGE 6IZE 256 EACH)
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996
Opening Stock                         1730     1730      1730     1730     17q0     1730      1730     1730      1730     1730
Births                     1194     1194     1194      1194     1194     1194      1194     1194     1194    194
Deaths ((1 yr)                      534      518      502       486      486      486       486      486      486       486
Closing Stock:                        1730     1730      1730     1730     1730      1730     1730     1730      1730     1730
Total Sales/Consueption:               660      676      692       707      707      707       707      707      707       707
Offtake Rate (Avge Herd 256)            262      262       27S      282      28S      282       282      282       282      282
Mortality (0-1)                         232      222      202       192      192       192      192      192       192      192
Incremental Sales (sh/gts):                      16       32        48       48       48        48       48       48        48
Price of one sheep/goat (SaSh):                6172      6600     6966     7280     7549      7780     7978     916S      9083
Incremental Value Offtake (SoSh):             98085   209761   332114   347091   359928   370931   380362   436951   433041
Incr. Milk Prod'n (litres per herd)             425      850      1275     1275     1275      1275     i275     1275      1275
Value of I litre milk (SoSh/1);                  70
Inc. Milk Value (1 herd)(ScSh):               29750    59500    89250    89250    89250    89250    89250    89250    89250
Inc. Milk Value (10 herds)(SoSh):            297500   595000   892500   892500   892500   892500   892500   892500   892500
Increase in Veight in Young Animals:
Price ef'ect of             152            14713    31464    49817    52064    53989    55640    57054    65543    64956
Cost Medecines/Minerals
Per Herd (SoSh;)                            3584    17234    30884    30884    30884    30884    30894    30884    30884
Per 10 Herds (SoSh)                        35840   172340   308840   308840   308840  2'08840   308840   308B40   308840
Net Incremental Benefits
10 Rangelands Herds (SoSh):                  374458   663885   965591   982814   997577  1011231  1021077  1086153  1081657
Delivery Rechanises and Phasing
Additional NAHAs:                                10        20       30
Cumulative NAHA's available:                     10        30       60       60       60        60       60       60        60
Rangeland Herds Assisted /NAHA.         15
Incremental Herds Assisted:                     1SO      300       450
Cumulative Herds Assisted:                      150       450      900      900      900       900      900      900       900
Adoption Rate:                          852
Incremental Herds Adopting:                     128      255       383
Cumulative Herds Adopting                       128      383       765      765      765       765      765      765       765
Incremental Benefit Streams from Rangelands Sheep/Goat Herds
(SoSh '000)
Accumulation of Benefit Streams                1988      1989     1990     1991     192      1993     1994      1995     1996
Year 1 Herds                  128              4774      8465    12311    12531    12719    12880    12880    12880    12880
Year  Herds                   255                       9549    16929    24623    25062    25438    25761    25761    25761
Year 3 Herds                  383                                14323    25394    36934    37593    38157    38641    38641
Total Incremental Benefits                     4774    18013    43563    62547    74715    75911    76799    77283    77283
Note: All estimates of benefits and coefficients supplied by 6TZ Veterinary Team.



- 98 -                                                            Annex 4
Table 4 (2)
CENTRA  IR16ElRHN S DEUELO NIIN  PROJECT, PNMSE II
SI6EElO SHEEP/GORT NOMCL (RU6E SIZE 256 ERCH) UJliNUT PROECT
!        ~~UITHOUT                                              ERLES
j   R6E              0-1      1-2     2-3      3-4      4-5     5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9    9-10
EREEDI                               0.91     0.9"     O.9      0.9
OERTHX              0.23    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15        0.15
SRLESX                                        0.07    0.07    0.85
|ALES                                               IfLE
OERTH5              0.23    0.15     0.15     0.15    0.15    0.15                                     EtIO
SRLESX               0.7                                        0.65                                       0.05
FBMLES
R6E                  0-1      1-2     2-3      3-I      I-5      5-6     6-7      7-8      8-9    910  TOTAL
Opening lW,r                   21      29       12       35      21                                         151
Purchses
Natural Increase      60                                                                                     60
Oeaths                14       t        I        6        5       3                                          36
Sales                                            3        3       18                                         23
ClosingN luer         16       20      25       33       27       0                                         151
HALES
R6E                  0-1      1-2     2-3      3-1      1-5     5-6      6-7      7-8      8-9    9-10   TOTRL
Opening Nmber                   9       6        i        2       1                                          22
Purchases
Natural Inrease       60                                                                                     60
Deaths               1I         1       1        1        0       0                                          17
Sales                 42                                          1                                          I3
ClosingfNuber          I       0        5        3        2       0                                          22
ALES REIJIRED           6 IRES RURfLRLE -        13
TOTRL
R5E                  0-1      1-2     2-3      3-I      I-5      5-6     6-?      7-8      8-9    9-10  TOTRL
Open1ng Nuber                  33      35       6        37      22                                         173
Purchases
Ntual Increase       119                                                                                    119
Deaths                27       5        5        7        6       3                                          53
Sales                 12                         3        3      19                                          66
Closing Nwber         50       28      30       36       29       0                                         173
Source: 6tZ Uetwinry Tem Sureys of Project Nerds.



Annex 4
99                                                                Table 4 (3)
SMKIR
CITIL fKIIIS   EUELIIEN  PROJECI, NUE l
hAN6EWL1  SIEWP/OfI MIOL (RUE SIZE 256 ERN) UlIN PRlJECT
UIIN                                                     TRLES
ME                    0-1       1-2      2-3      31-       1-5      5-6       6-?      7-8       8-9     9-10
EOD1                                    0.9       0.9      0  .N    0.91
KRIEI                 0.19     0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15     0.15
SOLES1                                             0.1     0.11     0.85
IIRTIA                0.19     0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15     0.15                                        RfIlO
SILES?               o.1                                            0.85                                           0.05
Vfq RLES
R6E                    0-I      1-2      2-3       3-N      15       5-6       6-?      7-8       8-9     9-10   TOTIL
Openinglbier                     21       29        12       35        21                                           151
Purchdses
Natural Incrase         60                                                                                           60
Deaths                  11        1        q         6        S         3                                            34
Sales                                                1        4        18                                            26
Closing Ikber           is       26       25        32       26        0                                            151
hALES
R6E                   0-1       1-2      2-3       3-1      1-5      5-6       6-7      7-8       8-9     9-10   0ITRL
Opening b uber                    9        6         t        2         1                                            22
Puchas
trdt      Increae       60                                                                                           60
Deaths                  11        1        1         1        0        0                                             15
Sales                   11                                              1                                            is
Closing Nubr             I        8        5         3        2        0                                             22
MMRES AIREI               6 hNES RURILR8LE =         13
TOTRL
ROE                   0-1       1-2      2-3       3-N      1-5      5-6       6-7      7-8       8-9     9-10   TOTAL
Opening Kwber                    33       35        46       37       22                                            173
Purchas
Naturl  Increase      119                                                                                          119
Deaths                  23        5        5         7        6        3                                             49
Sales                                                I        4       19                                             71
Closing  lber           53       28       30        35       28        0                                            173
Source: 612 Uetriar  Teas Surueys of ProJect Herds.---  - --   - -                       - -   -    --      .-.
Source: 6IZ Uetenryw 1e   Suwves of ProJect Herds.



- 100-                                                  Annex 4
SOIAI.IA                                             Table  5
CENTRAL RANCELANDS DEUELOIIENT PROJECT, PHASE 11
8ENEFITS FROMI ATER DEUELOPIENT
YEAR       1       2      3       4      5       6      7       8      9        10      11-20
LIMITS OF INCREMENTAL NATER AVAILA8ILITY (to support access to new graing areas)
PHASE II BORE HOLES (INC NO.                        1      2       3      4       5
MATER PRODUCTION (000 M3/`YR)        20,000 /UNIT       20      40     60      00    100    100    100       100      100      100
PHASE II DUGOLTS  (INC. NO.)                       10     25      40     55      T0     TO      70     70       70       70       70
MATER PRODUCTION (000 W3M2MO)         3,000 /UNIT       30      75    120    165    210    210    210        210      210      210
Estimation of Animals Affected by Additional 2 Months of Ougout 6dter Availwility:
ADJUSTED INC. MATER AVAILABLE ai ('000 113)                18     45     72      99    126    126    126       126      126      126
S/C (000! SUPPORTED BY MATER: .110 13/2 MO/S-G  ci    164    409    655    900  1,145  1,145  1,145   1,14S   1,145 l          1,15
Increnanta! Animal Support Capacity from a Year of Borehole Water Availability:
ADJUSTED INC. MATER MAILABLE b/ ('000 M13)                16      32     48      64     80      80     80       80       80       80
INC. S/G Q .66Q M3/YR/S-G  c!    ('000 S-C)               24      48     73      97    121    121    !21       121      121      121
ANIMALS BENEFITING FROM INCREMENTAL MATER (000 S-G)   188    458    727    997  1,267  1,267  1,267   1,267   1,267    1,267
S PROJECT AREA POPULAT'N (S-6 equivalent)    23510    0.8t   1.91   3.1S   4.22   5.42   5.42   5.42    5.42   5.4              5t.4
EFFECT OF INWREMENTAL FORAGE AVAILABILITY
Additional Forage Available:
INC. AREA AvAILABLE FOR CRAZING (SQ KM):    AREA/DUGOUT:         314 K1H2    (ASSUMING 10 KM RADIUS)
ADDITIONAL FORAGE ACCESSIBLE (LAG I YR)SQ KM):          3142   7854  12566  17279  21991  21991  21991   21991   21991    21991
2 OF PROJECT AREA:  -:SQ KM)           149000              2t    S        8t    12S    152    15t    152       152      15      152
ADDITIONAL FORAGE USED (040 t OF ACCESSIBLE):           1257   3142   5027   6912   8796   9796   8796    8796    8796          8796
Calculation of Animals Which Use Newly Accessible Area:
AVERAGE STOCKING RATE IN TLU PER SQ KM: d.'   15.7
TLU IN NEWLY ACCESSISLE AREA ('000 TLU)                   20      49     79    109    136    138    138        138      138      138
SWEEP'/OAT EUITuALENT ('000 S-6) e!                      197    493    789  1,085  1,381  1,381  1,381   1,381   1,381    1,381
t PROJECT AREA POPUL.hT'N (S-6 equivalent)    23510    0.82   2.12   3.42   4.62   5.92   5.92   5.92    5.9t    5.92            S.92
Eftect on Offtake of Newly Accessible Fnrage
INC. TURNOFF I 0.52 (LAGGED I YP) f/ ;000 S-6)          0.99   2.47   3.95   5.43   6.91   6.91   6.91    6.91    6.91          6.91
INi BENEFITS (MEAT:) ECON' g        (SS'000)            9041  22602  36164  49725  63296  63286  63286   63296   63286    63286
INW. MILK  PRODUCTION (ECON)  hi  'SS'000)              6509  40664  65095  89505 113916 113916 113916  113916  113916   113916
TOTAL ECON BENEFITS                 (SS'OP.0           155    63286 101258 13923Q 177202 177202 177202  177202  17,7202   17772Q
a' ALLOMANCE FOF MASTA'E, EVAPORATION AND USE BY PEOPLE, FROM DUGOUTS            402
bI' ALLOVANCE FOP MASTAGE AND USE BY PEOPLE, FROM BORENOLES:             202
c: SHEEP AND OAT WATER rONSUMPTION IS ESTIMATED AT SOhE 55 L'MO, OR 0.110 13 FOR 2 MONTHS (0.660 FOR YEAR).
d/ FPOM PIIP  ENSUS 1979, SAR TABLE 2.2, AND PPODUCTION SYSTEMS ANALYSIS (PREPARATION REPORT, ANNEX 8)
e' I TLU : 1.2 CAMELS, 0.1 SHEEP'6OAT, 0.d COW.
fP INCREMENTAL TURNOFF REDUCED FROM SHEEP/GOAT MODEL (22) TO 0.52. TUPNOFF LAGGED BY I YEAR.
g! EYPORT PARITY PRICE FOP ALL CLASSES OF SHEEP/GOATS (SSANIMAL':            9165
h;I MILK BENEFITS SAME PROPOPTION OF MEAT BENEFITS AS IN RANGELANDS SHEEP;GOAT MODEL:    180P



-101 -                       Annex 4
Table 6 (1)
SOMALIA
Cent.ral Rangelands Research and Development. Project.
SHEEP AND OLATS . Export. Parity Price Calculation
1988       1995       2000
CIF Satdi Arabia/Yemen  (US$/Hesd)  3/                   42          S8         56
Freight/Feed (US$/Head)                                   6           6          6
FOB Berbera (US$/Head)                                   36          52        5s
FOB Berberm (88/Head) 1/2/(S8 203  (U8$ 1.00)          7308       10633      10177
Int.ernal Transport.   4/
(Hobyo to Berbera)                                  450        4S0         450
Merketing Margin/Mort.alit.y                 10%        686       I0s8        373
Liveweight in Range           (88 per head)            hl72        9165       8755
------_-----------------------____---__---_-_----------------------__--------__-
NOTES:
1/ Offical exchange rate SS per US Dollar:              100
2/ Shadow exchange rat.e S8 per US Dollar:              203
3/ Projected using same rate of increase as World Bank projections for beef,
from Guidelines of January 27, 1988.
4/ Burao-Berbera           (per sheep/goat) 88          100
Galcaio-Burao           (per sheep/goat) 88          200
Hobyo-Galcalo           (per sheep/goat) 88          150
----------------------------------..----------------------------------__-----__--



-102-                     Annex 4
Table 6 (2)
SOMALIA
Central Rengelands Research and Development. Project.
------------------------------------------------------
SHEEP AND GOATS : Financial Export. Perity Price
1988       1995        2000)
CIF Seudi Arabia/Yemen  (US$/Head)  3/                    42          58         56,
Freight/Feed (US$/Heed)                                    6           6          6
FOB Berbere (US$/J!ead)                                   36          S2         50
ill  (40% at 8S  100)          1440        )095       2102
2/   (60% at, SS 203)          4385        6380       F6935
FOB Berbers ('S/Head)                                   5825       8475        8097
Expor+.. Tax (per heed)  5/                              291         424        40s
Internal Transport    4/    (Hobyo-Berber-)              450        450         450)
Marketing Margin/Mortality                   10%         508         760        724
Buyers Tax (per head)  6/                                570        825         825
Sellers Tsx (per head)  7/                               1930        275        275
Liveweight in Rang,           (58 per head)             3815       5741        5413
1/ Offfica1 exchange rate SS per US Dollar:              100
2/ Shadow exchange rate S8 per US Do 113r:               203
3/ Projected l,sing same rate of in-rease as World Bank projections for beef,
from Guildelines of Janaery 27, 1988,
4/ Bvrao-Berbera           (per sheep/goat.) SS          100o
Galcalo-Burao           (per sheep/goat.) SS         200
Hobyo-Galcaio           (per sheep/goat) SS           1SO
5/ Export. Tax                                             5%
6/ Seller Tax                                              5%
7/ Buyer Tax                                              15%
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__---



- 103 -                    Annex 4
Table 6 (3)
SOHALIA
Cent.ral Rangelands Research and Development Project, Phase II
Livestock Prices at Appraisal (March 1988)
-----------------------------------------------
Item      Unit   Gelcaio  Jiribon  Hobbyo  Haradhere Ceel Dher Average
Goat      medium    3,500    3,500    2,000      2,500    3,000   2,900
Sheep      medium    4,000   3,500    4,000       3,000    5,000    3,900
Camel      medium    20,000   15,000   30,000    2S,000   30,000   24,000
Cow       medium    15,000    9,000   1S,000     13,000   20,000   14,400
Cow milk    litre       200       140      70         80       30      104
Camel milk   lit-re      120       100      40         60       30       70
Goat milk    litre       160      120       60         80       25       89
April 1988
Source: Bank mission



-104 -                      Annex 4
Table 6 (4)
SOMALIA
Central Rangelands Research and Development Project., Phase II
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Export Parity Price:     MILK
----------------------------------
1988     1995     2000
Skim Milk Powder         US$/ton (1985 const.)        784      835      465
FOB Evrope              U1$/ton (1988 const)         1100     1172      652
Coconut Oil              US$/tcon (1985 const)        390      589      530
CIF Rotterdam            US$/ton (1988 const)         547      826      744
Freight ane Insurance                                  27       31       32
Milk FOB Mogadishv       U8$/ton (1988 const)        1127     1203      684
88/ton (1988 const.)     2287.   244109   138932
Oil FOB Mogadishu        US$/ton (1988 const)         574      857      776
88/ton (1988 const.)     116557   174046   157445
Port Handling            88/ton (1988 const)        2720      2720     2720
Milk Powder In Fact.ory   88/ton (1988 const.)    231491   246829   141652
Oil in Factory           88/ton (1988 const)       119277   176766   160165
SMP per lit.re milk                        9%
Oil per litre milk                       3.5%
Processing Costs/litre L18              0.15
Reconst. Milk in Mog     88/kg (1988 const)           55        59       43
Transport. Cent-ral Range  58/kg (1988 c:onst)       6.2       6.2      6. 2
(600 km) 1/
Premium for Camels Milk                   15%
(5-6 % fat)
Farmgate Value                                         71       75       63
I/ Transport at SoSh 200/ton plujs So5h 10/ton/km



-105 -                       Annex 4
Table 7 (1)
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Pastoralist Income Analysis
Without                 With
Project               Project
Annval Offtake (animals)                        66                     71
Annual Milk Production (1)                   4,258                  5,533
Increase in Weight                                                     15%
Annual Income                BoSh          548,790               696,482
(inclvding consumption)
Cash Production Costs:
Medecines/Minerals    SoSh                                   30884
Family Labour Inpute         days            1,643                  1,643
Imputed Labovr Costs         SoSh          246,375               246,375
j          Total Production Costs        SoSh          246,375               277,259
Net Benefit/Income           BoSh          302,415               419,223
Us$ (off)         3,024                 4,192
US$ (mkt)         1,490                 2,065
Income per Capita          13/family           233                   322
Income per Capita          7/family            432                   599
NOTES:
Sheep/Goat Price (SoSh/animal)               3,800                  3,800
Milk Price (BoSh/litre)                         70                     70
Labour Cost (BoSh/day)                         ISO                    150
Mil!./Goat Lactation       (litres)             40                     40
Breeding Females per Herd                      142                    142
Goats per herd                                  75%                    75%
Exchange Rate So8h/US$ (official)              100                    100
Exchange Rate SoSh/US$ (market)                203                    203



- 106 -                     Annex 4
Table 7 (2)
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
Agropostoral Income Analysis
_____________________________
Without               With
Project              Project
Annual Offtake (animals)                         23                   24
Annual Milk Production (1)                    1,416                1,668
Increase in Weight                                                    15%
Annual Income                Bosh           185,365             222,129
(including consumption)
Cash Production Costs:
Medecines/Minerals      BoSh                                  9064
Family Labovr Inputs         days               548                  548
Imputed Labour Costs         BoSh            82,125              82,125
Total Production Costs       SoSh            82,125              91,189
Net Benefit/Income           o80h           103,240             130,940
US  (off)        1,032                1,309
UBS (Mkt)           509                  645
Income per Capita          13/family             79                 101
Income per Capita          7/family             147                 187
14OTES:
Sheep/Goat Price (BoSh/animal)                3,800               3,800
Milk Price (SoSh/litre)                          70                  70
Labour Cost (BoSh/day)                          150                  ISO
Milk/Goat Lactation        (litres)              40                  40
Breeding Females per Herd                        47                  47
Goats per herd                                   75%                 75%
Exchange Rate SoSh/USS (official)               100                  100
Exchange Rate SoSh/US* (market)                 203                 203
Labour Requirments:   (person/year)             1.5                  1.5



SOMA-IA
CetAL RANCSJPNS DEVE.OPMENl  PROJET - PHASE II
Calculation of Potential Inc.,santal Tax Receipts and Recurrent Expenditures from Project
(in constant March 1988 pries)
TAX REVENlE ESTIMATE                           198S     1986     1987     1966        1989    1990      1991     1992     1993     1994     1095   199       1997     1996     1999     2000
Sheap/Qoet Exports ( 000 hd)                   1457     1143      912     1171        1183     1195     1206     1219     12S1     1243     1255l 2           16       1298     lM06     1319
Sheoapoat Exp fr Central Range          301    437       843      274      851         355      356      362      366      369      373      377      360      38A      366      392      396
Sheop/Goat Export Prie (US6 F08        636  SoSh/hd     3600
Export Tax from Central Range            aS
(SoS%  thousends)                           7669    61738    49270    68262        6S366    64503    65146     S800   66466    67122    67793   68471    6916    69S48    70546    7122
Incroemntl Export Tax from Central Range
(SoSh thousands)                                                                      32    1271   .1916    2567       3225    3890      461      62S9     5924     6615    7314        019
Internal Cost Saler at Marcet.         200S   2914      2267     1625    2342         2360    2389    2413    2437    2461         246      2511     2536    2561      2567     2613     2639
Sheep/Oat Sales t (ntral Range          80     874      666      547      703         710      717      724      731      736      748      753      761      766      776      784      792
Goat Pricc  slcaio  (bSh/hd)          2900
So lee Tax Contral Range Mrket.         20   307106   397868  317515  407496        411571  415667  419844  424042  4262S6  432568   436691   441260   445673   450130  484631   49177
Incremental Sales Tax from Central Range
(SaSh thousends)                                                                    4075    6191    1238    16146   20786   25069   29395   33764    32176   42638    47134    5166l
Ineremntal Tax Receipt. from CDP Cost Production (SeSh  000 of March 1918)            4707     9462    14264    19113   24012   26959    33956    39006    44100   49249   54448   59700
R.ECUt  COST AM FIMWCII ESTIHATES
CROP II Recurrant Cost Expenditures        Salaries                        219       16909   21460    23254    24820   26218    27596    22076    13799       600     69 69    6900     6900
(in constant March 1966 pricc )         Allowances/Per Diem             312        34586    41670   44646   47010    46942    W646    40517    25323    12662    12662    12662    12662
Fual/Vahicle Oparations         50S       20178   23344   25020   26696   27615   2S163   22530    14062    7041            7041     7041     7041
Other Operating Cost.          8429       68318    69476    66514    636S6   SS29    62409   4C927    12482   1S602   1S602    15V2    15602
Total Recurrent Costs                                                     9466      129941   169586  1594S4   162092   156304  Imi    lSS063    65685   42204   42204   42204    42204
_________-._____________________-___________---__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Coat export gracth rate:               1.01 per annum from 1969 on.
Recurrent costa reduced to 25S of Ycnr 6 expend4tu-no.
____________________________________________..____-.__________________
Ooavrnent Contributions to First Phase Pro;ect:
(UN  '000)     11      1064      1434
(SoSh '000 of MarcF 1988)   115300   10400  143400
Financing Schedule
C-------------------                       Governmnt                      2120       34919   43001   44584   45854    55124    66651   5939        655    42204   42204   42204    42204
(Note: In 1988 tho IDA financed          African Development Fund       6987       71264    84740   84616   84236   72847   76630   56425                                                               n
project only picks up a portion          IDA                             361       23758   28215   30234   31992    26333   25335    17229                                                              X
of CP operating costa)                                                                                                                                                                               CD I
Total                          9468      129941   156956   159434   162082   156304   168616   185063    65665    42204   42204    42204    42204
Source:------------------------ ------ ----- --------. Mission---------------------------------------Estima---______________________________es_________
Source: Mission Estimates



- 108 -
Annex 4
Table 8 (2)
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Calculation of Potential Incremental Tax Receipts
and Recurrent Expenditures from Proiect - Key Assumptions
Export Tax Revenue:
Tax receipts are based on numbers of animals exported, and assume an
improvement in the efficiency of tax collection. The tax of 5 percent is
applied to the FOB price of the sheep/goat being exported.
Export Levels:
The average for 1985-87 is taken as the base year for sheep and goat
exports. The project is expected to have an effect on sheep and goat
exports from the project area equivalent to a growth rate of 1 percent per
annum.
Sales Tax Revenue:
It is assumed that the sales of sheep and goats in the Central
Rangelands are equivalent to tvice the number exported. Sales tax paid by
both seller and buyer totals 20 percent. The current average animal price
in the Central Rangelands is used for valuation.
Recurrent Costst
These are based on the project cost tables shown in Annex 3. After the
investment phase of the project is completed (Year 6), the number of staff
is allowed to decrease to the level which will be needed to maintain and
supervise the management of the investments and activities initiated under
the project. This is equivalent to some 25 percent of the recurrent cost
expenditures in Year 6 of the project. This level of expenditure could be
sustained from the incremental tax revenue received from the project. It is
also well below the level of Government contribution to the project during
Phase I. As is shown in the Financing plan for annual recurrent cost
expenditures, although Government contributions increase to some SoSh 60
million a year by Year 6 (in March 1988 shillings), this is well below the
annual Government contribution to the first Phase project (1985-87).
August 1988



0                                                                                                   0 2     Z Z   ZZ                     
a~~~~~~                                                                                         i     ZiZZZ    I 
s   8   x  x  "  x  x  x  x  x  x  x                                                                                  ,  g~~~~~~~.- ., 
*~~~~~~~3'~ 2 g X    XI  "Z                   
O                                                                                       a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:                                                                                                                                               a a. a                    -
In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8n     "   ^  R   "  "   "  ,,  ,,  ,,  ,,                                                                                          I  |       
8~~~a la  on                                         orZgZ                              |i
*    -  3  3        3  3  3 -  -  -  -3                                                                             
IsZ  ZI
an3 -3 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -- -   -  -                                           _
a3 3  "
-                 -    -   -   -   -   -   - 3                    - --3           -  --3           -  --3            - --1 
-  3  3  u  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 ~~~~~~ 3  3  3~~Ii   o
-  -  --  -  --  -  --  -        3 -   -   -   -   -  -                             ----------                                                   



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-    --     -     --    -3 -      .
L !   g   0   I    g          E     E       4
20  1,  "'   ^ ''    t    i         '0     3  a    4.4. 
LA  S                                      a A  AA
X~~~~~~~~~~~                         4.     5eta*t     
Ou  *                            a          a    r3 i, |    ti3  
I  I~~~~I 
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4. IL3 o               C  
4. 
3       2L



- 1) I -
~*j ,<;J .RiJ' ^4 SAnnex 6
Page 1 of 2
JAMHUURIYAODA DIMOQRAAOIGA SOOMAAIG 8dLIYA
Wasearadda X. Xoolah. Dhirta & Daaqa           1,)I  ,WI .       ;,,; ;
WASIIRKA WASAARADDA                                o
Lam.
Ujeeddo:
2 1 FEB 1988    Date/  11/2/88
TO/ Governors, and Regional Party Secretaries, Mudug, Galgudud,
Hiran.
Regional Directors, NRA/CRDP, Mudug, Galgudud, Hiran.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry Livestock Forestry & Range
District Commissioners & District Party Secretaries, Mudug,
Galgudud, Hiran.
District Range Officers, Mudug, Galgudud, Hiran.
cc. Resident Representative, World Bank
World Food Program
GTZ
Mission Director          USAID
Department Directors,   NRA, CRDP.
Suolect/  Ohanr3e in Administrative Arrangements
With tne recent administrative separatlon of the Central Ran-
gelanas Development Pronect from the National Range  Agency,  and
the Degining soon of another 6 year phase of this Project, it has
become necessary to revise the implementation procedure within
the Ministry.



- 112 -
g<SJ1 RiJ  -'      t    Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
JAMHUURIYADDA DIMOQRAADIGA SOOMAALIYA          1                  l 4..p1
Wasaaradda X. Xoolaha Dhirta & Daaqa           1     ,WI ;     ;;,:it ;
WASIIRKA WASAARADDA                                 j,.i , o
Lam.
UJ.ddo:                                             m
Within the 3 central regions of Somalia, Mudug, Galgudud and
Hiran,  the General Manager of the Central Rangelands Development
Project will be responsible to the Minister of Livestock,
Forestry  and  Range for administration and implementation of all
laws which come under the authority of this Ministry.  These laws
include those which concern the conservation and wise use of the
range,  forestry and wildlife resources,  the  establishmont  and
operation of reserves including,  range,  seasonal and rotational
grazing reserves,  famine,  absolute,  forestry,  flora and fauna
reserves, prevention of illegal tree cuttinU, poaching, licensing
of water points, establishment of rangeland conservation areas,
fodder farms, and all associated matters which come under the
authority of the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range.
The second phase of the CRDP will soon begin, which will bLild
on the knowledge,  experience.  infrastructure,  and successes of
the fire- pnase  to  ext-en   oeve2opment  activities  to  all  of
cern'- -3ma13.  v;.r :ctzve support of tnis important national
resltr-ieve' pmnent nr,-oqIect \ equested.
rn  ~e'^era  BiS RafIe- 4aled
\      Y~~r  bahir ;Ar>Dy, Farah    D= 0,1                      med Elm,,
~. ~tr.     General M nager of CRn      p         G -&neral Manager of NRA
~.                                                             v.



-113 -                             Annex 7
Ta'ble  1
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Pi.O.ACT, PHASE II
Organization Chart of Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
Minister of Livestock
Forestry and Range
Vice Minister
General                                                      General Manager NRA
Manager    -----_      -----     ----   -----------------------
NTTCP                                 |                      General Manager CRDP
-- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- I
Department of      Department of                Department of           Department of
Administration     Animal Health                Animal Production       Planning and
and Personnel                                                           Research



SOHALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
CRDP Organization Chart
Minister of Livestock
Forestry and Range
General Manager CRDP
Project                                      I                            Project
Management  --------------------------------  --------------------------Management
Committee                                     I                           Unit
Departments   Exten-   Agro-      Systems       Water     Regional    Field       Admini-     Animal      Conser-      Planning
sion     pasto-     Investi-      and       Offices     Services   stration    Health       vation        and
ral &      gation        Infra-                           and Fi-                                Moni-
I    Forestry   and Mo-        struc-        I          I       nance           I                     toring
I               nitoring       ture          I          i                       I
I                                            I          I           t           I
I                    I                       I          I           I           I.
Units         Audio               Ecological                   I          I       Vehicle                                      _
Visual              Monitoring                   I          I       Workshop                                     _
I          I                      I 
Subject
Matter
Specialists                                     I           I                      I
Regions          I                                        Regional        I                   Beletvaynel
R|ange         I                   Bulo Burti
|                                        Officer        |                   Teams
Districts     District                                    District    Bulo                    Laboratories
Extension                                   Range       Burti
Officer                                     Officer     Training                                            o
I                                                    Center                     I
Villages      Village                                                                         Nomadic
Extension                                                                       Animal
Worker                                                                          Health
Assistants



- 115 -
Annex 8
SOMALIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
List of Documents Available in the Proiect File
A.   Documents Relatins  to Proiect Appraisal
1. Livestock, Pastoralism and Agro-pastoralism
2. Systems Investigation and Monitoring Programme (SIMP), Range
Management, Data Base Management and Remote Sensing
Components, May 1988
3. Conservation of Flora and Fauna Component
B.   Proiect Preparation Documents
1. Project Preparation Report, National Range Agency, Central
Rangelands Development Project, Project Preparation
Committee, December 1986 - Main Report/Annexes.
2.  A Study of the Future Development of the Central
Rangelands of Somalia, National Range Agency, Central Rangelands
Development Project, February 1986.
C.   Sector Related Documents
1. Somalia Agricultural Sector Survey Main Report and Strategy,
World Bank, December 1987.
2. The Principles of Pasture Improvement and Range Management and
Their Application in Somalia, Food and Agriculture Organization of
the United Nations, 1985.
3. International Market for Livestock Somalia, RONCO Consulting Corp.,
November, 1987.
4.  Somalia Populatiout Health and Nntrition Sector Review,
World Bank, September 1985.
5. Interim Evaluation of Somalia Central Rangelands Development
Project, Consortium for International Development, June 1987.
6.  A Donor Assisted Conservation Strategy For The Endangered
Wildlife of Somalia - Preliminary Report, J.G. Stephenson,
May 1988.
7. Somali Law on Fauna and Forest Conservation
8. Somali Law on Flora and Fauna



SAUDI  ARAE  .'.l                                                                                      'T,Gu,c                             As.
/                YEMEN              o
ARAB   )' 
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                              u .0lo ,
SUDAN   J                    ,1w<;50r. N40                                                                                                                                                     /
<                                                        E T H I 0  P I A/
(    E T H I O P I A                                          H                                 *                          Qfb  oo-cb  -cj
\ 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                          ,N  uluEirb
_-"-5          Ny_ f'-r    .-                                                                                - -fEUt 
UGANDA                  I            Mod..h/
KENYA                    Atuud.Aud
_ _ i   \                                       /                   _ < A Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO                             >X        X
                E      3L10   tw                   /                  }          >   I  300                                                      4
TANZANIA                             K .I.0METE.S    I      /                           S      g          D     /  /I>/
C A OAA DO
-er~~~~u~~r                      /                       odrde                    DrX/tr 
coreb T0cO  rcp m.                                /          /                                    .W  oh_                                             <b 
a's s450'5's fiwISc fr5' Ss        /                     _       ADAADO
/                    /      /                     > /   \lled |.
./      /          \_ltDU~SAMAREB                                                            \I,
/\  /             ;  USA MARE9     /
/   \8i>1cS-Lebs D,81e1 \ ~ElI #//                       eL   BUR                   _ 7                _        O        Y
Gr   L,/C7 U  D U D
/  ER FER   J     t--1- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~'J  1                                             HAR5E9e           j
5   /                       ~~~~~~~~~D..dd..i. T.OSYl.l   L'                                                           ,,,       ~^CXH-
.B3E LETrWE I NE                    )    _        )1OP                                                            Gn                           SO MA LI A
E                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH
H   I   R   A    N            R                  G-bl.                                      A~~~RARtUE ND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
XI R A N t z 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                                                                                               PHASE  11
- - - - - - - -                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~PHAj0'- h PROJECT INSTALLATIONS
O    <41it8     \   BULO    BUR Itm r                                                                                                                                                 - outit.'igPIo1
,   [A\RLOENS    D=// O B  c                                          E L/ D E R E            /                                                          Welt retoDILW to
.  >.    1   \    T W O r S  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~S   J:          X                                                          O      S3nD dLLnn~~~~~~~~~W.  -hilSittn it
Send dueFi. toI-o nEci-
.C   flUID BUIRII    /                                \L DERE                                                  BituminOUS Surf-Ced roadsSd  ut,ptiu  center
__DENY___BALH                                                  __    _ DroJVe-  / norih oftOd ro1,            3      Speies elimieatiar trials
/  -O~W /O  J- -X>                O     Other ro0 o.d,                        -      Rnge - Irinton5      tice
/OZZEYO  /   \      AS      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------I- TD UIe At ".kDO/G-i
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mc)/  esitn5rs lodrLng sineS (rougse) penoasnt
_ _ 7 _ _ { \// *-*- InlLcacl t:w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Prioriy diotriuts
3            r>N~~~~AHATLDA5W0tEYE  
JA WHAL        ^                          /                                                                              RgO-i.,Y1. 
_                          uNRICstENIO        /          CADA-E                                                                                                                                              iCi
225  todlN  S         I Uo som                        7                                         a                                          ur                                l C2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~  Sti



/   ARAb  A''     K    |,-----------   /- f~-~.--                                                        *       'lolAro-                                                -            )
V                  REU81   >/             '>oI> /
/        OMEN                  tA/
ARAS 
SUDAN                                                                                                                    /
/                  D:Or                                                                                       /                                                             )/.
V                            ~~~ETHIOPIA                                 /No
(   \\                               E T H I O P I A                             / ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~/ Boll e      ooonybo>   db o
SOMALIA
E T H I O  P I A               /                                                                              oCroob                          Solo  o'oooon-
ANO A)/                                                                                       ;                       OKALKAYO                                              | A
UGANDA                                   M d hE                                        /                                      /a
Xf KE N  A  | ow su                                /                             / M   U                       D    U                G         ,                   Go
(            I~~~~~0          3
_      _ *                                                                        N/            /         '  G_<IALEOVOX                                                            
N                             K       t                       /           K          ---                        /                                                t   
TANZANIA            N                     OI II/I                                                                                                                            /
____________________~_                                //odlcle                                ,%
4b'                                                                     D...Saddb.lHab  oot / /                               I      AB S.0
toRt 'fOO   00to IYIaoI /wWff Ih                          /boo,d
v    1h O'fOIIAO o'ttt /y                                  /          C   es                           /                      C               DAgeyyls/ Sl
A'  fo_' ,_  _ 0'  ABUDW4 -_ --    ___t_  BU                                                                                                   HOY
h~ ~~~~~-0 .,                    (j-__ _i_    
e'fo~~~~~/o.t.nereXt  s, vital  | ./      --/-          - _
.  /  \ DUSAM*LRE/G                                             / D   
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
SO MA LIA
CENTRAL RANGELANDS RESEARCH
42E AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
^ ., bclle bL)tTI 'foSfo//XAS * , L e RE                                                                                                                       BihmLmus sud4  rds lmE d bS c hP 17^ +_7                                      mrLPHASE II
LAND CAPABILITY AND
/    ,/Yr  ,                       Coacoada       GoIondbo                                ~~~POTENTIAL FOR  DEVELOPMENT
a A /-  -/-t/   \   >Molop_7n   ----  iM rLand Copablity and Potntial for D-Ip. e   e                d 
J  C     -td   <                                    BodRod                     EL \ERE /                                                                         f ------ --- Accss Irod  - leoo  eI'cAfkro t oY ,D'oH .-00 -oCA be
0/  %  gO                                              I          V   I'                                                           ne~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d lot  fo'0  ddn,podoo
hy~t                                    P,tent h go lFer fts o on ,o Wl  -oppEon -Id be
I  /ItI                     -      Jitniooos oraod r  Aiwb S      _      2Neo oekd byto etop. --itoto, to todl 'fosetotb
G- I-         ufoe.-deI ao   '  ot/ Rngod  t.
Vlh;                                           ~.ea , ob.tfe Yeib lo be testd
_  _Ab-ooo/aA trades Y/n                          oI CI.AIo  obL -o                  _n
JALALAV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  ~~~~e                                                              Region  apitals                --        P-eur Lao detom ol 'im tW etopo  -Id be
Otit- lon and oilIges        L          ..p-de land otttendl by ptornofgtnrto
----Dit6dio b-astae                          Noi t W le Wrpp'g -  -ood toppoo
0~~~~~                                                                    ----~~~~~~~~~Region  booseen
Pa- deselonefn  I--lost& eapooso fisleY
_____________                                                                                *-        Intetnat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fw iane baoekay   denelpto an  --eII,ll toti-s
II                                                                                                     ~~      ~~~     ~~~      ~~~     ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20  40  00  g0  tOO
.1.    ~ ~ ~ ~ MHADIDAYWEYNE
AAIURAI                 /    CAC)ALE
ToMo00I..lt/             40         /~~~~T fo  e                         7tA



IBRD 20788
UTI  P.D.R. YEMEN
-12  /DJIBOUTI
D.Loyads                                                      Boaa o
0 Seyla                                              Adado
Molt               0    0
Berbera                   -~-0L z
Biora                                                           -  UScuseluban
oram /                                                                     0
SOMALIA                       ba d /'Duba
Tug  B&          O    '                       /Jr
CENTRAL                 WaJaler   OHargelaa0                         '/erdo                                            r
RANGELANDS AburinarkaYl
RESEARCH AND                                                             LA*
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         Bowtl.h A0od
-PHASE 11                                                                               Garo,
Central Rangelands           0   Towns
Development Project Area
Northern Rangelands              National Capitals
Development Project Area                                                       0
Proposed Northern Rangelands
Areas for Wildlife and           Ports
Vegetation Conservation
Pruposed Flora and Fauna         Airports
LiConservation Reserves 
l nternatlona I                       
District Boundaries         +    Airports
Region
B3undaries
International                                                              Qwobyo
Boundaries                                                    '
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Zt  u               uima   Ochalabot                                              OUTI Bur
* Baldoa~ ~ ~ 0  O   Wlnd(orea
/0~~~
D loso                             0
0       Soia ~~ko    0 Jaaeo 
ar arank
Har  mA d  c loNYA                                                                     MO OAOI SHU
<   Bies        /      ~      ~~~~~ Burav
Kolb~~~~~~~d               Ak aba WOl
\S    -tKDinmaor                                                                   r       6
<    oa                                             MOGADISHUISH
\Badade 
SEPTEMBER 1988



