Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 1957 SO
                       Development Credit Agreement
               (Central Rangelands Research and Development
                             Project-Phase II)
                                  between
                        SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 9, 1989
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 1957 SO
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1989, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development
Fund (AFDF) a loan (the AFDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to ten million
five hundred thousand Dollars ($10,500,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AFDF Loan
Agreement) between the Borrower and AFDF;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated December 24, 1987, and February 12, 1988, between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (c)   "CRDP" means the Central Rangelands Development Project, an
entity within the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range established to
manage and implement the Project;
      (d)   "GTZ" means the Deutsche Geselltshaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit;
      (e)   "MLFR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and
Range;
      (f)   "NRA" means the National Range Agency of the Borrower
established by Law Number 23 of 1976 of the Borrower and operating under Law
Number 15 of 1969 and Law Number 68 of 1970 as such Laws may be amended from
time to time;
      (g)   "Project Area" means the three regions of Central Somalia:
Hiran, Galgudud and Mudug;
      (h)   "USAID" means the United States Agency for International
Development; and
      (i)   "WFP" means the World Food Program of the United Nations.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) the Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year,
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of
June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of June 1, 1988.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restriction of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April
15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi annual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15,
1999, and ending October 15, 2028. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on October 15, 2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through CRDP with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural and range
management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Not later than June 30, 1989 the Borrower shall retain
for CRDP the following personnel whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be acceptable to the Association:
      (a)   a General Manager;
      (b)   a Technical Manager;
      (c)   a Field Manager; and
      (d)   a Financial Controller.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1989,
establish a Range and Livestock Association Development Fund which shall be
used for making: (a) grants for community development and infrastructure
improvement including schools, buildings, pumps, wells, and markets; and (b)
loans for small productive enterprises in the Project Area.
      Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) with regard to the provision of funds, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   open, and thereafter maintain, in the Borrower's currency
                  and in the name of the Central Rangelands Development
                  Project of the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range,
                  an account in the Central Bank of Somalia on terms and
                  conditions satisfactory to the Association;
            (ii)  deposit into such project account an initial amount of
                  Somali Shillings 50,000,000; and
            (iii) thereafter deposit into such project account, not later
                  than June 30 and December 31 of each year during Project
                  implementation, a sum necessary to replenish such project
                  account up to the original amount of Somali Shillings
                  50,000,000.
      (b)   Amounts deposited into the project account pursuant to
paragraphs (ii) and (iii) above shall be used only to make payments to most
local expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services for the Project and not eligible for financing under the
Credit.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  5
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested;
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Association, not later than June 30, 1989,
                  the CRDP audit reports for the years 1986 and 1987.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified subject to
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
                  AFDF Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                  the agreement providing therefor; or
            (ii)  the AFDF Loan shall have become due and payable prior to
                  the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  6
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified; namely that the event specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has hired an auditing firm, satisfactory to the
Association, to undertake overdue Project audits; and
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AFDF Loan,
other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Treasury
            Mogadishu
            Somali Democratic Republic
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                  3612 MINFIN-MOGSOM
                  Mogadishu
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                  By /s/ A. A. Addou
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  7
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Vehicles and               4,940,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                       expenditures and
                                85% of local
                                expenditures
(2)     Consultants'               5,940,000        100%
    services,
    studies and
    training abroad
(3)     Allowances and               770,000        43% of local
    per diems                                       expenditures paid
                            through June 30,
                                1992; 38% of
                              local expendi-
                             tures paid from
                               July 1, 1992,
                            through June 30,
                          1993; 33% of local
                           expenditures paid
                          from July 1, 1993,
                            through June 30,
                               1994; and 23%
                             of local expen-
                         ditures paid there-
                                       after
(4)     Fuel and lubricants          620,000        100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            95% of local
                                            expenditures
(5)     Refunding of               1,020,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                            Agreement
(6)     Unallocated                1,410,000
        TOTAL                     14,700,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
Page  8
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) maintain and improve the long-
term productivity of the Central Rangelands; (ii) minimize degradation of
vegetation; (iii) increase understanding of rangelands production systems;
and (iv) improve the living standards of pastoralists.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Systems Investigation and Monitoring
1.  Carrying out investigations and other studies on rangelands production
systems.
2.  Carrying out pre-development surveys of the districts in the Project
Area.
3.  Monitoring trends in livestock numbers, rainfall, vegetation status,
population, health and other social, economic and ecological factors.
4.  Monitoring the effects of the Project on reserves, water points, animal
health and other social, economic and ecological factors.
5.  Strengthening and improving the Project documentation center and the
herbarium in Mogadishu.
Part B:   Extension
    Development of extension services to: (a) disseminate information and
technology appropriate for the attainment of Project objectives; (b)
organize Range and Livestock Associations to manage reserves, dug-outs and
other interventions under the Project; and (c) manage a Range and Livestock
Development Fund to support small village-level development initiatives.
Part C:   Agropastoral Adaptive Trials and Forestry
1.  Carrying out an adaptive trials program to develop arid land agriculture
and water harvesting techniques to improve productivity and reduce
environmental degradation.
2.  Carrying out a seed multiplication program;
3.  Carrying out forestry related activities including seedling production
and dissemination.
Part D:   Animal Health and Livestock Production
    Improvement of livestock productivity through: (a) provision of basic
animal health services and advice on husbandry at the village level; (b)
establishment and operation of a fund for the importation and resale of
veterinary drugs; and (c) investigation and survey of livestock production.
Part E:   Water and Infrastructure Development
1.  Construction and rehabilitation of water-related infrastructure,
including dug-outs, boreholes and wells.
2.  Construction of airstrips at district headquarters in the Project Area
and maintenance of roads and tracks.
Part F:   Conservation
Page  9
1.  Protection and management of rare wildlife and flora through the
establishment and guarding of four flora and fauna conservation reserves at
Bud-Bud, Harardhere, Maxaas and Deriyow in the Project Area.
2.  Protection and management of rare wildlife and flora such as the Somali
wild ass, the Beira antelope and Pelzeln's gazelle, located in the Sol and
Sanaag Regions, including the Dalo Forest Reserve and other habitats to be
defined in the course of Project Implementation.
Part G:   Training
1.  Provision of local and overseas training to CRDP staff and to
pastoralists,
 2.       Support to the Department of Botany and Range at the National
University of Somalia.
3.  Support for the publication of research journals and papers on
rangelands management.
4.  Rehabilitation or construction of a training center in Bulo Burti
District.
Part H:   Project Management
1.  Strengthening of CRDP Project management through: (a) provision of
technical assistance, operating costs, salaries and allowances; (b)
construction of three district level compounds and CRDP staff housing
facilities in Mogadishu; and (c) consolidation and improvement of existing
district level compound facilities.
2.  Strengthening and improving of the Project mechanical workshop in
Mogadishu.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items costing less than the equivalent of $150,000
per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $500,000 may be procured under quotation solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by.the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  (a)   With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost not less
Page  10
than the equivalent of $20,000 each the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.  CRDP shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project
and shall coordinate Project activities with other departments or agencies.
Project Steering Committee
2.  (a)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain the Project Steering
Committee, established under the Central Rangelands Development Project
(Phase I) financed by the Association, whose chairman shall be the Minister
of Livestock, Forestry and Range and whose other members shall include the
Project General Manager, representatives for the Association, the African
Development Fund, GTZ, WFP and USAID, representatives from the Ministry of
Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of National Planning and Juba Valley
Development and representatives from other departments or agencies as may
be deemed necessary.
    (b)   The Project Steering Committee shall meet at least once every six
months and shall be responsible for reviewing and approving Project
implementation policies, work plans and budgets.
Annual Work Plans
3.  CRDP shall continue to maintain the Planning Department established
under the Central Rangelands Development Project (Phase I) financed by the
Association. The Planning Department shall be responsible for preparing
annual work plans under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
4.  The Finance and Administration Department of CRDP shall prepare every
quarter: (a) the Somali Shilling budget for operating costs on a department
basis for distribution to departmental managers with a breakdown of funds
available, and funds expended as the fiscal year progresses; and (b) a
Page  11
Project fuel budget and advice to departmental managers of fuel available
and fuel consumed as the fiscal year progresses.
5.  The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that drafts of
the annual work plan, the global budget and the local Somali shilling budget
are submitted to the Association for review and comment not later than
November 30 of each year.
6.  CRDP shall prepare and submit to the Association by July 31 of each year
semi annual progress reports and by January 31 of each year annual progress
reports.
Mid-Term Review
7.  The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1992, furnish to the
Association a mid-term review report, assessing the progress and impact of
the Project after the first three years of implementation. Such a report
will identify major problems and constraints and make recommendations for
modifications in the organization and design of the Project.
Project Management Committee
8.  (a)   Not later than June 30, 1989, CRDP shall establish a Project
Management Committee to be headed by the Project General Manager, and whose
other members shall include all the CRDP Department Directors, the Technical
Manager and the Financial Controller.
    (b)   The Project Management Committee shall be responsible for, inter
alia, the following: (i) approving the assignment of staff to training
courses; (ii) approving proposals submitted under the Range and Livestock
Association Development Fund; (iii) reviewing annual work programs and
budgets; (iv) approving district management plans; and (v) approving
agropastoral and other technologies for dissemination through the extension
services.
    (c)   The Project Management Committee shall submit to the Association
all the minutes of its meetings.
Part A of the Project
9.  Implementation of Part A of the Project shall be the responsibility of
the Systems Investigation and Monitoring Department of CRDP.
10.       CRDP shall take appropriate measures to ensure that no boreholes
or dug-outs are constructed in the Project Area without the prior approval
of the Project Management Committee.
Part B of the Project
11.       Implementation of Part B of the Project shall be the
responsibility of the Extension Department of CRDP.
12.       The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association, make all
efforts to include an adequate number of qualified female extension agents
in the Project.
Part C of the Project
13.       Implementation of Part C of the Project shall be the
responsibility of the Agropastoral Department of CRDP.
14.       The Agropastoral Department shall design annual agropastoral trial
programs and submit them for information to the Ministry of Agriculture.
Part D of the Project
15.       CRDP shall be responsible for implementation of Part D of the
Project with the assistance of the veterinary team from GTZ.
16.       CRDP shall establish a veterinary drug revolving fund to be
managed by its Financial Department. This fund shall be replenished in local
currency from the sales of veterinary drugs and medicines to the Range and
Page  12
Livestock Associations. CRDP shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
drugs and medicines purchased with the proceeds of the veterinary drug
revolving fund, are sold: (a) at wholesale market prices; and (b) only
within the Project Area.
17.       Not later than June 30, 1989, the Financial Department of CRDP
shall submit to the Association a regulation for the administration of the
veterinary drug revolving fund, which shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Part E of the Project
18.       Implementation of Part E of the Project shall be the respon-
sibility of the Water and Infrastructure Department of CRDP.
19.       The Borrower shall assess charges for the use of water from
dugouts and boreholes constructed under the Project which shall be adequate
to cover operation and maintenance costs.
Part F of the Project
20, CRDP shall establish a Conservation Department which shall be
responsible, with the MLFR Wildlife Department, for implementation of Part
F of the Project.
21.       CRDP shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the flora and
fauna conservation reserves, to be established under Part F of the Project,
does not infringe on pastoralist grazing and watering rights.
Part G of the Project
22.       The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1989, submit to the
Association a proposal for a Project training facility in the Bulo Burti
District, satisfactory to the Association.
23.       In implementing Part G of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure
that: (a) only CRDP personnel with more than one year's experience in the
Project shall be eligible for training; and (b) a written commitment is
received from such personnel and CRDP that such personnel would return to
work in CRDP on completion of the training course.
Part H of the Project
24.       The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
adequate fuel is available for Project implementation at all times, and if
necessary, shall permit CRDP to directly import such fuel.
25.       Not later than June 30 of each year CRDP shall submit to the
Association a report to verify the use of sound management practices in
vehicle maintenance and operation for the preceding year. The Association's
approval of vehicle and equipment purchases shall be contingent on use of
sound management practices in vehicle maintenance and operation.
26.       The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1989, implement
an allowance and per them structure for CRDP staff acceptable to the
Association and shall adjust such structure annually to maintain purchasing
power as of March 1988.
27.       Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the number of personnel employed by the Project, shall not
exceed a level satisfactory to the Association.
Range and Livestock Association Development Fund
28.       CRDP shall follow the following guidelines in making available
grants and loans under Section 3.04 of this Agreement: (a) not more than
three sub-projects shall be approved for any single Range and Livestock
Association; (b) sub-projects shall have a contribution in labor or
materials of at least 25% of their cost; (c) the CRDP cash contribution for
any particular subproject shall be not more than the equivalent of $2,500;
and (d) in the case of support to productive enterprises the funds shall be
lent: (i) at an interest rate based on the prevailing rate charged by local
Page  13
banks; and (ii) with repayment terms not to exceed five years.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested,
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been made out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  14
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the allocated to the eligible
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
