Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMC4AL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 13636
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORM DRAINAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2620-UNWI)
OCTOBER 26, 1994
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalencies
Unit  =     naira (N)
N 0.75 =   US$ 1.00 (March 1984)
N 0.89 =   US$ 1.00 (mid-1985)
N 22.00 =   US$ 1.00 (Official rate January 1994)
GLOSSARY
FGN         =    Federal Government of Nigeria
LAWMA       =    Lagos Waste Management Authority
LGA         =    Local Govemment Authorities
LSG         =    Lagos State Government
LSMLG       =    Lagos State Ministry of Local Government
LSMW&T   =    Lagos State Ministry of Works & Transport
LSVO        =    Lagos State Valuation Office
PCU         =     Project Co-ordinating Unit
SAR         =     Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 26, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Nigeria Lagos Solid Waste and
Storm Drainage Project (Loan 2620-UNI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nigeria - Lagos Solid Waste and Storm
Drainage Project (Loan 2620-UNI) prepared by the Nigeria Resident Mission, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The project focused on the delivery of support to strengthen three existing institutions
charged with the tasks of implementing three separate project components (solid waste collection
and disposal, stormwater drainage, and property tax valuation). Project completion took almost
eight years, compared to the four years envisaged in the SAR.
The project's physical achievements were substantial with respect to priority drainage
improvements implemented by contractors at the direction of the implementing agency
(LSMW&T). Solid waste collection and disposal was improved in the project's early years, but
ineffective management and inadequate maintenance led to premature equipment failures and
consequent service reductions. The property valuation component achieved less than expected
because of a dependence on a multiplicity of local governments for revenue generation.
The project has demonstrated that civil service rigidities often create disincentives
preventing the effective delivery of solid waste collection and disposal services by a monopolistic
parastatal organization (LAWMA). Such distortion in the policy and institutional frameworks
generally argue for a larger role by the private sector in service delivery. The project outcome
is rated as marginally satisfactory, and its institutional development impact as modest. The
sustainability of project benefits is rated as unlikely.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality and provides a candid discussion of implementation
experience. The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
N[GERIA
Poiect Completion Report
LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORM DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2620-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...................................i
Evaluation Summary ...................................ii
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .......................................1
Background .......................................1
Sector Constraints and Priorities ................................  2
Project Links with Sector and Economic Objectives .......       ............. 2
Project Objectives and Description . ..............................  3
Project Design and Organization ................................  4
Project Implementation ...................................    S
Project Results .................................... 8
Project Sustaiabiity ...................................                         10
Relations and Performance of Parties Involved  ........      ..............  12
Lessons Learned .................................... 12
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECITVE
Project Objectives .................................... 14
Solid Waste Management Sector . ..............................   14
Summary of Execution .....................................   15
Impact of Project on Solid Waste Management .......         ...............  15
Problems Encountered During Execution of the Project ......       ...........  16
Main Storm Drainage Sector .................................    16
Rating and Valuation ...................................                         17
Lagos Land Related Information System Study .......         ...............  18
General ...................................   19
m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .     ............................  20
2. Project Timetable ...................................                         20
3. Physical Execution of the Project .   ............................  21
4. Consultant Services ...................................    22
5. Loan Disbursements ...................................   23
6. Project Implementation  ..................................   24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
7. Project Cost and Financing  ...............................  25
8. Project Results     ...............................   26
9. Compliance with Legal Covenants . ...........................  28
10. Use of Bank Resources ................................  30
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1 - LAWMA Audited Revenues & Expenditures  ......        ..............  31
Table 2 - LAWMA Sources & Application of Funds .......        ...............  32
Table 3 - LAWMA Audited Balance Sheets ..........         .................  33
Table 4 - LAWMA Operating Status of Equipment .......       ................  34
Table 5 - Local Govnment Property Tax Collections .......      ..............  35



LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORM DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2620-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLEITION REPO
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Lagos Solid Waste and Storm Drainage Project
in Nigeria for which Loan 2620 - UNI was approved by the Executive Directors of the Bank on
September 19, 1985. The Loan was closed on September 30, 1993, two years and nine months after
the Closing Date originally specified in the Loan Agreement. The last disbursement was in April 6,
1994 and the undisbursement balance cancelled on April 28, 1994 was US$3,139,804.61.
The PCR was prepared by the Nigeria Resident Mission and the Infrastructure Division of the
Western Africa Department (Preface, Parts I and III). The Lagos State Government prepared Part 11
of the Report.
The PCR was drafted by the Nigeria Resident Mission in August/September 1993 and was
subsequently reviewed by Bank staff who had previously supervised the project. It is based, interalia
on interviews with LAWMA's management, staff and consultants; the Staff Appraisal Report; legal
agreements; supervision and consultant reports; correspondence and internal Bank memoranda.






- 11 -
LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORM DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2620 - UNI)
Project Completion Report
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    The project was the result of extensive discussions in the early 1980s between Nigerian
authorities and the Bank on the country's urban development needs and priorities. It was generally
agreed that efforts to improve resource mobilization through property taxes and, where possible, user
charges should be given high priority since local, state or Federal authorities did not have the
resources to fund even the most urgent urban needs. It was further agreed that since Lagos is
Nigeria's largest city and its principal industrial and commercial center its problems needed priority
attention. This was the first Bank-financed project for the city and it addressed two of its most urgent
problems besides resource mobilization. These were: accumulation of solid waste in streets and
unauthorized refuse dumps, creating a major health hazard as well as aggravating traffic congestion,
and severe flooding that paralysed several parts of the city during the rainy season.
ii.    This project's total cost was estimated at $ 164.3 million equivalent in March 1984. Of this,
68 percent was for solid waste management improvements; 26 percent for drainage extension and
improvements; 5 percent for property tax collection development and 1 percent for institutional
support.
iii. The Lagos State Government established a Project Coordinating Unit to monitor the project's
progress and facilitate the flow of information, but responsibility for executing the waste disposal
component was given to the Lagos State Waste Disposal Board and its successor organization the
Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA). The solid waste management component made
extensive use of modern, highly mechanized vehicles and equipment that were considered
indispensable to deal with the high volumes of refuse generated by the city. The drainage project was
carried out by the Lagos State Ministry of Works and Transport, while the rating and valuation
component was coordinated by the Lagos State Valuation Office.
iv.    The project took almost eight years to be completed, about twice as long as visualized in the
Loan agreements. The principal factors accounting for delays were: management wealnesses in the
implementing agencies and insufficient staff in the Project Coordinating Unit; excessive centralization
and slow decision-making processes in the Lagos State Government, particularly on procurement
matters, and slow counterpart fund contributions from 1989 onwards. To speed up implementation of
Bank financed projects, the Lagos State Government established a Task Force in late 1989 which
helped to accelerate project implementation.
iv.    The solid waste management component had a noticeable impact on Lagos' environment by
substantially improving refuse collection and disposal during the project's initial years of operation,
but its effect declined after 1991 as LAWMA's equipment became unserviceable because of
insufficient funding to repair and replace it.
v.    LAWMA's revenues were expected to come from: contributions from Lagos's fifteen Local
Government Authorities in some proportion to services provided; charges to commercial and
industrial enterprises that would more than cover the cost of services provided to them, and
subventions from State Government, which undertook to subsidize the difference between revenues



- iii -
from other sources and LAWMA's full operating costs. In the event, local government contributions
and State subventions fell far short of providing resources to maintain equipment adequately and
replace assets as they wore out.
vi.    To overcome LAWMA's difficulties, the Lagos State Government decided in 1991 to
commercialize its operations and reorganize it along the lines recommended by consultants. While
these measures were steps in the right direction, they did not ensure sustainability of operations. By
July 1993, only 40 percent of LAWMA's equipment was operational and it could collect only about
one third of the refuse that accumulated in the city daily.
vii.   In addition to insufficient revenues, LAWMA suffered from conflicting policy guidelines from
its Board of Governors which is dominated by representatives of Local Government Authorities - it
main clients - and from internal inefficiencies such as management changes, uncompetitive salary
scales, difficulties in shedding unnecessary staff and inadequate internal controls.
viii.  The main drainage construction works were completed to a good standard by mid-1991 and
rehabilitation works were completed in 1993. Appreciable reductions in flooding were experienced in
the respective catchment areas.
ix.    On completing the ratine and valuation component, property taxes collections increased by
104 percent and 57 percent in 1991 and 1992 respectively. However, receipts were only equivalent
to 45 percent of possible collections as logistical problems obstructed collections and Federal and
State governments were not paying their charges in full.
x.    The performance of the Borrower, consultants and the Bank were satisfactory throughout
project execution and relations between them were cordial and constructive.
xi.    The principal lessons learned are:
a) because of institutional constraints, the provision of solid waste collection and disposal
services by a parastatal organization that has a monopoly of such services is likely to remain non-
sustainable. A new approach should be sought by opening up solid waste services to private sector
participation in order to improve operating efficiency and lower costs through competition;
b) the modalities and regulatory mechanisms for introducing private sector participation
should be carefully considered to achieve the desired ends of acceptable sanitation standards, coverage
of the city as a whole, greater efficiency of operation and affordable costs; it is recommended that a
report be commissioned to recommend specific measures to introduce private participation in waste
management services;
c) the State Valuation Office lacks sufficient funds to maintain property rating and valuation
records adequately and periodically prepare supplementary valuation lists; without them, the data
assembled under the project will lose relevance over time. The State Valuation Office's budget
should be increased by contributions from the local government authorities as they are the
beneficiaries of the property tax system.



NIGERIA
LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORM DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2620 - UNI)
Project Completion Report
Part I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.1   Prject Identity
- Project Name: Lagos Solid Waste & Storm Drainage Project
- Loan number: 2620 - UNI'
- Region: Africa
- Country: Nigeria
- Sector: Urban Development
Background
1.2   Extensive discussions on Nigeria's urban development issues and priorities were held between
Federal and state authorities and the Bank in the early 1980s. These resulted in agreements on
priorities, a strategy to address them and the content and scope of several projects that the Bank
subsequently supported. Since it was clear that local, state or the Federal governments could not
provide all the funding required to resolve even Nigeria's most urgent urban development needs, the
agreed strategy gave high priority to resource mobilization. Bank supported projects have therefore
routinely included plans to improve tax collection and/or user cost recovery measures as appropriate.
1.3   The Bauchi Urban Development Project approved by the Bank's Executive Directors in FY79
(Ln. 1767 - UNI) was the first urban project financed by the Bank in Nigeria. It was followed in FY
86 by the Imo Urban Project (Ln 2607 - UNI) and this project, which addressed the principal urban
issues faced by Lagos, Nigeria's largest city. The Lagos Water Supply Project (Ln. 2985 - UNI)
was approved in FY89 while the Oyo Urban Development Project, for which Loan 3238 - UNI was
approved in FY90, addressed the main problems faced by Ibadan, Nigeria's second largest city. The
needs of other urban concentrations were addressed through the Infrastructure Development Fund
Project approved in FY88 and financed under Loan 2925 - UNI.
1.4   Lagos is Nigeria's largest city and its principal commercial and industrial center. It is
situated in poorly drained swampland on the country's southern coast. Its population grew rapidly
from about 350,000 in 1963 to over 5 million in 1993. Growth was particularly high during the oil
boom years of the late 1970s as people migrated from rural areas to seek more profitable employment
in urban activities that prospered as oil related earnings entered the domestic economy. The pace of
demographic growth was so rapid during this period that public resources were insufficient to provide
adequate infrastructure and urban services, though some high visibility investments such as a modern



-2 -
primary road network with bridges and flyovers and an international airport, were constructed with
Federal Government funding.
1.5    Responsibility of providing urban infrastructure rests principally with state governments in
Nigeria though local government authorities (LGAs) frequently have specific responsibilities,
especially for operation and maintenance. Lagos State's financial position is more advantageous than
that of other Nigerian states as its population has a higher level of income. As a result, over 70
percent of Lagos State Government's (LSG's) revenues were derived from state taxes in 1985, while
other states only generated between 10 and 30 percent internally and had to rely on Federal sources
for the bulk of their income. In spite of this, LSG's current surplus in 1981-85 was only equivalent
to about one quarter of the resources needed to meet priority urban investments.
1.6   Sector Constraints and Priorities. The more important constraints experienced by Lagos in
the early 1980s were: refuse accumulation, which constituted a major health hazard and caused traffic
slowdowns; recurrent, severe and costly flooding in several parts of the city during the rainy season;
unpaved and insufficient secondary and tertiary roads that aggravated traffic congestion; intermittent
or non-existent water supply and power services as well as inadequate telephone connections that
slowed business transactions and exacerbated traffic problems. These and other deficiencies seriously
reduced productivity and constituted major constraints on the city's economic growth and social well-
being.
1.7   Solid waste management was identified as an area of overriding priority for Lagos as refuse
accumulation had become a serious environmental issue. Though Lagos State's LGAs had the legal
responsibility for collecting and disposing of solid waste, this obligation was not being fulfilled
evenly, and in some cases not at all, because the LGAs had neither the financial resources nor
management capacity to do so. It was estimated at the time of appraisal that less than half of the
solid waste generated by the city was being collected and that almost none of it was being disposed of
in a sanitary manner. Extensive, unauthorized and unregulated solid waste dumps had developed in
various locations in and around Lagos, constituting unsightly health hazards. In addition, solid waste
was frequently dumped on streets, aggravating traffic congestion. Investments to modernize the
collection and transport of solid waste and to develop sanitary landfill areas in appropriate and
controlled locations were required with urgency.
1.8   Investments in drainage were also required to reduce seasonal flooding in low areas of the city
and to arrest the resulting deterioration of existing roads and other infrastructure. Such investments
are necessary before undertaking construction of additional secondary and tertiary roads to relieve
Lagos' traffic congestion, as rapid deterioration of new works would otherwise result. In addition,
some action was required to ensure that both existing and new drains were cleaned regularly as they
were frequently clogged up with solid waste and could not carry water effectively during the rainy
season.
1.9   Proiect Links with Sector and Economic Objectives. The project reinforced the Federal
Government's macroeconomic objectives. The efficiency of industrial activity in Lagos - which
accounts for about half manufacturing value added in the country - as well as the productivity of
commerce were expected to increase as a result of the project, thus increasing the competitiveness of
Nigeria's economy as a whole. In addition, the project was expected to increase LSG tax revenues,
helping relieve state fiscal imbalances.



-3-
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION.
1.10   Qbjectives. The project was expected to:
(a)    strengthen the administrative, technical and financial capacity of LSG institutions and
help them reorient their programs towards larger scale provision and maintenance of
infrastructure;
(b)    support the ongoing operations of the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) 1/
and the stormwater drainage operations of the State Ministry of Works and Transport
(LSMW&T), expanding and improving their services so that sector and general
economic objectives might be successfully pursued;
(c)    assist LSG revise and reactivate the rating system for property tax valuation in order
to mobilize additional resources for infrastructure and service investments and for the
maintenance of such services.
1.11   Desion   The project consisted of the following elements with total costs including
contingencies shown in USS million:
(a)    Solid Waste Management. Equipment, new maintenance and depot facilities; civil
works for industrial and domestic waste collection and disposal; abandoned vehicle
management and secondary and tertiary storm drainage cleaning and maintenance.
The following main items were provided for:
(i)    equipment for refuse collection and disposal and drain cleaning operations
(USS 63.5 million);
fii)   construction of refuse transfer stations and provision of long-haul vehicles
(USS 7.8 million);
(iii) civil works for existing and new sanitary landfill sites, new vehicle depots and
maintenance workshops and improvement of existing facilities (USS 22.5
million);
(iv)   installation of bulk bin hardstandings (platforms) for refuse containers
throughout the city (USS 2.3 million);
(v)    assistance to implement demonstration sanitation projects, a plan to transfer
responsibility for secondary stormdrain maintenance to local governments,
advisory services to LAWMA to train its staff, strengthen its management and
operations, improve its fmancial management by establishing a proper
accounting system and a staff training program, as well as establishment of a
research and development group for long-term operations programming (USS
15.5 million);
/ Prior to 1992, the organization was called Lagos State Waste Disposal Board. To simplify
presentation and avoid confusion, this report refers to it by its present name throughout the text.



-4-
(b)    Main Stormwater Drainage. The dredging and construction of about 26 kins of
additions to the main drainage system to reduce flooding in the western half of Lagos
and a program to rehabilitate the existing primary system of earth drainage channels.
These works, which were estimated to cost US$ 42.5 million, were to improve
drainage in high density residential and industrial areas totalling about 3,400 ha. to
benefit about 1.4 million inhabitants and over half Lagos' commercial and industrial
installations;
(c)    Rating and Valuation. Assistance to LSG at a cost of about USS 7.4 million to revise
property tax laws, identify properties omitted from valuation lists and carry out a
statewide property revaluation program, and
(d)   Institutional Support, to provide, at an estimated cost of USS 2.8 million:
(i)   advisory and contractual services for project coordination, implementation and
monitoring in LSMW&T and preparation of future main drainage and area
infrastructure improvement projects;
(ii)   advisory services to selected local government councils to improve
administration, financial management and maintenance operations.
1.12  The project's cost was estimated to be USS 164.3 million at March 1984 prices, including
foreign costs of USS 83.6 million equivalent and USS 80.7 million of local costs, of which USS 6.3
million in local taxes and duties. Foreign costs were to be financed by the Bank Loan of USS 72.0
million and cofinancing of USS 11.6 million that had not been identified at the time of appraisal.
Local costs were to be financed entirely by LSG and its parastatal organizations. The foreign
exchange value of the naira (N) was USS 1.31 when the project cost was estimated and USS 1.12 in
mid-1985 when the Loan was approved.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.13   Dign. The project was tailored to overcome the problems it addressed. The solid waste
component made extensive use of modern, highly mechanized vehicles (compactors, tippers, flatbeds,
etc.) and other equipment to remove and dispose of solid waste. Such equipment was considered
necessary to deal with the large volumes of waste generated daily by the city as well as to dispose of
the large backlog of refuse that had previously been abandoned in the streets or left in informal
dumps. The property rating and valuation component provided for the introduction of computers to
maintain property records and assist in billing and collection.
1.14   Organizio . To ensure proper coordination of the various arms and agencies that would be
involved in implementing the project, it was agreed that the LSG would establish a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) which would monitor implementation, assure timely completion of project
related tasks by the implementing agencies and facilitate the flow of information. The PCU was to be
headed by a Project Coordinator and assisted by a Project Implementation Committee that would have
representatives of all the agencies involved. The latter's function was to resolve implementation
problems that might arise. Direct responsibility for implementing the solid waste disposal component
would be with the LAWMA, while the LSMW&T would be responsible for carrying out the drainage
component and the Lagos State Ministry of Local Government (LSMLG)/Lagos State Valuation
Office would carry out the rating and valuation component.



-5-
1.15   Bank staff held extensive discussions with State officials during preparation and appraisal on
staffing needs and consultant services required by LSG to carry out the project successfully. LSG
agreed to strengthen the Project Coordinating Unit as well as the executing agencies as needed.
1.16   Solid Waste Disposal. Though LGAs have formal responsibility for providing solid waste
removal services in their respective areas, it was agreed that services could only be provided to the
city as a whole by a central organization because of the need to dispose of waste in a sanitary manner
and to maintain and repair complex equipment. By agreement between the State and local authorities,
LAWMA was assigned responsibility for carrying out the solid waste disposal component.
LAWMA's Board of Governors was constituted predominantly by representatives of twelve2/ LGAs
who, it was believed, would facilitate coordination and resolution of issues that might arise in
resolving the city's waste disposal problems. The possibility of contracting LAWMA's management
out to private operators was suggested by the Bank during project preparation and appraisal but the
LSG rejected this alternative and agreed instead to reorganize and strengthen the management of
LAWMA by a date preceding Loan effectiveness (January 1, 1986).
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIO
1.17   The project took almost eight years to be completed, about twice as long as visualized in the
Loan agreements. The principal factors accounting for delays were: i) management wealnesses in the
implementing agencies and insufficient staff in the Project Coordinating Unit, ii) excessively
centralized and slow decision-making processes in the LSG, particularly with regard to procurement
matters and iii) slow counterpart resource contributions from 1990 onwards.
1.18   Delays in reorganizing and improving project management were experienced from the
beginning. For example, a supervision mission that visited Lagos in December 1988, more than two
years after Loan effectiveness, noted that sufficient staff had not yet been assigned to the Project
Coordinating Unit to enable it to handle the worldoad associated with the project.
1.19   Up to 1991, State procedures required that all major procurement of goods and services be
approved by the Military Governor and the practice was to seek the Governor's clearance at various
stages of the procurement process, e.g. when invitations to bid and bidding documents were
completed, when bid evaluation reports were completed as well as when final contract documents
were drawn up. The clearances of the State Tenders Board and State Ministry of Justice were also
required at some stages. Compliance with these and other clearance procedures unduly protracted
procurement with the result that accumulated Loan disbursements amounted to only $ 12.4 million in
September 1989 (30 months after effectiveness), or 25 percent of the amount expected to be disbursed
at appraisal.
1.20   To speed up the execution of Bank supported projects, LSG formed a special Task Force in
September 1989 that was chaired by a high level executive to whom the Military Governor delegated
considerable decision-mating responsibilities. This Task Force was in existence until December 1991
and improved project execution considerably, increasing cumulative disbursements by $ 44.5 million
during its period of office.
2/ The number of Local Govermment Authorities in Lagos State was increased to fifteen in 1992.



-6 -
1.21   Counterpart fund contributions were made in a timely manner during the initial stages of the
project, but some delays were experienced from 1989 onwards when the larger investments in civil
works and other facilities were being made. To relieve the demand on LSG resources, the Bank
agreed in February 1989 to increase the proportion of civil works costs that could be financed under
the Loan from 42 percent to 80 percent and for local technical assistance costs from 50 percent to 80
percent.
1.22   Solid Waste Disposal. The reorganization of LAWMA to strengthen its management was not
initiated by the agreed target date as there was no clear plan for it. Consultants (Lavalin International
of Canada) were therefore commissioned in early 1988 to carry out a study that might serve as a basis
for reform. By February 1989, a working draft had been submitted to LSG and LAWMA for their
consideration and the final report, including their respective views, was released in July 1989. The
same consultants were retained in February 1991 to assist with implementation of the reorganization,
which included the following principal features:
(a)   streamlining of LAWMA's organization by reducing the number of management
layers to improve communications and decision-making;
(b)    creating cost/profit centers to increase management accountability by regrouping
operations and maintenance functions and placing them under two Regional Directors
and 15 Zone Managers who became responsible for operations in each local
government area;
(c)    an extensive training program, including visits by LAWMA's management staff to
foreign waste management organizations, and the establishment of a training unit to
improve operation and maintenance staff skills, and
(d)    changes in systems and practices, including the establishment of a computerized
management information system.
While the reorganization was on the whole successful, other measures recommended by the
consultants, such as a revision of pay scales to make them comparable to those prevailing in the
private sector for similar levels of responsibilities and skills, were not carried through. Moreover,
the benefits of management training in foreign waste management organizations were to a large extent
lost when four senior managers were reassigned in 1993.
1.23   To facilitate collection, a large number of variously sized bins were provided for local
communities to deposit their refuse. Collection is done by specialized refuse vehicles. In selected
parts of the city, four existing vehicle service depots were improved and one constructed.
Improvements were also carried out in a maintenance/repair workshop (Ikeja). Works on one depot
(Simpson Street) were not finished after the contractor abandoned the site; they are to be completed
by LAWMA with its own resources. To reduce bin damage and facilitate refuse loading into
vehicles, 85 bin hardstandings (platforms) were planned for strategic locations in the city. Small
businessmen were awarded contracts and 74 hardstandings of generally acceptable standards were
completed by the Closing Date. To reduce the distance refuse trucks have to travel to complete their
rounds, LAWMA decided during implementation to convert an abandoned refuse incinerator into a
transfer station from which larger vehicles could carry solid waste to landfill sites. Feasibility studies
and bidding documents were completed under the project but construction costs are to be financed



-7-
under the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project for which Credit 2517 - UNI was approved in FY93.
1.24  In view of the prevalence of informal dump sites in the city, the project's original schedule
gave priority to the early identification and preparation of sanitary landfill sites. However, because of
difficulties and delays in obtaining Certificates of Occupancy from the respective authorities for
suitable sites, it was not until mid-1992 - one and a half years after the original Closing Date - that
the Oregun site was selected and the Certificate of Occupancy approved. By this time, land moving
equipment had been employed for considerable time in informal refuse dumps and much of it was in
need of repair (see Table 4). In spite of shortages of earth moving equipment, development and
building construction at the Oregun landfill site were completed before the Closing Date. Bulk
carriers to bring refuse from the transfer station and spare parts for earth moving and other equipment
will be financed under Credit 2517 - UNI for the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project.
1.25 Drainge. The main works were carried out by two contractors which completed them to
good standards during 1991. After a review of project costs that year, the component's scope was
extended somewhat to include lining existing drainage works in System 5 with concrete; this was
completed in 1993.
1.26   A dispute arose during implementation with the contractors who submitted cost escalation
claims requesting compensation for local currency cost increases in foreign exchange converted at the
rate of exchange specified in their contracts for purposes of unit costs. The consulting engineers, as
well as the Bank, took the position that compensation should be made in local currency or its
equivalent converted at the prevailing rate of exchange. Prior to Loan Closing, the Bank agreed with
LSG that part of the claims be financed out of the Loan. LSG was to subsequently reach agreement
with one contractor on the extent to which further compensation might be in order, with settlement
being made from LSG's own funds.
1.27    erty Radng and Valuation. As part of the project, the State's existing property tax was
reviewed and a new Tenement Rate Edict was approved by LSG in 1989. To update property lists
and valuations - which had last been done in 1955 and expanded in 1977 - an enumeration, survey
and valuation of all rateable properties in the State was carried out under the Project with the
assistance of private sector valuation practitioners. The field work was carried out during 1990 and a
total of 201,564 rateable properties were identified in the State's fifteen local governments areas; their
total rateable value was N 2,455 million, of which N 400 million were accounted for by Federal and
State government properties. The lists were published early in 1991 and an appeals procedure was set
up which successfully dealt with most claims. The exercise was coordinated by the State Valuation
Office and property and valuation lists were given to LGAs when completed in order that they bill
and collect taxes at the rate of 10 percent of assessed property values per annum.
PROJECT RESULTS
1.28 Solid Waste Disposal. The project had a noticeable impact on Lagos' environment by
substantially improving solid waste collection and disposal during its initial years of operation, but its
effect began to decline after 1991 as LAWMA's equipment became unserviceable because of
insufficient funding to repair and replace it.
1.29 The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) visualized that LAWMA's revenues would be derived from
three principal sources:



-8 -
(a)    contributions that LGAs would make (or that LSG would make on their behalf) in
some proportion to services provided;
(b)    charges made to industrial and commercial enterprises. It was expected that revenues
received from such enterprises would cover a significant proportion of costs, though
they only account for a minor proportion of the solid waste generated in the city, and
(c)    subventions from the LSG to make up the balance of resources required by LAWMA
to run its operations in a sustainable manner.
LSG agreed during negotiations that it would pay LAWMA the funds required to cover the full cost
of its operations [Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement] promptly and as needed. It further
undertook to cause LAWMA to revalue its assets periodically and write off the depreciable value of
its machinery, equipment and other assets, investing these amounts in interest bearing securities so
that sufficient funds could be available to replace assets when required.
1.30   LAWMA's revenues from 1986 to 1992 in fact fell well short of providing reserves to replace
asets and were insufficient to even purchase spare parts and materials to maintain its equipment
adequately. The following table shows the origin of LAWMA's revenues as a percentage of its total
operating costs including depreciation: 3/
- Percentage of Total Operating Costs-
Source               SAM      1986   1987   1988   1989   1990        1991    1992
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ average                    _ _ _                     _ _ _
LGA Contributions     26        14     n.a.   21      19      15        1      n.a.
Service Charges       46        18     n.a.   15      14      9        55      n.a.
Other                  2        3      n.a.    4       3      1         -      n.a.
LSG subventions       26       77      n.a.   29      24      13        1      n a.
TOTAL              100       112     n.a.   69      60      38       57      n.a.
LAWMA's equipment was expected to have a useful life of about five years and much of it was in
need of repair after the second and third year of use, reducing LAWMA's operating capacity
noticeably after 1990. To overcome it financial difficulties LSG decided in late 1991 to
acommercialize LAWMA's operations; this was consistent with policies adopted by the Federal and
other state authorities to move their parastatals towards financial self-sufficiency. While this was a
step in the right direction, the decision was not accompanied by sufficient funding to enable LAWMA
to start on a clean slate or by removal of internal constraints (see para. 1.36) so it was unable to
attain operational sustainabiity. By July 1993 only 40 percent of LAWMA's equipment was usable
(see Table 4), with much of the remainder out of commission because of lack of spare parts and
resources to meet the cost of even simple repairs. LAWMA was having difficulty meeting its payroll
and only collecting about one third of the refuse generated by the city each day.
I/ See, in addition, Part Ell, Paagraph 6 i) and ii).



-9 -
1.31   Drainage. Completion of the works included in the project resulted in an appreciable
reduction in flooding in the respective catchment areas (see Part m 3 Stormdrain Civil Works).
1.32 Property Rating and Valuation. Property taxes collected by LGAs increased significantly on
completion of the rating and valuation exercise. Total collections increased by 104 percent (to N
69.6 million) in 1991, the first year in which the revised valuations were applied, and by 57 percent
(to N 109.5 million) in 1992. Receipts were, nevertheless, only equivalent to 45 percent of the total
possible collections that year as several logistical problems remained to be resolved and Federal and
State governments were not yet paying their charges in full.
1.33 Billing is done manually by most LGAs and, since there is no effective postal system, there
are long delays in bill delivery and collection. A study financed under the Loan recommending
equipment and software to computerize billing was completed by consultants; however, insufficient
budget allocations and lack of support have prevented the State Valuation Office from centralizing and
improving the efficiency of property tax billing.
1.34   Economic Evaluation. The project's principal benefits have been improvements in the
efficiency of stormwater drainage and waste management in Metropolitan Lagos which, in turn, have
resulted in noticeable reductions in health hazards, flood damage to private and public property and
road erosion. Solid waste removal, which increased from 2.3 million tons in 1988 to 3.6 million tons
in 1990 speeded up traffic, reducing accidents and delays by decongesting streets.
1.35  The SAR recognized that 'While it is obvious that a project of this nature will have a very
high economic rate of return, the measurement of aggregate benefits is quite difficult, requiring a
major study and comparison of baseline conditions with those after project execution." Based on a
detailed examination of rentable values prevailing in two areas of the city that would benefit from the
project -Ajegunle and Mushin - and assuming a 20 percent increase in the rentable value of various
kinds of properties in these areas, the SAR nevertheless estimated a 25 percent economic rate of
return (ERR). In preparing this report, it was not possible to establish the extent to which rental
values in the selected or other areas of the city may have been affected by the project because rentals,
like all other costs, have been affected by high rates of inflation since 1990. In addition, as noted
above (para 1.28) the level of service has fluctuated. In the absence of a costly study, that might in
any case be inconclusive, the report does not present an ERR estimate. In future such projects, more
attention should be given to collecting basic data in order to monitor economic viability.
PROJECT SUSTAINABL
1.36   Solid Waste Disposal. LAWMA's capacity to provide solid waste collection and disposal
services in a sustainable manner was seriously impaired even before the Closing Date (see paras 28 to
30) and its operational trends do not suggest that a recovery is likely. Among the main reasons for
LAWMA's difficulties are the following:
(a)   conflicting policy guidelines stemming from the composition of LAWMA's Board of
Governors, which is dominated by representatives of LGAs: its principal clients. It is
not clear whether such representatives act in the interest of their respective LGAs or
LAWMA while sitting on the Board;
(b)    non-payment of sanitation fees by LAWMA's principal clients - LGAs, the State
Government and Federal Government organizations (e.g. Federal parastatals, the



- 10-
armed services, police, etc.) in part because of their high cost and the absence of an
appropriate authority to enforce payment of overdue fees;
(c)   the high cost of sanitation services due to inefficiencies within LAWMA itself,
resulting from:
(i)   frequent changes in management and the appointment of temporary managers
who, because of the precariousness of their position, hesitate to take decisive
improvement measures that might be controversial;
(ii)   inadequate financial incentives for staff to improve performance. LAWMA's
salaries are still tied to civil service scales though the consultants repeatedly
recommended that they be made competitive with the private sector to attract
additional experienced and competent staff;
(iii)   difficulty in shedding unnecessary staff because of civil service restrictions;
(iv)   inadequate management systems to control use of equipment, spare parts and
materials inventories, etc.; and
(v)    unsatisfactory accounting and financial control systems. For example,
LAWMA's accounts to the end of 1992 were still in preparation in September
1993 and could not be examined by LAWMA's external auditors.
1.37   Because of these institutional constraints, the provision of solid waste management services by
a parastatal organization that has a monopoly of such services is likely to remain non-sustainable. It
is therefore recommended that a new approach be sought by State and LGA authorities by opening up
solid waste management services to private sector participation to improve efficiency and lower cost
through competition.
1.38 Given that there are several options for introducing private sector participation in each one of
the three phases of solid waste management - i) refuse collecdon; ii) transfer and transport, and iii)
disposal - careful consideration should be given to how private participation can achieve acceptable
sanitation standards, coverage of the city as a whole, greater efficiency of operation and affordable
costs. Some preliminary suggestions on desirable alternatives are made in 'Strategies for Private
Provision of Infrastructure and Urban Service', a Sector Survey prepared by the Bank based on field
work carried out in March and April 1992. Because LAWMA's service coverage has turned out to
be much less extensive than anticipated at that time, possible adjustments to the report's
recommendations should be considered. In any event, it is recommended that a follow-up report be
prepared recommending specific measures to introduce private participation in waste management
services.
1.39   Drainage. To improve drainage maintenance and avoid one of the causes of flooding prior to
the project, the LSG decided in 1989 that LAWMA should be responsible for maintaining primary,
secondary and tertiary drains in Lagos Island only, and that the Drainage Division of the State
Ministry of the Environment should be responsible for maintenance of primary and secondary drains
in the remaining areas, with LGAs responsible for the care of tertiary drains. These changes have
resulted in some improvements in drain maintenance.



- 11 -
1.40   Poerty Rating and Valuation. The State Valuation Office is funded from the State budget
and lacks sufficient financial resources to maintain its property records adequately. Moreover, it is
insufficiently funded to retain enough staff with competency in enumeration and valuation and to
provide logistical support for the preparation of supplementary valuation lists to keep property records
up to date. Contributions to its budget from the LGAs, which are the beneficiaries of its work,
should be considered so that the tax data base assembled under the project does not lose relevance
over time.
RELATIONS AND PERFORMANCE OF PARTIES INVOLVED
1.41   Relations between the Borrower, consultants and the Bank were cordial and constructive
throughout the entire period of implementation and the parties cooperated with each other in pursuit
of the project's objectives.
1.42   Borrower Performance. Particularly in its early stages, project execution was slow principally
because both the Lagos State Waste Disposal Board and LAWMA, its successor organization,
operated more like State civil service departments than autonomous entities. Procurement and other
decisions were unduly delayed by the involvement of numerous layers of officials. However, on
realizing this, LSG formed a special Task Force with powers to take the necessary decisions to speed
up implementation and subsequently commercialized and reorganized LAWMA to improve project
execution and sustainabiity.
1.43 Compliance with the Bank's financial reporting requirements was frequently delayed and at
the Closing Date submission of the project's and LAWMA's audited financial statements were three
months in arrears. At times during implementation, Bank supervision missions lamented the lack of
progress reports with up-to-date information. Data on the outcome of construction, goods and service
supply contracts were not readily available when this report was in preparation and somewhat delayed
its completion.
1.44   Bank Performance. The project was supervised at least twice yearly throughout
implementation and Bank staff showed flexibility in dealing with problems as they arose while
pursuing the project's principal objectives. The Bank's performance was satisfactory.
1.45   Consultant Performance. The consultants involved in the project, for solid waste disposal,
drainage and valuation practitioners for the rating and valuation component, all performed creditably,
maintaining good relations with their client and the Bank at all times. The consultants work on
LAWMA's reorganization was done after an exhaustive institutional examination and deserves special
commendation.
LESSONS LEARNED
1.46   The principal lessons to be derived from experiences under this project are:
(a)    Solid Waste Disposal. Because of inadequate incentive structures, provision of solid
waste management services by a parastatal organization that has a monopoly of such
services is likely to remain non-sustainable. A new approach should be sought by
opening up solid waste management services to private sector participation in order to
improve operational efficiency and lower costs through competition (paras. 1.34 &
1.35);



- 12 -
(b)    the modalities and regulatory mechanisms for introducing private sector participation should
be carefully considered to achieve the desired ends of acceptable sanitation standards,
coverage of the city as a whole, greater efficiency of operation and affordable costs. It is
recommended that a report be prepared suggesting specific measures to introduce private
participation in waste management services (para. 1.36), and this is being undertaken under
the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2517-UNI);
(c)    Property Rating and Valuation. Completion of this project component resulted in substantial
increases in LGA property tax collections. However, the State Valuation Office lacks
sufficient funds to maintain property records adequately and prepare supplementary valuation
lists; without them, the data assembled under the project will lose relevance over time. The
State Valuation Office's budget should be increased accordingly (para. 1.38).



- 13 -
Part nI - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1    Eiet Qbiectives
The Lagos Solid Waste Disposal and Storm Drainage Project was packaged together with the
following objectives:
(a)   to strengthen the administrative, technical and financial capacity of key Lagos State
institutions and reorient their existing programs towards a larger scale provision of
infrastructure and maintenance;
(b)   to support ongoing solid waste disposal and storm water drainage operations by
expanding and improving services rendered by both responsible agencies, which
would, in turn, lead to a better functioning city and increased productivity; and
(c)   to assist LSG mobilize additional resources needed to provide future infrastructure,
services and maintenance for Metropolitan Lagos by revising and reactivating the
rating system for property tax valuation.
In a nutshell, the project was primarily aimed at strengthening three critical institutions of
Lagos State Government:
(a)    Lagos State Waste Disposal Board, now Lagos State Waste Management
Authority (LAWMA);
(b)   Lagos State Ministry of Works and Transport and the Ministry of the
Environment and Physical Planning's construction and maintenance
program (now Drainage Department), and
(c)   the State property valuation system.
2.2   Solid Waste Management Sector
One of the primary aims of the project was to finance the following:
(a)    Procurement of equipment for refuse collection and disposal and for drain cleaning
operations;
(b)   construction of transfer stations, together with procurement of long-haul transfer
trailers;
(c)   civil works:
(i)   construction and development of existing and new controlled sanitary landfill
sites;



- 14 -
(ii)   new vehicle depots and workshops and upgrading existing depot facilities;
(iii)   construction of bulk bin hardstanding;
(d)    consultancy services for:
(i)    establishment of small demonstration projects;
(ii)   strengthening of waste management operations;
(iii)  establishment of financial accounting systems;
(iv)   training programs for staff.
2.3    Summary of Execution
The implementation of the project commenced in 1986. To date, the following have been
accomplished under the project:
(a)    supply of vehicles, plants, equipment, and workshop tools for the effective collection
and disposal of waste in Lagos Metropolis;
(b)    development and construction of LAWMA's headquarters, five depots, two
workshops, bin-hardstandings, and a sanitary landfill;
(c)    computerization of LAWMA's information systems, payroll, billing and collection;
(d)    consultancy services for a management reorganization and staffing study;
(e)    commercialization assistance to LAWMA;
(f)   training.
2.4   Impact of World Bank Project on Solid Waste Management
The project raised the level of commercial waste collection from about 350 industrial premises
in 1984 to about 1,200 premises at the end of 1992 while the revenue generated by the Authority rose
from a litle over N3.0 million in 1984 to well over N 13.0 million for the year 1992.
Furthermore, the project extended the services of LAWMA to areas not hitherto covered, i.e.
waste generated in high density areas of the metropolis.
2.5    Problems Encountered Durine Execution of the Project
(a)    Sequence of Procurement. The sequence of procurement and delivery of the
equipment affected the effectiveness and sustainability of the project after the fifth
year. For example, LAWMA took delivery of the mechanical shovels and landfill
bulldozers two years ahead of the delivery of refuse compaction vehicles. This



- 15 -
resulted in the gross over-utilization of these pieces of equipment as a result of
accumulated refuse on the streets with few refuse collection vehicles to cope with the
heaps of refuse. The resultant effect of this is that most of the mechanical shovels
were deployed to cope with the volume of waste at the communal depots. With the
arrival of collection trucks, the need for the use of the shovels dropped, however, the
havoc had already been done.
(b)    Durability of Equipment Procured. The trucks procured under the lowest competitive
bidding procedures have performed below expectations with many grounded due to
their inability to cope with existing local conditions. This is because the durable and
tested trucks that can withstand local conditions were not acquired.
(c)    Commercialization of LAWMA. The Lagos State Government took a bold step by
commercializing the activities of LAWMA. However, this was done without a take-
off grant. LAWMA has, therefore, not been able to operate the commercialization
programs as suggested in various commercialization reports. Under the
commercialization program it was intended that LAWMA would generate adequate
revenue to cover operational and other expenses. However, this has not been
accomplished due to: (i) non-settlement of fees for services rendered by the various
arms of Government (Federal, States and Local), (ii) absence of an enabling by-law to
prosecute defaulters of payment.
2.6    Main Stormwater Drainage Sector
The project was to finance the dredging and construction of 26 km of drain in addition to the
then Ministry of Works and Transport's plan. Also included is the rehabilitation of the existing
primary system of earth canals.
2.7    Ilementation. The construction of the drainage works comprising system 6B
(Oshodi/Isolo); System 5 and 6C (Mosafejo/Odo Asimowu) and system 6F (Bale-Okoya/Badagry)
channels, which are about 29 km long. The conception of the works comprised of:
(a)    6,302m U-shaped concrete lined channel;
(b)    2,000m concrete box conduit;
(c)    1,810m concrete line channel/duct including energy dissipator;
(d)    1,065m open channel with rock protection;
(e)    17,790m earth channel.
Also included in the above mentioned projects is the construction of some bridges and
culverts.
2.8    Modification. In the course of implementation, the following design modifications were
carried out to overcome inadequacies of the project as designed in order to meet the desired
objectives:



- 16 -
(a)    modification of + 900m earth drain within the LUTH Compound to concrete line
channel to improve its capacity;
(b)   replacement of culvert to a three span Ishaga Bridge to with stand the expected flow
upstream;
(c)    design of adequate culverts at Ojuelegba Road, Olufe, Nathan Street on Mosefejo
(system 5) alignment instead of retaining the existing ring culverts, which would have
become grossly inadequate, because of the designed improvement carried out, at the
up and down stream of the channel;
(d)   construction of appropriate bridges on Itire/Mushin Road instead of a culvert, etc.
2.9    Cost Overrun. There was a huge overrun on the naira cost of the project, especially on the
system 5 and 6C channel which was due to price escalation that followed the introduction of SFEM
(Second-tier Foreign Exchange Market).
2.10 Problems and Suggestions. A prolonged dispute on the interpretation of certain clauses
contained in the contract documents, relating to percentage of off-shore component payable under the
fluctuation clause, affected the timely completion of the project. In order to avert this situation, it is
suggested that future bills of quantities be clear-cut on unit rates of items for both the off- and on-
shore components.
2.11   Lagos State bureaucratic procedures requires the State's Plans Programmes Budget
Department to carry out pre-payment inspection after having been certified by an appointed external
supervising consultant; this contributed to immense delays in payment and consequently project
completion. It is therefore recommended that future projects financed by the World Bank where
supervising external consultant has been appointed, should be excluded from further P.P.B.D. pre-
payment inspection.
2.12   Rating and Valuation
2.13   Preamble. As part of the rating and valuation component of the Solid Waste Disposal and
Storm Drainage Project, the Lagos State Government agreed to establish the Lagos State Valuation
Office. In June 1989, the Tenement Rate Edict was promulgated vide State Government Gazette No.
27 of June 1989. The Edict gave overall rating and valuation responsibility to the Lagos State
Valuation Office while revenue collection responsibility was given to the Local Government Councils.
2.14   The World Bank Expectation of the Lagos State Valuation Office (LSVO). According to the
Staff Appraisal Report, the World Bank declared that property tax was the only instrument of revenue
generation available to Local Government Councils in Lagos State. The Bank believed that reliable
yields were needed to enable Local Governments to meet their operations and maintenance
responsibilities and be able to repay the World Bank Loan, since refuse collection was recognized as
the responsibilities of Local Government Councils. The World Bank, therefore, expected that the
Lagos State Valuation Office would be a permanent institution which would assume the valuation of
all urban properties over a five-year period and be responsible for yearly updating and new
revaluations thereafter. The Bank expected that within a short time a competent and capable Lagos
State Staff would have been trained and be in a position to take over from the consultant in the



- 17 -
capacity of Director. This was actually achieved during the life of the project. To strengthen the
Lagos State Valuation Office (LSVO), it was anticipated that its operations would be computerized,
enabling an efficient revenue billing and collection system to be put in place. However, this could
not be fully achieved for reasons highlighted below.
2.15 Problems Militating Against the Non-Completion of the Project:
(a)    Delay in procurement of the key aspect of this component of the project, particularly
the identification of needs and acquisition;
(b)   insufficient allocation of funds in the project for LSVO.
2.16 Impact of the Project on Lagos State Valuation Office. The non-completion of the project has
prevented the computerization of the Lagos State Valuation Office, one of the project's principal
objectives. It has also given room for fraudsters to parade in Local Government Areas defrauding
innocent rate payers. To complete the component, it is highly desirable that adequate funds be
allocated under the new project loan for the Lagos State Valuation Office for:
(a)   completion of the computerization of the Lagos State Valuation Records and the Local
Government Revenue Billing and Collection System;
(b)   the training program for valuation and computer staff;
(c)   the purchase of specialized materials for use by the office;
(d)    provision of vehicles, and other utility services.
2.17   La&Qs Lan Related Information System Feasibility Study
2.18   Preambl. Although the Lagos Information System was not identified in the appraisal of the
project, it became necessary to carry out the Lagos Land Related Information System Feasibility
Study as it was discovered that there were no existing data on land related matters, without which
meaningful development plans could not be implemented. Accordingly, the feasibility studies on
Land Related Information System were carried out and financed under technical assistance for the
Lagos Solid Waste Management and Storm Drainage Project. This will now form the bedrock of
future land related projects in the State.
General
2.19   The sustainabiity of the present level of LAWMA's revenue generation is posing problems.
While the revenue to run LAWMA is tied to the revenue generation capacity of Local Governments,
their revenue generation machinery is inefficient, (the records indicate a 40 percent revenue
achievement). At this low level, Local Governments are unwilling or unable to pay LAWMA for
services rendered.
2.20   Since this project is the first major World Bank financed project in the State, it has served as
a useful training ground for the Lagos State Government staff. It is now certain that staff are exposed
and equipped for the timely implementation of any future World Bank assisted projects.



- 18 -
2.21   The inability of the chief executives of executing agencies, or of the World Bank Assisted
Project Office, to approve a certain maximum level of expenditure relating to each project without
recourse to the Chief Executive of the State, adversely affects implementation in line with agreed
schedules, i.e. agreed action plans. It is therefore suggested that the Chief Executive of the World
Bank Assisted Project Office should have authority to approve commitments and expenditures up to
US$50,000.00 or its equivalent.



- 19 -
Part Eg - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit       Project       Approved       Status            Comment
Ln 1767-UNI  Bauchi Urban        FY79        Completed         PCR issued
Dev.
Ln 2607-UNI  Imo Urban Dev.   FY86           Completed        PCR in progress
Ln 2985-UNI  Lagos Water         FY89        Ongoing          Counterpart &
Supply                                         management
problems.
Ln 2925-UNI  Infrastructure      FY88        Ongoing          Slow progress.
Development                                    Closes 12/94
Fund
Lu. 3238-UNI  Oyo Urban Dev.   FY90          Ongoing          Slow progress.
Closes 6/96
Cr. 2517-UNI  Lagos Drainage    FY93         Not yet effective
& Sanitation_
2.    Proiect Timetable
t=m                        Planned Da           Actual Dat
- Identification                  early 1982           February 1982
- Preparation                     April 1982           April 1982
- Appraisal Mission               December 1982        December 1982
- Negotiations                    June 1983            March 1984
- Board Approval                  early 1984           September 1985
- Loan Signature                  mid 1984             October 1985
- Loan Effectiveness              late 1984            March 31, 1986
- Loan Closing                    December 1990        September 1993
- Project Completion Report       by March 1994



-20 -
3.    Physical Execution of the Project
Contrac            Description                Awarded      Sttu
LAWMA Civil Works
1. Iddo Yard       Depot improvement          4/89         completed
2. Ijota           New depot construction     4/89         completed
3. Simpson St.     Depot improvement          4/89         completed
4. Isolo Rd.       Depot improvement          6/89         completed
5. Rowe Park       Depot improvement          4/89         completed
6. Ikeja           Depot & w/shop             5/90         completed
7. various locations   Land fill site surveys
8. various locations   Additional depot sites
9. various locations   Bin Hardstandings
LAWMA Equipment
1. IA/IB/4R/4P     refuse compactors, bins    7/89         delivered
specialized truclcs
2. 2E/2F           refuse carriers & bins     7/89         delivered
3. Dutch Co-F      109 DAF trucks, 1074 bins               delivered
4. 4K              2 1/recovery trucks                     delivered
5. 3G/4H/4J/4h)    trucks, crane,workshop     7/89         delivered
6. 4H/4S/4T  )     washer, trailer, bus                    delivered
7. IFB 3n7A&B      workshop tools & equip.    4/88         delivered
8. IFB 3nc                                    4/88         delivered
9. IFB 3/7D           U          U            4/88         delivered
10.IFB 3f7F                                   4/88         delivered
I I.IFB 3nE           "          u            4/88         delivered
12.U.T.C.          Komatsu refurbishment      4/88         delivered
234 replacement tyres                   delivered
13.Dutch Co-F      537 replacement tyres                   delivered
Stormdrain Civil Works
1. 6B              Oshodi /Isolo              11/87        completed
2. 5 & 6C           Mosafejo /Asimowu          3/89         completed
3. 6F               Baale & Badagary          5/89          completed
4. Sys 5            Rehab.Surulere/Aguda                    completed
5. Lagos Is.        Priority projects: Adele,
Idumagbo & Simpson St.                  completed
6. Konijn           Dredger rehabilitation    9/88          completed



- 21 -
4.    Consultant Services
PumQseh                          Impa
Lagos State Government (Drainagel.
i.Drainage  )                     Completed successfully
project )
supervision )
ii.Lagos Island)                 Served as basis for subsequent project.
Drainage Study)
iii.Apapa Drainage)              ditto
Study     )
Lis Ste Waste Disposal Board.
iv.Management                    Basis for institutional building
Organization                   assitance provided later.
Study
v. Management                    Reorganization carried out.
Organization
& Training
vi.Design &                       Completed.
Tender docs.
Simson St. Waste
Transfer Station.
vii.Construction                  Completed by closing date.
Supervision
Hardstandings &
Landfill site.
viii.Commercialization            Completed.
Assistance.



- 22 -
5.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Appraisal    Actual       Actual as %
Estimate     (6/30)       of Estimate
1986                       3.6          1.0           28
1987                       12.7         1.0            8
1988                      28.9          3.0           10
1989                      48.2          11.8          24
1990                       70.5        30.4           43
1991                      72.0         56.3           78
1992                       72.0         60.5          84
1993                       72.0         63.7          88
1994                       72.0         64.0*         89
DaE of fna disbursement: April 6 1994.
This does not include the cancelled undisbursed balance of US$3.1 million.



- 23 -
6.    Project Im,pementation
Indicators                &pail Est,                 Actual (PCR)
i) LAWMA  - Income (including State subventions and Local Government contributions) / total
operating costs (including depreciation and financial charges)
1988                        1.01                       0.69
1989                        1.01                       0.61
1990                        1.01                       0.38
1991                        1.02                       0.57
1992                        1.01                        na
ii) LAWMA  - Income (including State subventions and Local Government contributions) I cash
operatig expenses (excluding depreciation and financial charges)
1988                        2.18                       1.20
1989                        2.43                       0.99
1990                        2.56                       1.00
1991                        2.68                       1.51
1992                        2.59                        na
iii)   LAWMA  -  Waste Processed 1988 - 1991 (in thousands of tons)
Domestic     Environmental       TOTAL
and other    day collections
1988               2,310         1,662              3,972
1989               3,398         1,019              4,417
1990               3,638          910               4,548
1991               2,522          737                3,259
1992               1,913          507                2,420
iv) Rating and Valuation Component - Revenues collected by LGAs (in millions of N)
1988                27.5
1989                28.9
1990                34.1
1991                69.6
1992                109.5
1993                n.a.



- 24 -
7.    Prject Cost and Financing
A. Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual
Local   Foreign    Total               Foreign    Total
Local4/
Solid Waste Disposal     20.5    57.5      78.0        4.7      47.7      52.4
Main Drainage            18.7     4.2      22.9        3.9      17.4      21.3
Rating and Valuation     2.2      2.8       5.0         1.1      1.9       3.0
Project Preparation &    0.4      1.6       2.0         1.5      1.5       3.0
TIA
Base Cost                41.8    66.1      107.9
Contingencies:Physical   4.2      6.6      10.8   _
Contingencies:Price      34.7    10.9      45.6
TOTAL COSTS              80.7    83.6      164.3      .11.2    68.5       79.7
Commen: When converted into US dollars, the Project's local costs were much lower than esimated
during appraisal because there were substantial devaluations of the naira after implementation
commenced. While naira costs increased, they were more than compensated by these devaluations so
it was not necessary to use the high price contingencies (83 percent of base costs) included in the
financial plan.
4/ Proviaional



- 25 -
B. Project Financing
(USS million)
Source             Plsnned       Einal         Conmrent
IBRD                 72.0        68.5
Cofinanciers         11.6         n.a.        The Netherlands Government provided
cofinancing for solid waste disposal vehicles
in parallel with the project.
Lagos State          80.7        11.2
TOTAL                164.3       79.7
8.    Proect Results
A. Direct Benefits
- Improvements in solid waste disposal had a noticeable impact on Lagos' environment
during the projects initial years of operation, but its effect began to decline after 1991 as LAWMA's
equipment became unserviceable because of insufficient funding to repair and replace it. By 1993
only about a third of the refuse generated by the city was being collected by LAWMA.
- Improvements in storninain for high density residential and industrial areas of
Metropolitan Lagos totalling about 3,400 ha and containing about half of Lagos' commercial and
industrial installations were of benefit to about 1.4 million people. This has resulted in reduced
health hazards from clogged drains and decreased flood damage to private and public property and
road erosion.
- The Ratine and Valuaffon component updated 1955 and 1977 property lists and resulted in
the identification of 201,564 ratable properties. On the basis of these lists, local governments
increased property tax collection by 104 percent in 1991 and 57 percent in 1992.
B. Economic Rate of Return
- Based on a detailed examination of prevailing rental values in two areas of Metropolitan
Lagos that were to benefit from the Project and assuming an increase in rental values for various
kinds of housing, the SAR estimated an Economic Rate of Return of 25 percent for the project.
Because of inflation, which fluctuated between 11.4 percent per annum in 1987 and over 90 percent
in 1993, it was not possible to establish to what extent rental changes may have been affected by the
project. Calculation of an actual ERR was therefore not possible without a costly study that may have
turned out to be inconclusive.



- 26 -
C. Financial Impact
- LAWMA, the agency responsible for carrying out the Solid Waste Disposal component of
the project was unable to achieve sustainable operations before the Closing Date because its principal
clients, local government authorities, did not pay for services provided and the State Government
failed to provide the agreed level of subventions. While reorganization and commercialization of
LAWMA's operations were steps in the right direction, they were not sufficient to improve
LAWMA's performance. It is recommended that a report be prepared by specialists to suggest how
solid waste disposal services can best be opened up to private sector participation to improve
efficiency and lower cost through competition.
- While local government revenues were improved by the rating and valuation component,
there is room to increase revenues further through improved tax billing and collection practices as
only 45 percent of total possible revenues were collected in 1993.



- 27 -
9. Compliance with Loan Covenants
Section                            Covenant                           Status
3.01 (b)                          LSO to rpay Ln to FPN over 20       done
yea  with S of grmce at variable
inteme.
2.01 (b)                          LSG to cablish and mainain Project   done
Coordinating Unit (PCU).
2.01 (e)                          PCU to have i) project accountant, ii)   done with delay
tkhnial advisor, iii) other staff as
reqZired and iv) office Mspc by
1/1/86.
2.01 (d)                          LSG to i) by 1/1/86 employ Chief    done
Valuer for lagos State Valuation
Office (LSVO) and ii) cause LSVO to
carzy out a rating and valuation
program.
2.02 (a)                          LSG to i) by 1/1/86 asign to        i) done with delay, ii) done partialy
LAWMA additional stff as required    and with delay
for the project and ii) reorganize
LAWMA nd strengthen its project
execution capacity.
2.02 (b)                          By 3/31/86 LSG to formally adopt a  done with dely
mngment tfing plan for
LAWMA, including timely provision
of adequate manageent ervices.
2.03 (a)                          LSG to provide in its budget i)     i) done, sometimes with delay, ii)
amounts required to cover capital   insufficient payments made
costs of the project and ii) amounts
required to cover LAWMA's
operating cost.
2.03 (b)                          LSG to i) open Project Accounts for    i) done, ii) done with delay, iii) not
executing agencies, ii) make initil  met
payments of N 600,000 for LAWMA
N 600,000 for LSMW&T and N
300,000 for LSMLG and iii) promptly
as needed pay LAWMA amounts
required to cover its operating costs.
2.03 (c)                           LSG agres that if it fails to providc  Pederl Government did not act on
full contributions to the project's  this authorization.
capital cost, FGN may deduct LSG's
quarterly contributions from LSG's
Federation Account and pay thesc into
the Project Account.
2.06 (a)                           LSG to appropriatcly insure all goods    done with delay
imported for the pro;:t



- 28 -
2.06 (b)                          LSG shall caue all goods and         done
ervices financed under the LoAn to
be used exclusively for the Project.
2.07 (b)                          LSO to i) maintain, and cause its    i) done, ii) done and iii) done with
agencies to maintain, records to    delay
monitor the project adequately, to
identify the goods and ervices
financed out of the Loan and to
disclose its ue for the project, ii)
enable the Bank to visit the project
and iii) furnish information on the
project regularly to the Bank.
2.10                              LSG to acquire right to lands to    done with delay
carry out the project.
3.02                              LSG to caue LAWMA to i) operate    i) done, ii) partially done bocause of
and maintain its plant, machinery nd   insufficient funds
equipment and ii) repair and renew
such properties as needed.
3.04                              LSG to cause LAWMA to i) by         done
1/1/86 prepare a drft tatment of
financial policies and ii) by 3131/86
furnish the Bank an approved
satement of financial policies
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.05                              LSG to cauwe LAWMA to i) estblish   i) done with dely, ii) partially mct
a management information system by
1/1186 and ii) by 4/30186, and yealy
thcrcafter, dat on change in
LAWMA's financial projection and
measure taken to naintain its
solvency.
3.06                              LSG to cauwe LAWMA to i) revalue    i) not met, ii) done, iii) not done
its assts according to agreed       becauwe of lack of funds.
methods, ii) write off the depreciable
value of such assets according to
agreed methods and uiu) invest
deprecated amounts in securities until
they are needed to replace asets.
4.03                              LSG to cause LAWMA not to incur      met
any debt in exces of 10 % of annual
projected investment costs unless
projected internal cash generation is at
leat 1.5 times LAWMA's total debt
service needs.



- 29 -
10.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff/weeks)
Stage         Actual Comment
Through appraisal    95.9
Appraisal through    115.2  Board presentation took place 30 months after appraisal
Board presentation
Board approval to    29.0
Effectiveness
Supervision          146.3
TOTAL         386.4
B. Missions
Stage Date Persa     day/field      Speclization   Rating Problem
SPN    1 1/85  1       13          E               n.a.   n.a.
11/85  1        24          UP              n.a.   n.a.
2/86  6        30           UP,E,F,RV       1    n.a.
5/86   1        8           E               1    n.a.
1/87  1         9          E                2    M
9/87  1         2           F               2    M
11/87  1        4           E                3    M
2/88  3         15          E(2),F          3    P,M
11/88  2        14          E(2),En          3    P,M
2/89  2        25           E(2)            3    P,M
6/89   2        28          E,F              2    P,M
10/89  2         6          E,RV             2    P,M
2/90  2         6           F,UP            2    P,M
7/90   1        5           F               2    P,M,F
11/90  1        11          F                2    P,M,F
1/91  2        14           F,RV            2    P,M,F
4/91   1        8           F               2    P,M,F
9/91   1        11          F               2    P,M,F
3/92   1        11          F               2    M,F
6/92   1       20           F               2    M,F
9/92   1        11          E               2    M,F
11/92  1         4          F                2    F,M
10/93  2         3          F/E              3    F,M
Svecialization:  E = Engineer              Problem: M = Management
F = Financial Analyst               P = Procurement
UP= Urban Planner                   F = Financial
RV= Rating and Valuation expert



Table I
LaMo  Solid Wasde & Storm Drminag Priect
LAWMA - Audited Revenue and Expenditure Accounts (N '000)
REVENUES                          1985         1986         1987          1988         1989         1990         1991          1992
Industrial OpCxtions             3,714        2,068         2,468        4,467        5,086        5,810        49,352        70,598
Lagos State GovemeKnt            7,834        9,078         9,402        8,488        8,551        8,819         1,009         _
Ministry of Local Government       327        1,702                      5,977        6,904        9,554          610
OtherIncome                        136         381           185         1,024        1,048          728          307          7,443
T 0 T A L                12,011      13,229        12,055       19,956       21,589        24,911       51,278        78,041
Less: EXPENDrrURES
Saaries                          7,040        5,469         6,907        9,249        11,249       12,790       18,052        25,903
Maintenance                        262         266           486          949         3,899         3,544        3,025         15,227
Other running Expenses           2,172        3,639         7,009        6,454        6,634         8,639       12,911         15,185
Denrciation                      1,574        2,386         4,016       12,306        13,766       40,438       55,734         55,851
Tota Expenditures        11,048      11,760        18,418       28,958        35,548       65,411       89,722        112,166
Net Income/loss)           963        1,469        (6,63)       (9,002)      (13,959)     (40,500)     (38,444)        34,125



Toblk 2
Lagos SoLid Wate & Storm Draintae Proict
Proict Comoleion Report
LAWMA - Statements of Sourmcs and Am,lication of Punds (N '000)
SOURCE OF FUNDS                  1985        1986          1987         1988          1989         1990          1991          1992
Net Income (lons) from Operations          963         1.469                    (9,002)      (13,959)     (40,500)      (38,444)       34,125
Depreciation                              1,574        2,420                     12,306        13,766       40,438        55,734       55,851
Capital Grants                            5,918       3,500                      31,919        10,783      148,030       106,280         1,842
Loans                                                                                 -            -            -          1,000       (1,000)
Total Funds Generated                     8,455        7,389                     35,223        10,590      147,968       124,570        22,569
APPLICATION OF FUNDS                1985        1986          1987         1983          1989         1990          1991          1992
Purchase of Fixed Assets                  6,733        1,820                     37,615        12,198      140,729       106,408         2,584
Changes in Working Capital                1,722        5,569                     (2,392)      (1,608)        7,239        18,162        19,985
tal Funds Used                         8,455         7,389                     35 ,223       10,590      147,968       124,570       22,569



Table 3
IL2o      ' Solid Wame A Storm Drains= Proicd
Proict Comvktion Rep>ot
LAWMA - Audited Babnee Shet (N1 '000)
)    198S5 _ 1986 1_ 1987           1988          1989          1990        1991        1992
Fixed Assets (net)                       5,355                  ___4_755__     30,701        29,133      129,424      180,098       126,830
Current Assets                           5,746        9,635                     8,999        9,026        16,992       39,930        71,073
Less: Current Liabilities                3,217        1,537                     4,219       5,854          6,580       11,356        22,515
Net Current Assets                       2,529        8,098                     4,780        3,172        10,412       28,574        48,558
Total Assets                             7,884        12,853                   35,481        32,305       139,836     208,672       175,388
of which: Capital Grants                  5,918       9,417                    47,654        58,437      206,468      312,748       314,590
Accumulated Funds                  1,966       3,436                   (12,173)      (26,132)     (66,632)    (105,076)    (139,201)
Loan Account                         .  .                                                         .   _          1,000           -



Lawn Sold Wafte   Storm Drinfe Proect
Pli Conkdm Reni
1AWMA - Ooeml    SWu of Eauhmim    July 1M
Type of equipimt received       Numnber         Number in         % in use or in    Number in         Esimated cost of
between 1987 and 1992           rceived         working order     reave             workshop             i (N
awaiting rpar     million)
Bulldozer                          23               2                   9                21               15.3
Mechanical shovels                 43               5                  12                38                7.4
Diio Trucks                         4              43                  52                41                7.2
Compacton                         141              49                  35                92                8.9
Tippers                            84              50 5/               60                 0                n.a.
Total                             375              149                 40               192              N 38.S m
0I  About 34 and Dino Tncks an parked for futu  use; parts have been taken from  my of them to rpair equipment in use.



T&bk 5
LA Jn Solid Wate A Storm Dminew Prmic
Pm"Conkion Repor
LAomLocl Gyvmei PzrcvTax Corucd
(in N V00)
LO)CAL GOVERNEnDT AREA               PROPERY         RATLABLE          OOVERNMENT                  TOTAL                 1990            1991              1992
NUMBERS         VALUES           PROPERTIS                   COLLBCTABLE
AGEGE                                 21,7S5           51,027             2,065                        4,901              756             1,031           2,45S
BADAGRY                                5,103            7,766             2,417                         534                159             167              256
EPE                                    5,276            6,354                                           635                126             114              155
En OSA                                 6.791           304,706           55,321                       69,937             9,010           24,549           33,072
IKEJA                                 39,874           21,310             11,351                      25,995             3,090            4,362           10,222
ALIMOSHO                                n..              U.S.              n.S.                         n.A.              na.m.            936             2,212
IKORODU                                11,459          23,276               444                        2,327               774            1,305            1,659
MEJU LEMO                                701             579                 2                           57                 16              23               29
LAGOS ISLAND                           1,575           290,616            40,594                      24,222              5,224           9,200           11,200
LAGOS MANLAND                          31,563          244,920            53,961                       19,095            4,S12            3,377            6,450
SURULERE                                n.S.             n.S.              n.S.                         n.s.              n.m.            2,0S2            6,112
MUSHIN                                 20,030          293,494            99,754                       19,373             4,496           4,720            9,056
OSHOD/SOLO                              na.              nU..              n.a.                         n.m.              na.             2,082            5,481
O0O                                    27,772          326,3U3           123,858                       20,252             1,U37           2,434            3,323
SHOMOLU                                21,335          153,033             2,305                       15,577             2,946           5,500            9,000
TOTAL                                 201,564         2,455,2J9          400,321                      205,540            34,133           69,616          109,505



