Document of
The World Bank                                      LCA   r
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3522-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$72 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORMDRAINAGE PROJECT
August 29, 1985
J  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984          June 1985
Currency Unit  =    Naira (N)           N
US$1           =    N 0.76              N 0.89
Ni             =    US$1.31             US$1.12
The exchange rate used in this report is US$1 = N 0.75, which was the
prevailing rate at the time of post-negotiations review in 1984.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1     -    December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)     -   2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
FMGN      -    Federal Military Government of Nigeria
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
LMA       -    Lagos Metropolitan Area
LGC       -    Local Government Council
LSG       -    Lagos State Government
LSWDB     -    Lagos State Waste Disposal Board
LSMLG     -    Lagos State Ministry of Local Government
MOWT      -    Ministry of Works and Transport (Lagos State)
MPML      -    Master Plan for Metropolitan Lagos
NSUDP     -    Nigerian States Urban Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORMDRAINAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:        Lagos State Government
Amount:             US$72.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
with interest at the standard variable rate.
Relending Terms:   The Federal Government would on-lend the full amount of
the loan to the Lagos State Government (LSG) on
the same terms as the Bank loan. The LSG would carry
the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The primary stormdrainage network of the Lagos
metropolitan area would be extended to ameliorate
wasteful and costly problems of flooding. Solid waste
disposal services would be expanded and improved,
thereby also enhancing the effectiveness of the
drainage system by unblocking drains while, at the same
time, improving environmental health conditions.
Technical assistance and training would be provided to
strengthen the management of solid waste disposal and
stormdrainage services. Assistance would also be
furnished to the Lagos State Government to increase the
revenue potential of the property tax by updating and
revaluing tax rolls. Finance would be provided for the
preparation of future projects in Lagos.
Benefits and
Risks:            While the project would have a citywide impact, most of
the project beneficiaries will be industries, commerce,
and residents of areas at present deficient in drainage
and waste collection, mostly urban poor. At least half
of the Lagos population will benefit directly. The
registration, listing and valuation of an additional
100,000 taxable properties, plus the increase in
taxable assessment, will undoubtedly have a consider-
able positive impact on the State's financial position
by-the end of the project implementation period.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



- ii -
Although this is the first project dealing with a large
complex city in Nigeria, the most significant risks are
implementing difficulties generally prevalent in
Nigeria -- procurement and contracting delays, staff
shortages, administrative problems, etc. -- that could
hinder implementation and increase costs. However,
most of the project is an expansion of on-going
programs and is technically simple. In addition,
technical and management assistance to LSG and the
Lagos State Waste Disposal Board during project
execution is intended to minimize the risks that may
otherwise stem from procurement difficulties,
management weaknesses, and staffing shortages.
Virtually all of the detailed engineering and tender
documentation is completed.
Estimated Cost:
(inclusive of duties                         Local   Foreign      Total
and taxes of about US$6.3 million)           -------US$ Million-------
(a)  Solid Waste Collection & Disposal         20.5       57.5      78.0
(b)  Main Drainage                             18.7        4.2      22.9
(c)  Rating and Valuation                       2.2        2.8       5.0
(d)  Technical Assistance & Future
Project Preparation for LSG              0.4        1.6       2.0
Base Costs                                41.8       66.1     107.9
Contingencies:  Physical                   4.2        6.6      10.8
Price                    34.7       10.9      45.6
Total Project Costs                       80.7       83=6     164.3
Financing Plan:
Local   For i n    %Total
------US  Million-----
Bank                                        -        72.0      72.0
Lagos State Government                    80.7        -        80.7
Suppliers                                   -        11.6      11.6
Total                                80.7      83.6      164.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year          FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
--------------    Million…----------…
Annual                     3.6    9.1   16.2   19.3   22.3    1.5
Cumulative                 3.6   12.7   28.9   48.2   70.5   72.0



- iii -
Economic Rate of Return:  25 percent for solid waste and drainage
components which together constitute over 90
percent of the project. No rate of return was
computed for the technical assistance designated
for future project preparation or for rating and
valuation components which are independent of the
solid waste and drainage components.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4452-UNI, dated August 26, 1985.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A LAGOS STATE SOLID WASTE AND STORMDRAINAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$72.0
million to help finance a solid waste and stormdrainage project for the
metropolitan area of Lagos. The loan would be repayable over 20 years,
including five years grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
The whole loan proceeds would be relent to the Lagos State Government (LSG)
on the same terms as the proposed loan and the LSG would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Cofinancing amounting to approximately US$11.6 million
equivalent will be arranged with suppliers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.          The assessment of the Nigerian economic situation in this report
is based largely on the work of an economic updating mission of November
1984 supplemented by further analysis undertaken by Bank staff on the basis
of the 1985 budget speech. The findings of a 1982 economic mission were
more fully reflected in a Country Economic Report (No. 4506-UNI) which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on August 15, 1983. Annex 1 presents
selected social and economic indicators for Nigeria.
Background
3.        Nigeria, with a population of about 97 million in 1984, is the
most populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members, in 1980
Nigeria accounted for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60
percent of regional investment. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about
US$770 in 1983, which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While
Nigeria as a major oil exporter since the early seventies enjoyed a
substantially improved resource base from increased oil revenues, it still
remains at a very early stage of development in terms of socio-economic
indicators, in which it compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
1/   It is too soon to assess the economic policy direction of the new
Mulitary Government. Accordingly this section is substantially
unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the Second Urban
Development Project for Imo State (P-4122-UNI), which was approved by
the Executive Directors on July 23, 1985. President Babangida, in his
early policy statements, suggested that the new government may be more
flexible than its predecessor on the macro-economic policy reforms
required to reach agreement with the IMF.



-2-
4.        Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new federal
constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came into power
in 1979. This Government was reelected in September 1983, but a military
government, led by Major-General Muhammadu Buhari, took power in December of
the same year. In August 1985, Major General Ibrahim Babangida, formerly
Army Chief of Staff, took over the Government.
Macro-economic Developments
5.        Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973/74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource position. Between then and the late seventies, Nigeria's
development strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of growth and
diversifying the economy through the resources generated by the oil sector.
The principal objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-
makers was to translate the large oil revenues accrued -- about US$100
billion in current prices during the 1973-81 period -- into investments in
economic, social, and physical infrastructure. While there have been "non-
economic" investments and waste, significant development gains were made in
both economic and social infrastructure. Transport infrastructure,
particularly roads and ports, expanded considerably. Power generating
capacity tripled, and refining capacity has more than quadrupled since 1973.
Manufacturing grew at an average annual rate of ten percent during the
1973-82 period, although there was a highly distorted investment structure
due to large variations in the rates of effective protection provided to
various industrial sub-sectors. There also has been a rapid spread of
education at all levels; in particular, the primary enrollment ratio which
was about 35 percent in the early seventies has more than doubled.
6.        Developments were not as positive in some other areas.  Overall
output in agriculture remained virtually stagnant during the 1970-82 period,
with the production of staple fooderops stagnating or at best increasing at
about the same rate as the population growth rate, but the production of
export crops declining substantially. Within a decade, Nigeria became a
major food importer (US$2.7 billion of imports in 1982) as domestic terms of
trade moved against agriculture. Inflation, coupled with an appreciating
domestic currency, pushed up domestic costs of production, thus putting the
commodity-producing sectors at a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and
non-traded goods. This encouraged diversion of resources from commodity
production to services (including trade and construction). Both agriculture
and industry became "high-cost" activities. Trade and exchange rate
policies, which were formulated in response to frequent swings in oil export
earnings, were largely used to dampen inflationary pressures or ration
imports rather than to provide appropriate incentives to domestic
production. This was partly due to the fact that, as a result of the
fluctuations in the world oil markets and their impact on the balance of
payments and government revenues, Nigerian policy-makers were preoccupied
with short-term crisis management. This diverted attention from the
formulation of longer-term policies to reduce the country's dependence on
oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sectors.
7.        The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when
the world oil markets presented a favorable outlook, but was quickly



- 3 -
overtaken by the sharp decline in oil export revenues since 1981. Nigeria's
economic problems during 1981-83 were exacerbated by the inability of
Nigerian decision-makers to cut back the public investment program
sufficiently, partly because of a continuing belief that oil markets would
soon recover. Oil export revenues in fact declined from US$23.4 billion in
1980 to US$17.4 billion in 1981 and to only US$10.1 billion in 1983.
Imports peaked at US$24.2 billion in 1981, resulting in a current account
deficit of US$6.5 billion, which was financed largely through the drawing
down of foreign exchange reserves and external borrowing.
8.        Confronted by a worsening balance of payments situation, the
Government reacted in April 1982 by introducing a number of austerity
measures aimed at stabilizing the domestic and external financial situation.
However, these measures failed to achieve their stabilization objective. As
a result, reserves declined further, while trade payment arrears of US$4
billion were accumulated.
9.        By 1983, however, measures in the form of quantitative
restrictions, together with a growing reluctance of the trading partners to
extend further trade credits to Nigeria, led to a reduced import level of
US$12.2 billion. This was largely financed by further accumulation of trade
payment arrears (US$3.8 billion). Discussions with major overseas creditor
banks resulted in the rescheduling of the arrears owed to these institutions
(for confirmation of letters of credit) of about US$2.1 billion accumulated
prior to August 31, 1983, with repayments to be made over a period of 31
months starting January 1984. In April 1984, the Government completed
negotiations to reschedule US$4-5 billion of the remaining arrears incurred
through "open-account" inter-company import financing. This agreement
included only those arrears not covered by export credit insurance and
rescheduled the payments over a period of six years including a grace period
of two and half years at an interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR.
Outstanding arrears at this point are about US$2 billion insured by export
credit agencies (ECAs). The terms under negotiation for these remaining
arrears are similar although formal agreemient to reschedule has been made
conditional by the ECAs on Nigeria reaching an agreement with the IMF. The
Federal Government has so far been regular in making repayments due on
earlier medium- and long-term debt, as well as on the 1983 reschedulings.
10.       The deterioration in the external financial situation had a severe
impact on the fiscal position of the Federal and State Governments as well
as on growth. Federally collected revenues fell about one-third in real
terms between 1980 and 1983, because oil revenues account for such a large
percentage of total public sector revenues (more than two-thirds in the
early 1980s). Until 1984, the Federal Government did not reduce
expenditures in line with the reduced revenues, thus large budget deficits
emerged over the period 1981-83, with deficit/GDP ratios hovering around 10
percent. In order to finance these deficits, the Government borrowed from
the Central Bank. This, coupled with the physical shortages of many
imported commodities, led to an acceleration in the inflation rate, which
rose to about 23 percent in 1983. As a result of a decline in imports of
about 30 percent in real terms, output contracted by 6.0 percent in 1983



-4-
following declines of 5 percent in 1981 and 2.3 percent in 1982; as a
consequence, much of the manufacturing sector, starved?of imported raw
materials and spare parts, is now operating at very low capacity levels.
11.       In order to get the balance of payments situation under control,
and to accommodate the projected increase in debt service, in early 1984,
the Government imposed very strict limitations on imports through the use of
an import licencing/foreign exchange allocation scheme. As a result, there
was a sharp curtailment of goods imports which are estimated to have
amounted to only US$9.4 billion in 1984. Since oil export revenues
increased by about US$1.5 billion over the 1983 level, there was also an
improvement in the external balance, with the current account estimated to
have been in surplus by about US$200 million in 1984. The improvement of
the external balance through measures to constrain imports carried with it,
however, very high costs for the economy in the form of further decreases in
industrial production, construction and investment, accelerated inflation
(officially estimated at 40 percent in 1984) as well as increased
unemployment. The manufacturing sector as a whole is estimated to have
operated at only about one-third of capacity in 1984 with even lower levels
in certain major sub-sectors. However, due to the increased oil revenues as
well as good performance in the agricultural sector -- in part explained by
a return of workers to farming following recent years' increases in
agricultural prices -- Nigeria was able to break three consecutive years of
fast decline in overall production, and limit the decline in GDP to about
0.7 percent in 1984.
Adjustment Policy Issues
12.       At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues: first,
the management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the
economy; and second, the longer-term structural adjustment of the economy by
stimulating productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and developing
a wider resource base. With regard to the short term, although the measures
that the Government has taken since January 1984 to reschedule trade
arrears, control imports and restrain domestic expenditures (which were
reconfirmed in the 1985 budget released in January), may help to arrest a
further deterioration of the external and internal financial situation,
substantial improvements in the current account situation will be necessary
in view of the sharp increases in debt service payments projected for the
near future.
13.       While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcome the
current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the
economy. More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken
to restore financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural
change. The chief requirements comprise: (i) further incentives for
efficient export promotion and import substitution, including appropriate
exchange rate, tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to
strengthen the balance of payments through judicious management of foreign
borrowing and external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate demand
through prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) improvements
in the composition and implementation of public investment to increase its



- 5 -
efficiency; and (v) steps, such as raising interest rates and improving tax
collection, to increase private and public savings and investment.
Prospects and Financing of Development
14.       Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to
be significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of
its foreign,exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon
sectors during the next twenty years.  In addition to oil exports, this
could include exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) -- although the market
prospects for LNG during the 1990s now appear more uncertain than before.
To maintain economic growth, major structural changes are needed in order to
adapt the economy to lower levels of oil export earnings. In the short run,
the volume of Nigeria's oil exports will continue to be determined by the
volatility of world oil markets rather than by the deliberate extraction
policies of the Government.
15.       The prospects for the Nigerian economy over the medium term are
closely related to the kind of economic policies FMGN pursues over the next
few years. One option open to government is to pursue a "high
growth/economic reform" strategy comprising policy measures which have been
discussed in the context of a possible Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with the
IMF and a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the Bank. Such a strategy
would also give Nigeria renewed access to international borrowing from
commercial banks, although the amounts that would be available are difficult
to quantify. On the estimation that about US$2-3 billion per year of
international lending would be available from all different sources, this
would permit a moderately high growth rate of up to 4 percent per annum over
the period 1985-1992. It would prevent a further deterioration in the
average standard of living and allow employment to expand broadly at the
same pace as population growth. In addition, it would over time stimulate
non-oil exports, which, in the longer run, will need to replace oil as the
engine of growth. In the "low" case, on the other hand, assuming no
agreement is reached on an EFF/SAL package and the only "reform" is in
maintaining enough macro-economic discipline to avoid the reemergence of
trade arrears as a major problem, the possibility of foreign borrowing would
be very limited and balance of payments constraints would necessitate the
continuation of more restrictive policies. The result would be lower growth
rates for the rest of the decade leading to a further deterioration of the
average standard of living, still lower capacity utilization rates in many
sectors and increasingly severe unemployment problems.
16.       The previous Military Government was pursuing an intermediate
strategy. It recently introduced new schedules of customs and excise duties
that move in the direction of equalizing effective tariff protection across
industries. In the 1984 budget the Federal Government made reductions in
public expenditures in line with Bank recommendations and, to help
rationalize future investments, instituted a Project Review Committee which
reviewed projects funded under the capital budget. The Committee proposed
that all projects be categorized as "core" or "non-core" with the former to
receive full funding and the latter being shelved pending availability of
funds or abandoned. The recommendations of the Review Committee have to a
significant extent been taken into account in the 1985 federal capital



- 6 -
budget. A freeze on public sector salaries and wages was introduced;
measures were also taken to reduce expenditure through cutbacks in public
sector employment, in particular at the state level. Together these
measures are estimated to have resulted in a reduction of the federal budget
deficit from about 14 percent of GNP in 1981 to about 5 percent in 1984.
The 1985 budget continues the policy of stabilization and the sectoral
allocation of public expenditures is once again in line with the Bank's
recommendations. The Federal Government has also enforced much greater
financial discipline on state governments which has resulted in greater
revenue raising efforts by the states together with improved focus on
development priorities. Tighter monetary policies including increases of
1.5 to 2 percent in interest rates have also been introduced. With this
progress on fiscal reform, but little progress on incentive reform, growth
would be higher than in the low case, but would result at best in a
stagnation of per capita incomes.
18.       The three policy scenarios differ more from each other in their
impact on growth than in their impact on Nigeria's ability to service
external debt. This is because in the low and intermediate cases, lack of
confidence on the part of commercial lenders would mean severely limited
access to international borrowing. Of course, if the moderate fiscal
discipline assumed even in the low case is not maintained, there would be
pressure on imports and an eventual risk of a build-up of trade arrears with
a resultant further decline in access to external credits. At the present
time, though, this does not appear likely, given the Government's firm
commitment to austerity. Under all these scenarios there will be severe
liquidity problems over the next few years, with the debt service ratio
likely to increase from 39 to 45 percent between 1985 and 1986. Under all
the scenarios, the debt service ratio begins to decline after 1986. The
decline is somewhat slower -- although still marked -- in the high case,
because with better growth policies, access to international borrowing is
higher. Should oil prices fall from present levels, Nigeria's debt service
position would be severely affected and debt service payments absorbing a
much higher share of exports earnings would result. The volume and
composition of Bank lending would be determined by the policies pursued by
the Federal Government -- ranging from an expanded lending program including
a Structural Adjustment Loan in the high case to a limited program focussing
primarily on social and physical infrastructure in the low case.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
19.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1985 amounted to
US$2,561.0 million (net of cancellations). The amount of loans and credits
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's
Report for the Second Urban Development Project for Imo State
(P-4122-UNI), which was approved by the Executive Directors on July 23,
1985.



disbursed as of March 31, 1985 was US$1,418.8 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,142.2 million. Agriculture accounts for about
49 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply together
for about 34 percent; and education, industry, urban, and the post-war
rehabilitation loan for the remaining 17 percent. There have been only two
IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully disbursed. IEC
has made six loans to borrowers totalling US$24.5 million, and six equity
investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of these amounts, US$7.4 million have
been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold. Annex 2 contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
20.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run
into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant state governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. To speed up disbursements, the Bank reallocated
the proceeds of several loans and increased disbursement percentages.
Working within the resource constraints (which are likely to continue in the
near future), the Federal Government supplemented the funding for selected
projects for 1984 and has made adequate budgetary provisions for 1985 on the
basis of updated estimates of funding requirements. The state governments
are instilling a greater degree of discipline in their budgeting process and
cutting back on new capital expenditure in order to fund existing
obligations. As a result, the prospects for counterpart funding for
Bank-assisted projects are expected to improve.
21.       Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, the Bank's
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversification of
Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon petroleum as a
source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same time, the Bank
would continue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest
income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in
Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank would continue to provide support for
agriculture and rural development with emphasis on institution-building and
transfer of technology, in order to raise the standard of living of its
population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank would similarly support
efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's
industrial sector. This approach would entail a combination of intensive
sector work and policy dialogue with the Government, as well as Bank
assistance for industrial projects in crucial sub-sectors.
22.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure.
There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant contribution
in energy and highway maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case for
continued lending to education. In this context, vocational, technical, and
teacher training would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would
support the Federal and State Governments' efforts to spread the benefits of
growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing
problems of rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed through a



- 8 -
number of urban development projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor
and resource mobilization for urban areas. The Bank is also assisting the
Government in tackling the country's health problems with a project aimed at
both federal and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a dialogue with
the Government on population issues, perhaps leading to lending in this
area.
23.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY78 to nearly US$272 million in FY84, Nigeria's disbursement performance
has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. The undisbursed
balance now stands at 45 percent of the US$2.6 billion in loans and credits
approved. One of the reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of
the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that the closing
dates for a number of large loans, with relatively large, planned
disbursements during the early years, were extended during this period,
mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases, however, disbursements
have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and
management problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of
projects by federal and state governments, resulting from lower oil
revenues, has further slowed disbursements.  The Federal Government, with
the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring
loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems early and taking
corrective action. Also, the Bank has taken a series of measures aimed at
accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new projects (para. 20).
These efforts are showing results.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
24.       Nigeria's annual population growth rate of 3.3 percent is among
the highest in Western Africa.14 1/ The urban population of about 29
million (30 percent of the total) has been growing at a rate of at least
twice the national average. This trend is expected to continue despite efforts
to stem migration such as those called for in the Fourth National
Development Plan (1981-1985) which includes a much greater effort to
increase agricultural production and develop rural communities. By the turn
of the century, half of Nigeria's population will be living in urban areas;
more than 15 cities will have over one million inhabitants; and Lagos, which
nlow has about five million inhabitants and is growing at a rate in excess of
1/  There are no reliable demographic data.  The last officially
approved census was taken in 1963; the Federal Government decreed
that population forecasts be set at a constant 2.5 percent per
annum and urban areas at 5 percent per annum from that base
figure. However, many unofficial estimates have been made by the
U.N., the Ford Foundation, and others. The Federal Government
has only recently (in 1985) adopted the higher 3.3 percent figure
for its own estimation purposes. The figures presented here are
our best estimates extrapolated from these various sources.



- 9 -
9 percent each year, will be straining to accommodate over 13 million
residents.
25.       The demand for urban land, infrastructure, and associated services
will continue to expand at twice the pace of overall population growth
nationally, and at over three times that pace in certain urban centers such
as Lagos. Even taking into account the initiatives to relieve urban
pressure, such as the relocation of the capital to Abuja (now scheduled to
begin in 1986), promotion of industrial dispersion, and the rural
development program, economic agglomeration and existing facilities ensure
that Lagos will remain the central magnet for migration and industrial
investment, continuing to outgrow its already inadequate infrastructure at
an alarming rate.
26.       In 20 years, Lagos has grown from a city of 350,000 inhabitants to
a vast urban sprawl of nearly 5 million inhabitants on a poorly drained
swamp plain, factors which have placed heavy demands on administration,
infrastructure and services. Apart from recent substantial investments in
primary networks such as highways, the construction of secondary and
tertiary infrastructure to complement these have lagged far behind demand.
To compound the problem, inadequate or non-existent maintenance has caused
existing networks to deteriorate. The result is that: (a) poor drainage
causes recurrent, severe and costly flooding; (b) human waste disposal
facilities are primitive and constitute a major health hazard; (c) access
and traffic circulation are difficult because secondary and tertiary roads
are unpaved and inadequate for the traffic volume; (d) water supply is
intermittent or non-existent in many areas; (e) solid waste collection and
street cleaning are inadequate and, as a result, traffic is impeded by
garbage and abandoned cars, while stormwater drains are choked with refuse;
(f) inadequate telephone services increase traffic and frustration; and (g)
power supply is unreliable, and public lighting does not meet minimum
standards for security and safety. The worst deficiencies are in the most
densely populated areas, where the lowest income groups live.
27.       These deficiencies seriously impede productivity and result in
clear reductions in efficiency. In spite of these problems, Lagos has
continued to attract sizeable private and public industrial investments,
largely because of its market potential, locational advantages, labor pool
and service facilities. To offset public sector inefficiencies and
deficiencies, industries have often resorted to substantial investments in
standby power generation facilities, independent water supplies, corporate
transportation support services for employees, radio call services and waste
disposal/treatment, all driving up production costs as much as 30 percent
and making Lagos, even with such a poor environment, one of the most
expensive cities in the world.
28.       Nevertheless, the concentration of industry and commerce in Lagos,
whose manufacturing sector accounts for more than half of the value added in
that sector in Nigeria, attests to its economic importance within the
national context. It is estimated that over half of the country's
manufacturing capital is invested in Lagos, and that over 40 percent of the
skilled manpower is employed there. As a result the average per capita
income in Lagos is higher than in other urban centers and substantially



- 10 -
higher than rural incomes. While the national annual relative urban poverty
threshold is estimated to be about US$550 in 1985, the higher cost of living
in Lagos increases the poverty level there to about US$660 per capita.
Although the infrastructure and services deficiencies are higher and
concentrated in parts of the city where the poor live, the physical problems
and hardships are shared among all income groups who have to live and do
business with constant traffic snarls, costly flooding, power failures,
massive uncollected refuse, water shortages and a generally poor,
inefficient and unhealthy environment.
The Institutional Framework for Urban Development
29.       The Lagos State Government (LSG) recognizes these problems and
difficulties, and is actively seeking solutions. Metropolitan Lagos, which
accounts for 90 percent of the State's population, is administered by the
State Government. Its existing institutions, although improving, still lack
the management skills, manpower, financial resources, and capacity for
overall investment planning to deal efficiently with the city's ongoing and
growing needs. There is also a problem with resultant overlapping functions
and responsibilities of inter-governmental coordination.
30.       There are five Local Government Councils within the Lagos
Metropolitan Area (LMA). Reorganized in 1984, the Councils are
inexperienced and often unable to perform the maintenance services mandated
to them, and as a result, their tasks then revert to the already
overstretched LSG. LSG is actively helping the Local Governments,
acknowledging that the Councils need to assume an increasing share of
responsibility, as mandated to them under the 1979 constitution, especially
in the area of maintenance and improved fiscal discipline (expenditure
control, revenue generation and cost recovery).
31.       LSG created the Lagos State Waste Disposal Board (LSWDB) because
the Local Government Councils could not cope with solid waste collection and
disposal. Because of its financial limitations, LSWDB is able to collect
only about half of the domestic refuse generated in metropolitan Lagos.
Substantial areas of the city have no refuse collection service and only
about 18 percent of the industrial and commercial premises are being served.
Furthermore, the present levels of service may deteriorate if steps are not
taken to prevent the physical plant of LSWDB from being run down.
Relatively small additional investments to the solid waste disposal program
would have a large impact throughout the city and improve the functioning of
other subsectors such as stormdrainage, transportation and urban services in
general. A combined program of improved stormdrainage and solid waste
management would contribute substantially to the more efficient functioning
of Lagos.
Recent Actions and New Policy Directions
32.       In Lagos, both Federal and State Governments have undertaken large
capital investments focused on a few highly-visible and very expensive
projects, i.e., primary road systems, a new international airport, port
facilities, etc. Many of these investments are a consequence of Lagos being
the major port, commercial, cultural and communications center, as well as



- 11 -
the administrative capital of Nigeria. These investments, however, have not
overcome the infrastructure deficiencies. There is still an acute need for
related investments in secondary and tertiary infrastructure and service
systems and their maintenance, so that those primary facilities can be used
to their full capacity. This lack of sufficient secondary streets, for
example, increases congestion on the few available major roads. The
tertiary (local) streets, mostly unpaved and rutted, are always difficult to
traverse and, in the wet season, often impassable. The resulting excessive
travel to and from work (averaging one and a half hours each way) reduces
worker efficiency and further raises the costs of production.
33.       The LSG has in the last decade broadened its areas of
responsibility and created state boards to tackle the most troubled areas of
stormdrainage rehabilitation, solid waste management, and local government
revenues. Further, it has taken important initiatives toward better invest-
ment management through its five-year plans and the 1981 Master Plan for
Metropolitan Lagos (MPML).
34.       The Master Plan for Metropolitan Lagos emphasized the city's total
physical needs and the cost of an investment program to respond to those
needs.  It gave little attention to an implementation strategy, and
therefore did not serve as a guide to intersectoral allocations of limited
resources.  To fill this gap, the LSG asked for Bank assistance in
formulating a priority investment strategy, and financing priority urban
investments. Bank urban sector missions in 1982 and 1983 discussed possible
investment strategies with the State Government. Solid waste management and
drain rehabilitation were identified as areas of overriding priority since
strategic investments in those areas could control flooding and thereby
arrest the deterioration of existing infrastructure while, at the same time,
establishing the physical prerequisites for further investment in tertiary
infrastructure.
Resource Position of LSG
35.       Lagos State's fiscal situation, compared to other Nigerian states,
is good and its creditworthiness is strong, with its debt service being just
4.7 percent in 1985. The State is weathering the reduced oil revenue
situation well and, in spite of shortfalls in capital expenditure, it
manages to avoid the serious financial crisis that besets other states, many
of which have trouble covering their recurrent expenditures. The key to
Lagos State's financial position is that over 70 percent of its total
revenue is generated from within the state; the remainder comes from the
Federation Account. On a per capita basis, the State generates ten times or
more revenue from internal sources than other states, making Lagos less
vulnerable to shifts in the world oil market.  LSG's internal revenue comes
mainly from personal income taxes, followed by land transaction taxes,
licenses, fees, interest on short-term fixed deposits, and a recent 10
percent sales tax.
36.       In spite of LSG's relatively sound financial position, LSG has
been unable to finance its Fourth Plan, amounting to N 2,000 million, much
less the substantially larger capital investment requirements of the Master
Plan, which totalled N 3,182 million for the same period.



- 12 -
37.       To fund its priority capital investments over the next five-year
plan period (1986-1990), LSG must reduce its funding shortfall through
improved mobilization of internal resources, both directly and through the
Local Governments. Local Government Councils in turn must improve their
generally poor record of revenue collection: less than 50 percent of total
budgeted revenues were collected in 1983. In particular, property taxation,
a potentially rich source of additional revenues, suffers from serious
defects. There is, for instance, no consistent unified statewide basis for
rating, and there has been no statewide property revaluation for over
25 years.
Strategy for Bank Assistance
38.       As a result of sector discussions, LSG and IBRD developed a
program and schedule of Bank assistance for Lagos: the first, the proposed
solid waste management and drain rehabilitation project, and the second, a
water rehabilitation project, under preparation, to be followed closely by
an area infrastructure improvement project. Subsequent operations would
include transportation/traffic management and other projects geared to
further improve the functioning of the city.
39.       Two main operational factors suggest this sequence and make the
proposed project the first priority. The first relates to basic physical
interrelationships: uncollected refuse clogs the open drains throughout the
city and needs to be removed to eliminate flooding before additional water
supply or other infrastructure improvements are started. The proposed
sequence assures that this necessary first-stage maintenance would be
underway while the capacity to extend secondary and tertiary infrastructure
is developed. Also, improved drainage is required to introduce a greater
water supply. The second factor is that LSG has already established a solid
waste management and drain rehabilitation program which needs to be
supported by investments in equipment and planning in order to be made much
more effective.
40.       The proposed project would extend the Bank's involvement in
Nigeria's urban sector, started with the launching of the Nigerian States
Urban Development Program (NSUDP) in 1979, aimed at developing projects for
Nigeria's lower income urban population. The first urban project in Bauchi
State (FY80) is one example of how affordable basic services can be
provided. The project is progressing well, although there were some delays
due to project management and disbursement problems. These have been
largely overcome and the project is expected to be completed by mid-1986.
The Bauchi project included funds for feasibility studies in an additional
seven states, two of which have been completed (Imo and Benue) and others
are in progress or about to start. Those funds were also used to help
prepare this project. The second IBRD-supported urban development project
for Imo State (Loan No. 2607-UNI) was approved by the Board of Directors in
July 1985. While the NSUDP was originally focussed towards the
newly-created states with emerging urban problems (such as shelter provision
and area upgrading in smaller secondary cities), the present thrust is
towards addressing citywide services and infrastructure constraints in the
larger, most economically active urban centers. Linkages between these
urban centers and investments in other sectors is a primary concern, as is



- 13 -
the potential to mobilize resources. For those reasons, particular
attention is being given to Lagos. Bank lending in the sector will focus
increasingly on funding the institutional and financial mechanisms for
providing the basic infrastructure, services and maintenance in such areas
as water supply, drainage, solid waste removal, street improvement and urban
transport, the objectives being to improve the functional efficiency of
Nigeria's urban areas.
41.       The proposed project falls within the strategy outlined above and
will enable LSG to accelerate and expand urgently needed infrastructure and
services. In the process, key institutions dealing with urban management
will benefit from improvements in financial and administrative procedures,
better budgeting and planning, and inter-agency coordination. The loan will
assist LSG to respond more quickly and effectively in overcoming critical
bottlenecks in the functions of metropolitan Lagos. In so doing, it will
enable LSG to better deal with subsequent infrastructure service
investments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       In February 1982, the Lagos State Waste Disposal Board (LSWDB)
presented a detailed and well-prepared proposal for a solid waste management
and drain rehabilitation project, and this was the basis for project
identification. LSG retained consultants to finalize engineering and tender
documents for all civil works, and consultants have also prepared tender
documents and evaluation guidelines for the procurement of equipment. The
project was appraised in December 1982 and negotiated in June 1983. The
project was updated following discussions with the Federal and State
Military Governments in March 1984, to reflect their suggestions. Project
processing was delayed for two reasons: (a) a reassessment of the project's
priority by the Federal and State Governments, following the change of
Government in December 1983; and (b) a review of the Federal Mortgage Bank
of Nigeria's role in the project -- it has recently been agreed that the
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria would participate in monitoring the
implementation and impact of the project as a member of the Project
Monitoring Committee. Federal Government approval of the project was
received in August 1985. A staff appraisal report (4452-UNI, dated August
26, 1985) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary project data are presented in Annex III.
43.       Building upon the basic institutional mechanisms that are already
in place, the project would have the following objectives:
(a)  more efficient removal of solid waste from currently served areas,
increasing the level of service and extending this service to a
greater part of the city;
(b)  control of flooding, due to blockage of drains with solid waste,
by establishing a drain cleaning, routine maintenance operation
and constructing new primary drains, and strengthening local
government capacity to maintain and clean streets;



- 14 -
(c) strengthening the institutional capacity for solid waste
management, including financial management and revenue generation;
and
(d) assistance to LSG to mobilize additional fiscal resources by
revising the valuation and rating system for property taxation.
44.       Under the project, all aspects of LSWDB operations, including
domestic refuse collection, industrial waste collection, waste disposal,
abandoned vehicle management, and stormwater drainage network maintenance,
would be improved. The focus would be on increasing the efficiency of LSWDB
operations by expanding collection and tip site capacity, better maintenance
of the fleet, provision of transfer stations and strengthening financial
management. To this end, the project would finance equipment, physical
plant, and civil works, as well as implementation assistance and other
technical assistance to LSWDB, the (Lagos State) Ministry of Works and
Transport (MOWT), and local government authorities.
45.       The stormwater drainage component of the project would include the
construction of about 26 km of additions to the basic stormwater drainage
network. These primary and secondary drains are an integral part of the
overall and ongoing Lagos flood prevention program of MOWT, and would
provide relief to mainly high-density, low-income areas of the city that are
now subject to frequent flooding during the rainy seasons. It would be an
important forerunner to secondary and tertiary drainage works in future
infrastructure projects.
46.       The project would assist in improving local and state government
resource mobilization through the design and implementation of appropriate
property valuation and rating systems. Although local government
authorities in Lagos State are empowered to levy property taxes in the form
of tenement rates, most local government areas were last revalued as long
ago as 1955 on a rental basis, while the others were revalued in 1973 on a
capital basis. At present only about 60,000 properties are listed although
an additional 100,000 are taxable on the basis of existing legislation. In
this context, the proposed project would assist LSG to formulate and
establish a unified system of rating and valuation for property taxation to
enable local authorities to optimize revenue collections. A Lagos State
Valuation Office would be established and provided with technical
assistance, training, and vehicles (Section 2.01(d) of the Project
Agreement).
47.       Technical assistance would be provided to LSWDB in management and
financial control to ensure that appropriate systems and procedures are
installed and made operational, and to establish a research and planning
unit. In this context, some 480 man-months of support in the form of
contractual, advisory and training services would be provided to LSWDB at an
estimated cost of US$11.8 million. Assistance would be furnished to MOWT
for preparation of final engineering designs and bid documents for future
drainage proposals. Assistance would also be provided to local governments
for general institutional and financial management strengthening and for the
preparation of future infrastructure projects. In this context, some 290
man-months would be provided to MOWT and the local governments at an



- 15 -
estimated cost of US$5.8 million. These figures reflect, in large measure,
the very high cost of contracting and accommodation in Lagos, but also
represent a major effort to put in place and train local officials to carry
out large-scale and long-term urban management operations in a poorly
serviced city of over five million inhabitants.
Project Implementation
48.       Direct implementation responsibility for the solid waste
component, the main drainage component, and the rating and revaluation
component would lie with the Lagos State Waste Disposal Board (LSWDB), the
State Ministry of Works and Transport (MOWT) and the State Ministry of Local
Government and Chieftaincy Affairs (LSMLG), respectively. It was agreed
that a project coordinating unit would be established within MOWT and a
project accountant and a technical advisor would be appointed to the unit no
later than January 1, 1986 (Sections 2.01 (b) and (c) of the Project
Agreement). The project coordinator has already been appointed to lead the
unit, which will monitor project implementation and be responsible for the
preparation of follow-up projects in the Lagos metropolitan area.
49.       Under the proposed project, the organizational structure for
rating and valuation would be changed significantly. In the past,
responsibility for this function has rested with the local government
authorities that are ill-equipped to handle it. It was agreed that a Lagos
State Valuation Office would be established under LSMLG to take over the
task and a chief valuer be appointed to the valuation office no later than
January 1, 1986 (Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement).
50.       The proposed project would substantially extend LSWDB operations.
To do so, LSWDB has recently staffed key positions in the administrative and
financial complex and has prepared a draft staffing and management plan
which, in its final version, will detail the training and technical
assistance inputs over the five-year period as required to strengthen LSWDB
to carry out the project (Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of the Project
Agreement). It was also agreed that LSWDB would, no later than March 31,
1986, furnish a statement of financial policy satisfactory to the Bank, duly
approved by LSWDB's Board in its objective of moving LSWDB toward financial
self-sufficiency (Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
Project Costs
51.       Total costs for the project period 1986-91 are estimated at
US$164.3 million, of which the foreign exchange component would amount to
US$83.6 million or 51 percent. A breakdown of cost by major categories is
given in the loan and project summary. These have been calculated on the
January 1983 appraisal base costs, adjusted and updated in April 1984 when
the project was renegotiated with the Government. Price contingencies used
are those prevailing at the time of negotiations. Allowance has been made
for physical contingencies averaging 10 percent of base costs for all items.
Price contingencies for local construction and operating costs are estimated
at 14 percent per annum in 1985 and thereafter. Price contingencies for
foreign costs are estimated at 8 percent for 1985, 9 percent from 1986 to



- 16 -
1988 and 7.5 percent in the following years. Total price contingencies are
estimated at 28 percent of total project costs.
Project Financing
52.       The proposed loan of US$72 million to the Federal Government would
finance 44 percent of total project costs (about 46 percent net of taxes)
and 86 percent of the foreign exchange costs. It is anticipated that about
US$11.6 million cofinancing will come from suppliers to finance the
remaining 14 percent of foreign exchange costs, essentially for trucks and
other service vehicles. The total loan amount of US$72 million would be
onlent by the Federal Government to LSG on the same terms as the Bank loan.
LSG would carry the foreign exchange risk. The signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Federal Government and LSG would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement). LSG would
finance all local project costs, estimated at US$80.7 million equivalent (49
percent of total project costs).
53.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart
funding, assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) as a condition of loan effectiveness, commercial bank accounts
would be opened for LSWDB and MOWT, each with an initial deposit
of N 660,000. Similarly, an account would be opened for the
Valuation Office in LSMLG with an initial deposit of N 330,000
(Section 6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement);
(b) thereafter, LSG would pay into commercial bank accounts of the
implementing agencies, quarterly and in advance, the estimated
counterpart funding needed for project execution (Section 2.03 (b)
of the Project Agreement);
(c) as a condition of loan effectiveness, a revolving fund would be
established to offset possible delays in disbursements due to
foreign exchange authorization, cash flow and budgetary procedural
problems. The fund would be in the form of a Special Account in
foreign exchange, in a commercial bank, to be managed by the
Project Coordinating Unit. An amount of US$1 million out of the
loan proceeds would be deposited in the Special Account to relieve
LSG from prefinancing the foreign expenditures eligible for
reimbursement (Sections 2.02 (b) and 6.01 (c) of the Loan
Agreement);
(d) in the event that the project does not promptly receive funding
from LSG, the Federal Government would pay directly to the project
bank accounts that part of the State's statutory allocation
corresponding to its agreed financial support for the project
(Section 2.03 (c) of the Project Agreement); and
(e)  audited accounts of both LSWDB and MOWT would be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02 (c) of the Project Agreement).



- 17 -
Procurement
54.       Procurement methods are summarized in the table on page 18.
Contracts for vehicles and equipment, containers, maintenance and other
equipment, including spare parts, would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestically
manufactured goods procured under ICB would be allowed 15 percent preference
or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid
evaluation. The aggregate cost of the vehicles and equipment to be so
procured is estimated at about US$63.7 million (including about US$45.2
million from the loan), of which about US$11.6 million could be through
suppliers' credits, and US$1 million procured locally. Civil works,
including transfer stations, new workshops, depots, rehabilitation of
existing facilities and stormdrainage construction valued at about
US$75.1 million (of which about US$14.3 million would be from the loan),
would be procured by ICB. Local competitive bidding, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, would be employed for depots, landfill
sites and hardstandings, and for an earth drains rehabilitation program.
Equipment required by the Research Development Unit of LSWDB would be
purchased through local shopping up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million.
Locally and internationally contracted services, together with training,
valued at about US$25.5 million (of which US$12.5 million would be from the
loan), would be obtained on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
55.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period FY86-91.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures on vehicles and other equipment. In cases where items are locally
procured, disbursement would be made against 80 percent of total
expenditure. For buildings and other civil works, disbursement would be
made against 42 percent of total expenditure, except for the construction of
drainage channels where 18 percent would be applied. The cost of salaries
and allowances of internationally-recruited staff and consultant services
and overseas training would be 80 percent reimbursed. On this basis, total
disbursements are estimated at US$30.2 million against vehicles and
equipment, US$12.6 million against buildings and other civil works,
US$11.5 million against internationally-recruited advisory staff, consultant
services, and overseas training of local staff. An additional provision of
US$17.7 million has been made on an unallocated basis. There would be an
allowance of up to US$4 million retroactive financing in order to permit the
early procurement of critical equipment and stormdrainage expenditures
incurred on or after June 1, 1983 that, if postponed, would have increased
costs and damage due to flooding.



- 18 -
NIGERIA: LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORMDRAINAGE PROJECT
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total Value
Items to be Procured                     ICB          LCB         Other       of Contracts
A. Equipment (goods)
-   Trucks and diesel powered b/
vehicles                           42.7          -             -            42.7
(37.5)         -            -           (37.5)
-   Bulk refuse containers
light vehicles, etc.  b/            -            -            11.6          11.6
(0.0)
-   Research 6 Development              -             0.7          -             0.7
-           (0.2)         -             (0.2)
-   Miscellaneous Equipment
6 Spare parts                       8.7          -             -             8.7
(7.5)         -            -            (7.5)
Subtotal                           51.4          0.7          11.6          63.7
(45.0)        (0.2)        (0.0)        (45.2)
B.  Civil Works
-  Transfer stations and
compactors                           7.8          -             -             7.8
(4.0)         -            -            (4.0)
-  Depots, Workshops, Landfills         -            24.8          -            24.8
-           (4.7)         -             (4.7)
-  Stormdrainage system                39.2           -            -            39.2
(5.0)         -            -            (5.0)
-  Rehabilitation                       -             3.3          -             3.3
(0.6)                      (0.6)
Subtotal                           47.0         28.1           -            75.1
(9.0)        (5.3)         -           (14.3)
C.  Other
-  (a) LSWDB
(i) Training, Management
and Advisory Services       5.1           1.3          0.3           6.7
(3.0)        (0.7)        (0.2)         (3.9)
(ii) Contractual Services         2.9          4.5          1.4            8.8
(2.2)        (0.7)        (0.4)         (3.3)
- (b) Ministry of Local Government
(i) Rating and Valuation
- Advisory Services         4.8          -             -             4.8
(2.8)         -            -            (2.8)
- Training                  1.9          -             -             1.9
(0.1)         -            -            (0.1)
- Equipment, vehicles
and support services    0.6            -            -              0.6
(0.5)         -            -            (0.5)
(ii) Local Government Support
- Studies and Training    -              -             0.6           0.6
-            -           (0.4)          (0.4)
- (c) Min. of Works & Transp.
(i) Drainage design             -             -            0.4           0.4
-            -           (0.3)          (0.3)
(ii) Project monitoring           -            -            0.7           0.7
-            -           (0.5)          (0.5)
(iii) Preparation of future
project                     -            -             1.0           1.0
-            -           (0.7)          (0.7)
Subtotal                           21.8          1.3          4.4          25.5
(11.8)        (0.2)        (2.5)        (12.5)
Total                              115.3         30.2          16.0         164.3
(61.3)        (8.2)        (2.5)        (72.0)
......       ..,_....      ......     .......
Note:  - Inconsistencies due to rounding.
- Design and supervision costs of civil and building works included.
a/ Contingencies are included in the amounts shown. Amounts enclosed in
parentheses indicate amount of IBRD participation.
b/ Items for cofinancing-.



- 19 -
Status of Project Preparation
56.       Despite initial delays due primarily to a change in government in
December 1983 and the subsequent reassessment of state investment
priorities, preparation for the proposed project is now well-advanced. A
Project Coordination Unit has been formally established in the MOWT and a
Project Coordinator appointed in July 1985. Additional technical staff are
to be appointed before January 1, 1986. LSWDB is now fully staffed by
Nigerians and performing well despite financial constraints. A draft
management and staffing plan was submitted to the Bank in July 1985
outlining key organizational restructuring needs and staff vacancies which
will form the basis of a training and technical assistance needs assessment
(para 50). Detailed designs and tender documents for stormdrainage and
building works have been prepared and reviewed by the Bank and, with only
minor modifications, can be tendered. Land for the various project sites
has either been acquired or is in the process of being surveyed prior to
final conveyance. Bidding documents for the bulk of vehicles and other
equipment to be procured have been reviewed and revised. LSWDB has placed
orders for emergency spare parts which are eligible for retroactive
financing. Terms of reference for key personnel and assignments have been
completed.
Economic Benefits
57.       Based on comparing the rental values in two representative areas
of the city (with and without improved drainage and urban services), the
economic rate of return for the solid waste and drainage components,
together with related training and technical assistance (90 percent of
project costs), is 25 percent. Sensitivity tests show that the project's
viability is not threatened if benefits are reduced or costs increased by as
much as 50 percent. Under those circumstances, the economic rate of return
would range from a low of about 11 percent to a high of about 40 percent
under the alternative scenarios. The analysis has only utilized private
benefits and costs without capturing the full impact of relevant public
sector and social externalities. Savings are likely to be substantial from,
for example, arresting the deterioration of public infrastructure and
increasing employee productivity. The project component relating to rating
and valuation and the technical assistance for future project preparation
are not amenable to economic rate of return estimation, although benefits
should be substantial.
58.       While the project would have a citywide impact, most of the
project beneficiaries would be industries, commerce, and residents of areas
at present deficient in drainage and waste collection, mostly urban poor.
At least half of the Lagos population will benefit directly. About 50
percent of project investments would directly benefit families with incomes
below the relative poverty level, and most of the estimated 2.5 million
direct beneficiaries have previously suffered from lack of drainage and
inadequate or non-existant waste disposal. The economic impact of the
increases in state and local government resources has not been figured into
the benefit stream because it is impossible to determine the timing of
incremental revenues resulting from revaluation. However, the registration,
listing and valuation of an additional 100,000 properties, plus the increase



- 20 -
in taxable assessment, will undoubtedly have a considerable positive impact
on the State's financial position by the end of the project period.
59.       In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of other,
non-quantifiable benefits relating to better road drainage, improved
environmental sanitation, and reduction in traffic congestion. Direct
employment generation would amount to about 7,800 man-years of hired labor.
Project Risks
60.       There are no unusual project risks, apart from the risks commonly
associated with infrastructure and maintenance operations in a large,
complex, and topographically difficult city. The LSWDB has, for the past
four years, benefited from international management expertise that helped to
develop a core of local middle management. The present Nigerian management
has demonstrated a capacity to maintain, and in some cases improve, the
level of collection services despite financial and equipment constraints.
The proposed project has been designed to benefit from the experience and
techniques already in place and does not rely on new methods for the solid
waste or stormdrainage operations. The risks associated with the
introduction of an expanded operation are therefore minimized. In addition,
the most significant risks are those experienced by all projects in Nigeria:
institutional weakness, staff shortages and contract delays. The project is
designed to reduce these potential problems by building upon existing
institutions and ongoing programs, and by strengthening their capacity and
efficiency. A small project monitoring unit within the MOWT, assisted by an
interministerial committee with representatives of the Federal Government,
is intended to resolve implementation bottlenecks. In order to ensure
timely counterpart funding, establishment of project accounts for the three
project implementing agencies and timely payments into these accounts have
been agreed during negotiations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Lagos State,
and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III, including the following conditions of effectiveness of the loan:
(a) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Lagos
State (para 52); and (b) establishment of a Special Account (para 53(c)) and
project accounts in a commercial bank for each of the three
project-executing agencies with an initial deposit of US$660,000 each in the
project accounts of the LSWDB and of MOWT and an initial deposit of
US$330,000 in the project account for LSMLG (para. 53(a)).



- 21 -
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 29, 1985



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
T A B L F. 3A                                           Page  1  of  6
NIGERIA                 - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                               RBPERUNCs GROUPS (lIIETED AViLs) IC
MOST                      (MOST RECeT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOHC           MIDDLE INCOEH
19601b      197 Ib  eSTIMATI/b      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA 4 HID CAST
ARRA (TBOUSAD SQ. K)
TOTAL                               923.8       923.8       923.8
AGRICULTURAL                        471.0       497.4       511.4
GO  PM  CPITA (04)                       ..          ..        770.0              1063.8                    1134.9
EUT COUBSWUTICO  MU CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        20.0        35.0       143.0              581.5                      623.9
POPULATION AM VITAL STATSnCS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   51598.0    66182.0    93642.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)        13.1        16.4        22.0               32.0                       49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                            162.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                              532.0
POPULATION MOHENTUM                                         2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        55.9        71.6       101.4               65.1                       37.8
PER SQ. M. AGRI. LAND             109.6       133.0       176.4              124.8                      470.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (I)
0-14 YRS                          45.4        46.6        47.5               45.6                      43.5
15-64 YRS                          52.2        50.9        49.9               51.5                      53.0
65 AND ABOVE                        2.3         2.3         2.4                2.7                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTM RATE (E)
TOTAL                               2.4         2.5         2.7                2.9                        2.8
URBAN                               4.7         4.7         4.9                5.1                        4.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUS)         51.5        50.9        49.5               47.0                      40.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         25.0        21.1        16.7               15.0                       11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         3.4         3.4                3.2                        2.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..          7.6
USERS (1 OF HMARRIED wOMEN)         ..          ..          6.0                6.4                       21.4
FOOD AND NUTRITIO
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       100.0       102.0        82.0               82.9                      95.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (E OF REQUIReMENTS)       86.0        81.0        94.0               98.5                      118.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           48.0        44.0        46.0               55.4                      77.8
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         10.0        11.0        11.0 /C            16.5                       17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DeATH RATE          37.4        28.6        17.0               16.6                       12.8
MULTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.0        43.5        48.6               52.0                      57.8
INFANT MDRT. RATE (PER THOUS)       163.5       140.5       113.0              108.6                      96.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               ..          ..          ..                42.4                      67.2
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..                67.5                      93.4
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                35.8                      45.8
ACCESS TO ExCRETA DISPOSAL
(E OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..          ..                28.9                      45.9
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..                57.7                      63.0
RRAL                                ..          ..          ..                20.7                      28.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          73710.0    24670.0    12550.0 /d           11791.7                    4331.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            4040.0 Is  5070.0       3010.0 7i          2459.8                    1845.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            3020.0 /f   2220.0      1180.0 /d           981.1                     621.8
URBAN                             430.0 7e    490.0       370.0 7i           368.8                     545.0
RURAL                           25630.07   18490.0       5490.0e            4 371.9                   2511.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..          ..                27.2                      25.7
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               *-          4.7 /h
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERsONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               3.0         2.2 /h
RURAL                               ..          ..
PERCENTACE OP DWELLINGS WITR ELECT.
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              81.3        42.4 lh
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 23. -
ANNEX 1
T A B L E  3A                                     Page  2  of  6
NIGERIA                 - SOCIAL INDICAtORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                                REFeReNCe GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /s
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-b      197n/b  ESTIiA,Td/b     AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & KID EAST
ENWOGlION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    36.0        37.0        98.0 /d             95.7                      89.8
MALE                    46.0        47.0           .               100.0                      103.7
FEMALE                  27.0        27.0          ..                83.2                       75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    4.0          4.0        16.0 /d             17.3                      42.9
MALE                     6.0         6.0           .                25.0                       50.9
FEMALE                   1.0         3.0           .                14.8                       34.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)           4.8          8.5         3.1 /d             5.9                       10.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.0         34.0                           41.1                       29.7
SECONDARY                          19.0         21.0                           25.5                       18.8
cOT10o
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           0.6          0.9         1.4 /I             20.8                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          2.8         19.3        72.9               107.8                     175.9
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.0          1.1         5.0               20.8                       51.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              5.5          4.8         5.6               18.4                       37.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE/CAPITA        .           .           0.3 /d             0.4                        2.4
LABORt FOicE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         21788.0      25992.0     33544.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.3         40.6        39.6               36.2                       11.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              71.0         62.0        54.0 /i            54.5                       42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.0         14.0        19.0               18.3                       27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              42.2         39.3        35.8               36.8                       26.2
MALE                               50.3         47.3        44.0               47.1                       46.2
FEMALE                             34.4         31.5        28.3               27.2                        5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1         1.2         1.4                 1.3                       1.8
EICOMI DISYIUITION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS            .           ..
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..                                          .
POETtY TARGET SOPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .           .         696.0              590.7                      226.3
RURAL                                .           .         341.0              275.3                      134.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                            ..        621.0              545.6                      431.5
RURAL                                .           ..        207.0              201.1                      326.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                .           ..
RURAL                                            ..                              ..                       29.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T A S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-wtaghted arithmetic mans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Recent Eatieste' between 1981 end 1983.
/c   1977;  /d 1979; /a 1962;  /f Includes ex-North Cemroon under Britieh administration;  b  1976;  /h 1972;
/i 1978;- Li 1980.
JUNE. 1985



- 24 -                                                   ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the data are drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be internationally
comparable becaus: of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data. The data are, nonetheless, useful to
describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major differences between countries.
The reference groups are (X) the same country group of the subject country and (2) a country group with somewhat higher average.income than the country
group of the subject country (except for "High Income Oil Exporters" group where "Middle Income North Africa and Middle East" is chosen because of stronger
socio-cultural affinities). In the reference group data the averages are population weighted arithmetic means for each indicator and shown only when majority
of the countries in a group has data for that indicator. Since the coverage of countries among the indicators depends on the availability of data and is not uniform.
caution must be exercised in relating averages of one indicator to another. These averages are only useful in comparing the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and reference groups.
A]REA (thousand sq.km.)                                              Crude Birth Rare (per thousand)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                           Crude Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricultural-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to    Gross Reproduction Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                                will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates, usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) -GNP per capita estimates at current            in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calculated bv same conversion method as World         Family Planning-Acceptors, Annual (thousands)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (I 981-83- basis); 1983 data.                             ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY  CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,          Family Planning-Users (percent ofmarried women)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal elec-     tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                          of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                      groups.
Total Population, MVlid- Year (thousands)--As of July 1; 1960, 1970,  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
IndexofFoodProduction PerCapita (1969-71= 100)-Index ofper
Urban Population (percent of to.al)-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.         include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Population Projections                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pcpulation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.     excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on      vegetables. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
initernational migration in the base year 1980, these parameters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized    1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                 Per Capita Supply of Calories (percent of requirements)-Comput-
Stationarv population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in countrv
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level   tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also      food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements 'aere
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for norrnal activ itv
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing I0 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                          waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to        Per Capita Supply of Protein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for ali countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as    provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward, 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Density                                                  average for the world, proposed bv FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-       Supply, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
taires) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Protein Supply From Animal and Pulse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65,
land only, 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Population Age Structure (percent)-Children (0-14 years), work-     Child (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                  group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Population Growth Rate (percent)-total--Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percentJ-urban-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy at Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 25 -                                                  ANNEX  1
Page 4 of 6
at the dme of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupl-teacher Ratio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Infat Mortaltty Rate (per thowand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Access to Safe Wate (percent of popultion)-total, rabm, and     Passenger Cars (per thousand population)-Passenger cars com-
ruwal-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio Receivers (per thousandpopulation)-All types of receivers
boreholes, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVoRcevers (per thousandpopulao)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                           to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Excreta Disposal (percent of popidation)-total, urban,  in effect.
and rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspaper Ckrculation (per thousand popdation)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper," defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Population per Physician-Population divided by number of prac-  Cinema Anmual Atteftdance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Popiuation per Nursing Person-Population divided by number of   drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                        LABOR FORCE
Population per Hospital Bed-total, urban, and rural-Population   Total Labor Force (thousands)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialized  students, etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femak (percent)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agriculture (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of iotal labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          Industry (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Participation Rate (percent)-total, male, andfetmale-Participation
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Average Size of Household (persons per household)-total, urban,  as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
and rural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persons per Room-total, urban, and rural-     Economic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwellings with Electricity-total, urban, and rural-  Percentage of Total Disposable Income (both in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enrollnent Ratios                                      The following estimates are very aspproximate measures of poverty
Primary school - total, male and female-Gross total, male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absolute Poverty Income Level (USS per capita)-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Retative Poverty Income Level (USS per capita)-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male and female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Population Below Absolute Poverty Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocational, or teacher training  cent)-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrollmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial, or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



-26-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOIIC INDICATORS
BROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983                                          ANNUAL RATE OF BROITH(7, Constant Prices)
US$ "In       X               1975-80               19S2               193
GNP at Market Prices                      65621    100.0                  3.5                -2.3                -5.9
Gross Domestic Investment                  12879      19.6                 1.2              -23.9               -20.4
Gross National Saving                      7344       11.2                1.2               -39.4                13.0
Current Account Balance                   -5567      -8.5                  -                   -                   -
txparts of Goods & nfs                     10668      16.3                5.5               -23.7                -7.3
Isports of Goods & nfs                    14562      22.2                 6.3               -15.9               -24.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIvITY IN 1993
Value Added                Labor Force /aJ        Value Added per Morker
US$ Iln      X                 MIR        I                US$ MIn      %
Agriculture                                16817     25.6                20.3      58.3                 827      43.9
Industry & Mining                         23148      35.3                 6.9      19.8                3350    178.1
Services                                  25697      39.1                 7.6      21.9                3361    178.7
Total/Average                         65652    100.0                 34.9    100.0                 1881    100.0
60VERNMENT FINANCE /b/
-----------------^---                       General Governeent                                Central Government
NMln       As X of GDP                           N hIn      As I of 6DP
1993     1983   1980-92                          1983      1983   1990-92
Current receipts                          12329      25.3      29.1                          7483      15.4      18.6
Current Expenditure                       14840      30.5      19.7                          9187      19.9      11.1
Current Surplus                           -2512      -5.2       9.4                         -1704      -3.5       7.5
Capital Expenditure                        9246      16.9      26.5                          4891      10.1      14.9
External Assistance (net)                  2760       5.7       2.7                          1107       2.3       0.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
------------------------                             1977      1979      1979      1980      1981      1982      19B3
(Million Naira Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                7813      7521      9849    14390    15239    16694    19035
Bank Credit to Public Sectorlnet)                    2452      3143      3313      3539      6299    10328    15475
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        3459      4485      5126      6744      8917    10567    11071
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money & Quasi Money as 1 GDP                         24.0      21.5      24.0      29.8      31.3      32.6      39.1
General Price Index(1975=100)                       143.0    166.7    186.3    204.9    247.5    266.5    319.9
Annual Percentage Changes in:
general Price Index                                 15.4      16.6      11.8      10.0      20.8       7.7     20.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                       345.0      29.2       5.4       6.8      78.0      64.0     49.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       42.8      29.7      14.3      31.6      32.2      18.5       4.8
Note: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Ia/ Derived from planning documents and refers to the number of gainfully employed.
lb/ Based on the Governeent Budget estimates, IMF data, and World Bank estimates.
August 12, 1985



ANNEX I
-27-                                        Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1981-93)
1991 /a/ 1982 Ibl 1983 lb/                                US$ MIn       Z
_- -  -   - -- --    -- - - -                             -------__     _
(millions US $)              Crude Oil              13440      97.3
Exports of Goods, nfs                     18o94    13563    10668            Cocoa Products           225       1.6
Imports of Goods, nfs                    24190    19991    14562             Palo Products             26       0.2
Tin                      32       0.2
Resource Gap (deficit   -I                -5296    -6408    -3894            Others                    90       0.7
Total             13913    100.0
Interest Payaents (net)                     262     -828    -1058
Other factor Payments (net)                -916     -383      -355
Net Transfers                              -565     -429      -260           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1984 IcI
Balance on Current account                -6515    -9048    -5567                                           USS Mln
Direct Foreign Investment                   546       431      365           Public Debt Including
Undisbursed                    25266
Net Official Borrowing                      813      1094     1291           Non-6uaranteed Private
Disbursetent                              1416     1999      2785            Debt                             1299
Amortization                              -603     -905    -1494
Total Outstanding and           -----
Other Capital (net)                         156     4066      2715            Disbursed                       19742
Errors and Omissions                         78        73       41
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 1dl
Overall Balance                           -4922    -2394    -1155            -------------------------------
Reserve Movements(lncr.-)                  4922     2384      1155                                            -----
Reserve Level                              3895      1511      356           Public Debt Including
Undisbursed
Fuel and Related Material                                                    Non-6uaranteed Private
Imports                                                                      Debt
of which: Mineral Fuels                   288      262       201
Exports                                                                     Total Outstanding and            -----
of which: Petroleua                     17401    12777      9859            Disbursed                       20.2
EXCHANGE RATE                                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING AS OF MAY 31, 1995
1978: Nl.OO   US$1.57                                                                               IBRD      IDA
1979   N.00 = US$1.66                                                                               -----    -----
1980: Nl.O0 = US$1.83                                                   Outstanding & Disbursed  1247.0       36.7
1981   NI.00 = US$1.63                                                  Undisbursed                 973.0
1992   Nl.00 =US$1.49
1983   N1.OO =US$1.38                                                  Outstanding Including                -----
1984: Nl.00 =US$1.31                                                     Undisbursed               2220.0     36.7
/a/ Provisional. Ib/ Official esieates.
IcI Including short-ters loans. Idl Ratio of MLT debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
August 12, 1985



-28-                                           ANNEX 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERTAIOlIS IN NIGERIA la
(As of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                                      USS Million
Credit                                                             Amount (less cancellation)
Number   Year   Borrower    Purposo                                Blnk    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty eight loans and two credits fully disbursed                743.7    35.3 /b
1191     1976      Nigeria    E.C State Oil Palm                   19.0                 7.5
1591     1978      Nigeria    Nuc. Eat. Smallbolder Oil            30.0                 1.6
1597     1978      NIDB        Industrial Development              54.7                10.8
1667     1979      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Bida                   23.0                 2.9
1668     1979      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Ilorin                 27.0                 8.8
1679     1979      Nigeria    Forestry                             31.0                 3.6
1711     1979      Nigeria    Water Supply - Kaduna                92.0                67.0
1719     1979      Nigeria    Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.            9.0                 5.3
1766     1980      NEPA        Power Lagos                        100.0                63.4
1767     1980      Nigeria    Urban Development - Bauchi           17.8                 8.1
1838     1980      Nigeria    Agric. Dav. - Oyo-North              28.0                19.7
1854     1980      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko            32.5                19.3
1883     1908      Nigeria    Roads                                78.0                22.1
1981     1981      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Bauchi                132.0                46.6
1982     1981      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Kano                  142.0                86.4
2029     1981      Nigeria    Tech. Assistance - Agric.            47.0                28.1
2036     1982      Nigeria    Water Supply - Anambra               67.0                50.4
2085     1982      NEPA        Power - Distribution               100.0                70.6
2185     1982      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Sokoto                147.0               108.3
2299     1983      NIDB        Industrial Development             120.0               117.5
2345     1984      Nigeria    Fertilizer Import                   250.0               159.4
2376     1984      NBCI        Small & Medium Scale Industry    41.0                   40.8
*2390      1984     NBC         Tech. Aset. - Gas Engineering    25.0                   25.0
**2436      1984     Nigeria    Agric. Dev. - Kaduna                122.0               122.0
**2480      1985     Nigeria    Tech. Assistance                      13.0               13.0
**2503      1985     Nigeria    Health - Sokoto                      34.0                34.0
Total                                                 2,525.7      35.3  1,142.2
Of wbich has been repaid                                299.7       4.6
Total outstanding                                     2,226.0      30.7
Amount sold                        16.8
Of which has been repaid           1i.8                   0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA                          2,226.0    30.7
Total undisbursed                                                         1,142.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                     Type of           Amount in USS Million
Year                                       Business         Loan     Euity    Total
1964, 1967,    Arewa Textiles Ltd.        Textile Mfg.    1.0         0.6        1.6
1970
1964            Nigeria Industrial         Dev. Fin. Co.              1.4        1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973            Funtua Cottonseed          Vag. Oil        1.6                   1.6
Crushing Ltd. Crushing
1973            Nigeria Aluminum           Aluminum        1.0        0.3        1.3
Extrusion Ltd.             Processing
1974            Lifiaga Sugar              Sugar                      0.1        0.1
Estate
1980            NTM                        Textiles        6.2        0.7        6.9
1981            Ikeja Hotel                Tourism        10.1         1.4      11.5
1985            Tiger Battery              Dry-cell        4.6         -         4.6
Batteries
Total gross comitments                    24.5        4.5       29.0
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales              5.8        1.6        7.4
Total commitmtent now held by IFC         18.7        2.9       21.6
Undisbureed                                7.1        0.3        7.4
* Not yet signed.
** Not yet effective.
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 aw October 31.
/b Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
NIGERIA
LAGOS SOLID WASTE AND STORMDRAINAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: Timetable Of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the
project:                                        9 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:   Lagos State Waste
Disposal Board
and Consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:         February 1982
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                    April 1982
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:         December 1982
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:             June 1983
(g) Date of completion of post-negotiations
review:                                         March 1984
(h)  Date of confirmation by Government
of Approval:                                    August 1985
(i)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  December 1985
SECTION II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
SECTION III: Special Conditions
(a) As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Federal Government
would onlend US$72.0 million to the Lagos State Government
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on the same terms as the
Bank loan (para 52).
(b) As a condition of loan effectiveness, LSG would establish in a
commercial bank: (i) a Special Account and (ii) project
accounts for the three project executing agencies and make an
initial deposit in each account (para 53).






IBRD 1275611
(                    k oo, It C:.' 
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
N, ie                                                                                                       yE, .:.  :        A'
a  0       R                             .
o   p    f   ts   v   \k;  55;    S;5!;,,;  jSji;\  Jrj ':i | :9 b 7 + t 't ' 9 'E4 E 5t 'K                     --GUR
,,,~,, to1 zvssa2Ssanvlntwofinewloor K    A                                                               dDiE    ;:AM  E ;iR;  ?gO-N fA   Si Tzft!    



