Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17553
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Cr. 1985-GUI)
March 30, 1998
Water and Urban 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GNF)
US$1.00 = 1,000 GNF (at closing)
US$1.00 = 500 GNF (at appraisal)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          Africarn Development Bank
BADEA         Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CCCE          French Aid Agency
DEG           National Water Company
DGSE          Directorate for Energy
EIB           European Investment Bank
FIM           Foreign Investor Manager
LCR           Lease Contractor Rate
MRNE          Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
MSP           Management Support Program
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
RWS           Rural Water Supply
SEEG          Water Management Company
SNAPE         Rural Water Supply Agency
SONEG         National Water Authority
SSE           State Secretariat for Energies
UFW           Unaccounted-for-water
UTNDP         United Nations Development Program
UWS           Urban Water Supply
Vice-President          :Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director       :Marnadou Dia, AFC16
Sector Manager         :Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
lTeam Leader            :Yao Badjo, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1985-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaFe
Preface ........................................................i
Evaluation Summary ........................................................i
PART I - Project Review  from  Bank's Perspective ........................................................1
Project Identity ........................................................1
A. Background                              ........................................................1
B. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives                      .......................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Achievement of Project Objectives                             ..........................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .......................................................6
E. Project Sustainability .......................................................7
F. Bank Performance ........................................................8
G. Borrower Performance .......................................................                                           8
H. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................8.....,.8
I. Future Operations ........................        ...............................                                      9
J. Key Lessons Learned ........................................................9
Part II. Tables ........                                                                                                            11
Table 1 - Summary of Assessments ..........................11
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................                                                           13
Table 3 - Project Timetable .................                                                                            13
Table 4 - Loan/Credit Disbursements .,                                                                                   14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................                                   15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations ...................................                                       16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...................................                                                 17
Table 8A - Project Costs .17
Table 8B: Project Financing .18
Table 9 - Economic Costs and Benefits .18
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table  1I - Estimated Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 12 - Bank Resources: Missions .21
ANNEXES
A. Mission's aide-memoire .22
B.  Borrower's Evaluation of the Project .28
C.   Summary of Consumer's Contribution to the ICR .31
D. Economic Analysis .33
E.   Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1985-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Water Supply Project in
the Republic of Guinea for which a credit 1985-GUI in the amount of SDR 29.3 million (US$40
million equivalent) was approved on May 3, 1989 and made effective on October 5, 1989.
The credit was closed on October 31, 1997 one year after the scheduled closing date of
October 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on November 19, 1997 at which time a balance of
SDR 102,000 (US $139,000 equivalent) was canceled. Co-financing for the project was provided by
the African Development Bank, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, the European
Investment Bank, and the Japan International Cooperation Agency.
The ICR was prepared by Yao Badjo, (Senior Sanitary Engineer AFTU2), and Tejbir Singh
Phool (Consultant) to the Africa Region and reviewed by Letitia A. Obeng (Sector Manager, AFTU2).
Gilles Fabre-Rousseau (Water and Sanitation Specialist, TWUWS), and Richard Verspyck (Principal
Water and Sanitation Specialist, AFTU2) are Peer Reviewers.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in conjunction with the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission on October 15-25, 1997. The borrower contributed by providing pertinent information and
commenting on the draft ICR. The borrower also has prepared a separate evaluation of the
project's preparation and execution. The stakeholders have contributed to the preparation of
the ICR. The evaluations and contributions are attached.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 1985-GUll
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    In 1985, a new Government in Guinea embarked on a series of donor supported economic
reforms with the main objective of restructuring the economy and reducing the role of the state. In
1988, only 40% of the urban population had access to piped water. Morbidity due to enteric and
parasitic diseases was high, cholera outbreaks were regularly reported, and life expectancy was among
the lowest in the world.
2.    IDA's initial entry into the sector was in the form of the Conakry Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (WSP-1). This project helped increase the quantity of water for Conakry and improved
drainage conditions. However, the most important component, institutional strengthening was not
achieved and results were unsatisfactory. A key lesson learned was that additional technical assistance
must be accompanied by a radical reshaping of institutional responsibilities, preferably through a
degree of privatization.
3.    Influenced by the lessons of the WSP-I, the new Government opted for a strategy that would
use the private sector to improve efficiency. A sector re-structuring resulted in the establishment of
two companies in late 1988. A state owned National Water Authority, Societe Nationale des Eaux de
Guin6e (SONEG) was established as the owner of the facilities responsible for sector development
including implementation of new projects, issuance of consolidated sector accounts, and debt service.
A Management Company, Societe d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guin&e (SEEG) with a majority private
sector share (51%), and minority government participation (49%) was formed to operate and maintain
facilities and collect charges within the framework of a ten year lease contract with SONEG.
Project Objectives
4.    The Second Water Supply Project (WSP-II) was structured with the main goal of creating a
legal, institutional, technical, and financial framework that would constitute a sound basis for further
sector development. Reshaping of institutions was given prime importance, and injecting professional
know how via private sector participation was to be an important tool. A schedule for systematically
raising water rates and eliminating subsidies was developed. The project's goals were timely and
incorporating the private sector in this next investment was a relevant decision.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The main goal of creating a legal, institutional, technical, and financial framework was largely
achieved. Specific project objectives were achieved and most components were completed, with some
delays, but within reasonable budget constraints. Credit covenants were also largely complied with.



ii
The total expenditures on the project were US $105.6 million against projections. of 102.6 million. The
difference is accounted for by changes in the SDR-US dollar exchange rate and by additional grant
funding of US $5.6 million provided by the Japanese Government.
6.    In an effort to advance the institutional development process, conditions were imposed for
credit negotiations and effectiveness. These were met in a timely fashion and SONEG and SEEG
continued making progress. SONEG fully adopted the principle of a three-year rolling "contrat plan"
and emerged a much stronger institution than its predecessor. The management took its responsibility
to finance investments and maintain assets seriously, and capacity improved.
7.    Although procurement was initially delayed, SONEG and SEEG were able to complete most
physical components related to raw water transmission, treatment, storage, and treated water
transmission less than two years later than the schedule projected in the SAR. Since construction costs
were lower than the SAR estimates, a one-year extension was negotiated with the Bank to use the
savings for constructing additional storage and to install extra miles of distribution network. However,
there was a shortfall in the number of connections completed; these will be completed almost two years
late.
8.    Private sector involvement resulted in improved operations, and SEEG  rehabilitated
commercial and financial systems. By 1996 approximately 95% of water was sold through metered
connections. Collection efficiency from private customers rose to a peak of 75% in 1990 but declined
later due to the high tariff level. The number of connections in Conakry grew fiom 12,000 in 1988 to
over 23,000 in 1996 and corresponding coverage grew from 40% to approximately 60%. The
Government approved tariff increases on time and subsidies were eliminated in 1995, as scheduled.
9.    During the project implementation, the two autonomous but co-dependent agencies SONEG
and SEEG faced new relationships and unforeseen challenges. While the resolution of resulting issues
has sometimes been slow and problematic, over time, the implementation progress has largely been
achieved. Systems are evolving to reduce the likelihood of major problems recurring under the Third
Water and sanitation project.
10.   The reorganization has had a strong positive impact on the urban water sub-sector.
Developments in both sector organizations, SONEG and SEEG, have contributed significantly towards
achieving sustainability. However, water pricing, expansion of the distribution system, reduction in
UFW, and SONEG's weakness in performing its regulatory function remain to be addressed. The
ongoing Third Water Supply & Sanitation Project supported by the Bank is aiming to correct the
shortcomings of the Second Water Project. This project includes components to improve the
distribution system, strengthen SONEG's regulatory capacity, and to assist SONEG prepare and
negotiate a new lease contract that will comprise a performance contract between SONEG and SEEG.
Overall, sustainability is rated as likely.
11.   Bank performance was highly satisfactory during identification, preparation and appraisal; it
was satisfactory in supervision. At each stage, Bank staff moved adequately to address relevant
problems or issues. Borrower performance was also highly satisfactory during project identification,
preparation and appraisal; it was satisfactory in supervision. The Government, SONEG, and SEEG
played vastly improved roles but problems were encountered in pricing, procurement and UFW.



iii
12.   Project objectives were largely achieved. While there were shortcomings such as procurement
delays, incomplete development of SONEG, and problems with managing SEEG, sector operations
have improved very significantly over the performance displayed by the previous organization. The
outcome is rated as satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.   This project demonstrated that private sector participation can contribute to achievement of
sector objectives. Stakeholders invited to a project closing meeting commented that very significant
gains had been made in water quality and delivery. However, despite significant achievements, more
improvements are necessary. While coverage has increased significantly, it is still limited to 60
percent. SONEG has allowed SEEG to get away with a poor reporting record. Water tariffs are high
and are impeding growth in coverage as well as in SEEG's revenues. The present level of physical
water losses is also high (approximately 47%). These factors suggest an unrealized potential.
14.   The Government, SONEG, and SEEG are very committed to consolidate on the gains made so
far in urban water sector and this, with the support of the world Bank, The Third Water Supply &
Sanitation Project (WSP-lI) which was made effective in August 1997 has allocated US$ 16.8 million
for addressing the shortcomings of the WSP-II and will enhance the distribution system in Conakry,
strengthen SONEG's regulatory capacity, and assist in the preparation and negotiation of a new lease
contract.  The Government has submitted an action plan for the water sector improvements.
Rehabilitation will be followed by carefully planned expansion of existing systems to serve to a rapidly
increasing population.
15.   The sector's performance will continue to depend on the pace at which SEEG reduces UFW
and on the lease contract through the incorporation of monitoring indicators that will be renegotiated in
1999. SONEG's strategy will be to manage water demand more effectively by instituting an
appropriate tariff policy, and to develop an improved incentive structure that will maximize the
efficiency of SEEG's water operations. Tariffs will be adjusted to reflect actual costs taking into
account the capacity for the consumer to pay through a program of social connections for the poor.
16.   The following key lessons have been learned from the implementation of this project.
*  The sector reorganization that entailed establishment of autonomous agencies and private
sector participation served to significantly improve sector performance.
*  However, universal improvements in efficiency should not be taken for granted even in a
privately operated system.
*  When a lease contract is being designed, short-term and long-term incentive structures
should be carefully created to meet precisely articulated objectives to maximize the
efficiency of the private sector operations.
*  In the interest of the consumer protection, a strong regulatory and oversight function is very
important to control private sector operations.
*  To increase transparency in operations when a private operator functions as a system
operator and as a construction contractor, separate financial statements of its different
functions are highly recommended.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 1985-GUI]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:          Second Water Supply Project
Credit Number:  1985-GUI
RVP Unit:      AFRICA Region
Country:       Republic of Guinea
Sector:        Water Supply
A.    BACKGROUND
1.    Guinea gained independence from France in 1958 and adopted a state-led development policy
that soon ran into difficulties. The economy became increasingly dualistic with the official sector
relying on bauxite exports and functioning through a system of administered prices linked to a highly
overvalued currency. Private sector activities were increasingly forced underground, and the informal
sector obtained its foreign exchange through clandestine exports and private transfers from abroad. A
massive emigration of the elite, mostly for political and security reasons, considerably weakened
Guinean institutions with effects that are still being felt today. The Government's financial position
deteriorated significantly mainly because of the lackluster performance of the state enterprise sector,
and infrastructure deteriorated.
2.    In 1985, a new government embarked on a series of economic and financial reforms supported
by the IDA, the IMF, and bilateral donors. Their main objective was to radically restructure the
economy by reducing the role of the State and by relying on the private sector as the main engine of
economic growth.
3.    In 1988, only 10 out of 33 urban centers, less than 40% of the urban population of 2.3 million,
and less than 20% of the rural population of 4.5 million received piped water. There was no sewerage
except in the oldest part of Conakry. Fewer than 10% of population used flush toilets, and 60% relied
on pit latrines. Rural sanitation did not exist. Morbidity due to enteric and parasitic diseases was high,
cholera outbreaks were regularly reported, and life expectancy in Guinea (37 years at birth) was among
the lowest in the world. Guinea was classified among the least developed countries, by the UN.
4.    Also in 1988, the State Secretariat for Energies (SSE), a branch of the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Environment (MRNE) was responsible for the Urban Water Sector (UWS). The rural
water supply (RWS) sector had recently been developed, mainly with external financing, by the Service
National dAmenagement des Points d'Eau (SNAPE) under the Ministry of Agriculture. Several
agencies were responsible for sanitation.



2
5.    IDA's initial entry into the sector was undertaken under the old regime and took the shape of
the Conakry Water Supply and Sanitation Project (WSP-I, Credit 870-GUI). This credit of US$ 12.5
million was approved in December 1976, closed in March 1985 and co-financed by the African
Development Bank (AfDB) in an amount equivalent to US$6 million. Project objectives were to
strengthen institutions, restore a satisfactory water supply level, and provide sanitation in Conakry. The
project helped increase the quantity of water supplied to Conakry and improved drainage conditions.
However, the most important component, institutional strengthening, was not achieved and results
were unsatisfactory because of implementation delays, incomplete physical accomplishments, and poor
financial performance. Political interference and the previous regimes poor economic policies were key
impediments. At project closing, the distribution system was largely unmetered, the number of
connections was not fully known, and unaccounted for water could not be accu rately estimated. A key
lesson learned was that additional technical assistance must be accompanied by a radical reshaping of
institutional responsibilities, preferably by a degree of privatization (World Bank Report No. 6922).
B.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The Second Water Supply Project (WSP-II) was structured with the main goal of creating a
legal, institutional, technical, and financial framework that would constitute the basis for a sound take-
off and further sector development. Reshaping of institutions was given prime importance, and
injecting professional know-how via private sector participation was to be an important tool. Detailed
objectives included the following:
(a) strengthening the planning and management capabilities of the agency responsible for sector
development, SONEG;
(b) rehabilitating the technical, commercial and financial operations of the sector through a lease
contract between SONEG and SEEG;
(c) expanding the saturated Conakry water supply system, to generate additional revenues with the
side objectives to allow further development in less profitable secondar centers; and
(d) gradually setting water rates to meet the long-term marginal cost.
The goal of setting tariffs to meet long-term marginal cost required a plan for increasing water rates.
Since the Government and Bank wanted to avoid a drastic tariff increase, an innovative, short-term,
progressively diminishing, and transparent subsidy was planned.
7.    The following components were designed to achieve these objectives:
(a) a management support program to SONEG including (i) technical assistance to the General
Manager and to the department of Studies and New Works; (ii) services of a consultant for
regular revision of water rates and of a legal counsel; (iii) audits: (iv) training of higher level
staff, and (v) office space, equipment and vehicles;
(b) rehabilitation of sector operations through a lease contract between SONEG and SEEG;



3
(c) a rehabilitation program of existing facilities including the supply and installation of equipment
for the plants, small diameter pipes, domestic connections, water meters;
(d) the expansion of the Conakry system including the supply and installation of material and
equipment for (i) partial doubling of the Grandes Chutes-Yessoulou-Conakry transmission line
(about 60 km of 1,000 mm and 1,100 mm diamneter pipe); (ii) addition to the Yessoulou
treatment plant of a 40,000 cu. m. /day unit; (iii) creation of about 5,000 cu. m./day of
additional distribution storage capacity; (iv) extension of the water distribution network (about
300 km of 800 mm to 60 mm pipe and 15,000 new connections); and (v) services of an
engineering consultant for the preparation of detailed designs, tender documents and
construction supervision; and
(e) consultant services for the preparation of UWS studies in secondary centers, and a re- training
program for the former water company DEG's laid-off staff.
8.    Further, a schedule for systematically raising water rates and eliminating domestic and foreign
subsidies was agreed upon. This transparent scheme was clearly articulated in the SAR, and Credit
covenants were designed to ensure satisfactory performance.
9.    The project's goals were timely. The WSP-I experience had been instructive and incorporating
the private sector in the next investment was an informed decision. The government's conclusion that
physical and institutional objectives may not have been achieved without private sector participation
and associated improvements in sector management was appropriate. Project components were
explicit and designed after taking into consideration the best available information. An unmetered
network and poor connection records prevented more precise rehabilitation and expansion targets. The
implementation experience however leads to questions about whether the number of connections and
the length of the distribution system were correctly balanced taking into account the population density.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   The main goal of creating a legal, institutional, technical, and financial framework that would
constitute the basis for further development of the UWS was largely achieved. However, more
improvement of the water network and commercial service are necessary to consolidate on the gains.
Specific project objectives were achieved and most components were completed with some delays but
within reasonable budget constraints. Credit covenants were also generally complied with. The
following discussion indicates areas where there were departures from detailed objectives and
components.
11.   In an effort to ensure a good start for the institutional development process, the project was
designed in such a manner that major steps of the institutional reform were taken before credit
effectiveness. First the project preparation was extended until key stakeholders committed themselves
to a process that would make this project the Bank's and Guinea's first privatization in the UWS.
Once this consensus and commitment had been achieved, project preparation accelerated and the
project size roughly doubled as other donors also agreed to contribute to this process. Next, conditions
were imposed for credit negotiations and were met by early 1989. These conditions included creation
of SONEG, appointment of the advisor to the General Manager of SONEG, finalization of legal
documents related to the creation of SEEG, increase of water rates, and finalization of detailed designs



4
and cost estimates. Further, credit effectiveness was conditioned upon the execution of a subsidiary
financing agreement between the Government and SONEG, selection of SONEG personnel, and
payment of two trenches of initial capital by the foreign share holder. These conditions were also met
by October 1989.
12.   The government received bids from firms and teams interested in acting as the Foreign Investor
Manager (FIM) participating in SEEG. Two French teams participated in the final bidding, both teams
providing bids lower than the SAR's estimates. The winning bid was approxirnately 30% lower than
estimates, indicating improved efficiency via low operating costs. SONEG and SEEG signed a ten-
year lease agreement.
13.   Once the credit became effective, SONEG and SEEG continued making progress. SONEG
fully adopted the principle of a three-year rolling "contrat plan" and emerged as a much stronger
institution than its predecessor DEG. The management promptly assumed its responsibility to borrow
for sector investments, and to maintain assets. SONEG's capacity improved with regard to financial
management, rate-setting and reporting. Water rates were increased as agreed, revenue generation was
adequate, and the flow of counterpart funding was adequately maintained. SONEG's total revenues
grew significantly, going from GNF 624 million in 1990 to GNF 6,026 million in 1995. Efficient
accounting procedures and systems to efficiently monitor accounting and financial management were
installed. Asset valuation by an independent expert was finalized on schedule, and a manual covering
management, accounting, and internal control procedures was developed. While the internal audit
function was initially unsatisfactory, the situation should improve with recruitment of a trained auditor
in March 1997. The management decided not to use a legal adviser provided for by the project.
14.   Procurement was initially delayed. However, SONEG was able to complete most physical
components related to raw water transmission, treatment, storage, and treated water transmission less
than two years behind the schedule projected in the SAR. Investments in the production and treatment
facilities sector were started in 1992 and most of them were in operation by 1994. By September
1997, 25 urban centers had been equipped with piped systems. Water production capacity in Conakry
grew from 45,000 m3/day in 1989 to 100,000 m3/day in 1997. A water treatment plant of 38,000 m3
was installed instead of a plant of 40,000 m3. However, at project closing, only 11,000 out of a
projected 15,000 connections could be installed partly because the network was not long enough to
reach so many additional customers. These connections will be completed by July 1998, almost two
years behind schedule.
15.   Since bids received for construction were lower than the SAR estimates, a one-year extension
was negotiated with the Bank to use the savings to construct additional storage and to install an extra
109 km of distribution network. A treated water storage tank of 3,000 m3 was built instead of a tank
of 1,000 m3; 384 km of network system was added instead of the proposed 275 km; and an office
building with 960 m2 floor space was constructed instead of 600 mi2.
16.   Private sector involvement resulted in improved day-to-day operations. SEEG moved quickly
to rehabilitate commercial and financial systems. Billing was revamped and computerized in an
impressively short time span of less than six months. A metering program was implemented and,
though there were initial delays, by 1995 approximately 95% of water was sold through metered
connections. Collection efficiency from private customers rose to a peak of 75% in 1990 but declined
later and was 58% in 1996 because tariffs were raised progressively from GNF 150 per cubic meter in



5
1989 to GNF 880 (or GNF 440/m3 in 1989 GNF) per cubic meter in 1994. Corresponding revenues
collected grew from GNF 1.8 billion in 1990 to GNF 10 billion in 1995 before declining to GNF 7
billion in 1996. The number of connections in Conakry grew from 12,000 in 1988 to over 23,000 in
1996 and corresponding coverage grew from 40% to approximately 60%. The staff of DEG who were
not absorbed by SEEG and SONEG were offered training to create their own business in the private
sector. Several staff successfully re-trained and now serve as sub-contractors to SEEG.
17.   For its part, the Government approved tariff increases on time. Subsidies provided by the
budget (support to SONEG's debt service) and under the IDA financing (payment of the foreign
portion of SEEG remuneration) were progressively reduced and eliminated in 1995, as scheduled. The
current consumer tariff level (GNF 880/m3 or GNF 440/m3 in 1989) necessary to cover inflated costs is
higher than the 1988 level (GNF 60/m3) and also higher than the SAR projections (GNF 406/m3). The
current remuneration is as follows: GNF 510/m3 for SEEG and GNF 370/m3 for SONEG.
18.   Despite significant improvements in sector planning activities, the impressive record on
completion of major construction components, and increased efficiencies in the day-to-day operations,
unfinished business remains.
19.   While SONEG's ability to conduct sector planning, and to manage investment and construction
activities have improved over those of its predecessor, its record of monitoring SEEG's functions
suggests a need for improvement. SEEG has been allowed to get away with a poor reporting record.
Further, a 1996 audit indicates that tariffs are overvalued because of misapplication of SEEG's cost
index. Weaknesses in this area could have a detrimental impact on the urban water sub-sector. In the
absence of monitoring ability, SONEG is unable to assess the merit of requested rate increases and
puts its own revenues in jeopardy. If prices are allowed to increase unreasonably, long-term
sustainability will be threatened.
20.   In complying with the project objective of setting water rates to meet long-term marginal cost,
tariffs may have been raised too quickly, and consumers' ability to pay overlooked. While the number
of connections and collection efficiency from private consumers increased impressively in early years,
both indicators suffered later as tariffs rose. In spite of a social tariff of GNF 660/m3(GNF 330/ m3 in
1989 GNF), the number of customers declined from 1995 as they accumulated arrears then refused to
re-connect when disconnected from the system. Collection efficiency has declined in the same period.
Further, a consumer association (see Annex C) and a 1996 consumer survey indicate tariffs are too
high.
21.   While coverage has increased significantly, it is still limited. Only 60 percent of about 2.3
million people (of which 1.3 million live in Conakry) have access to water through house connections
or standpipes. This suggests there is an unrealized potential in the system, and a significant number of
additional customers can be served.
22.   The present levels of physical losses of water are much higher than anticipated.  At
approximately 47%, these levels are not only too high in absolute terms but are higher than the levels
(UFW of 35%) estimated at the start of the project and also higher than the SAR assumption of 20%
UFW which was based on the experience of a similar water company in the C6te d'Lvoire. Physical
losses increased significantly when new production came on-stream and the aged distribution system
could not withstand the increased water pressure. At this time, SEEG had been maintaining the system
for almost five years but by its limited actions to reduce physical losses, demonstrated that under the



6
existing lease contract, it saw no financial benefit from this investment. This high level of water losses
will soon be a constraint to increasing coverage and will adversely affect SEEG's revenues. Unless
corrected, this situation is an obstacle to achieving the system's full potential.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   The project encountered initial misunderstanding within the Bank at the preparation stage when
disagreements between legal advisers and operations staff on the one side and operations staff on the
other side almost resulted in abandonment. Initially the former group was cornvinced that the proposed
procurement procedures being proposed by operations staff would violate existing Bank guidelines at
this time and policies. Their concerns were overcome only after intensive and time consuming internal
debate. Subsequently, not only were Bank procurement procedures revised but this innovative model
of private sector participation was adapted for similar projects in other countries. The project was
established under a main goal of improving sector operation and it was expected that a new
institutional paradigm that included strong autonomous agencies and private sector participation would
improve sector performance. This new paradigm created new sets of relationships and unforeseen
challenges. While the resolution of these issues and challenges has sometimes been slow and
problematic, over time, desired progress has largely been achieved. Further, systems have evolved to
reduce the likelihood of major problems recurring.
24.   The ten-year lease arrangement represents an innovative attempt to draw on the commercial
strengths of the private sector. Under this contract, SEEG is responsible for operating and maintaining
urban water facilities, for billing customers, and for collecting charges. The average water tariff is
made up of the tarif exploilant and the redevance. The tarif exploitant covers SEEG's expenses and
can be modified based on pre-agreed economic criteria. The redevance covers SONEG's operations,
investment expenses, and related debt service. It is collected by SEEG and transferred to SONEG.
25.   Both SEEG and SONEG encountered early personnel problems in their technical divisions and
although these were satisfactorily resolved. The Government's interference and SEEG and SONEG
conflicts jointly contributed to initial procurement delays.
26.   Government arrears periodically brought financial transactions between SEEG, SONEG, and
the State to a standstill. This was caused by a lack of cooperation by some government departments
despite credit covenants to the contrary. Since SEEG was unable to disconnect recalcitrant consumers,
it made up by withholding payments owed to SONEG. In retaliation, SONEG, delayed submitting
withdrawal applications to the Bank for payment to SEEG. This problem was resolved in September
1996, when the Govemment, SEEG and SONEG proceeded to cross-compensation of their debts.
Further, the Govemment moved to prevent recurrence by making special budgetary allocations in the
departmental operating budgets and by empowering SEEG to disconnect recalcitrant departments. The
situation has since improved considerably and SEEG has assurances of adequate recourse if bills are
not paid.
27.   SEEG's declared profits were limited, and no dividends were distributed to shareholders.
Provisions for bad debts averaged roughly 18 percent of water sales revenues a year over the past five
years, an exceedingly high ratio. These large provisions were mainly meant to cover Govemment
arrears (GNF 3 billion in 1994), and late payments from private consumers. Government arrears have
been largely cleared but dues from private customers remain a problem.



7
28.   Since SEEG has functioned both as a system operator and as a construction contractor, and has
not provided separate financial statements of its different functions, it is impossible to discem the risks
and profitability of the lease operations. SEEG's activities as an operator require it to assume a
commercial risk while its activities as construction contractor are performed on a cost plus basis. From
the beginning of the lease contract, SEEG has persistently failed to provide SONEG with required
reports and has thereby hampered transparency in operations and remuneration as well as SONEG's
performance of its regulatory function.
29.   Further, for several years, a professional drawn from the construction community managed
SEEG. This period coincided with a greater focus by SEEG on construction projects, diminished
commercial efficiency, and poor relations with SONEG. The situation improved when a professional
with an operational background was brought in as a replacement.
30.   SONEG experienced losses until 1991 but has been profitable since then. Numerous delays in
receiving payments from SEEG directly affected SONEG's provision for bad debt. The significant
increase in sectorl investment also contributed to raising the level of depreciation. SONEG's financial
results would have been better had SEEG's efficiency in customer management improved and the
proposed yearly tariff increases been effective in January.
31.   The project resulted in elimination of over billing of the Government client and to a
decentralization of payment responsibilities. Until 1990, Govemment billing was based on a lump sum
structure and was grossly overvalued. This structure was replaced by a metered billing structure that
immediately led to lower government billing. As a result, Government consumption has changed
drastically from an estimated 7.5 million cubic meters to about 5.4 million cubic meters in 1993. In
1995, the Government implemented two measures to further reduce its water bill and improve its
payment ratio. It established a list of services to be paid for by the Government, and transferred public
standpipe water bills to local communities.  This has helped improve collection from  these
communities.
32.   The experience with water losses has also been instructive. In 1989, UFW was estimated to be
35%. However, this estimate was derived when large portions of the distribution system were
unmetered. Once project implementation began, the network was found to be in worse than anticipated
condition. As the water pressure increased with the completion of construction, water losses increased.
By this time, almost five years of the ten-year lease contract had elapsed, and with each passing year
the incentive for SEEG to invest finance on rehabilitation works which would yield benefits in future
years diminished. Consequently, SEEG did not further reduce water losses.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   The sector reorganization has had a strong positive impact on the urban water development
sub-sector. Developments in both the key sector organizations SONEG and SEEG have contributed
significantly to the strengthening of the sector. SEEG developed the ability to address technical,
financial, and managerial issues it faced. Similarly, SONEG developed adequate managerial and
technical skills to be able to autonomously plan and implement sector development programs. The
experience these organizations have gained in their new roles has resulted in enhanced institutional
maturity and indicates that significant strides have been made towards achieving sustainability.



8
34.   With the support of the World Bank, the Government, SONEG, and SEEG are moving to
consolidate the gains made in the Second Water Project through the ongoing Third Water Supply &
Sanitation Project in which Bank support is US $16.8 million. This project includes components to
improve the distribution system, strengthen SONEG's monitoring capacity, and to assist SONEG
prepare and negotiate a new lease contract that will comprise a performance contract between SONEG
and SEEG. It will also address UFW, tariffs issues, as well as institutional incentives for better
performance. Overall, sustainability is rated as likely.
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   Bank performance was highly satisfactory in project preparation and satisfactory in the project
implementation. The Bank staff addressed effectively the failings of the WSP-I during identification.
During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank's operational staff did well to design an innovative
sector reorganization plan that would have far reaching beneficial impacts  At the same time
disagreements among operational, procurement, and legal staff led to a delay in Bank commitment for
the project. Conditions imposed on the borrower allowed for the establishment of a sound institutional
framework before credit effectiveness. During supervision, the Bank staff identified implementation
problems and moved adequately to address them. For example, when SEEG delayed installing meters
on Government connections, the meters were quickly installed on the Bank's insistence on their timely
installation. When the relationship between SEEG and SONEG reached a low, the Bank took the
positive step of calling for discussions to resolve the differences. Finally, when the Government failed
to pay dues in a timely manner, this situation was satisfactorily resolved with. the assistance of the
Bank.
G.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Borrower performance was highly satisfactory during the project preparation and satisfactory
during the project implementation.  Project objectives were achieved because all parties, the
Government, SONEG, as well as SEEG, played vastly improved roles. SEEG significantly improved
the commercial systems. SONEG developed and implemented sector programs expeditiously, The
Government, to a large part, facilitated the operation of the sector organizations and paid its bills.
While problems were encountered in procurement, pricing, and with UFW, performance has improved
very significantly from the weak beginnings observed in the WSP-I. However, opportunities for
designing an incentive structure that would prevent economically wasteful water losses and increase
coverage rapidly were missed.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   Project objectives were largely achieved and the organization for consumer protection reports
satisfaction with delivery and water quality.  While there were several shortcomings such as
procurement delays, incomplete development of SONEG, and problems with managing SEEG, sector
operations in Guinea have improved very significantly over the performance displayed by the previous
organization. The outcome is rated as satisfactory.



9
I.     FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   The Government, SONEG, and SEEG are very committed to consolidate on the gains made so
far in urban water sector and this, with the support of the world Bank. The Third Water Supply &
Sanitation Project (WSP-I) which was made effective in August 1997 has allocated US$ 16.8 million
for addressing the shortcomings of the WSP-Il and will enhance the distribution system in Conakry,
strengthen SONEG's regulatory capacity, and assist in the preparation and negotiation of a new lease
contract.
39.   The Government has submitted an action plan for the water sector improvements. According
to this action plan, the most immediate needs in the water supply and sanitation sector are the
rehabilitation of existing systems and associated improvements in operation and maintenance.
Rehabilitation will be followed by carefully planned expansion of existing systems to serve to a rapidly
increasing population.
40.   The sector's performance will continue to depend on the pace at which SEEG reduces UFW
and on the lease contract through the incorporation of monitoring indicators that will be renegotiated in
1999. The Government has also submitted a timetable to review SONEG and SEEG's remuneration.
and plans to seek the advice of consultants who will help review the incentive structures existing under
the lease contract.
41.   SONEG's objectives are also to develop water services in thirty-three secondary urban centers
by the year 2005 and to increase access to safe water to meet urban household demand, particularly in
Conakry's fast-growing low-income areas.  The Government and SONEG's objectives and
commitments would be part of the revised three-year rolling enterprise contract. SONEG's strategy
will be to manage water demand more effectively by instituting an appropriate tariff policy, and to
develop an improved incentive structure that will maximize the efficiency of SEEG's water operations.
Tariffs will be adjusted to reflect actual costs taking into account the capacity for the consumer to pay
through a program of social connections for the poor.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   This project represents the Bank's first experience at using private sector participation as a
major tool for reshaping the institutional structure in a borrowing country's water sector.  The
privatization approach was very different from the traditional Bank loans in the sector. Partly because
the approach was so new to the bank, there was significant debate over whether then existing legal and
procurement procedures allowed the Bank to fund a project where the private sector would be
responsible for managing day-to-day operations. The lengthy internal discussion process contributed to
the long preparation period of four years.
43.   These discussions benefited the Bank by contributing towards the evolution of more friendly
private sector participation procedures and allowing innovation which is built on sound principles to
take place. Further, this project's approach also served as a model for subsequent sector investments.
44.   The project also had a noteworthy achievements. In implementing the sector reform, a major
portion of the new institutional structure was put in place as a condition of loan effectiveness. Also, the
project supported and financed a transparent subsidy scheme designed to remunerate the private sector



10
providers at the agreed upon lease rate and at the same time protect consumers from a rate shock by
gradually increasing consumer prices over several years.
45.    The following lessons were learned from this project:
*  The sector reorganization that entailed establishment of autonomous agencies and private
sector participation served to significantly improve sector performance.
*  However, universal improvements in efficiency should not be taken for granted even in a
privately operated system.
*  When a lease contract is being designed, short-term and long-term incentive structures
should be carefully created to meet precisely articulated objectives to maximize the
efficiency of the private sector operations.
*  In the interest of the consumer protection, a strong regulatory and oversight function is very
important to control private sector operations.
*  To increase transparency in operations when a private operator functions as a system
operator and as a construction contractor, separate financial statements of its different
functions are highly recommended.



11
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
[Credit 1985-GUIl
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Part II. TABLES
TABLE 1 - SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial   Partial    Negligible  Not applicable
V^)         (a)         V^)          (V)
Macro policies                     El           El          Fl          El
Sector policies                    2E1           0            0 
Financial objectives                            El           E          ElI
Institutional development                       El 0II                  [I0
Physical objectives                             El           El         El
Poverty reduction                  El                        El         E
Gender issues                      El           El                      E 
Other social objectives            El           El           E          E
Environmental objectives                        El           El         El
Public sector management                        El           El         El
Private sector
development                                     D    L   D
Other (capacity building)         [Z]           El           El         El



12
B. Project Sustainability        Likely            Unlikely         Uncertain
(1)               ('1)               (I)
C. Bank performance              Hjighy
satisfactor        Satisfactorv      Deficient
(1)               (1)                (1)
Identification                   E5il                LI 0i
Preparation assistance            m                   Ci              L
Appraisal                                             Li              Li
Supervision                       Li                                  L-i
D. Borrower performance          Highly
satisfactorv      Satisfactorv      Deficient
(1)                (1)              (1)
Preparation                       [I]                 0i               i
Implementation                    Li                 L7i              LII
Covenant compliance
(counterpart funds)                                  K]               K
Operation (if applicable)         Li                                  Li 
E. Assessment of Outcome   Highly                                       Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(L)                          L i )           V )
O             m7    E-    CH



13
TABLE 2- RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Precedini Operations
First Water Supply and Sanitation   Rehabilitate the water production and  1985               Completed
Project (Cr. 870-GUI)          transmission facilities; extend the water
distribution network and provide technical
assistance to the water supply company.
Conakry Urban Development      Strengthen the ability of central and local  1984              Completed
Project (Cr. 1466-GUI)         government to plan coordinate, and control
urban growth and development in Conakry
and the surrounding area.
Nat. Rural Infrastructure      Ensure rural water supply for 140 villages  1990               Completed
(Cr. 2106-GUI)                 where more thank 100,000 people live in
Kissidougou and Gueckedou regions
Followina onerations
Third Water Supply and         Increase coverage and access to safe water  1997               Under
Sanitation Project (Cr. 017 -GUI)  sufficiently to meet urban household demand;               Supervision
development of sanitation service in Conakry;
improve regulatory capacity and human
resources of institutions responsible for water
and sanitation
TABLE 3- PROJECT TIMETABLE
$teps in projecT ~Ie                                  Date pDatactl............
Identification (Initiating Project Brief)                                           July 9, 1984
Preparation                                                                         1985 - June 1987
Pre-Appraisal                                                                       February 1988
Appraisal                             May 1985                                      March 1988
Negotiations                                                                        October 1988
Board Presentation                    May 1988                                      February 21, 1989
Signing                                                                             May 3, 1989
Effectiveness                         Subject to Borrower Meeting Several Conditions  October 5, 1989
Project Completion                    October 31, 1996                              July 31, 1998
Loan Closing                          October 31, 1996                              October 31, 1997



14
TABLE 4 - LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(TJS$ millions)
Appraisal estimate              2.4      4.8      7.2      9.2       8.0      5.2      2.8       0.4        0
Actual                         2.91    5.15      4.58     9.64      6.22     3.98     3.94      3.23       .78
Actual as % of estimate       121%    107%       64%    105%       78%      77%      141%      808%
Appraisal estimate              2.4     7.2      14.4    23.6       31.6    36.8      39.6      40.0     40.0
cumulative
Actual cumulative              2.91    8 06     12.64   22.28    28.50   32.48       36.42     39.65       41
Actual as % of est.           121%    112%       88%      94%       90%     88%       92%       99%      102%
cumulative                                                                               =
The last of disbursement of SDR 6,300 (equivalent to US $ 8,700) was made on 11/19/1997.
Cumulative Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
US $ Millions
45
40
35                          Estimated
30
25                                                                   Actual
20
1 5
1 0
5
1          2           3           4           5          6           7           8           9
Fiscal Year



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Items                             Estimated.Ahevmn
A. Man gement Support Program to SONEG
1.      Technical Assistance
l.a  Advisor to General Manager        72 person months              Completed
Lb  Engineer                           72 person months               75 person months
2.      Consultancy Services
2.a  Rate Consultant                   6 person months                Completed
2.b  Legal Counsel                     6 person months                Not Used
3.      Audit                              50 person months              Completed
4.      Training                           9 person months               Completed
5.      Office Space                      600 m2                         960 m2
6.      Equipment and Vehicles
6a.  Office Fum. & Equipment.          Various                        Completed
6b.  Vehicles                          2                              2
B. Rehabilitation of Sector Operations
7. ]  Creation of SEEG                                                   Achieved
8.      Conclusion of Lease Contract_                                    Achieved
C. Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities
9.    lSupply of Equipment etc.            Various                       Achieved
10.    hInstallationof equipment etc.     Various                        Achieved
D. Expansion of Conakry of Water Supply
11.     Raw water transmission line       36 kin, 1,000 mm pipe          Installed
12.     Treatment plant ( & Storage)      40,000 m3/day (1,000 m3)       38,000 m3/day (3,000 m3')
13.     Transmission line                 24 kin, 1,100 mm pipe          Installed
14.     Connections with storage
14.a  Regulation valve chamber                                        Installed
14.b  Pipe laying                        11.2 km                       Installed
15.     Storage Reservoirs
15.a  Kipe storage                      2,500 m3                      Installed
15.b  Simbaya storage                   2,500 m3                       Installed
16.     Distribution Network
16.a  Primary                           23 km                         Installed
16.b  Secondary                         275 km                         383 km
16.c  Connections                       15,000                         11,200
17      Engineering consultant             160 person months             193 person months
E. Cons ultancy Services
18.     Preparatory studies                                            | Completed
19.     Revision of legal framework                                      Completed
20.     Tech. assistance to Govt.                                        Completed
21.     Secondary centers study                                          Completed
22.     Outplacement                                                     Completed



16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
19909 -      1991          1992  J-         1993    1   1994   -  19 95  1 1996:   19971
Est.   Act   Est. I Act   Est. - Act -Est.   Act   Est.   Act   Actual   Actual   Actual..
Production (Mm3)     19.9  20.5  20.5  21.5  22.0  21.7  23.7  26.5               33.6      26.8     24.9
Aggoregate
Billing (Mm3)        13.3  14.1  14.3  10.8  15.4  11.6  17.1  13.0               15 7      14.1      12.9
Collection (NfinM)    9.6  10.6  10.7   7.1  11.9   9.6  13.7   9.2               13.8      12.7      11.9
Coll. Eff. (%)         72    88    75    44    77    39    80    35                 84        84       64
Billing (GNF 106             2.1           2.9       | 4.8 |_ |_ 6.7 |          | 12.5 |   11.9       10.9 |
Collect. (GNF 10 )           1.8           1.3          1.9           2.8         10.5      10.0      701
Coll. Eff. (%)                88           44 _          39  _     _  42  _    j  84          84       64
Govern. Conn.
Billing(GNF 106)             1.1|[         1.1          1.9           3.1            6       4.4       3.3      2.3
Collect. (GNF 10')    _       T 1ll     T8_     5         8 1   _    .4 T_ r  6.2            5.41     2.5       1.5
ICol Eff. (%)                1100 T      1  44  ___    41  ___          13 T_ 1 104           1221      77        64
Private Conn.
Billing (GNF 106)   |         .9 |_ |_ 1.8 |___ 2.9 |___ 3.6 |_ |  6.5                       7.5       7.6      5.7
Collect. (GNF 106)   |   _    .7  ____      .8 ____ 1.1               2.4 _  _    4.3        4.7      4.4       2.6
Coll. Eff. (%)                72           44 |_ |_ 38                67 _    |  66           62       58        45
Tariff (GNFIm         150   150   239   320   274   465   356   680   520   880             880       880       880
Tariff (USD/m) m      0.25   0.22   0.38 1 0.39   0.42   0.50   0.52 1 0.71   0.73   0.88   0.88     0.88_
Metered Cons.
-Public Conn. (%)         J |_      100    45   100    36   100    60   100    86            100 I    100
-PrivateConn.(%)   __ |  43   100    58   100    67   100    81   100    91                   98       98 j
Conn. Billed (000)   I _    17.1  _  _   20.3  __ l_18.6  _  _   19.5  _  _   20.1          21.3     23.4
Staffing
f SONEG Total                  43            45  __ |_ 45 |_ |_ 44                   45        42       43        44
Expatriates                    2            2  _          2 T      1   2 T      T   2
Guinea Nationals    T_    T_ 41            43            43  __ T_ 42 T         T  43        42        43        44
SEEG Total         ____312  ____ 294  _  _    292  _  _    291  _  _    448                 450       503       503
Expatriates                    8            8             81            8            6         6        5         5 S
Guinea Nationals             304  _  _    286  ____ 284 1            283           442      444       498 1    498
Sector Total                 355          339           337          335           493T     492       546       547
1. Indicators for 1997 reflect a partial year



17
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
1.  Preparatory Study to the  To help prepare the  Completed    Study recommendations were
Project               project                               adopted
2.  Secondary Centers      To help rehabilitate  Completed       Secondary center
Water Supply Studies    secondary centers                  rehabilitation commenced.
TABLE 8A - PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Millions)
Management Support           0.6       3.6        4.2       0.2       3.9       4.1    l
Program to SONEGl
Rehabilitation of Sector     1.3       14.1      15.4       0.0       16.9      16.9 l
OperationsI
Rehabilitation of Existing   0.4       3.7        4.1       1.4       7.6       9.0 l
Facilitiesl
Expansion of the Conakry     9.3       48.6      57.9       11.4      73.5      84.9 l
f          ~~~~Water Supply
Consultancy Services         0.1       1.1        1.2       0.2       2.9       3.1
Base Cost of Mid-1998        11.7      71.0      82.7l
Physical Contingencies       1.5       7.8        9.3l
Price Contingencies          1.6       9.0       10.6l
Total Project Cost           14.8      87.8      102.6i    13.2      104.8     118.0|
i~ ~~~~......  .............



18
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Millions)
IDA                            2.9        37.1       40.0        4.4       36.6       41.0
AfDB                           3.1        19.9       23.0        1.2       22.4       23.6
CCCE                           1.9        14.7       16.6       2.0        21.1       23.1
EIB                             1.9        9.4       11.3        0.0       16.0       16.0
Private Sector                  ---        1.4        1.4        0.4        1.0        1.4
Government & SONEG             3.3        5.3        8.6        4.2         1.9        6.1
Beneficiaries                   1.7        ---        1.7        1.0                   1.0
JICA                                                            0.0         5.8        5.8
TOTAL:   14.8          87.8      102.6                             118.0
TABLE 9 - ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
a:.,,.... X                                          q              .;'' ~~~~....... ...
|| Internal Rate of Return   |          11%               |             10%        l...



19
TABLE 10 - STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Credit         2.06        C       10/31/97   SONEG to submit draft annual operating and capital
budgets, financial forecasts, training program, and
Contrat Plan
Credit         2.07        C       12/31/89   SONEG to submit new accounting procedures         Satisfactory
Credit         2.08        C       12/31/89   SONEG to limit staff to 60 employees              Limited to peak of
45
Credit         2.09        C                 SONEG to cause SEEG to prepare a rehabilitation    Submitted to IDA
program
Credit         2.10       CD                 SONEG to cause SEEG to report periodically on
operating and financial performance
Credit       4.01(bXii)    CD      8/31/97    SONEG to submit audited financial.statements
Credit      4.01(bXiii)    C       9/30/97   SONEG to furnish audited statements of water billed &
collected, special accounts, and of SOE every 4 months
Credit       4.02(a)(i)    C                 SONEG to maintain single rate until one year after
installation of meters on all connections
Credit        4.02(a)      C                 Thereafter, SONEG to maintain lowest rate applicable at
not less than 1.2 times consolidated operating costs
Credit         4.03        C                 SONEG to request IDA opinion on investments costing
more than US$ I million
Credit        4.04(a)      C                 SONEG's annual debt service not to exceed annual net
revenues
Credit         4.05        C                 SONEG to carry out annual pro forma asset revaluation
Credit         4.06        C                 SONEG to generate agreed rate of return on revalued
assets
Credit        3.01 (a)     C                 Government to make proceeds of Credit available to  Complied 8189
SONEG as grant and partly under subsidiary financing
agreement
Credit        3.01(d)      C                 Government to approve water rate increases
Credit         3.04       CD                 Government to enter into Contrat Plan with SONEG
Credit        3.05(d)      CP                Borrower to settle Govemrnment water bills in 4
installments
Credit         3.06        C                 Government to request IDA opinion on investments
costing more than US$ I million
Credit        3.07(a)      C        1/5/90    DEG to cease all operations in Conakry            8/1/90
Credit        3.07(b)     CD       12/31/89   Completion of DEG liquidation                     Completed 11/90
Credit        4.01(f)      C       6/30/90   Financing for expansion of Conakry system to be
effective
Status Codes: C-complied, CD-Compliance after delay, CP-Partial comnpliance



20
TABLE 11 - ESTIMATED BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
W~~~~ ~~.'. .. .........
Through Appraisal                            51.7                               124.9l
Appraisal-Board                             59. 1                               148.7
Board-Effectiveness                           6.1                                15 .7l
Supervision                                 140.6                              440.9l
Completion                                   10.5                               31.3|
Total                                      268.0                                716.5



21
TABLE 12 - BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Identification
Preparation     12/85       2         12          EN, FA
Preparation     3/86         1         7            FA
Preparation     7/86         3        11       EN, FA, CON
Preparation     2/87         3         8       EN, FA, CON
Preparation     6/87        2         11          EN, FA
Appraisal       3/88        4         22      EN,FA,EC,CP
Supervision     10/89       2         15          FA, EN              I             I                     PP
Supervision     5/90         1         7            EN                I             1                    PP
Supervision     10/90        1        11            EN               2              1                PP, PMP, TA
Supervision     1/91         1         8            FA               2              1                  PP,TA
Supervision     7/91         1         5            FA               2              1             PP, PMP, TA, CC
Supervision     6/92        2          9          FA, EN             2              1            PMP, AF, PP, TA, FP
Supervision     10/92        1        6             EN               2              1             CC, AF, PP, TA, FP
Supervision     1/93        2          5          FA, EN              I             I                  CC,TA
Supervision     6/93         1        10            EN                2             1               CC,PP,TA,FP
Supervision     3/94         1         6            EN               2              1            CC, PP, PP, TA, FP
Supervision     7/94         1                      FA               S              S            CC, PP, PP, TA, FP
Supervision     10/94       3         10        EN, FA, OP           S              S          CC, PMP. AF, PP, TA, FP
Supervision     2/95        2         20          EN, FA             S              S          CC, PMP,AF, PP, TA, FP
Supervision     7/95        5         4       EN,FA, OP,EN           S              S          CC, PMP, AF, PP, TA, FP
Supervision     11/95        1         5            EN              HS              S           CC,PMP,AF,TA,FP
Supervision     4/96         1        5             EN              HS              S                  CC, TA
Supervision     9/96         1        8             EN              HS              S                CC, TA, FP
Supervision     6/97        3         10            EN               s              s                   PMP
Last Mission    10/97        1         7            EN               S              S
Staff SkMls                       Perfonnance Ratings                   Types of Problens
AR - Architect          OP Operations Officer     1 - Minor or No Problems   AF: Availability of Funds   PMP: Project Managernent
CON - Consultant        PO - Project Officer      2 - Moderate Problems      CC: Compliance with     Performance
EC -Economist           TTL - Task Team Leader    3 - Major Problem          Legal Covenants         PP: Procurement Progress
EN Engineer             CP - Commnunity           S Satisfactory             FP: Financial Performance  PS: Progress of Studies
FA - Financial Analyst  Participation Specialist  HS Highly Satisfactory     PDO: Project            TA. Technical Assistance
OA - Operation Assistant                                                     Development Objectives    Progress



22
Annex A
Mission's Aide-Memoire
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SONEG (NATIONAL WATER ENTERPRISE OF GUINEA)
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (Credit No. 1985-GUI)
FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Mr. Yao Badjo visited Conakry from October 17 to 25, 1997, in order to carry out the World
Bank's final supervision mission and prepare closure of the Second Water Supply Project (Credit No.
1985-GUI), and supervise the Third Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The present Aide-Memoire
refers only to the Second Water Supply Project.
2.    The mission was received by His Excellency Alfa Ousmane Diallo, Minister of Urban Planning
and Housing. The mission visited Mr. Fontaine and Mr. De Geyer, of Caisse Frangaise de
Developpement, in order to gather this agency's opinions regarding project implementation. The
nission also held working sessions with the Office of the Director General of SONEG, and visited the
Director General of SEEG. The mission wishes to thank all of the above, particularly SONEG, for
their welcome and cooperativeness.
3.    As of September 30, 1997, the overall results of the project, including all components of
financing, were as follows:
*  An additional 55,000 m3 of water production capacity in Conakry;
* construction of an additional 11,250 m3 of water storage capacity;
* construction of 416 km of water supply system;
* 11,000 new connections installed;
* rehabilitation of the groundwater pumping stations in Conakry;
* partial rehabilitation of the Conakry water supply system and connections;
* rehabilitation of three water catchments in Kakoulima;
* rehabilitation of water supply facilities in three secondary centers; and
* construction of the SONEG headquarters.
4.    This Aide-Memoire summarizes the mission's main conclusions and recommendations,
examining the following issues:
* Project financing
* Project objectives and main components
* Implementation



23
* Project impact
*  Sustainability
e Risks
Project Financing
5.    The Second Water Supply Project (Conakry) began to be implemented in 1989, and was jointly
financed by the following donors: IDA (the International Development Association), EIIB (the
European Investment Bank), CFD (Caisse Frangaise de Developpement), the African Development
Bank Group (AfDB, NTF, and ADF), SONEG (the Guinean national water authority), the Government
of the Republic of Guinea, and the private-sector partners in SEEG (the Guinean water management
company). The breakdown of financing was as follows: IDA Credit No. 1985-GUI (SDR 29.30
million, approved on May 3, 1989), EIB Loan No. 70,795 (ECU 6 million, signed on October 27,
1989), a Second EEB Loan (No. 70,860 for ECU 8 million, signed on December 17, 1991), CFD Loan
No. 982 300 91050 (F 125 million, signed on July 4, 1991), together with the following loans issued on
June 21, 1989: AfDB No. B/GUI/AEP/89/11 (UA 6.22 million), NTT No. GUI/AEP/89/2 (UA 6
million), and ADF No. F/GUIWAEP/89/1 1 (UA 4.61 million).
Project Objectives and Main Components
6.    Project objectives: The main objective of the project was to establish a legal, technical, and
financial framework that would serve as a basis for the development of the urban water supply sector.
The project had the following aims:
(a)    Strengthening the planning and management capability of the agency responsible for
developing the sector (SONEG, the national water authority);
(b)   rehabilitating technical, commercial, and financial operations in the sector, in accordance with
the terms of an operating contract between SONEG and SEEG, the Guinean water-
management company (owned jointly by the Government and a foreign partner);
(c)   strengthening the Conakry water supply system (which had reached its limit), a secondary
objective being to generate additional revenue as support for the development of the less
profitable systems in smaller urban centers; and
(d)   regularly increasing water rates to meet long-term marginal costs.
7.    Project components: As planned, the project comprised the following components:
(a)   A management-support program for SONEG, consisting of: (i) technical assistance for the
Directorate of Studies and New Works; (ii) the services of a financial consultant; (iii) audits;
(iv) a staff training program; (v) the construction of offices and the supply of equipment and
vehicles.
(b)   Support for the foreign-exchange component of the operative water rate, provided over a six-
year period at a decreasing percentage (100% for the first four years, 80% for the fifth year,
and 60% for the sixth year).



24
(c)    A program for the rehabilitation of facilities, including the supply and installation of equipment
for existing pumping stations, small-gauge pipes, individual connections, and water meters.
(d)   Expansion of the Co'nakry water supply system, including the supply and installation of the
equipment necessary for: (i) partial doubling of the Grandes Chutes-Yessoulou transmission
line (about 60 km of pipes, 1,000 mm and 1,100 mm in diameter); (ii) addiition of a 40,000 m3
unit to the Yessoulou treatment plant; (iii) provision of an additional 5,000 m3 in storage
capacity; (iv) extension of the water distribution network (307 km of 8010/60-mm pipes and
15,000 new connections); (v) provision of the services of an engineering consultant for the
preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents, and for the supervision of the works.
(e)    Consultant services for preparing studies on urban water supply in secondary centers, and a
training program for staff laid off by DEG and wishing to establish their own enterprises.
Project Implementation
8.    Overall implementation began with the provision of assistance for SONEG in January 1989.
The new agencies established once the sector had been restructured (SONEG and SEEG) came into
operation on August 1, 1989. As regards physical components, the rehabilitation program began in
July 1990 and the new works in January 1992. Despite an accumulation of delays at the beginning of
the project, affecting the prequalification of enterprises and procurement for iitems 1 through 5,
execution of the works was satisfactory, thanks in particular to the quality of the engineering
consultant's supervision and monitoring.
9.    No particular problems affected the management of the IDA-financed contracts, except in the
case of the rehabilitation contracts for items 7 and 8 (executed by SEEG and supervised by SONEG),
where there was an overrun of about GNF 400 million, leading to a rejection of applications for
disbursement on the part of IDA. Subsequently, these ovenruns were absorbed by SEEG's revolving
fund. Counterpart funding was mainly important in item 1, financed by AEDB, and item 6C
(distribution), together with a portion of the costs of the planned 15,000 connections. To avoid
delaying the works, SONEG prefinanced the Government's counterpart funds for item 1.
10.   SONEG properly fulfilled its responsibilities as project owner.  Nevertheless, capital
investment planning in the sector must be improved. To a considerable extent, the selection of certain
investment items and technical approaches, and the criteria applied when determining the scale of
installations and designing projects, are decided by the donors, especially when financing takes the
form of a grant. In Conakry, the designs used in projects other than those forming part of this Second
Project take no account of the rest of the system. To overcome this problem, a master plan has been
prepared for the water supply system in Conakry (with project financing) and 10 secondary centers
(with financing from CIDA, Canada).
11.   Implementation of physical components: The following results have been achieved:
Daily water production capacity has reached 100,000 m3, compared with 45,000 m3 before
the project.



25
*  km of pipes were installed (all diameters), compared with the planned 307 km. Conakry
now has a 700 km system, compared with 260 km before the project.
*  connections and 35 standpipes were installed.
*  Conakry's storage capacity was increased from 19,000 m3 to 35,200 m3.
*  The Conakry groundwater stations were rehabilitated.
*  Three catchments were rehabilitated in Kakoulima, providing an additional daily flow of
3,000 m3.
*  In Conakry, the water supply system, 13,000 connections, and 55 standpipes were
rehabilitated.
*  In Faranah, Forecariah, and Gueckedou, the water supply facilities were rehabilitated.
*  The SONEG headquarters was constructed.
12.   Despite the successful outcome of the physical components, the following two problems
remain, and call for immediate action: (a) the poor performance of the water supply network (losses
amount to 50%); (b) SEEG's poor commercial performance (at about 66%, the average recovery rate
from private consumers is still low).
13.   Staff training: The training program was based on the following two main components:
* Training sessions were organized in Guinea and Europe by Office International de l'Eau
Potable (France).
*  Special short courses were organized for the technical staff assigned to supervising and
monitoring the work sites.
14.   In order to provide SONEG engineers with practical training, one would be assigned to the
consultant in each batch of works, so as to observe how these works were supervised and how
assistance was provided for the contractors in the administrative procedures necessary for performing
their contractual duties.
Project Impact
15.   Annexes I and II show comparisons between the targets planned at Appraisal and actual
performance, according to the main operating indicators for the sector.  Undeniably, project
implementation was a success in terms of the physical components and control of capital investment
costs. The project made a major contribution toward upgrading water supply services, and this led to
definite improvements in the health of the population of Conakry, which now has a clean water supply,
both day and night. Nevertheless, the project did not achieve all the performance targets set at
Appraisal, such as those relating to the Conakry water supply system, water sales, and recovery ratios,
all of which fall short of the planned levels.
Performance of the Contrat-Plan (SONEG)
16.   SONEG fully adopted the principle of a rolling three-year contrat-plan that would be updated
each year, and prepared on time all the necessary documentation for the annual plans (i.e. that relating
to the contrat-plan itself, the capital investment programs, and the multiyear projections).
Nevertheless, approval and signature of the contrat-plans were delayed. In spite of these delays in



26
issuing approval, the Government fulfilled its commitments to increase water rates. The current
average rate (GNF 880 per mi3) is at the level indicated in the Appraisal Report. SONEG is up-to-date
with its share of the sector's debt-service payments, the amounts being as follows: GNF 136 million in
1991, GNF 376 million in 1992, GNF 1.64 billion in 1993, GNF 2.517 billion in 1994, GNF 4.426
billion in 1995, GNF 3.067 billion in 1996, and GNF 1.18 billion at end-July  1997. The weakness in
the contrat-plan and other institutional arrangements is the Government's failure to pay its water bills
on time.
Performance of the Operating Contract (SEEG)
17.   The weaknesses in contract performance were the result in particular of the system adopted for
rehabilitation. SEEG's apparent failure to understand IDA procedures and its insistence on using
negotiated contracts for rehabilitation works had the effect of slowing the whole process down. It was
clear that SEEG's normal commercial practices for providing supplies for partners resulted in better
prices than IDA procedures would have done, at least in the case of medium-cost orders; however,
negotiated contracts provided no advantages for rehabilitation works. On some other occasion, it
would be useful to test the possible inclusion of components of a rehabilitation program in the bidding
process for an operating contract. Another problem is that SEEG does not provide all the information
required under the terms of its contract (progress reports, technical reports, etc.). It is most desirable
that there should be increased transparency regarding performance of the operating contract.
Operator's Performance (SEEG)
18.   Annexes I and II show performance indicators for operations, together with the levels planned
at Appraisal. The following are the main features of these indicators:
(a)    The volume of actual sales is smaller than planned. This can be attributed partly to the delay in
bringing the transmission line into operation, but mostly to the small increase in the number of
connections.
(b)    The level of performance was considerably lower than planned. Weaknesses in operations
became clear when the new transmission line came into service. This falloff could have been
foreseen and SEEG had five years to prepare for it. The results are unsatisfactory.
(c)    Collection ratios were lower than planned; however, a comparison with the situation prior to
the privatization of operations shows that the sector's financial position has clearly improved.
Sustainability
19.   Essentially, the sustainability of reforms in Guinean urban water supply will depend on the
following factors:
* The Government's will to maintain the reforms and build on them. In the mission's
opinion, there is no danger that this will not be so, because the reforms have already
transformed the financial position of urban water supply and created a real potential for
development. In addition, the service quality of water supply has greatly improved.
* Rapid improvements by SEEG in the performance of the Conakry water supply system,
and improvements in the quality of its commercial services with respect to billing and



27
recovery. The mission believes that improving SEEG's performance should be the
agency's basic priority. The use of incentives could be considered, such as the introduction
of a charge for the use of raw water.
Risks
20.   The first risk arises from the small volume of sales resulting from the limited number of
connections, while the second is produced by the lack of any provision for upgrading the system over
the coming two years, since this could bring about a totally unnecessary water shortage, due solely to
wastage through water losses. The third risk is that water consumption by the Government and private
consumers will not be paid for in a timely manner, and this could damage the sector's financial
position. The first risk can be lessened by continuing and intensifying the program of low-cost
connections. This should be extended, making the costs affordable to consumers. In addition, the price
structure for water should be reviewed, and a range of "social prices" should be introduced. The
second risk will be reduced by the rapid application of an action plan proposed by SEEG and SONEG
for improving the Conakry water supply system. As regards the third risk, the Ministry of Finance has
promised to introduce effective mechanisms for the payment of government water consumption. In
addition, SEEG should establish a better commercial policy so as to improve the recovery rate for its
private customers, which is currently low even when compared with the rate of payments obtained
from the Govemment, even though the latter is still SEEG's best paying customer.
Conakry, October 25, 1997
Yao Badjo
World Bank



28
Annex B
Borrower's Evaluation of the Project
COMPLETION REPORT CITY OF CONAKRY:
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
RESULTS
1.    By the end of the project, the physical components had achieved the following results:
*  The design capacity of the water supply system in the city of Conakry had increased from
45,000 m3 per day in 1988 to 100,000 m3, including an additional 3,000-m3 flow per day
resulting from the rehabilitation of three catchments on the slopes of M[ount Kakoulima.
*  The urban water-distribution system in Conakry was extended from 260 km (before
project) to 700 km through the construction of an additional section 416 km long, instead of
the 307 km planned at Appraisal.
*  The 11,000 new connections provided by the Second Water Supply Project, together with
those installed by SEEG independently of the project, brought the total number of private
connections in Conakry to 25,000.
* Total storage capacity increased from 19,000 m3 in 1988 to 35,250 m3 in 1996.
* Thirty-five standpipes were installed, and 55 others were rehabilitated.
* Older sections of the distribution system -- together with 13,000 defective and out-of-order
private connections -- were rehabilitated.
* In Forecariah, Faranah, and Gueckedou, water supply facilities were rehabilitated.
* The SONEG headquarters was constructed and equipped.
* On the other hand, the performance of the Conakry water supply netwvork continues to be
poor (at about 50%), as does the billing recovery rate (at about 66%).
* By June 1997, 20 urban centers, including Conakry, possessed water supply systems.
* In 1998, the number will increase to 25, once works have been completed in Labe, Siguiri,
Dinguiraye, Koundara, and Teliml&.
* The new works installed under the project, together with improved technical and financial
management, are providing an uninterrupted supply of water -- at a satisfactory operating
pressure -- for Conakry and the other centers. More than 90% of the connections are fitted
with meters.
3
*  IDA support for water pricing ended in 1995, and the current rate is GNF 880 per m3,
compared to GNF 150 per m3 in 1990. There are the following three levels:
0-20 m3:           GNF 680
21-60 m3:          GNF 850
61 m3 and above:   GNF 925
2.    The financial performance was as follows:



29
* SONEG regularly submitted its own and SEEG's financial statements to IDA, applying the
monitoring standards agreed with IDA. It has also forwarded to IDA the audit reports
referring to the various accounts, together with audited statements of the volume of water
billed and the charges recovered.
* SONEG has regularly forwarded to IDA its annual operating and capital investment
budgets, together with financial forecasts for the following three financial years.
* SONEG provided its share of capital investment in the construction of secondary and
tertiary systems and the installation of "social" connections, for which it subsidizes 80% of
the cost.
* As of July 31, 1997, SONEG had -- in a timely manner -- met the requirement to service
its debt to the Government. For its part, the Government has at all times fulfilled its
commitments with regard to price increases and payment for its own water consumption,
despite sometimes considerable delays.
IMPACT ON HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
3.    The physical components had the effect of considerably increasing the percentage of the
population in Conakry and other centers receiving an uninterrupted water supply.
Over the last few years, there has been a reduction in water-borne diseases, and the cases notified have
occurred in areas outside the water-supply system.
4.    ODC (the Organization for Consumer Protection, a Guinean NGO) acknowledges that water
supply is regular, and that operating pressure is satisfactory. Although SONEG and SEEG have made
considerable efforts, consumers believe that current water rates are high and that many people cannot
afford access to water supply. ODC agrees that standpipes are useful and would like to see more of
them, since they provide drinking water for low-income households.
5.    Consumers have noted that SEEG is slow to repair leaks (at both government-owned and
private facilities) when these are reported, and that frequently there are long delays between
consumers' payments for connections and the actual installation of these.
RECOMMENDATIONS ON SUSTAINABILITY
6.    Now that the present institutional framework has been in operation for eight years, the results
achieved are considered generally satisfactory; however, they would be more convincing if all those
concerned played their parts effectively. The methods employed here have provided a model for a
number of agencies, both in Guinea and abroad.
7.    The following are the main factors determining whether these results can be consolidated, and
the reforms sustained:
* The Government's political will to sustain, enhance, and strengthen the capacities of the
mechanisms established as a result of these institutional reforms.



30
*  Improvements in system performance. The installation of new works has brought to light a
number of leaks in older sections of the system, leading to a deterioration in system
performance. Rehabilitation has not helped improve the level of performance (51% as of
1997). Many illegal connections have been eliminated.
*  For the new installations to be made sustainable, action must be taken to improve system
performance, through the location and repair of leaks.
*  The currently low level of water sales is partly due to the limited number of individual
connections in Conakry and the other centers. Appropriate measures must be adopted to
increase sales. It is planned to use the following means for reducing the cost of
connections, thus providing access to water supply for as many people as possible:
=> spreading (over a reasonable period) the cost charged to consumers for the
installation of connections;
introducing a system of monthly billing, making it possible to reduce the
minimum volume for consumption to 10 m3, from the current 20 m3 per
two-month period (GNF 13,600);
=> providing facilities for settling consumers' billing arrears; and
= in cooperation with the consumers' association, organizing a campaign for
raising the consciousness of water-supply users.
8.    As regards the institutional structure, all those involved must play their parts fully, so as to
confirm and consolidate the progress made.
9.     SONEG must be provided with adequate resources for servicing its debts and developing the
sector. This means that SEEG must fulfill its contractual duty to make regular payiments of the charges
imposed on it, since these are SONEG's main source of revenue.
10.   Moreover, the Government must make it possible to improve and consolidate the sector's
financial position by regularly paying SEEG for its water consumption. The Minister of the Economy
and Finance has agreed to establish effective mechanisms for achieving this end.
11.   For its part, SEEG must prepare and implement a business-oriented, effective incentive policy
that will enable it to properly recover the charges billed to private consumers.
12.   As regards future institutional arrangements, in July 1999 any weaknesses in performance
noted over the 10 years that the present operating contract will have been in force should be taken into
account in the preparation of the bidding documents for selecting partners to operate the project once
the current contract has expired.



31
Annex C
Summary of Consumer's Contribution to the ICR
ODC: THE ORGANIZATION FOR CONSUMER PROTECTION
B.P. 2910, Conakry, Republic of Guinea
Tel.: 44.19.45
RECOMMENDATIONS
DC (the Organization for Consumer Protection) heartily thanks SONEG, and in particular its
Director General, for their kind invitation to participate in this important series of exchanges. This is,
indeed, the first time that a large national enterprise has gathered consumers' opinions and comments
on its product; in this particular case, the water it supplies. Water is a good that nobody can do
without. "Water is life!" Water is the source of all life! Despite these assertions, water can often be
mortally dangerous when it is not clean and not drinkable. In fact, it has to be treated with special
products before it is safe. Regarding the issues we were asked to examine, our views are as follows:
1.    RESULTS
*  Reliability of service: Very reliable.
*  Water quality:  The water can be consumed as delivered; the quality is therefore
excellent.
X  Social impact: The social impact is directly linked to the cost of supply. Efforts should
therefore be made to increase the scope of the social impact, thus providing as many people
as possible with an opportunity to become water consumers.
*  Impact on health: We believe this to be the most important factor. Because of the
treatment process, the quality of the water supplied ensures that the consumers will enjoy
good health. This water has never been found to have caused harm or been the source of
any disease.
II.    RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SUSTAINABILITY
(a)    The Conakry system: Not being in possession of any technical data, we cannot express an
opinion.
(b)    Policy on connections: We believe that the following measures should be adopted:
* Connections in different sections of the city should be dealt with in the same way.
* "Social" (low-cost) connections should be promoted, so that all can have access to water
supply.



32
III. DISTRIBUTION METHODS
*  Individual connections. Such connections are normally provided for civil servants in
particular, and workers with a regular income in general. They are usually expensive, and
far beyond the reach of everyone who would like to have them installed.
*  Standpipes. More of these should be installed in the various districts. For example, in
Kaporo there are only three standpipes for a population of more than 5,000. The cost is
acceptable (a 20-liter container costs GNF 50). It would be prudent -- and even vital -- to
provide considerably more standpipes in the outlying districts, where most wells are empty
in the dry season.
* Tank trucks. This method is available only to those who can afford it, and is generally
used to supply water to construction sites in areas where there are no connections, or to
swimming pools.
IV. PRICING POLICY
Living standards in Guinea make it impossible for people to pay the price charged by SEEG.
This makes it somewhat difficult to assess the impact of water supply on social issues.
V.    THE FUTURE INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE
In our opinion, the present distribution of functions (i.e. operations and capital investment)
between SEEG and SONEG is appropriate; however, the income from billings should be distributed
more equitably, because currently almost all of it is allocated to SEEG, whereas SONEG has to assume
most of the responsibilities. In conclusion, and in addition to the foregoing comments, particularly with
regard to reducing the cost of water, we would call for the following measures:
(a)    Billing should be monthly, so as to make payment easier for customers.
(b)   Meter reading should be a transparent process, and should be carried out -- if possible -- in the
presence of the customers or their representatives.
(c)    The imposition of penalties for late payments should be reviewed, eliminating the unjust and
arbitrary practice of calculating them on the basis of the total amount billed, regardless of the
level of payments already effected by the customer.
We hope that these proposals will be taken into consideration. In addition, we are ready, at
SEEG's request, to launch a wide-ranging programn for raising the consciousness of consumers and
educating them to their civic responsibility to pay their bills on time and regularly, to prevent any
passively obtained benefit from deception or perpetration of fraud, and to be constantly aware of the
need to save water.
Is/    El Hadj Nabi vaya Camara,
President of the Guinean Consumers' Organization
Conakry, Oct 29, 1997



33
Annex D
Economic Analysis of the Project
1.    The purpose of this analysis is to estimate the economic impact associated with this project. In
order to compare this estimate against the estimate contained in the SAR the same approach has been
adopted (see SAR Annex 5-2). A reader interested in verifying these calculations should first examine
the SAR for the methodology used and then use the following text to understand the changes in data
and assumptions.
2.    The following data changes have been made to reflect more recent or better data. The
Economic Rate of Return to secondary centers was not calculated because the magnitude of these
investments is significantly larger than the investments in secondary centers.
Consumer Surplus:
3.    An average consumer uses 26 lcd (Castalia Study in 1995, Graph 7), and basic consumption
(15 lcd) accounts for 58% of this amount. Thus, 58 percent of incremental consumption is used in
consumer surplus calculations. Vendor rates assumed for each year are shown.
Costs
4.    Incremental operating costs are derived from unpublished spreadsheets used in the preparation
of SAR for the Water-IEI project.
5.    The annual WS-II capital costs were provided by SONEG. Two adjustments have been made
to these costs. First, the Japanese Grant of US$6 million is excluded and second, sector rehabilitation
costs of US$17 million are also excluded because these are included instead as part of operating costs.
Revenues
6.    Operating revenues are based on unit sales and tariff projections.
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
7.    The net benefit streams are discounted to 1998 GNF using actual consumer price indices
through the year 1996. Post 1996 net benefits are expressed in constant 1996 GNF and these are
converted to 1988 GNF before calculating the Internal Rate of Return.



34
Republic of Guinea
____ -                                       ~~~~~~~~Second Water Supply Project                                 __
- consumpction     IMonetized Benefits _____Capital and Operating Costs                                              I____     1I988 GNF____
_______    _______ _______Increment Increment    Vendor   Increment Consumer Total        Capital    Increment Incremental Net       ____Net
Yer       MEom3e wIo Proj Total    Basic Con Water R Rate     Revenue  Surplus  Benefits    costs     O.Cost ICap& Op Bnft                     Benefits
Year__    Million    __Mlin__ Mlin__Mlinm_Fm              Fr3        FMlin  FMlinGFMlin GFMlinG  MillionlGF Million  GE Million   lIndex   GE Million
1987                                    58%                                                             Exc. Debt S___                  __ ___
1988        9.4      9.35     0.00      0.00     60       600                -         -           -        -                    -            0 ____
1989        10.0     9.60     0.40      0.23    150       600        60 1     52       112         -        --112    _     1                          112
1990        13.8     9.601    4.18      2.43    150       800       627      788     1,416        1,071     116      1,186       230        1.19      192
1 19911       10.8     9.601    1.21      0.70    320      1,000      386      238        624       3,973      224      4,197     (3,572)     1.43    (2,501)
1992  1     11.6     9.60     2.01      1.16    680      1,200    1,__363    302      1,6661 1 23,770       344     24,114   (22,448)       1.66   (13,484)
1993        12.8     9.60     3,21      1.86    880      1,700    2,827      764     3,591 1    28,638      441     29,079 1(25,487)       1.78   (14,291)
1994        15.5     9.60     5.92      3.44    880      1,700    5,2`12    1,408    6,621       14,050     528 1   14,578 1(7,957) -       1.86    (4,2811
1995        13.7     9~60     4.07      2.36    880      1,700 .3,581        968     4,548       4,834      559 1    5,393 1    (845) -    2.03       (417)
1996        12.6     9.60     2.95      1.71    880      1,700    2,598      702     3,300       6,686      590      7,275     (3,975) -    2.05    (1,942)
1997        13.8     9.60     4.20      2.44    940      1,700    3,948      926     4,874       2,261      621      282        192-       2.05       973
1998        14.9     9.601    5.30      3.07.   940      1,700    4,982    1,166     6,150        1,068     655      1,723     442         2.05      2,163
1999,      16.0      9.60     6.40      3.71    940      1,700    6,016    1,411     7,427       3,662      690      4,352     304-        2.05      1,502
1 20001       17.2     9.60     7.60      4.41    920      1,700    6,992    1,719      8,711 1     4,476      727      5,202     3,509  -    2.05      1,714
1 20011       18.8     9.60     9.20       5.34    920      1,700    8,464    2,081    10,545       4,158      765      4,923 1 5,622  -      2.05     2,748
1 20021       20.5   ~9.60    10.90        6.32    920     1,700   10,028    2,466     12,494       3,830      806      4,636     7,857       2.05     3,838
2003        22.3     9.80    12.70      7.37    900      1,700   11,I.430    2,94-6   14,376      1,559     848 1    2,407     11,969  -    2.05     5,847
2004        24.3     9.-60    14.70     8.53    900      1,700   13,230    3,410    1660-                   893        893    15,748        2.05     7,693
2005        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874    18,904         -        9.40       940     17,965  -    2.05     8,776
2006        26.3     9.601   16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                 989        989    17,915  -     2.05     8,752
2007        26.3     9.601   16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874    18,904   _____         1,041     1,041     17,864  -    2.05     8,726
2008        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                1,095     1,095     17,809  -    2.05     8,700
2009        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3.874    18,904                 1,095  - 1,095      17,809  -    2.05     8,700
20101        26.3     9.60    16.70      9,691   900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                1,095      1,095    17,809  -    2.05     8,700
1 20111       26.3     9.60    16.70      9.691   900      1, 7600  1-5,0-30    3,874    18,904              1,095_ __1,095      17,809  -    2.05     8,700
20`12       26.3     9.80    '16.70     9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                1,09      1,095    17,809        2.05     8,700
2013        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874    18,904                 1,095     1,095     17,809  -    2.05     8,700
2014       26.3      9.60    16.70      9.69    900      1.700   15,030    3,874    18,904                 1,095     1,095    117,809  -    2.05     8,700
2015        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.69   -900   -1,700   15,030 13,874    18,904                     1,095     1,095     17,809       2.05     8,700
2016        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.69    900     1,700   15,030    3,874    18,904                  1,095     1,095 117,809  -      2.05      8,700
2017       26.3 -   9.60    16.70       9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                1,095     1,095 117,809  -      2.051    8,700 
2018        26.3     9.60    16.701     9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                1,095     1,095 117,809          2.051    8,7001
2019       26.3   ~9.60    16.701       9.69    900  _..1,700   15,030    3,874      18,904 1              1,095     1,095 117,809  ___2.05          8,700 
20201       26.3     9.60    16.701     9.69    900 __1,700   15,030    3,874        18,904 1              1,095     1,095     17,809    __2.05      8,700 
2021        2 ~6.3   ~9.60    16.701    9.69    9002T    1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                1,095     1,095    17,809        2.05     8,7001
202    26.31    9.60    16.701     9.69    900      1,700   1500      3,874     1 8, 904  11,095                1,095     11,809       2.05     8,700 
2023        26.31    9.60    16.70      9.69 I 900       1,700   15,030    3,874    18,904 I11,095                   1,095   17,09         2.05      6,700
202     26.31    9.60    16.70       9.69     0       1,700   15,030    3,874-   18,904  11,095                   1,095 117,809    __ 2.05       8,700
1 2025  1     26.3     9.801   16.70      9.69    900      1,700 115,030    3,874      18,904                1,095      1,095    17,809       2.105    8,700
1 2026  1     26.3     9.601   16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18941,095                        1,095    17,809   12.05        8,700-
1 2027        26.3     9.601   16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874    18,904  11,095                    1,095    17,809       2.05     8,700
1 2028        26.3     9.601   16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904  11,095_    1,095                  17,809       2.05     8,700
2029        26.3     9.601   16.70      9.69    900      1,700   15,030    3,874    18,904                 1,095     1,095    17,809       2.05      8,700
2030        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.6L9    900 __1,700   15,030    3,874       18,904                105       1,095    17,809        2.05     8,700
2031        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.6     90       1,0 1530           ,84       894                  1,095     1,095    17,809       2.05  8___,700
2032        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.69i   900      1,700   15,030    3,874    '18,904                1,095     1,095     17,809      2.05      8,700
2033        26.3     9.60    16.70      9.691   900      1,700   15,030    3,874     18,904                1,095     1,095     17,809      2.05      8,700
_______                                           __________                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10%



MAP SECTION



EBRD 27322
I   '           12-             t                                   10    4t<                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~     ~~~~~~G U I N E A B,  IRD72
I4-                                                12z                                                                                 GUNE
SENEGAL                                                                                                      THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
, - ------- -r.-----                                                                ToKWgoSITUATION  OF THE WATER SUPPLY IN THE URBAN CENTERS
GU I NEA-              *         -         J         - \                                                                                       W4yg5oa! 
-12                                                                               1-                                                     , f                                                           ,
/ /I                             S.ngarbdi  N> ind.d                                                                                                                                      M    A    L   I
9 /v;) ,qe  lo        T-don   \                                                          ,               
_10                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1  
ATLANT'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ob,
A TL A hI rJ ( * ! 2 ~~~~~~~~SIERRA   LEONE k\P2Mrb7   
OCE  EA N
[soS                                                -\)> w                                      >o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N          -7! 
o   20  40  6O  B0  100  120                Bonty                    no  URBAN CITIES WITH EXISTING WATER                                                                                  (C
KILOMETERS
1X         -               Fiq  UR6~~~~~~~ANCILTIES UWNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                       -    -      DIVOiRE
MAURITANIA
/ _._   MAURITANIA   j    [ia OTHER URBAN CENTERS TO BE EQUIPPED          ,
'~~~~~  ~~~          -EEA  - - - - -                              BEFORE THE YEAR 2005                      5                                 )j                    
SENEGAL   NK
GABIHE   ',-                                                               PAVED ROADS
THEA   --BI=A,                                                            ROUTES PAVEES                          .I
GUINEA-  <                           7_  /x/ 8ALL-WEATHER ROADS
BISSAI.L(                           /BURKINA                        ROUTES PEAT/CABLES PAR TOUS TEM PS                                        
0                   ~~~~~RAILROADS                               I                 
GUINEA                  PASO                           CHEMIN4 DE FER
Conok,y    G 'B,..t.                   '.t                        FLEUVES                                  +                                     N                 -\        I
SIERRA      - L                                   *   NATIONAL CAPITAL                              5'                                                                           Theho
LEONE                                                                                                                                                                                       -d APTLEk(  eoool ,o oy
-,.  ;, i '  COTE D'IVOIRE                       PREFECTURES C APIT ,ALS                                                                                                           I,o nhoof
PREFECTURE AIAS,    ,
JBERIA"'- \                                      PREFECTU REESBOUNDARIES                           LIBERIA                 '                         \T. A6-                The dWhW Bo oP,
A T L A N T;I C                                 ">LIMITES DES PREFECTURES                                                                                                                            -  ~   1-h ..
A T-' L A N T I C   L BERIA ~   (. Z   _  _  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                     'b-                                       ll dyloln,lolI ,
G C E A                        I   i                                     FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                                                                                                -oyptoeof suh
SEPTEMBER 1995



