Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
&42Z /qç?._C'SUS
Report No. 7304-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
JANUARY 9, 1989
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operationz Division
This document has a reslticted distribution and may be used by recipienis only in the performauoe off
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wthbout World Bank authorzaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Urit   =   Guinean Franc (GF)
As of November 30, 1988
USS1.0   =   CF 500
CF 1000       US$2.00
US$1.36637   =   SDR 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 01  --  December 31
SYSEKM 0F WEICMIS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)                         =    3.2a feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)                     10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 liter (l)                         =    0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)                  =   35.3  cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    8    0.62 mile (mi)
1 cubic meter/second (m3/s)             22.8  million US gallons per day
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)   =    0.26 US gallon per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item    ------------------------------------- English/French ------------------------------------
AfDB    African Development Bank/Banque africaine de développement
BADEA   Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa/Banque arabe pour le développement économi-
que en Afrique
CCCE    French Aid Agency/Caisse centrale de coopération économique
CGE     Compagnie générale des eaux (Private French Water Company)
DEG     National Water Company/Entreprise nationale de distribution d'eau de Guinée
DGSE    Directorate for Energy/Direction générale des sources d'énergie
EIB     European Investment Bank/Banque européenne d'investissement (BEI)
FIM     Foreign Investor/manager/Investisseur/gestionnaire étranger
LCR     Lease Contractor Rate/Tarif exploitant
MRNE    Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment/Ministère des ressources naturelles et de
l'environnement
MSP     Management Support Program/Programme de soutien à la gestion
NGO     Nongovernmental organization/Organisation non-gouvernementale
RWS     Rural Water Supply/Alimentation en eau villageoise
SAUR    Société d'aménagement urbain et rural (Private French Water Company)
SEEG    Société d'exploitation des eaux de Guinée (Water Management Company)
SNAPE   Rural Water Supply Agency/Service national d'aménagement des points d'eau
SODECI  Société de distribution d'eau de Côte d'Ivoire (Private Ivorian Water Company)
SONEG   National Water Authority/Société nationale des eaux de Guinée
SSE     State Secretariat for Energies/Secretariat d'état aux énergies
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme/Programme des Nations Unies pour le développement
(PNUD)
UWS     Urban Water Supply/Alimentation en eau urbaine



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ............................            i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .iii
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR.                               1
A. Sector Background.                                                 1
B. Sector Organization.                                               2
C. Sector Policies.                                                   2
D. Sector Development.                                                3
E. Bank Group Objectives.                                             4
Il.   ThE INSTITUTIONAL REFORM AND THE PROPOSED IMPLEMENTING
A5ENCIES. .                                                           5
A.  The Proposed Institutional Arrangement.                           5
B.  Financing the Operations of the New Institutions                  6
C.  The Water Management Company (SEEG).                              7
D.  The National Water Authority -- SONEG.                            9
III. THE PROJECT .12
A. Project Objectives .12
B. Project Components .12
C. Project Cost .13
D.  Project Financing and Lending Arrangements .14
E.  Project Preparation and Implementation .15
F. Procurement .17
G. Disbursements .18
H.  Monitoring Indicators .......        .........................   18
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS              ..19
A.  Introduction .........................................           19
B.  Past Financial Performance ............ ..............           19
C.  Cost Recovery ........       ................................    20
D.  Rate of Return Covenant ......        ........................   22
E.  Future Financial Performance .....        ....................   22
F.  Financing Plan .....................................             26
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS    ..27
A. Project Benefits .27
B. Least-cost Solutions .27
C.  Domestic Connections and Public Standpipes Policy                27
D. Affordability .28
E. Marginal Cost and Rate of Return .28
F. Social Impact .28
G. Government Cash Flow Situation .29
H. Project Risks .29
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS        .       .30
A. Conditions ard Agreement .30
B. Recommendations .32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1-1   Situation of the Water Supply in Urban Centers ...........                  33
1-2   Situation of the Water Supply in Rnral Centers ...........                  35
2-1   Proposed Institutional Arrangement .......................                  37
2-2   Breakdown of the Full Cost of Water .......... .. ..........                38
2-3   SONEG.  Proposed Organization Chart .....            .................      39
3-1   Description cf Proposed Project Components ..............         .         40
3-2   Expansion of the Conakry Water Supply ......... .. .........                45
3-3   Detailed Project Cost .................       ..    .................       49
3-4   Detailed Financing Plan, Procurement Method,
and IDA. Credit Disbursement Allocation and
Disbursement Schedule ......       ......................                  50
3-5   Implementation Schedule ..... ..... .......................                 59
3-6   Monitoring Indicators ....................................                  60
4-1   Water Costs and Water Rates ..............................                  62
4-2   Financial Statemnents --SONEG .............        ..    .............      64
4-3   Financial Statements --SEEG ..............         ..    .............      67
4-4   Financial Statements -- Urban Water Supply Sector             ........      70
4-5   Assumptions for Financial ProJections ......... .. .........                73
5-1   Affordability of Proposed Tariffs .....            ...................      75
5-2   Determination of Average Incremental Costs
and Economic Rate of Return ..................       .. ..........         77
MAP:     IBRD 20944      Second Water Supply Project
Situation of the Water Supply in the Urban Centers
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Locussol (Engineer) and R. Verspyck (Economist/Financial
Analyst) and ls based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Guinea in March 1988.
The mission elso included Mr. F. Ben Slimane (Financial Analyst) and Ms. A. Manou-Savina (Sociol-
ogist). Mrs. F. Khan assisted in the computations, and the report was processed by
Mr. J. Halluin and Miss M. Houle.



REPUBLIC OF GVINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Documents and Data Avallable in the Project File
Document Title                                       aISC Code
A.  Reports by Société Lyonnaise des Eaux/Sonede
Etude de la réorganisation du secteur urbain de l'eau potable et             D 15805 --
de l'assainissement en Guinée (mars 1985)                                    A, B, C, D, E, F, G
B.  Reports by Castalia
Recherche d'un partenaire associé à la gestion du secteur urbain             D 15806
de l'Eau
-- Dossier de synthèse (juin 1987)
-- Inventaire des abonnés et des immobilisations (juin 1987)
-- Programme de réhabilitation des installations (juin 1987)
-- Programme décennal d'investissement (juin 1987)
-- Etude tarifaire (juin 1987)
-- Documents légaux (septembre 1987)
-- Dossier de consultation des entreprises (septembre et
décembre 1987)
C. Reports by Gide/Loyret-te/Nouel                                               D 15807
Réorganisation du secteur urbain de l'eau
-- Note sur les documents légaux (janvier 1988)
-- Convention relative à la création de la société d'exploita-
tion des eaux de Guinée (SEEG) (octobre 1988)
-- Contrat d'exploitation (septembre 1988)
-- Statuts de la société d'exploitation des eaux de Guinée
(SEEG) (octobre 1988)
-- Contrat d'assistance (octobre 1988)
-- Documents d'exploitation (septembre 1988)
D.  Reports by Brian Colguhoun and Partners
--  Etudes des ressources en eau de Conakry.  Amélioration de                D 15808 -- A, B
l'alimentation et de la distribution (1985)                              228 696 (i) + (2)
--  Etude de renforcement de l'alimentation en eau potable de                D 15809
Conakry. Avant projets sommaires (février 1988)
--  Etude de renforcement de l'alimentation en eau potable de                D 15810
Conakry. Rapport supplémentaire aux avant projets sommaires
(mai 1988)
".19I.



- ii -
Documents and Data Available in the Project File (continued)
Document Title                                       AISC Code
-- Renforcement de l'alimentation en eau de Conakry
(avant projets détaillés et dossiers de consultation des
entreprises, versions provisoires)
Conduite d'eau brute   (pièces écrites)                            D 21562
(pièces dessinées)                         D 21563
Station de traitement  (pièces écrites)                             D 21564
(pièces dessinées)                         D 21565
Conduite d'eau traitée (pièces écrites)                            D 21566
(pièces dessinées)                         D 21567
Réservoirs              (pièces écrites)                            D 21589
(pièces dessinées)                         D 21590
Raccord. aux réserv.   (pièces écrites)                             D 21591
(pièces dessinées)                         D 21592
Réseaux secondaires    (pièces écrites)                             D 21593
(pièces dessinées)                         D 21594
E. Reports by Ministère des Ressourceb Naturelles et de
l'Environnement (MRNE)
--  Stratégies et programme d'actions dans le secteur de l'eau               D 15811
potable
--  Entreprise nationale de distribution d'eau de Guinée.                    D 15812
Rapport annuel d'activités 1987
F. Reports by Service National d'Aménagement de Points d'Eau
(SNAPE)
--  Analyse sectorielle, bilan des réalisations, état de la pro-             D 15813
grammation (février 1988)
-- Programme d'hydraulique villageoise
... 450 forages en moyenne Guinée                                        D 15814
... Lélouma, Labé, Mali, Koubia (octobre 1987)                           D 15815
... Kissidougou, Gueckédou (janvier 1988)                                D 15816
AF1IN
January 6, 1989



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Guinea
Beneficiary:           Société nationale des eaux de Guinde (SONEG)
Credit Amount:         SDR 29.3 million (US54C M)
Terms:                 Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Cofinancing:           African Development Bank (about US$23 M); Caisse centrale de coopération
économique of France (about US$17 M); European Investment Bank (about
US$11 M); Private Sector (about US$1.4 M).
Re-lending rerms:      US$33 M equivalent of the IDA Credit would be onlent to SONEG on terms of
30 years, including 6 years of grace and a 2% interest rate. SONEG would
bear the foreign exchange risk. US$7 M equivalent would be contributed by
the Government to SONEG's equity.
Project Description:  In line with the Covernment's overall adjustment program, the main objec-
tives of the project would be to (a) strengthen the planning and management
capabilities of the agency responsible for sector development (SONEG);
(b) rehabilitate the technical, commercial and financial operations through
a lease contract with a water management company (SEEC), partly owned by a
professional foreign investor/manager (FIM); (c) create a sound revenue
basis in Conakry to allow for further development in secondary centers; and
(d) gradually set vater rates to meet long-term marginal cost.  In support
of these objectives, the proposed project would include (a) a management
support program to SONEG; (b) the rehabilitation of sector operations;
(c) a rehabilitation program of the existing facilities; (d) the expansion
of the Conakry water supply; and (e) studies, and training for staff who
would be laid off following the sector reorganization.
Project Benefits:      The primary benefits of the project would be the restoration of the vater
supply service in urban areas, the improved use of water resources, now
largely wasted,  and the gradual introduction of efficient pricing.   In
addition, the proposed project would expand the availability of water
supply in Conakry, and would allow to meet demand through 1997.
Project Risks:         Risks pertain to the political and social opposition to the actual imple-
mentation of the agreed upon institutional reforms and to the tariff ad-
justments required to ensure sound overall sector development. The finan-
ciai viability of the sector could also be jeopardized by uncontrolled
expansion of vater operFtions  in secondary centers.   However,  the con-
vincing commitment of the Government tozards the far-reaching sector re-
forms, the technical assistance and training to be provided to strengthen
SONEG's planning and managerial capabilities, and the recourse to a water
management company, SEEG, pal:ially owned by an experienced private profes-
sional partner, and which would actually be operational at the time the
project credit becomes effective, would help to minimize the project risks.



- iv -
Estimated Costs
(Excluding Taxes)
-------- (US$ million) --------
Item                          Local         Foreign       Total
Management Support Program to SONEG              0.6            3.6           4.2
Rehabilttation of Sector Operations              1.3           14.1          15.4
Rehabilitatfon of Existing Facilities            0.4            3.7           4.1
Expansion of the Conakry Water Supply            9.3           48.6          57.9
Consultancy Services                             0.1            1.1           1.2
Base Cost as of Mid-1988                        11.7           71.0          82.7
Physical Contingencies                           1.5            7.8           9.3
Price    Contingencies                           1.6            9.0          10.6
Total Project Cost                              14.8           87.8         102.6
Financing  Plan
-------- (US$ million) --------
Cofinanciers                        Local         Forel!        Total
IDA                                  2.9           37.1          40.0
AfDB                                 3.1           19.9           23.0
CCCE                                 1.9           14.7           16.6
EIB                                  1.9            9.4           11.3
Private Sector                       ---            1.4            1.4
Government                           1.3            ---            1.3
SONEC                                2.0            5.3            7.3
Beneficiaries                        1.7            ---            1.7
Total Project Cost                  14.8           87.8          102.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Catepory         FY89       FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94     FY95      FY96     FY97
-US$--- -------------------------- US$ million ----------------------------------
Annual             0.0       2.4        4.8       1.2        9.2       8.0       5.2      2.8      0.4
Cumulative        0.0        2.4        7.2      14.4      23.6       31.6     36.8      39.6     40.0
Internal Economie
Rate of Return:    11%
Map:-                  IBRD 20944
AF1IN
January 9, 1989



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SFCTOR
A. Sector Background
1.01      Compared  to neighboring  countries,  Guinea  is well-endowed  with
annual rainfall, wh4ch varies from two meters in the Fouta Djallon and the
southeastern region to more than four meters along the coast.  A UNDP-financ-
ed/Bank-executed water resources Master Plan of 1983 examined the resc,urces of
the country, but was hampered by the lack of basic hydrological data. Recent
investigations near the capital city, Conakry, and in the rest of the country
have so far shown only limited capacity of the aquifers.
1.02      Guinea has one of the least developed urban water supply  (UWS)
sectors amor.g West African countries.  As of mid 1988, there were only ten
urban centers out of 33, including Conakry, plus the mining city of Fria,
equipped with piped systems.  In addition, three new systems are currently
under construction (Annex 1-1).  Less than 40% of the urban population of
about 2.3 million (of which abo'- 1.0 million live in Conakry) have access to
plped water either through connections or through standpipes, with the remain-
ing portion relying on unsafe sources for their water needs.
1.03      As of mid 1988, about 1,750 rural water points were in operation, of
which 85% to serve villages and the remainder 15% to supply small urban
centers which cannot yet be equipped with piped systems; about 40% of these
water  points  are  boreholes  equipped  with  handpumps,  20% open wells  and
40% tapped springs.  It is estimated that these modern water points serve
about 0.75 million people, that is, less than 20% of the rural population of
4.5 million.  An emergency program of about 6,500 water points, to be con-
structed by 1995 to supply all villages with a population above 300 people
(that is about 55% of the rural population), with about 10 lcd, is currently
being implemented.   Satisfaction of the demand in smaller rural settlements
would require an additional 5,700 water points to be created, ideally, by the
year  2000.   Detailed  information  on  the  present  level  of  service  and
short-term demand is given in Annex 1-2.
1.04      There is no waterborne piped sewerage apart from the oldest part of
Conakry, where the public network is currently being rehabilitated as part of
a first Urban Development Project (Credit 1466-GUI of 1984).  The effluent
collected is discharged directly into the ocean in numerous spots. Although
detailed data are missing, it is estimated that less than 10% of the popula-
tion have access to flush toilets, 60% to pit latrines, and 30% to no sanitary
facilities at all.  Consultant services to define appropriate policy in the
field of urban sanitatiori and sewerage, including design criteria and fiinanc-
ing, would be included in a Second Urban Development Project under prepara-
tion. The First Urban Prciject, still under implementation, also addresses the
difficult drainage conditions resulting from heaw. rainfalls and a drain
network insu,ficiently developed and poorly maintained, as well as unsatisfac-
tory solid waste collection and disposal. On the other hand, rural sanitation
does not exist. Few reliable statistics are available on specific waterborne
and sanitation associated diseases, although morbidity due to common enteric
and parasitic diseases is shown to be high throughout the country and out-
breaks of cholera are regularly reported.   The average life expectancy in
Guinea (37 years at birth) is among the lowest in West Africa and the world.



-2-
B. Sector Organization
1.05      Responsibilities for the UWS sector are in the hands of the State
Secretariat for Energies (SSE) which Is part of the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Environment (IRNE), also in charge of the vital mining sector.
Until the recent sector reorganization (Chapter II), the "Direction Générale
des Sources d'Energie -- DGSE" of SSE was in charge of programming, financing
and executing UWS projects, while the water utility "Entreprise Nationale de
Distribution des Eaux de Guinée -- DEG" was responsible for operation, mainte-
nance, billing and collection; the sector related debt was serviced by the
National Budget.  In theory, DEG could act as an autonomous agency, although
the Board provided for in its statutes, and whose members were all representa-
tives of several ministries, has never met; in fact, DEG was treated and
managed as a single Ministry department, with only an illusory separate legal
personality.
1.06      The rural water supply (RWS) sector has recently been develope',
essentially under external financing, by the "Service National d'Aménagement
des Points, d'Eau -- SNAPE" which was until recently placed under MRNE and is
now under the tutelle of the Ministry of Agriculture.   SNAPE, which was
created in 1979, has so far carried out the major part of the works (well
digging, spring tapping and borehole drilling) under force account, and has
only recently sub-contracted drilling of boreholes to specialized contractors.
Operatiokz and maintenance of the water points remain with the villagers.  No
debt service is currently attached to this sector.
1.07      Responsibilities  for urban  sanitation are divided  among several
agencies. DEG was, in theory, in charge of maintenance of the Conakry piped
sewerage, but this task has recently been taken over by the local Government
(Prefecture) who is also responsible fer solid waste collection and disposal.
onstruction of the drainage facilities is carried out bv the Directorate of
Urban Works of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, while maintenance
should be carried out by prefectures. Although some improvements in the solid
waste collection and sewage have recently been noticed, operation of the urban
services is hampered by the lack of local financial resources. Allocation of
responsibilities is being redefined within the scope of the Conakry Urban
Development Project in connection with an analysis of appropriate cost recov-
ery procedures.
C. Sector Policies
1.08      The principle of payment for piped water is accepted by both the
Government and the population, but the combination of a very low tariff and of
inadequate commercial procedures has resulted in a situation where water can
be consumed without being paid for to DEG without risking to be cut off. In
1987, that is, when the consumer rate was still at the very low level of
GF 60/m3, DEG billed about GF 800 M, collected about GF 100 M from the private
customers and survived because of an operating subsidy of GF 500 M from the
Government. This absence of discipline from the part of the customers as well
as from the utility staff has applied during the past to almost all utilities,
but recent experiences in urban transportation, for example, have shown that
the population accepts to pay a reasonable charge for a service if the latter
is satisfactorily provided and if cost recovery procedures are strictly
enforced.



- 3 -
1.09      The demand for domestic connections is relatively high, due to the
limitation of alternative water sources (wells, springs or rain water) and ls
favored by the very low price so far cnarged by DEG of only one third of the
construction cost, which was an additional cause of operating losses.   In
addition, it is suritiised that illegal extensions of legal connections may have
substantially increased direct access to piped water, again without having to
pay for the water consumed.  As part of the UWS sector restructuring, con-
struction of new connections would be the responsibility of the water manage-
ment company, SEEG (para 2.08). The National Water Authority, SONEG, and SEEG
have agreed that, after commercial operations have been rehabilitated, small
domestic connections would be provided at a low charge, their cost of con-
struction being partially financed through a connection fund managed by SEEG
and replenished by both SONEG and SEEG.  Low cost domestic connections have
been a key element of development of the UWS sector in neighboring countries.
1.10      About 100 standpipes, of which 65 were built under the first wat-
er/6anitation project, exist in Conakry, but less than 40 are in operation;
actually, DEG was reluctant to connect these new standpipes, which were
suspected to be an additional source of unpaid bills, until the 3perating
subsidy provided by the Government was increasedi.  Water delivered through
standpipes represents about 5% of the total consi..ption in Conakry, but it is
surmised that the 400 or so standpipes in operation in secondary centers
account for half the consumption. Several water supplv systems, with numerous
standpipes, have recently been built without paying enough attention to cost
recoverv.  It would be SEEG's responsibility to enforce acceptable payment
procedures by the beneficiaries (or their representatives) for the water so
consumed.   In addition, during negotiations, assurances were obtained that
SONEG and SEEG would consult before the construction of new standpipes, in
Conakry as well as in secondarv centers.
1.11      In the RWS sector, recently-defined policies tend to involve benefi-
ciaries since the early stage of construction; the latter are asked to finan-
cially  contribute  a symbolic  amount  of GF 12,000  (US$24),  to physically
*         participate  In  the  construction,  and  to  constitute  a revolving  fund  of
GF 50,000 (US$100) intended to cover maintenance costs and the purchase of
spare parts, in theory, available at the SNAPE warehouses in some secondary
centers.  Local caretakers are trained to repair the handpumps, which have
been standardized to only two types.  So far, these policies have been suc-
cessfully implemented, although at a small scale. With the rapid development
that is envisaged for this sector, aid coordination. distribution of spare
parts and partial cost recovery are typical issues which may emerge at the
forefront. Technical asslstance to address these specific issues is currently
provided by French bilateral aid. Additional assistance to strengthen SNAPE's
capacity to plan and manage development of the rural sector would be provided
under a rural infrastructure project currently under preparation.
D. Sector Development
1.12      Investments in the UWS sector have amounted to approximately US$32 M
since 1978, of which US$17 M from the Conakry Water/Sanitation Project, US$6 M
from various donors, and US$9 M from suppliers' credits. Under the previous
regime, investments have often been programmed and financed without paying due
attention to their operating and financial consequences.  The issue of the
future investment program was thoroughly aclressed during project preparation
in connection with sectoral financial forecasts and the level of rates to be
applied.   Due  to  the  present  limited  size  of  the market,  the  sectoral



- 4 -
investment program should be limited to about US$125 M until the end of the
century (expressed in mid-1988 constant VS dollars).  The trade-off between
new investment in Conakry -- where additional revenues, generated by both
expansion of the system and improvement of commercial procedures, could '!ater
subsidize lesa profitable operations in secondary centers -- and the creation
if much needed new water supplies in those centers has been the subject of
several attempts.  The medium-term investment program, which would be present-
ed by the Government to the donors' communley early in 1989, was reviewed by
Bank staff before presentation of the proposed project to the Board and found
acceptable.  The key investment, that is, the expansion of the Conakry water
supply, would be an important component of the proposed project (para 3.02).
Investment in secondary centers would represent about half of the national
program and aim at installation of piped water in each of the 33 urban centers
before the end of the century. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government and SONEG that, until December 31, 1996, detailed financ-
ing plans and financial forecasts would be presented to IDA prior to anv
investvent in the UWS sector of more than the equivalent of US$1.0 M.
1.13      In  the  urban  sanitation  sector,  past  investments,  essentiallv
through the Conakry Water/Sanitation Project, have been in the order of
US$2.5 M, while the Conakry Urban Development Project under implementation
envisages an additional US$8 M.  A medium-term investment program for the
urban sector as a whole is now belng prepared under EDF financing.
1.14      Investments in RWS have amounted to about US$15 M since the begin-
ning of the activities in this sector in 1979. A reasonably balanced program
has been prepared by SNAPE to meet the demand identified until 1995.  For the
near future already US$30 M equivalent have been secured from various external
sources,  to build 1,700 water points.   An additional US$40 M, which would
result in the construction of 2,250 new water -ioints, is either under negotia-
tions or actively being sought. A rural infrastructure project under prepara-
tion could finance part of the remaining 1,000 water points of the emergencv
program.
E.  Bank Group Objectives
1.15      IDA's initial entry into the sector was in the form of the Conakrv
Water/Sanitation Project (Credit 870-GUI) for which a Credit of US$12.5 M was
approved in December 1976 and closed in March 1985.  'he project was co-
financea by the African Development Bank (AfDB) in an amount equivalent to
US$6 M. Its objectives were to (a) provide additional production capacitv to
Conakry; (b) improve the perforr. nce of the trunk main distribution; (c) im-
prove and strengthen the technical and financial capabilities of DEG; (d!, re-
habilitate and expand the Conakry drainage works and restore the technical and
managerial capability of the administrative authority for the capital area;
and (e) prepare several development studies for urban water supply and sanita-
tion.  Its physical components have been implemented, albeit partly and with
substantial delays, but the institutional development has been disappointing.
The facilities and the operations remain in poor condition and there is still
a need for an important rehabilitation program.   Inadequate tariffs, weak
billing procedures, poor collection ratio, absence of internal controls,
combined with chronic shortages of foreign exchange, lack of qualified manpow-
er, and low staff morale have resulted in sub-standard operations. Much has
to be blamed c.- the political interference and the poor economic environment
which prevailed throughout implementation of the project, during the previous
regime.



- 5 -
1.16      The  objectives  of  the  Conakry Urban Development  Project  (Cred-
it 1466-GUI), approved in 1984, were to (a) strengthen the ability of central
and local Governments to plan, coordinate and control urban growth and devel-
opment in the Conakrv area;  (b) establish the basic mechanisms for adequate
funding of urban service operations from local revenues; and (c) improve the
management of city-wide solid waste collection and drainage maintenance
operations. Since its start up In March 1985, this project has been confront-
ed with severe implementation problems mainly related to the profound changes
that Guinea's political and institutional structures have undergone since the
new Government began  in April 1984.   This has recently  led to a project
restructuring which would increase the role of the prefectures.  While this
constitutes an important positive step, the difficulties ahead must not be
underestimated.
1.17      The Government now shows a real willingness to establish a finan-
cially self-supporting UWS sector, able to supply with sufficient quantity of
safe water the rapidly growing urban population.  It is essential, therefore,
that the Bank, which has always supported the objectives of developing reli-
able institutions, promoting sound cost recovery policies and implementing
adequate investment planning procedures, continues its support to a major
reorganization which would involve partial privatization of operations, in
line with Government's philosophy regarding increasing participation of the
private sector in providing goods and services more efficiently.
II. THE INSTITUTIONAL REFORM AND THE PROPOSED IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. The Proposed Institutional Arrangement
2.01        The Government  is convinced  that  it would not be feasible  to
improve the situation in the UWS sector without injecting professional know-
how and incentives to perform satisfactorily, and after comparison of various
alternatives, has decided to implement a major sector restructuring which
would involve the establishment of two companies:
(a)  a state owned National Water Authority, "Société Nationale des Eaux
de Guinée -- SONEG," which would (i) replace DGSE, the department
within SSE in charge of UWS projects (para 1.05); (ii) be the owner
of the facilities; and (iii) be fully responsible for sector devel-
opment including identification, preparation, financing and imple-
mentation of new projects. SONEG would also issue sectoral consoli-
dated accounts and service the debt; and
(b)  a "Water Management Company -- Société d'Exploitation des Eaux de
Guinée -- SEEG," partially owned by the State but with a majority
share (51%) held by a professional private partner, the "Foreign
Investor/Manager -- FIM"; SEEG would replace DEG, operate and
maintain the facilities, bill the customers and collect the charges,
within the framework of a ten-year "lease contract" (contrat d'af-
fermage) with SONEG.
2.02      The  separation  of planning/financing and construction  activities
from the operating/billing and collection ones, is a system  rather cemmon in
European and West African countries which allows strong involvement of profes-
sional private companies in the technical and commercial operations and,
therefore, an increased efficiency without putting the burden of capital
expenditures on the latter.  In the neighboring Côte d'Ivoire, for example,



- 6 -
the urban water sector has been successfully managed during the last 25 years
under a similar arrangement; SODECI, a private company with a major share held
by Ivorian interests, has been and still is one of the key elements of the
spectacular development of the sector in that country.  Jointly owned compa-
nies (State/Foreign Investor Manager) operating systems belonging to States or
parastatals, can also be found in Niger (road transportation), Nigeria (port
management), CAR (river transportation) and Guinea (mining operations).
2.03      A thorough revision of the sectoral legal framework was undertaken
during project preparation by competent consultants and legal counsel (An-
nex 2-1).   SONEG's "statutes" as well as the "urban water supply general
regulations," defining its permanent rights and obligations vis-à-vis its only
shareholder,  the State, are acceptable to the Bank.   SONEG was created on
October 1, 1988; its statutes were approved and its general manager was
selected early in 1989.  The "shareholders agreement" and "statutes" of the
jointly-owned SEEG, its "lease contract" with SONEG, the "management contract"
between SEEG and its FIM, as well as the standard "subscription contract"
between SEEG and the customers, are also acceptable to the Bank.  SEEG would
be created, and all the above documents would be adopted, before the proposed
Credit becomes effective.  It would be a condition for Credit Effectiveness
that DEG's facilities located in Conakry be transferred to SEEG's equitv and
two thirds of the cash contribution to SEEG's Initial equity by the State and
its partner be paid in.   Facilities located in secondary centers and the
remaining cash equity contribution would be transferred or paid in within
three months of Credit Effectiveness, according to a schedule acceptable to
the Bank. DEG was abolished on October 1, 1988; its liquidator was appointed
and a liquidation plan was submitted earlv in 1989.  During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that DEG's liquidation, including termination of its
staff and sale of its assets, would be completed by December 31, 1989.
B. Financing the Operations of the New Institutions
2.04      Eventually, SEEG would:
(a)  collect from the customers the "full water rate," that is, a rate
sufficient to cover sectoral operating expenses and yield an accept-
able rate of return on SONEG assets;
(b) retain part of it, the "lease contractor rate," to cover its own
operating expenses, depreciate its own assets and remunerate its own
equity; and
(c)  pay back to SONEG a "rental fee" for each cubic meter of water
collected, intended to cover SONEG's own operating expenses, service
the sectoral debt, and finance part of the investment program.
SEEG would operate and maintain the systems at its own risk and its only
revenues would be the lease contractor rate (LCR). Therefore SEEG would have
real incentives to improve the collection ratio, cut operating costs, and
reduce the unaccounted for water.  SONEG's only revenues would be the rental
fee paid back by SEEG for each cubic meter of water collected, that is, the
difference between the "consumer rate" (which initially would be substantially
lower than the full water rate -- para 2.05) and the LCR.  Therefore, SONEG
would have real incentives to obtain from the Government consumer rates always
sufficient to at least maintain a positive cash flow situation.



2.05      However, revenues generated locally through th± consumer rate are
expected to be lnsufficient  to cover the entirety of the LCR during the
initial years of implementation of the new institutional arrangement; thus, it
is envisaged that the foreign expenditures of the lease contract would  be
covered through external financing, but on a declining basis.  Likewise, the
rental fee SEEG would pay back to SONEG would not be sufficient to service the
full sectoral debt; thus, it is also envisaged that the National Budget would
help cover the latter, again on a declining basis.  The graph in Annex 2-2
gives a breakdown of the full water rate between its two main components (LCR
and rental fee) and shows how the sectoral financial burden would gradually be
transferred onto the customer over the project implementation period of six
years.
2.06      The consumer rate was raised from GF 60/m3 (US$0.12/m2) to GF 150/m3
(US$0.30/m3)  early in 1989.   This latter rate  is equivalent  to the cash
operating expenses of producing/distributing water. It is also sufficient to
cover SEEG's owr expenses in local currency and to pay back a rental fee which
would cover SONEG's own operating expenses and generate cash to finance part
of the investment program.   The proposed project would finance the foreign
expenditures of the lease contract on the basis of a pari passu formula by
simply multiplving the volume of water actually billed and collected by SEEG
by the foreign exchange component of the LCR. This volume of collection would
be confirmed every four months by independent auditors financed by the pro-
posed project.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SONEG would
transmit such audited statements not later than two months after the end of
the four months' period under review.  Thus, SEEG's foreign exchange revenue
would always be equal to the one it would have obtained if it were allowed by
SONEG to collect a consumer rate which at least covers the full LCR.  The
decrease of the support to the sectoral debt service by the National Budget
would be specified in the "enterprise contract" to be entered into by the
State and SONEG (para 2.24). It is expected that after six years of implemen-
tation of the new institutional management, the consumer rate would be suffi-
cient to cover the sectoral debt and a significant share (about 40%) of the
foreign exchange needed by SEEG in addition to the local currency cost
(para 4.09).
C. The Water Management Company -- SEEG
2.07      The Government has expressed the willingness to be closely associat-
ed  to  SEEG's management.   Accordingly,  SEEG's statutes  provide  that  the
chairman of its Board would always be chosen by the Government and the General
Manager be nominated by the FIM.  Important decisions regarding annual budg-
ets, signing of large contr'acts, non-budgeted commitments over a reasonable
limit, and proposals for dLvidends distribution, would have to be approved by
a majority of 75% of the members of the Board (and not 51% only). Decisions
concerning the day to day management within the limit of the approved budget,
would be left entirely with the General Manager.
2.08      In order to ensure transparency and fairness, the selection of the
FIM was carried out, prior to appraisal, after international consultation, on
the sole basis of financial proposals made by prequalified professional
companies. The bidding document included drafts of the shareholders' agree-
ment, SEEG statutes, lease, management and subscription contracts (para 2.03).
The only parameters used to select the final candidate were the LCR, exclusive
of taxes and customs duties, that SEEG -- to be created and managed by the
FIMs -- would retain on each cubic meter of water collected and the cost that



- 8 -
SEEG would charge the customers for new connections.   The six prequalified
FIMs, 1/ which supply millions of customers each and have comparable know-how,
have aill been placed in similar financial conditions.   In particular,  the
initial equity contribution (about US$1.35 M out of US$2.6 M), the distribu-
tion of dividends and the remuneration of the FIM for the assistance to be
provided to SEEG's management were data clearly indicated in the bidding
documents. It was agreed that Bank guidelines for procurement of works and
goods, rather than the ones for the use of consultants, apply for such a lease
contract since the provision of a cubic meter of water (distributed, billed
and collected) keeps closer similarity to the provision of civil works than to
the ones of consultants' services, and that the lowest LCR constitutes the
least cost solution for the Government and the consumers.
2.09      A joint venture of the French private water distribution companies
CGE and SAUR 2/ has submitted the lowest bid (about 30% below consultant
estimates) and has been selected by the Government in accordance with bid
evaluation procedures agreed upon with the Bank.  The second b1', also by a
joint venture of two French companies, was 13% below consultant estimates.
Other prequalified companies did not submit bids.
2.10      SEEG would be free to define its own organization and procedures to
meet its contractual obligations.  It would be free to hire (and fire) its
staff, both local and expatriate, but would be requested to initially give a
preference to laid-off DEG staff.  SEEG would procure its imports (chemicals,
parts for regular maintenan.ce or construction of new connections), along
industrial practices approved by its Board, frem Bank group eligible member
countries only.   Since SEEG would obtain a lump-sum remuneration for each
cubic meter of water collected, it would implicitly be encouraged to implement
cost reduction programs and, in particular, to replace expensive but initially
needed expatriates, by correctly trained and paid local staff.  There are
several examples in neighboring countries of excellent training programs
implemented by private or semi-private companies seeking cost effectiveness,
which have attained the objective of transferring the know-how and management
to local staff.
2.11      The LCR is supposed to cover all SEEG' s operating expenses as well
as depreciation of its own facilities and the remuneration of its equity.
Both its foreign exchange and local currency components would be regularly
revised in accordance with cost index formulas. There would also be mandatory
re-negotiations of the LCR either after four years, that is, when the external
support would gradually be reduced, or if actual conditions of operation
(mainly water sales) substantially differ from the ones on which it was estab-
lished. These re-negotiations would, inter alia, be based on data provided by
SEEG on its actual expenses and verified by SONEG and its auditors so that the
consumers and S0NEG could, in turn, benefit from successful cost reduction
programs implemented by SEEG. The proposed project would finance services of
a legal counsel to SONEG for all issues related to interpretation of the lease
contract and of a consultant for regular revision of water rates (consumer
rate structure as well as LCR).  The lease contract also specifies penalties
1/   Four from France, one from the UK, one from Tunisia.
2/   SAUR is one of the main shareholders of the Ivorian SODECI -- para 2.02.



- 9 -
for poor performance (non-justified water cut-off or low pressure) which would
apply to both components of the LCR; for that purpose, a security deposit of
US$0.4 M equivalent would be made by SEEG at a local bank.
2.12      SEEG would not have the same grip on collection of water bills to
central and local Covernment agencies it would have on private customers. To
prevent SEEG against late payments from this category of customers, it has
been agreed that the foreign expenditures of the lease contract would be paid
on at least one third of the billing, even if the actual collection is lover
than this figure.  The enterprise contract between the State and SONEG indi-
cates detailed budgeting and payment procedures  (para 4.11).  Although de-
tailed data on consumption of Government agencies are currently missing, it is
expected that the amourt to be budgeted for FY89 would not exceed the subsidy
the Go-eernment has paid to DEG for FY87 and FY88. 3/
2.13      The management contract entered into by SEEG and its FIM specifies
conditions under which the latter would provide home-office support for
day-to-day management problems (data processing, water treatment and the
like), regular audits of procedures, assistance for procurement and selection
of expatriate staff. It provides a remuneration set at 2% of SEEG's revenues,
to compensate the FIM for all these costs. Actually, the only remuneration of
the FIM would be the dividends distributed in accordance with the decisions
made by the general assembly of shareholders.
2.14      SEEG would be responsible for regular maintenance of the facilities.
However,  since such maintenance has not been carried out during the last
25 years, there is a need for rehabilitation, despite some actions recently
financed by French bilateral aid.   The proposed project would  finance a
comprehensive rehabilitation program which was ident4fied during project
preparation.   SEEG would implement it and be responsible for its detailed
definition, within an allocated budget of US$5 M equivalent, on the basis of
the actua'. situation at the time the lease contract becomes effective.
Related procurement of goods and services would be carried out by SEEG, on
behalf of SONEG, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
D. The National Water Authority -- SONEG
2.15      SONEG would comprise only two departments:  (a) the department of
Finances and Administration, which would be in charge of sector accounting and
general administration; and (b) the department of Studies and New Works which
would be responsible for identification, preparation and supervision of new
projects.  The proposed project would finance an advisor to SONEG's General
Manager who would assist in general sector planning and financial management
and be one of SEEG's main interlocutors, and an advisor to the head of the
department of Studies and New Works, with a similar experience in developing
countries. A first year of assignment of these two advisers is to be financed
by a PPF (para 3.09).
3/   Respectively,  GF 500 M  and  GF 600 M,  which  would  correspond  to  a
consumption of about 4.0 million m9 and at the new consumer rate of
GF 150/m9, that is, 30% of the total consumption.



- 10 -
2.16      At the date it was abolished, DEG employed about 500 staff including
15% professional, 32% intermediate staff, and 53% unskilled workers. Overall,
there were about 40 service connections per DEG staff which is a low ratio but
comparable with other water supply companies in West Africa. 4/ The profes-
sional staff has, during the past, been artificially inflated by a policy of
automatic assignment of university graduates to DEG regardless of the needs of
the company. In addition, DGSE (para 1.05) staff in charge of the UWS sector
was about 15 of which less than 10 professionals. SEEG's staff would be about
250, preferably selected from laid-off DEG's staff (para 2.10). Since most of
the major studies, all the construction activities, as well as the operations
of facilities, would be executed bv consultants, contractors and SEEG, respec-
tively, the size of SONEG should be reduced to about 60 staff (see proposed
organization chart ia Annex 2-3).  It would be a condition for Credit Effec-
tiveness .hat SONEG's staff have been selected.  During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that SONEG's staff would be limited to about 60 by Decem-
ber 31, 1989, and that a reasonable phasing out program would be proposed to
diminish the impact on those to be phased out.  This selection process and
phasing out program would constitute the first task of the advisor to SONEG's
General Manager and would have to be prepared together with SEEG during the
first months of effectiveness of the lease contract, in line with Government
agreements and practices for the entire public sector.  The proposed prolect
would finance a training program to be implemented in Conakry by a Canadian
NGO in the field of plumbing, air conditioning and electro mechanics for those
laid-off staff willing to launch their own business.
2.17      All  staff  and,  particularlv,  the  higher  and  intermediate  level
staff, need basic training as well as a strong technical assistance to provide
on-the-spot training.   The proposed project would finance participation of
SONEG's higher level staff in selected seminars, regularly organized by
specialized training agencies in Africa and/or Europe, focusing on project
identification, preparation and justification, design criteria, adapted
technology and procurement.   During negotiations,  assurances were obtained
that SONEG would submit for review to the Bank, not later than two months
before the end of the fiscal year, a detailed training program for the coming
year. The bulk of the training activities would be directed towards interme-
diate level staff assigned  to operations.   Since all this staff would be
employed by SEEG, the exact definition, as well as the financing of. these
training activities would be left entirely with its management (para 2.10).
2.18      DEG's accounting procedures have, up to now, substantially differed
from internationally accepted ones; improper record of assets and debt ser-
vice, absence of adequate procedures to certify and validate data and lack of
internal controls on billing and collection have in the past complicated
financial supervision of the company.  Auditors, to be financed by the pro-
posed project (para 2.19), would be asked initially to define accounting
procedures acceptable to the Bank and then to follow up on their actual
implementation.   During negotiations,  assurances were obtained  that  SONEG,
which would be responsible for the preparation of consolidated sectoral
accounts, would present to the Bank for review new accounting procedures
before December 31, 1989.
4/ Côte d'Ivoire: 100; Senegal: 60; Togo: 35; Benin: 37.



- il -
2.19      DEG's accounts have been audited from FY79 to FY85 under financing
of the first project; they could, however, never be certified due to the above
mentioned shortcomlings.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that,
starting with FY90, SONEG would submit to the Bank for review audited finan-
cial statements together with the corresponding audit reports wlthin eight
months of the end of its fisLal year.  Audits would also be required every
four months to cover SEEG's customer accounting procedures and accounts and
the Special Account to be set-up by SONEG (para 3.15) as well as the Statement
of Expenditures which would in particular include claims made by SEEG for the
support to the foreign expenditures of the lease contract (para 2.06).  The
proposed project would finance audits throughout the implemertation period.
2.20      To avoid financial deadlocks which could result from inappropriate
investments and/or inadequate financing, it is important that investment
programs be regularlv revised in line with expected sectoral revenues and
already committed expenses.  Therefore, during negotiations, assurances were
obtained that SONEG would transmit to the Bank for review, not later than two
months before the end of each fiscal year, together with its annual operating
and capital expenditure budgets for the following year, financial forecasts
for at least the following three vears.  This exercise would be part of the
annual revision of the enterprise contract (para 2.24).
2.21      The sectoral debt has never been recorded in DEG's accounts but
serviced directly by the National Budget.   During negotiations,  assurances
were obtained that the debt related to suppliers' credits entered into prior
to the creation of SONEG would be serviced by the National Budget, while the
other loans extended by donors (IDA, AfDB, CCCE ...) would be integrated into
SONEG's accounts.  The latter amounted to about US$23 M at the end of 1988;
their detailed inventory would be stIpulated in the enterprise contract. The
support to the sectoral debt by the National Budget, which would gradually
decrease during the first six years of the new institutional arrangement (100%
in 1989 and 1990; 80%, 60%, 40% and 20% in 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994, respec-
tively; 0% starting in 1995), would also be specified in the enterprise con-
tract (para 4.08).
2.22      Sectoral fixed assets were inventoried as part of project prepara-
tion and revalued on the basis of their existing condition as of Decem-
ber 31, 1986. Total gross and net values on this basis have been estimated at
some US$139 M, and US$82 M, respectively.   During negotiations,  assurances
were obtained that the assets would be annually revalued (on a pro forma
basis) and along consistent procedures acceptable to IDA. Auditors would also
be requested to provide guidance to SONEG to set up revaluation procedures.
2.23      DEG's present headquarters would be transferred to SEEG as part of
the Government's  initial equity contribution.   The proposed project would
finance about 600 m2 of office space for SONEG, as well as the supply of
office equipment and technology.  The proposed project would also finance a
limited number of vehicles so that execution of projects can efficiently be
supervised.
2.24      The Government and SONEG's medium-term objectives and commitments
would be part of an "enterprise contract" to be agreed upon on a three-year
rolling basis. From SONEG's side, the main commitment would be related to the
implementation of the investment program end the production of sectoral
consolidated accounts and regularly revised medium-term financial foreca6ts.
From the Government aide, the emphasis would be put on the respect of the



- 12 -
agreed upon investment program, the approval of regular consumer rate increase
as well as proper budgetary and payment procedures for the water consumption
of central and local Government agencies. It would be a condition for Credit
Effectiveness that an enterprise contract, covering FY89 to FY91, including
the sectoral medium-term investment program (para 1.12) acceptable to the
Bank, be signed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a revised
version of the enterprise contract for the three coming years be submitted to
the Bank for review, not later than two months before the end of each fiscal
year.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The main objective of the proposed project would be to create a
legal, institutional, technical, and financial framework which would cons-
titute the basis for a sound take-off and further development of the UWS
sector by:
(a)  strengthening the planning and management capabilities of the agency
responsible for sector development, SONEG;
(b)  rehabilitating the techrical, commercial and financial operations of
the sector through a lease contract with a water management company
(SEEG) jointly owned by the State and a Foreign Investor Manager
(FIM);
(c)  expanding the Conakry water supply system, presently saturated, with
the side objective of generating additional revenues to allow for
further development in less profitable secondary centers; and
(d)  gradually setting water rates to meet the long-term marginal cost.
B. Project Components
3.02      The proposed project would include the following components  (see
Annex 3-1 for a detailed description):
(a)  a management support program (MSP) to SONEG including (i) technical
assistance to the General Manager and to the department of Studies
and New Works; (ii) services of a consultant for regular revision of
water rates and of a legal counsel; (iii) audits; (iv) training of
higher level staff; and (v) office space, equipment and vehicles;
(b)  the rehabilitation of sector operations through the lease contract
between SONEG and SEEG;
(c)  a rehabilitation program of the existing facilities including the
supply and installation of equipment for the existing plants, small
diameter pipes, domestic connections, water meters; and
(d)  the expansion of  the Conakry water supply system  including the
supply and installation cf material and equipment for (i) the
partial doubling of the Grandes Chutes-Yessoulou-Conakry trans-
mission line (about 60 ka of 1,000mm and 1,100mm diameter pipe);
(ii) the  addition   to  the  Yessoulou  treatment  plant  of  a



- 13 -
40,000 m9/day unit;  (iii) the creation of about 5,000 ma of addi-
tional distribution storage capacity; (iv) the extension of the
water distribution network (about 300 km of 800mm to 60mm pipe and
15.000 new connections); and (v) services of an engineering consul-
tant for the preparation of detailed designs, tender documents and
construction supervision; and
(e)  consultants' services for the preparation of UWS studies in secon-
dary centers, and a training program for DEG's laid-off staff
willing to launch their own business.
3.03       From the technical point of view, the project is of standard nature.
The  Grandes  Chutes/Yessoulou/Conakry  scheme  has  been  proven  to  be  the
least-cost solution for the expansion of the Conakry water supply (Annex 3-2).
Availability of water in the reservoir is guaranteed to supply Conakry beyond
the year 2000; the transmission and distribution would be gravitory and
special attention has been paid to the design of the treatment plant. Exten-
sion of the tertiary distribution network would be defined in close coopera-
tion with SEEG, so that new investments find an immediate use and, therefore,
yield a high return.   The proposed  project  has no adverse  impact  on the
environment. The proposed institutional arrangement is less common, although
several similar schemes are working satisfactorily in the region (para 2.02).
To limit the rislrs associated with the new sectoral organization, the legal
framework was thoroughly reviewed during project preparation, and SONEG and
SEEG have actually been created before presentation of the proposed project to
the Board; in addition, the State would be closely associated to SEEG's
management (para 2.07).
C. Project Cost
3.04      The estimated cost of the project, excluding taxes and duties, and
the financing requirements  are  sumirarized  below.   Detailed  information  is
given  in Annex 3-3.   Total  project  cost  is  estimated  to  be  GF 58.500 M
(US$102.6 M) with a foreign exchange component of GF 50,100 M (US$87.8 M)
representing 86% of total cost.
Summarv Project Costs
----- GF million -----  ----- USS million ----- % of
Item                 Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Total
Management Support Program to SONEG   303    1782    2085   0.60    3.55   4.15   5.0
Rehabilitation of Sector Operations  640    7042    7682   1.30   14.10   15.40  18.6
Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities  198    1836    2034   0.40    3.65   4.05   4.9
Expansion of the Conakry Water Supply   4 645  24 296  28 941   9.30   48.60   57.90  70.0
Consultancy Services                  45    540    585   0.10    1.10    1.20   1.4
Base Cost as of end-1988       5 829  35 496  41 325  11.70   71.00   82.70 100.0
Physical Contingencies           768   3 896   4 665   1.50    7.75    9.25  11.3
Price   Contingencies          1 803  10 693  12 495   1.60    9.00   10.60  12.8
Total Project Cost             8 400  50 085  58 485  14.80   87.75  102.55 124.1
NOTE: Totals may not add up due to rounding



- 14 -
3.05      The project cost is based on proposals recently obtained for similar
assignments for consulting services and technical assistance and on the actual
proposal made by the selected FIM for the foreign exchange component of the
LCR and the rehabilitation program.  The cost estimate for the expansion of
the  Conakry water supply  is based  on  quotations prepared  by  consultants
together with the detailed designs.  All costs have been adjusted to reflect
unit prices as of end-1988.  No taxes and duties on imported goods, or taxes
on the works are included in the project cost, as such taxes would not be
applied for this project.
3.06      Depending  upon  the  degree  of  readiness  of  the  sub-components,
allowances for physical contingencies are provided at rates varying from 7.5
to 15%; allowances for price contingencies have been assumed using the follow-
ing annual price increases:
Annual Price Increases (%)
Component           (1988)    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Foreign Exchange Component   (3%)      3%       4%      4%       4%       4%       4%
Local  Currency Component   (25%)    15%        8%      4%       4%       4%      4%
Price contingencies have been estimated on the basis of the standard regional
disbursement profile of nine yeurs given in Annex 3-4, which is deemed appli-
cable, since the implementation schedule given in Annex 3-5 suggests comple-
tion of the proposed project within seven years from the expected approval
date by the Board.
D.  Project Finaneing and lending Arrangements
3.07      An IDA Credit of US$40 M equivalent is proposed.  Caisse Centrale de
Coopération Economique (CCCE) of France, the European Investment Bank (EIB),
and the African Development Bank (AfDB) have expressed their willingness to
co-finance the proposed project in amounts equivalent to about US$17 M, 11 M,
and 23 M, respectively. The Government of Guinea has also requested the Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) to consider the possibility of
financing up to US$10 M, should one of the above agencies have to reduce its
participation.  The financing plan would be firmed up during a cofinanciers'
meeting to be arranged early in 1989. Taking into account the local contribu-
tion (Government, SONEG, beneficiaries) and the initial equity contribution of
the FIM, the project would be fully financed. The tentative financing plan is
summarized below and detailed further in Annex 3-4.



- 15 -
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Item                 IDA  Cofinancing   FIM  Gvt.  SONEC  Benef. Total
Management Support Program to SONEG  4.60                        0.60    ---   5.20
Rehabilitation of Sector Operations    16.10         1.35  1.30   ---    ---  18.75
Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities    5.00  ---    ---   ---   ---    ---  5.00
Expaasion of the Conakry Water Supply   13.00   50.90  ---   ---  6.65   1.70  72.35
Consultancy Services                1.30     ---      -                   -     1.30
Total Project Cost                 40.00   50.90    1.35  1.30  7.25   1.70 102.55
% of Total                          39.0    49.6      1.3   1.3   7.1    1.7 100.00
NOTE: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
The IDA Credit and other external financing would cover the equivalent of 100%
of the foreign exchange component and about 25% of the local component of the
project cost. The IDA Credit would be the sole external financing source for
the MSP and rehabilitation components, which are ready for implementation
(para 2.03).  It is possible that effectiveness of co-financing takes addi-
tional time. In order to avoid delays in materializing the new institutional
framework, it is proposed that effectiveness of co-financing be a condition
for disbursement of the proceeds of the IDA Credit allocated to the expansion
of the Conakry Water Supply component (Categories 1(c), 2(c), and 3(c) -- see
para 3.13). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from SONEG that all
financing for this particular component would be effective before June 30,
1990.
3.08      The Government of Guinea would be the borrower of the IDA Credit.
US$7 M of the IDA Credit vould be passed on as a contribution by the Govern-
ment to SONEG's equity, and US$33.0 M, would be onlent to SONEG for 30 years,
including 6 years of grace and an interest rate of 2.0% per annum (para 3.13).
These onlending conditions are deemed to be the highest ones consistent with
the financial  equilibrium of the sector  (para 4.16).   The signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and SONEG, acceptable to the
Bank, would be a condition for effectiveness of the proposed Credit.  SONEG
would assume the rLsks related to exchange rate variations.   It has been
assumed that the Government would also be the borrower of all other financing,
which would be onlent to SONEG and repayable on an average period of 25 years,
including 5 years of grace and with an average interest rate of 3% per annum.
The Government would contribute toward project financing through its initial
contribution to SEEG's equity (US$1.30 M equivalent, of which two thirds would
be under  the form of land and buildings).   SONEG would  contribute about
US$7.3 M, mainly for extension of secondary networks and promotion of small
domestic connections; this is deemed compatible with the cash situation which
would result from the payment of the rental fee.   The beneficiaries would
contribute the equivalent of the cost of construction of new connections of
about US$1.7 M.
E. Project Preparation and Implementation
3.09      In order to assist the Government in preparing the proposed project,
a PPF was approved in two tranches (US$0.4 M in March 1985, and an additional
US$1.06 M in May 1987).  The PPF would be refinanced fron the proposed IDA
Credit. Activities financed by the PPF have included:



- 16 -
(a)  inventories of subscribers and fixed assets;  identification of a
rehabilitation program; preparation of a medium-term investment
program and of a water tariff study;
(b) preparation of the legal documents pertaining to the sector reorgan-
ization and of the consultation documents for the creation of the
WMC and an assistance to the Government for the negotiations with
the selected FIM;
(c) a first year of technical assistance to SONEG's General blanager and
department of Studies and New Works; and
(d) preparation of detailed designs and tender documents for the expan-
sion of the Conakry water supply.
Activities (a) and (b) above have been carried out by a team of consultants
led by Castalia (France) and the preparatlon of the lega' documents bv a legal
counsel from Gide/Loyrette/Nouel (France); the technical studies under (d)
above are being executed by Brian Colquhoun and Partners (BCP -- UK).  The
technical assistants to SONEG, recentlv selected, would come from Mauritius
and Canada.
3.10      SONEG, whose execution capacity would be streng-.hened through the
MSP and who would be assisted by engineering consultarLts, would be responsible
for implementation of the proposed project.   Detailed  designs  and  tender
documents for the Conakry water supply have been reviewed by Bank staff and
are currently being finalized. The implementation schedule given in Annex 3-5
indicates that the MSP and the rehabilitation of the sector operations would
start as soon as the IDA Credit becomes effective (first half of 1989) and
that the physical works would start in mid-1990 and extend through mid-1994.
The starting date has been voluntarily set on the conservative side.



- 17 -
F. Procurement
3.11       Procurement arrangements are summarized below.
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Project Element      Cost     ICB    LIB    LCB    CSLT      Other   N.A.   Total
1. Civil Works           Total   20.65   0.00   13.20   0.00      10.10   0.00   43.95
IDA     8.30   0.00    1.65   0.00       0.00   0.00    9.95
2. Equipment             Total   15.95   3.50    0.00   0.00      11.90   0.00   31.35
IDA     3.35   3.50   0.00   0.00        0.00   0.00    6.85
3. TA, Trainiig, and     Total    0.00   0.00    0.00   8.55       0.00   0.00    8.55
Consultant Services   IDA     0.00   0.00    0.00   7.10       0.00   0.00    7.10
4. Lease contract /b     Total   16.10   0.00    0.00   0.00       0.00   0.00   16.10
IDA    16.10   0.00    0.00   0.00       0.00   0.00   16.10
5. Initial WMC's Equity    Total    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   2.60    2.60
IDA     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00
Total Project Cost    Total   52.70   3.50   13.20   8.55     22.00   2.60  102.55
IDA    27.75   3.50    1.65   7.10       0.00   0.00   40.00
/a   Consultant services
7T    See paras 2.06 and 2.08
NOTE: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
3.12      A breakdown of the proposed project into major contracts and by
financing sources is given in Annex 3-4. All contracts financed by IDA over
US$0.25 M for civil works and US$0.10 M for equipment would be awarded through
ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines; for these contracts, prior
review of bidding documents by Bank staff would be required.   Consultation
with IDA would take place before any modifications and or extension of a
contract resulting in an increase of the contract cost by more than 10%.
Local civil works contractors would be given a 7.5% preference margin and
goods manufactured locally would also be given a preference of 15% of the CIF
bid price or the applicable customs duty and import taxes, whichever is less.
Contracts under the above mentioned thresholds could be awarded through either
LIB or LCB, with aggregate values not to exceed the equivalent of US$1.5 M per
category.   The  recently  drafted  local  procurement  procedures  are not yet
effective; their draft versions have been received by Bank staff and found
satisfactory. As a general rule, spare parts and small equipment needed for
the rehabilitation program would be procured through ICB; they could also be
provided either by international shopping with quotations from at least three
suppliers from at least two different eligible countries or, in the case of
proprietary parts, through direct purchases from one manufacturer or supplier
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines with aggregate values not to exceed
US$1.0 M per category; during negotiations, assurances were obtained that SEEG
would prepare, on behalf of SONEG, a detailed rehabilitation program together
with indication of proposed procurement methods and submit it to the Bank for
review every six months until funds provided for that purpose are exhausted.
Contracts financed by other agencies would be awarded in accordance with their
own procedures.   The  supply  of material  for and  construction  of  service
connections would be carried out by SEEG according to the price list provided
for in the lease contract and which was also part of the bidding process



- 18 -
(para 2.08).   All  consultants  and  technical  assistance  contracts would  be
awarded in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for the use of consultants.
G. Disbursements
3.13       The proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows.
Allocation, Disbursement, and Onlending Arrangements of IDA Credit
Amount   % of Expenditure    Onlending
Project Element          Category  (US$M)    to be financed    Arrangements
1. Civil Works
-- MSP to SONEG                  1 (a)     0.35          75             Onlent
-- Rehab. of Facilities          1 (b)     1.40         100             Onlent
Conakry Water Supply          1 (c)     6.65          100            Onlent
2. Equipment
-- MSP to SONEG                  2 (a)     0.20         100             Onlent
-- Rehab. of Facilities          2 (b)     2 90         100             Onlent
-- Conakry Water Supply          2 (c)     2.70         100             Onlent
-- Consultancy Services          2 (d)     0.15         100             Onlent
3. Technical ssistance, "raining,
Consulting Services
-- MSP to SONEG                  3 (a)     3.30          95       Equity Contribution
-- Conakry Water Supply          3 (b)     1.50          65             Onlent
-- Consultancy Services          3 (c)     0.40          95       Equity Contribution
4. Lease Contract                    4        14.60         /a             Onlent
5. Refinancing of the PPF                      1.45                   Equity Contribution
6. Unallocated                                4.40
Total IDA Credit                              40.00
/a 100% of the foreign expenditures during contract years 1 to 4, then 80% and 60% during
years 5 and 6, respectively.
NOTE: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
3.14       The estimated disbursement schedule given in Annex 3-4 is similar to
the sectoral regional one.   The closing date of the Credit would be Octo-
ber 31, 1996.
3.15       Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts below
US$2C,000 equivalent which would be disbursed against statements of expendi-
tures. The supporting documentation would be held by SONEG and made available
to the Bank supervision missions  and  to SONEG's auditors  (para 2.19).   In
order to facilitate disbursements, a revolving fund of US$1.5 M (rep.esen.ing
about four months of expenditures) would be established in a Special Account
to be opened at a commercia'l bank and would be used for all categories of
expenditures.   The  Special Account would  be replenished by the Bank on a
m.onthly basis or when it would be reduced to one third of the authorized
allocation, whichever comes first.
H. Monitoring Indicators
3.16       During negotiations,  assurances would be obtained  from SONEG that
periodic reports on its operating and financial performance as vell as on the
ones of the WMC would be submitted to the Bank for review using the monitoring
indicators shown in Annex 3-6.



- 19 -
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
4.01      The complete reshuffle of the sectoral setup and the drastic change
in operating conditions and performance expected from the establishment of
SEEG and SONEG will  totally modify  the financial environment.   Therefore,
financial forecasts for the sector take into account the financial proposal of
the selected FIM (para 2.09) and are based on the conclusions of the water
tariff study carried out by Castalia in 1987, compleced by the recommendations
of the preliminary design report by BCP (para 3.09).  Although a degree of
uncertainty still prevails on present and future levels of water sales, both
the lease contract and the enterprise contract include provisions for the
mandatory review of costs and renegotiations of rates, should the actual
consumption substantially deviate from forecasts (para 2.11).
B. Past Financial Performance
4.02       The shortcomings of DEG's accounting system (see paras 2.18 ff) are
such that they largely preclude attempts to observe trends and base forecasts.
DEG's accounts have not been audited since the completion of the Conakry
Water/Sanitation  Project.   Previously,  despite  repetition  of  requests  and
assurances, no real attempt was made to set up modification of accounting
procedures and changes in administrative organization in order to produce a
true and clear picture of the financial situation.  The following financial
data for DEG are based on (a) unaudited financial statements for 1986 and
1987, corrected to take into account the resu'ts of the assets revaluation
exercise carried out by consultants (para 3.09); and (b) appra  il mission's
estimates for 1988.  More detailed statements for 1987 and 1988 are given in
the consolidated financial statements of Annex 4-4.
4.03      The only significant conclusion to be drawn from DEG's accounts is
that the actual amount of bills collected from urban water supply customers
represented 32% and 36' in 1986 and 1987, respectively, of DEG's cash operat-
ing expenses. These percentages give a measure of the efforts to be made in
order to establish the sector as a viable and financially autonomous one.
DEG: Selected Financial Information
(CF Million)
Item                       1986     1987       1988
Operating Revenues                          607       861        920
-- of which National Budget Contribution     350      500        600
Cash Operating Expenses                      244      329        479
Depreciation on Revalued Assets             1128     1250       1580
Receivable Provision                         180      258        276
Operating Income                            (945)     (976)    (1415)
Operating Ratio (S)                          254%     213%       254%
Debt Service                                 540      973       1125
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)         0.34     0.28       0.15



- 20 -
C. Cost Recovery
4.04      The vater tariff, which had been raised in June 1986 from GF 10/m3
to GF 60/ms (US$0.02/m3 to US$0.12/m3), was by far the lowest in the region.
Average water rates in countries with comparable urban water supply sectors
such as Benin and Togo amount to about US$0.70/m3.  Moreover, this tariff had
a limited meaning, since more than 90% of DEG's customers are billed on a lump
sum basis and a high proportion of them do not pay for their consumption.
4.05      The water tariff study, commissioned as part of the project prepara-
tion, suggests that the full cost -- expressed at constant 1989 prices -- of
producing and distributing water and meeting the sector financial needs should
be in the range of US$0.70/m3 to US$0.95/m3 over the period  1989-98.   In
addition, the long-term marginal cost of water for Conakry is estimated at
GF 410/m3 or US$0.82/m3 (para 5.09).
4.06      Although the ultimate objective is to ensure full cost recovery,
consumer rates cannot be at once increased by 500%. The immediate priority in
implementing a cost recovery strategy is to restore the customers' willingness
to pay for water, and to enforce sound and secure billing and collection
procedures, including cut-off as needed.  Then, full cost recovery would be
progressively achieved in parallel with improvements of the quality and the
availability of water service following the rehabilitation of urban water
supply operations and the expansion of the Conakry system.   This pragmatic
subsidization  scheme  is deemed  effective  and  appropriate  since:   (a) the
process is entirely transparent as subsidies are conveyed through budgetary
channels; (b) subsidies are financed; and (c) the arrangements would exist for
a limited period of time.
4.07      The  consumer  rate  was  raised  early  in  1989  from  GF 60/m3  to
GF 150/m3 (US$0.12/m9 to US$0.30/m3) that is a level sufficient to cover cash
operating expenses in the first year of implementation (1989) of the new
institutional arrangements (para 2.06).  This new tariff would apply immedi-
ately to metered consumption and remain the same through the second year
(1990), at the end of which the rehabilitation of service connections by SEEG
would be completed and water consumption be fully metered.
4.08      Starting in year three (1991), the water tariff would have to meet
the rate of return targets (para 4.13). This would ensure that the consumer
rate would gradually cover sectoral aebt service requirements, the foreign
expenditures of the lease contract (from 1993 onwards) and would generate
adequate cash contributions towards investments.   Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the enterprise contract would include provisions for
ensuring that the National Budget would:
(a)  fully support the sectoral debt service in 1989 and 1990; and
(b)  provide further funds equivalent to 80%, 60%, 40% and 20% of the
annual sectoral debt service in 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994,
respectively.
4.09      The following table gives the evolution of the full cost of water
and a breakdown of its main components as well as the cost sharing between
consumers, the National Budget and external financing. A more detailed table
is provided in Annex 4-1.



- 21 -
Water Rates and Costs
(GF/r3 at current prices)
Item           1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Full Cost of Water
.Lease Contractor Rate  195    217   229    237    214    219    219    219    219    219
.SONEG Operating       il     il      10      10      9      8      8      7      6       6
E-xpenses
.Debt Service         139    165     191    210    196    272    361    336    286    272
.Participation in /a    52    43      90      76    126    160     38    46       75     68
Investments 
Total                 398    436      520    533    545    660    625    608    587    566
Constant 1989 US$/ms   0.75   0.74    0.83   0.82   0.80   0.93   0.85   0.79   0.74   0.68
Cost Sharing
.Consumier Rate       150    150     239    274    356    520    561    566    566    566
(o/w Rentai Fee    (64)   (55)   (138)  (170)  (252)  (386)  (406)  (389)  (368)  (346)
to SONEG)
.National Budget      139    165     153    126      78     54      0      0      0       0
.External Financing   109    121     128    133    110      86     64     43      21      0
Total                 398    436      520    533    545    660    625    608    587    566
Consumer Rate/         384    34%     46%    51%    65%    79%    90%    93%    96%   100%
/a   Balance required to generate adequate returns on SONEG's net assets.
NOTE: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
4.10       Rate  Structure.   Given  the  uncertainty  of  present  consumption
patterns, it is neither feasible nor desirable to establish immediately a rate
structure based on categories of water users or on increasing block rates.
Differential pricing would be introduced once the consumption has been fully
metered  and recorded on a sufficient period  of  time.   When designing the
future rate structure, it would be essential to set the social block rate at a
level consistent with economic efficiency and sufficient to avoid undue
hardship to weigh on other categories of customers.   It has been observed in
other countries of the region that excessive financial efforts required from
large users -- industrial, administrative and commercial customers -- for
cross-subsidization purposes result in the reduction of water consumption and
revenues or in the decrease of the collection ratio. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that:
(a)  a uniform rate would be maintained  at  least one year after the
completion of the installation of meters on all service connections;
and
(b)  the lowest rate applied to any specific category of customers should
be at least equal to 1.2 times the average cash operating costs,
i.e., the sum of the LCR and of SONEG's cash operating expenses.
The average water rate being lower than 120% of the average operating costs
during the first two years, the social block rate could be introduced in 1991.
It would then amount to US$0.40 in real terms, which compares with the level
of social rates currently observed in West Africa.
4.11       Payment of Governimental Water Bills.  From 1989 onwards, administra-
tive water bills would be prepared by SEEG on the basis of actual consumption,
in accordance with sound procedures. During negotiations assurances would be
sought that the enterprise contract (para 2.24) between Government and SONEG
would include the following provisions:



- 22 -
(a)  the service connections to be charged to the National Budget, the
municipalities and public Institutions would be annually enumerated
by the Government, SONEG and SEEG, and their consumption would be
reviewed, as part of the budget preparation exercises;
(b)  the amounts to be billed would be annually estimated and correspond-
ing appropriations would be made in the respective budgets;
(c)  payments would be made in three installments of 30% of the estimated
annual consumption at the end of each of the first three quarters
and of a 10% payment at the end of the fiscal year, with settlement
of the balance between estimated and actual consumption in the next
fiscal year; and
(d) SEEG would be empowered to cut off administrative customers in
arrears for more than four months.
D. Rate of Return Covenant
4.12      A break-even covenant had been included in the credit agreement of
the Conakry Water/Sanitation Project and had never been complied with during
the implementation period.  It had been also agreed that the tariff policy
would be reviewed according to the recommendations of the water tariff study,
then expected to be completed before June 30, 1981. The project's SAR recom-
mended to introduce at that moment a rate of return covenant.   It is now
proposed  to follow that recommendation.   Firstly,  basic data required  to
calculate the financial rate of return have been available since the comple-
tion of the assets revaluation exercise.   Secondly, updated data will be
easily produced by S0N'G with the close assistance of its auditors (pa-
ra 2.22). Thirdly, a rate of return covenant would generate a smooth stream
of tariffs, while a cash generation covenant, taking also into account the
declining subsidies for debt service and for the foreign exchange component of
the LCR, would generate a chaotic stream of tariffs.
4.13      Therefore, assurances were obtained during negotiations that mea-
sures should be taken so that SONEG's revenues -- rental fees and support from
the National Budget -- be set in order to generate a 1.5% rate of return on
annually revalued SONEG's assets in service from 1991 to 1993 and a 2.5% rate
of return from 1994 onwards. Those rates are calculated to cover the part of
the full water cost to be borne by consumers in accordance with the declining
schedule of subsidies (para 4.09) and to allow to generate positive changes in
SONEG's cash position within the context of projected investments and financ-
ing plan.
E. Future Financial Performance
4.14      Salient features of SONEG's future finances are shown in the follow-
ing table, using alternate years.



- 23 -
SONEC -- Future Finances (Alternate Ysers)
(CF Million)
Item                        1989      1991       1998      1995       1997      1998
Income Statements
Water Bill d end Collected (Lillion m3)         4.8.1   10.7        13.7      17.7       22.7      24.9
Rentai FaeJ                                     274J   1 48        3 444     7 184      8 a81     8 639
Budget Contribution to Debt Service           1 198      1 638     1 071          0         0          0
External Financlng (Lease Contract)             469 m/  1 873      1 S08     1 18e        484          o
1 942     4 494     6 019      88 20     8 816      8 639
Cash Operating Expenses                          97       112        122       138        147       154
Depreciation A Amortization                     93s /  2 300       J 281     4 810      6 874     S 628
Payment of Contractual Services                 469     1 373      1 B03     1 138        484          o
Intereost                                       848     1 442      1 987     2 178      2 190     2 224
Corporate Tex                                     O         O          0        22        217       223
2 149     6 226     6 893      8 279      8 413     8 224
Net Incomo                                       07      _72)    _(74)          41        403       415
Operating Ratio (X)                              77n      84X        82%       783        608       671
Return on Net Assets (X)                        1.2%      1.5S      1.5X      2.6%       2.81      2.8X
Balance Sheets
Net Assets                                   47 130    90 277   113 824   125 983   138  980   142 341
Accounte Recelvable                             192       871        517     1 078      1 250     1 29e
Cash end Bank                                   473       594      1 038     2 390      3 287     3 607
Total Assets                                 47 797    91 244   114 880   129 454   140 622   147 248
Equity                                       84 020    89 108    45 443    54 776    64 649    70 048
Long Term Debt                               12 177    46 041    65 070    68 792    69 801    70 S99
*         Current Liabilitles                           1 6ol      6 095     4 387      S 886     6 072      6 602
j         Total Equity end Liabilities                 47 797    91 244   114 880   129 464   140 622   147 248
Debt/Equity + Debt (X)                          24%       42X        S8X       571        64X       52X
Current Ratio (times)                          0.42      0.16       0.38      0.69       0.76      0.74
Flow of Funds
Internal Cash Ceneration                      2 187     8 334      3 693     6 626      8 OS8     8 475
Debt Service                                  1 189     2 048      2 678     6 888      6 479     6 794
Net Cash Ceneration                             989     1 28s        915       243      1 679     1 681
Borrowinga                                    3 125    19 898      8 760     6 792      6 0e7     6 637
Equ7ty Contribution                             362       460        428       101          0         0
Total Sources                                 4 468    21 643    10 093      e          6e  e 646  78 318
Inv«toent Expendltures                        3 524    20 206      7 O6U     4 949      6 474     6 999
Deferred Charges                                489     1 373      1 603     1 18e        484         0
Annuel Cash Incr-ase                            473         66       624         62       688       319
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)             1.2        1.6       1.6        1.1       1.8        1.2
Internal Cash Contr. to Investmente (X)
(From 1989 to current yesr)                   28X       les        10       ll%        12X       13X
AI Corresponding to six montha of SEEG's operations.
NOTE: Totale mey not add up due to rounding.



- 24 -
4.15      Annexes 4-2 to 4-4 set out projected financial statements for SONEG,
SEEG and the urban water supply sector, respectively.  Assumptions used for
projections are described in Annex 4-5.
4.16      On the tariff assumption outlined in para 4.09, SONEG should be
established on a sound basis and should be able progressively to emerge as a
financially autonomous institution. Although annual net incomes would remain
negative until 1994, the above projections demonstrate the viability of SONEG,
evidenced by (a) the healthy cash position after 1992; and (b) an average
self-financing ratio of 10% over the project's implementation period. The low
values of the current ratio reflect essentially the impact of increasing
short-term maturities of long-term debt.  Since the rental fee is expected to
be transferred as soon as collected by SEEG and since the support to debt
service by the National Budget would last until 1994, those values are deemed
satisfactory.   They suggest, however, a high sensitivity of the financial
performance to borrowing terms and conditions.  For instance, an increase of
the average annual interest paid to creditors other than IDA from 3% to 5% --
or a reduction of the average repayment period from 25 to 20 years -- would
require to increase consumer rates by more  than  10%.  The debt service,
however, is expected to reach a peak after 1993, at the end of the grace
period of loans financing the proposed project. Consequently, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that SONEG would not enter into borrowing ar-
rangements, unless a reasonable forecast, acceptable to the Bank, of its
revenues and expenditures shows that the projected internal cash generation of
SONEG for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred would be at
least equal to the projected total debt service of SONEG for that year not
reimbursed by the Government.
4.17      The ultimate responsibility for warranting the sound development of
the urban water supply sector rests with SEEG. The sectorts financial perfor-
mance will depend upon the pace at which the operating company will implement
adequate billing and collection procedures. All financial data are based on
the water sales schedule included in the tender documents for the selection of
the FIM, which is deemed to be on the conservative side.  They take into
account substantial improvements of the operating performance, evidenced by
the decrease of unaccounted-for water from a present 50% to a more accertable
25% in 1995 and the expected increase of the collection ratio from a present
36% -- excluding the lump sum contribution of the National Budget -- to 70% in
1989 and 85% in  1995.   Monthly revenues  actually collected  from private
customers should be multiplied, for instance, by a factor 7.5 between 1988 and
1989.
4.18      Salient features of the future financial position of SEEG are shown
in the following table. As noted in para 2.11, should actual sales substan-
tially depart from these values, complete renegotiations of the LCR would take
place.  On the other hand, the impact of the 1993 renegotiations, which are
mandatory, is tentatively reflected in SEEG's financial forecasts by a de-
crease of the local component of the LCR in 1993 and of the foreign exchange
component in 1995. Thus, LCR values would still permit to generate acceptable
returns on equity, whereas a part of SEEG's costs savings efforts would be
passed to vater users (para 4.09).



- 25 -
SEEG -- Futur. Finances (Alternate Ye4rs>
(OF Million)
Item                         1989 pJ  1991       1998      1995      1997      1998
Income Statoeents
Water Billied (Million m3)                     6.2      14.3      17.1      20.8       26.2      27.7
Colleetion Ratio (1)                           70%       76%       80%       86X        90%       90%
Water Sales                                    923     3 410     6 083    Il 682    14 236    16 673
Other Operating Revenues                       167       412       476       642        6883      807
Contractual Services                           469     1 373     1 603     1 186        484         0
1 660     6 195     8 062    18 3eo    16 404    16 480
Cash Operatina Expenditures                    816     2 226     2 736     3 621      4 176     4 696
Rental Fees to SONEG                           274     1 483     8 444     7 184      8 881        6839
Depreclation                                    57       174       2654      364        497       672
Receivable Provision                           277       586     1 217     1 762      1 424     1 667
Corporate Tex                                   46       161       144       188        342       387
Net Income                                      83       298       207       360        685       720
Divdende Paid                                   0       118        97       138        162       268
Operating Ratio (X)                            92%       91%       96%       96%        94%       93%
Net Return on Equity (%3                       12%       16%       12%       12%        18%       17%
Balance Sheots
Net Fixed Assets                               793       917     1 016     1 089      1 070     1 007
Inventories                                    103       189      831        585       686        698
Accounts Receivable                            687       982     1 106     1 778      2 048     2 116
Cash and Bank                                   41       284       478       698      1 442     1 99
Total Assets                                 1626      2837      2 931     4 094      5 127     5 703
Equity                                       1 388     1 920     2 286     2 814      3 64      4 1S8
Current Liabilities                            242       458       646     1 280      1 369     1 493
Total Equity and Liabilities                 126       2373      2981      4 094      5127      6 703
Current Ratio (tises)                          3.0       2.8       2.6       1.9        2.3       2.6
Flow of Funde
Internai Cash Generation                      (409)      246       419       401        870       972
Ceaptal Inflow                               l 30          0         0         0          0         0
Total Sources                                  891       246       419       401        870       972
Investment Expenditures                        850       180       287       343        391       416
Annual Cash Increases                           41        66       132        68        479       666
) Oporations *tarting July 1, 1989.
NOTE: Totale m y not add up due to rounding.



- 26 -
F.  Financing Plan
4.19       The table which follows summarizes SONEG's flow of funds (Annex 4-2)
and shows the forecast distribution of expendltures and the estimnated financ-
ing sources.
Financing Plan:  1Q89-1998
Item                                                   CF Million
Capital Requirements
Proposed Project /a                                             53 025
Ongoing Projects                                                 1 061
Other Works (Conakry)                                            7 123
Foreign Expenditures of the Lease Contract after 1993            1 886
Other Works (Secondary Centers)                                 34 618
Total Requirements                                              97 713
To Be Financed from:
Revenues                                                        52 988
Less:
SONEG Operating Costs                                      1 254
Debt Service                                              40 207
Corporate Taxes                                             630
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                      (462)
Internal Cash Ceneration                                        Il 358
Grants (TA to SONEC)                                             2 646
Borrowings:
Loans Identified
Existing                                             1 366
IDA Onlent                                          18 059
AfDB                                                13 218
CCCE                                                 9 489
EIB                                                  6 527
48 658
Loans not yet Identified
Financing of Lease Contract after 1993               1 886
Other Loans Conakry                                  4 601
Other Loans Secondary Centers                       32 170
38 657
Less: Increase in Cash Balances                                  3 607
Total Resources                                                 97 713
/a    Including foreign expenditures of the lease contract.
NOTE:  Totals may not add up Jue to rounding.
4.20       Investment expenditures of the urban water supply sector in the next
ten years (1989-98) are estimated to about GF 83 billion (US$139 M), excluding
the cost of the foreign expenditures of the lease contract. The sources for
approximately 56% of the required borrowings have still to be identified,
essentially for projects concerning secondary centers. Investments in Conakry
would  represent  59%  cf  the  total  investments  over  the review  period.   It
appears essential that the commercial activities of the largest system of the
country be correctly managed prior to the development of urban water supply in
secondary centers. Thus, revenues earned in the capital city would subsidize



- 27 -
operations in other centers, which are expected to be substantiali:' costlier
(para 5.09).
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
5.01      The primary benefits of the project would be the restoration of the
water supply service in urban areas, the improved use of water resources now
largely wasted and the gradual introduction of economically efficient pricing.
These benefits would be easily quantified by the decrease in unaccounted-for
water and documented by the improved operating performance expected from SEEG
within the context of the new institutional arrangements, which would also
mark a substantial retrenchment of the public sector.
5.02      In addition, the proposed project would expand the availability of
water supply in Conakry. Construction of additional production, transmission
and distribution facilities would allow to meet demand through at least 1997.
B. Least-cost Solutions
5.03      The selection of tbe FIM through ICB (para 2.08) clearly led to the
least-cost solution for adequately managing sector operations.  In addition,
provisions for renegotiations of the LCR, included in the lease contract,
would ensure that cost-saving efforts by SEEG could, in t rn, benefit consum-
ers and SONEG (para 2.11).
5.04      The proposed project would expand the Conakry water supply system by
taking into account the optimum solution for mobilizing water resources
(Annex 3-2), which also represent the most secu--- ^ource of suipply. Laying of
the new raw and treated vater transmission lines and of the distribution
network would be staged in order to correspond closely to the pace of in-
creased demand. Moreover, particular attention has been yiven to the concep-
tion of the treatment plant to simplify operations and minimize treatment
costs.
!       C. Domestic Connections and Public 3tandpipes Policv
5.05      Of the total Conakry population estimated in 1988 at 935,000 people,
47% is supplied by house connections serving several households living in the
same compound or benefitting from illegal extensions, whereas 13% is served
through neighbors and 7% by standpipes. The balance (33%) relies on private
wells, cisterns and vendors.
5.06      The rehabilitation program (para 2.14) would, inter alia, allow to
standardize  and  to  install meters  on all existing  connections.   Fifteen
thousand new service connections would be constructed under the proposed
project, which would serve about 550,000 additional people in 1995, bringing
the proportion of  the urban  population  supplied by  connections  to  78%.
Standpipes, the construction of which would be the responsibility of SEEG
(para 1.10), would continue to represent a minor source of supply, given the
expected implementation of a low-cost connections program (para 1.09).  In
1995, about 15% of the Conakry population would dwell in urban extension areas
not supplied by the piped vater system.



- 28 -
D.  Affordability
5.07      The 1987 average monthly exnenditure for water, was estimated in the
Conakry Household Survey at GF 440 (US$1.20 at the then prevailing exchange
rate) i.e., 0.4% of the average household expenditures. The proposed consumer
rate increases would bring this ratio to higher values, which would, however,
remain in an acceptable range.  A detailed analysis of the impact of tariff
increases is provided in Annex 5-1.
5.08      The introduction of differential pricing (para 4.10) would allow to
establish a social block rate of about US$0.40/m3 in real terms.  Assuming a
family of six et thp poverty threshold of US$90/month, supplied from a com-
pound service connection and consuming 25 lcd, this social block would result
in a monthly expenditure of US$1.60 or 1.8% of household revenues.  On the
other hand, the Ministry of Planning estimated the budget required to cover
basic needs at GF 89,000 (US$230) in 1987 for a family of nine. Assuming a
consumption of 40 lcd and that the average consumer rate would apply in that
case, the monthly water expenditures would amount to US$8.2 or 3.6% of the
basic budget.
E. Marginal Cost and Rate of Return
5.09      The  long-term marginal cost  (LTMC)  of the Conakry water  supply
system, as expressed by the average incremental cost (AIC), is estimated at
GF 410/m3 (US$0.82/m3), using a 10% discount rate reflecting the opportunity
cost of capital.  The AIC of the secondary centers' systems is estimated at
GF 700/mr  (US$1.40/m3).  Once SONEG's entire investment program is taken into
account, AIC stands at GF 490/ms (US$0.98/ms).   Detailed  calculations are
given in Annex 5-2.
5.10      Average consumer retes, exclusive of taxes and custom duties, are
expected to increase progressively in real terns from the present US$0.12/m9
to US$0.76/m3 in 1994, which compares with Conakry's AIC.  In addition, the
rate structure would include, in order to compensate for the impact of the
social block rate, higher than average rates comparable to sector-wide AIC.
5.11      The economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated using consumer
rates as proxy for benefits, as well as consumers' surplus.  The latter was
estimated by using vendors' prices for supplying water observed in Conakry
areas not served by  the piped water  system, which  are  in the range of
GF 600/mr  (US$1.20/m3).  On that basis, and taking into account all invest-
ments for the expansion of the Conakry water supply system up to the year
2000, the project's ERR is estimated at 11%.  On identical terms, the ERR of
future investments in secondary centers is only 5%, which indicates that an
absolute priority should be given to the development of urban water supply in
Conakry.  These results do not reflect full benefits, as positive externaJi-
ties -- such as improved sanitary conditions and health -- are not captured.
F. Social Impact
5.12      In 1987, 40% of the Conakry population fell behind the urban poverty
level of GF 32,000, while 75% fell short of the basic needs budget calculated
by the Ministry of Planning (Annex 5-1).  Low-income households are concen-
trated in the densely populated areas of Conakry I and II.  It is estimated
that, by 1995, poor householde would account for about 15% of the total
Conakry vater consumption. As all components of the proposed project would



-29 -
benefit water users according to their consumption, about US$14.6 M are
poverty lending exclusively benefitting the poor.
5.13      The combined staff requiremen s of SONEG and SEEG would be in the
range of 300, to be compared to the existing DEG's staff of 500. The proposed
project would achieve this reduction by implementing an outplacement and
training program (para 2.16), in line with Government agreements and practices
for the entire public sector, with the participation of NGOs.
G. Government Cash Flow Situation
5.14       The table which follows gives an estimate of the Government cash
situation resulting from the urban water supply sector operations.   It shows
that the annual support to the sector would represent, on average, US$1.8 M
during the first six years of implementation of the new institutional arrange-
ments, to be compared to past annual subsidies -- support to debt service ard
operating subsidy -- of US$3.6 M in 1986 and 1987.  Cumulative subsidies to
the sector would reach a peak value of about US$11.0 M in 1994 and would
decline to US$1.4 M in 1998.  That gap would completely disappear one year
later.
Goverxnment Cash Flow Situation
(GF Million)
Item           1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Gov't Cash Outflow
Cash Contribution
to SEEG's Capital     225
Lns & Crs Repayment   1195    1510   1974   2320   2551   3982   5482   5652   5607   6534
Total                 1420    1510   1974   2320   2551   3982   5482   5652   5607   6534
Gov't Cash Inflow
Crs & Lns Onlending     0       0    410    972   1607   3295   6383   6539   6479   6794
Corporate Taxes        45      157    161    129    144    298    210    270    559    611
Dividends               0       33    118    121    97    108    138    141    162    256
Total                  45      191    688   1222   1848   3701   6732   6950   7200   7661
Net Cash Flow
Annual               -1375   -1320  -1286  -1098  - 703  - 281   1249   1298   1593   1127
Cumulative           -1375   -2695  -3981  -5079  -5782  -6063  -4814  -3516  -1923  - 796
US$ M    - 2.7   - 5.0  - 7.2  - 9.2  -10.4  -11.0  - 8.7  - 6.4  - 3.5  - 1.4
NOTE: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
H. Project Risks
5.15       Construction finaniced by the project is of standard nature and would
not generate significant risks. Under existing intersectoral arrangements, a
1.5 m3/s yield from the reservoir is committed for urban water supply and
would cover the year 2000 demand.  It is also unlikely that sewerage and
drainage conditions would be worsened by the additional supplies of water,
since the proposed project would be implemented after completion of the
drainage rehabilitation program included in the Conakry Urban Development
Project and in parallel with the Second Urban Development Project which would
define appropriate policies for urban sanitation.



- 30 -
5.16      Risks pertain to the political and social opposition to the actual
implementation of the agreed upon institutional reforms and to the tariff
adjustments required to ensure sound overall sector developuent.  The finan-
cial viability of the sector could also be jeopardizec by uacontrolled expan-
sion of water  operations  in  secondary  centers.   However,  the  convincing
commitment of the Government  towards the far-reaching sector reforms,  the
technical assistance and training to be provided to strengthen SONE'f's plan-
ning and managerial capabilities, and the recourse to a water management
company, SEEG, partially owned by an experienced private professional partner,
and which would actually be operational at the time the proposed project
becomes effective, would help to minimize the project risks.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Conditions and Agreement
6.01      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) SEEG has been created, the legal documents related to its operations
have been adopted, the facilities located in Conakry to be contrib-
uted by the State to its equity have been transferred, and two
thirds of the initial cash equity contribution by the State and its
partner have been paid in (para 2.03);
(b)  SONEG's staff has been selected (para 2.16);
(c) an enterprise contract covering FYs89 to 91, acceptable to the Bank,
has been signed by the Government and SONEG (para 2.24); and
(d) a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and SONEG,
acceptable to the Bank, has been signed (para 3.08).
6.02      Effectiveness of all financing necessary for the expansion of the
Conakry Water Supply would be a condition of disbursement of proceeds of the
IDA Credit allocated to categories 1(c), 2(c), and 3(c) (para 3.07).
6.03      During negotiations,  assurances were obtained from the Government
and SONEG that:
(a) SONEG and SEEG would consult before the construction of new stand-
pipes (para 1.10);
(b) until December 31, 1996, the Government and SONEG would present
detailed financing plans and financial forecasts prior to any
investment in the UWS sector of more than the equivalent of US$1 M
(para 1.12);
(c) SONEG would transmit to the Bank for review audited statements of
volume of collection by SEEG not later than two months after the end
of each four months' period of billing (para 2.06);
(d) SONEG's staff would be limited to about 60 by December 31, 1989
(para 2.16);



- 31 -
(e)  SONEG would  submit  to the Bank for review a detailed  training
program for the coming year not later than two months before the end
of the fiscal year (para 2.17);
(f)  SONEG would present to the Bank for review new accounting procedures
before December 31, 1989 (para 2.18);
(g) SONEG would submit to tbe Bank for review audited financial state-
ments together with corresponding audit reports within eight months
of the FY closing date, starting with FY90 (para 2.19);
(h)  SONEG would transmit  to the Bank for review not later than two
months before the end of each fiscal year, together with its annual
operating and capital expenditure budgets for the following year,
financial forecasts for at least the following three years (pa-
ra 2.20);
(i)  the Government would service the debt related to suppliers' credits
entered into prior to the creation of SONEG, transfer to SONEG other
loans extended to donors and support the related debt service
according to a decreasing schedule to be specified in the "enter-
prise contract" (paras 2.21 and 4.08);
(j) SONEG's assets would be annually revalued (on a pro forma basis)
along procedures acceptable to the Bank (para 2.22);
(k)  the Government and SONEG would submit to the Bank for review a
revised version of the enterprise contract for the three coming
years not later than two months before the end of each fiscal year
(para 2.24);
(1)  SONEG would take necessary steps to have all financing for the
expansion of the Conakry Water Supply effective before June 30, 1990
(para 3.07);
(m)  SEEG would prepare on behalf of SONEG a detailed rehabilitation
program together with indication of proposed procurement methoda and
submit it to the Bank for review every six months until funds
provided for that purpose are exhausted (para 3.12);
(n)  SONEG could periodically report to the Bank on its operating and
financial performance as well as on the ones of SEEG using agreed
monitoring indicators (para 3.16);
(o) a uniform water rate would be maintained at least one year after the
completion of the installation of meters on all service connections
and the lowest rate applied later to any category of consumers
should be at least equal to 1.2 times the average consolidated
operating expenditures (para 4.70);
(p) the enterprise contract would include provisions governing the
enumeration  of  administ*etive  service  connections,  commitment,
appropriation and payment procedures of public water consumption
(para 4.11);



- 32 -
(q) measures should b( taken, including tariff adjustments, so that
SONEG's revenues would generate a 1.5% rate of return on annually
revalued net assets in service from 1991 to 1993, and a 2.5% rate of
return from 1994 onwards (para 4.13); and
(r)  SONEG, or the Government on its behalf, would not enter into borrow-
ing arrangements unless its projected internal cash generation would
be at least equal to the project sectoral debt service not relin-
bursed by the Government (para 4.16).
B. Recommendations
6.04      On the basis of the above agreement, the proposed project is suit-
able for an IDA Credit of SDR 29.3 million (US$40 M equivalent).
AFIIN
January 9, 1989



- 33 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 1 of 2
REPIJBLIC OF CUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Situation of the Water Supply tn Urban Centers
Estimated        Production
Population         Capacity      Distribution         Total
mid 1988            m'/d            Nervork       Connections                                                                           Year  of
City         '000 Inhabitants         (lcd)            km             (billed)                        Description and Comments                         Construction
Conakrv                 1,000            54 000             207           13 300       -^ Kakoulima Springs -- 2000 m'/d                                   1903
(54)                         (10 200)      -- Grandes Chutes -- Yessoutou -- Conakry Scheme
(Ras vater line -  43 km 6 800 mm. Treatment plant --
45000  s'/d.  Treated water line  -- 35 km 6 700 mm)           1964
Kakiabon well fleld -- 7000 m'/d                                19o.
-- Four reservoirs -- 19250 m'                                     1964 -  1982
-- Distribution netvork -- 207 km 6 700 mm/d 60 mm                 1903 -- 1982
Treatsent plant and distribution network being rehabil-
itated under CCCE financing
Kindia                   60               2 400              20            1 04C       -- Kilissi River trearment plant -- 2400 m'/d                       1975
(40)                            (NA)       -K Koukou catchment -- 1350 m'/d
Transmission line    10.7 km 6 350 m                            1975
-- Two reservoirs -- 1280 m'                                       1955/1985
-- Distribution Network -- 20 km C 350 mml/6 80 mm
-- Trea;ment plant and distribution network betng rehabil-
itated under CCCE financing
Mamou                    25                NA                 4              290        - Facilities out of order presenting a threat to public            1954
(NA)         health
-- Emergency program financed by EDF
(boreholes and chlorination)
Faranah                  35               4 200              24              520       -- Niger River treatment plant -- 4200 m'/d                         1981
(120)                             (NA)      -- One reservoir -- 800 m'
-- Distribution network -- 24 km 6 100 mma/ 50 mm
-- Facilittes in  .orking order
-- Degremont financing
Gueckédou                20               2 850              10               230      -- Ouaou River treatment plon -- 2850 m'/d                          1982
(142)                             (NA)      -- One reservoir -- 750 m'
-- Distribution network -- 10 km 6 250 mm/f 50 mm
-- Facilities in vorking order
-- Degremont financing
Kankan                   90               3 400              31            1 300       -- Milo River treateent plant -- 3400 m'/d                          1975
(38)                            (NA)       -- Transmission lUne -- 1.15 km 6 300 mm
-- Tvo reservoirs -- 1500 m'
-- Distribution network -- 31 km 6 300 aw/I 60 mm
-- Facilities need rehabilitation



- 34-
ANNEX 1-1
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUIHEA
SECOND VATER SUPPLY PROJECE
Situation of the lster Supply ln Urban Centers (con't)
Estimated        Production
Population         Capacity       Distribution        Total
mid 1988             m'/d           Network       Connections                                                                           Yenr  of
City         '000 Inhabitants         (lcd)             km            (billed)                        Descrtption and Commenta                         Construction
Nzérékoré                60               4 800              15               325      -- Yalenzo River treatmen. plant -- 4800 m'/d                       1975/
(80)                            (Nt)       -T Transmission line 17.8 km 6 300 m  steel                         1985
-- To reservoirs -- 2000 m'
-- nistribution network -- 15 km
-- Facilittes rehabilitated ln 1985 under Danish financing
lacenta                  30               2 150               6           Not yet      -- ---- River treatment plant -- 2150 m'/d                          1986
(76)                        In service    -- Tvo reservoirs -- 925 m'
-- Distribution netvork -- 6 km t 200 muié S0 8m
Dantsh financing
Forecariah               1S               2 600              16           Rot yet      -- Four boreholes                                                   1987
(173)                        ln service      -- Pull treatment plan -- 2400 m'/d
-T Tio reservoirs -- 435 m'
Distribution network -- 16 km 6 200 m  6 50 mm
-- Degremont financing
K1ss4ougru               45               2 750              NA              0         -- Boreholes and chlorination                                       1987
(61)                                       -O Cne reservoir -- 800 m'
Danish financing
AF17N
January 6, 1989



- 35 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Situation of the Water Supply in Rural Centers
1. SNAPE Activities since 1979 (Productive Water Points)
------------- Boreholes -------------        Total
Year             Springs     Wells      Force Account      Enterprise    Total   Water Points
1979                   15          18             --                --         --          33
1979 -- 1980               75          42             --                --          --        117
1980-- 1981                55          46             --                --          --        101
1981 -- 1982               71          46             --                --          --        117
1982 -- 1983               61          45             34                44          78        184
1983-- 1984                58          50             66                --          66        173
1984-- 1985                81          43             64                --          64        188
1985 -- 1986               87          45             64               176         240        372
1986 -- 1987              150          44             28               273         301        495
Total                     653         379            256               493         749       1781 -
Percent                   37%         21%            14%               28%        42%
/a Of which 17 are not for RWS.
2. Geographic Repartition of the Existing Water Points
Achievement
Objectives      --Existing Water Points as of  End 1987--    of Objectives
Natural Region         Phase  1       Wells      Boreholes     Springs      Total       (Percent)
Guinée  Maritime           1075          ---           27           ---          27          2.5 %
Moyenne Guinée             2830          379          138           652       1169          41.0 %
Haute   Guinée             1585           ---         432           ---        432          27.0 %
Guinée  Forestière         1010           _           135             1         136         13.5 %
Total                      6500          379          749           653        1764         27.0 %
......



- 36 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Situation of the Water Supply in Rural Centers (con't)
3. Projeets Ongoing and Under Negotiations
Natural Region        Financing Agency    Wells   Boreholes   Springs          Total           Comments
Guinée Maritime         CCCE                  --         350         ---           350        Ongoing
EDF                   --         200        ---           200
EDF                   42        ---         ---            42         Ongoing
CCCE                  --        400         ---          (400)        Under Negotiations
592 + (400)
Moyenne Guinée          EDF                   10         ---         110           120        Ongoing
KfW                   --         150        ---           100         Ongoing
Saudi Fund            --          75        ---            75         Ongoing
IsDB or Danida        --        450         ---          (450)        Under Negotiations
-----   --  600       ---          (602)       Financing Sought
295 + (1050)
Haute Guinée            IsDB                   --        420         ---           420        Ongoing
EDF                   --          60        ---            60         Ongoing
EDF                   --         300        ---           300
Italy                 --         250        ---          (250)        Under Negotiations
780 + (250)
Guinée Forestière       KfW                    --         50         ---            50        Ongoing
350        ---          (350)        Financing Sought
50 + (350)
1717 + (2050)
NOTE:  CCCE -- Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (France)
EDF  -- European Development Fund
KfW  -- Kredit Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau (FR. Germany)
IsDB -- Islamic Development Bank
AFlIN
January 6, 1989



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-1
REPUDLIC 0F SUINEA
SECOND MATER SUPPLY PRO'JECT
Proposed Institutianal Arrangement
t                  t                                                    t.t,,,,,,  I--
+                  +                0      FOREI6N
----------------        STATE        ------49I-------  SHAREHOLDERS  *------51 ------1        INVESTOR
o+    AREEMENT    *                 I  MANAGER (FIN)   I
t   ~ ~               I                         tI    
I                                   t                                    t
I                         Ot,                                                           +                    +
I                       Z100                                                           *    NANAGEMENT      +
+     CONTRACT       *
+ +                                                    l                         +                    +             i
t                     _       _   _    _ I  t 
*                  *      *   URBAN MATER   +                         MATER       ----------------------
+   ENTERPRISE    *       *     SUPPLY       +                I   MANA9ENENT    t
+    CONTRACT      *      *     SENERAL      *                I COMPANY (SEES)  1---------------------
+      *   RE6ULATIONS   t                 I                   I
+ . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . . . .                  ---------------- 
t                         I                                                                + +t+ +
:                 ~~~~~                                                                     ~         ~~I It 
.                    G                       
I                                                                                       G +   SU6SCRIPTION    +
. . . . . . . . . +                 +     CONTRACT       +
t                                                  G+                 +                +                    +
t                         +      LEASE       +                . . . . . . . . . . .
t                         G +    CONTRACT    *                           t
t                                                                        t +  +
NATIONAL      O                         I                                               I
-      -------------I MATER AUTHORITY 1---------------- ------                                 CUSTOMER
I     (SONE61      1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
AFIIN
January 3, 1989



- 38 -                                                   ANNEX 2-2
REPUBLIC OF 6UINEA
SECOND MATER SUPPLY PROJECT
----- - ---- -----------
Dreakdown of the full Cost of dater
IOOX ~~~-------------------------------------
I             B
EXTERNAL FINANCINS
(FOREI6N EXPENDITURES
LEASE                OF THE LEASE CONTRACT)
CONTRACTOR
RATE
FULL     
COST OF      --- - - - - -   -----.-----CONSUMER RATE----------
MATER             
OTHER                                                      RENTAL
F INANCIAL                                            I      FEE
INEEDS                                 -- -------
I    :                 ~~~~~~~SUPPORT FROh         
:    :                 ~~~~~~THE NATIONAL 6UD6ET      .........
:    I                   {D~~~~~(EeT SERVICE) 
----- -------------- ---    - -- - 1- ---    -----                        ------
I       2        3       4        5       6    YEAR
Note:    This graph gives the general principle of cost sharing between
--the consuser, the National Budget and external financing.
Annex 4-1 gives the actual cost shvuing resulting froc sectoral
financial forecasts.
November 15, IqR8



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-3
REPU9LIC OF EUINEA
SECOND MATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SONES Proposed Organization Chart
t 
BOARD OF     I
I    DIRECTORS
I                  t
---------  I-------
1- I 6eneral Manager
I                   t
------------------            1- 2 Secreturies
t                  t           1- t Driver
I Senior Advisor (Expatriate)-            I      6ENERAL                       A 1 I Agent
----------     HANAGEMENT      ----------
< (5 Positions)   I
I                                                             t
t    _t
I DEPAtTI¶ENT OF  I                                          t  DEPARTNENT OF I
---  ---    FININCE AND   I                       ----------I    STUOIES AND    I
I ADMINISTRATION  III                                              NEN NORICS     I
I   I <29 Positions>                                  I               < 27 Positions) 
t        .                  .                              .           I                   t
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*~~~-            ----   t--------------------- -                       --
- I Finance 6 Administrative Director                     1- I Technical Director
1- 3 Highur Level Acco-- ntants                            1- 13 Engine-rs
t- 6 Assistant 2ccountants                                 1- 8 Technicians
1-3 ad d      nistrative Assistants                        1- 2 Drafth  en
1- 9 Support Staff                                         1- 2 Secretaries
1- 2 Secretarias                                           1- 1 Agent
1- 2 Drivers                                               t
1- 2 Agents                                                1- I Senior Engineer (Expatriate)
AFVII
December 20, 1988



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of Proposed Project Components
A. Management Support Program to SONEG
1.        Technical Assistance.
(a) high level advisor to SONEG's Gereral Manager to assist in sector
planning, definition and implementation of sector policies and
accounting, supervision of execution of the lease contract, and to
provide on-the-spot training to SONEG's staff (72 man/months of
which 12 man/months financed by the PPF); and
(b) experienced engineer to assist in the creation and operation of
SONEG's department of Studies and New Works, provide on-the-spot
training in the field of preparation of urban water supply projects,
and procurement and organize supervision of all urban water supply
projects (72 man/months of which 12 man/months financed by the PPF).
2.        Consultanc*  Services,-Audit, Trin.
(a) services of a consultant to assist SEEG's preparing regular revi-
sions of the consumer rates, and reviewing proposals for revisions
of the lease contractor rate (six man/months over a four-year
period); and
(b)  services of a legal counsel to assist SONEG in the interpretation
and/or amendment of the lease contract, as well as all other major
contracts (six man/months over a six-year period).
3.        Audit.  Assistance to SONEG's financial department to set up appro-
priate accounting procedures especially in the field of fixed assets; audits
of SONEG's accounts and of SEEG's customer accounting procedures and accounts;
audits of claims made by SEEG for payments of the foreign exchange component
of the lease contractor rate; audits of the Special Account of the Project and
of SOEs (50 man/months over a six-year period).
4.        Training.  Participation in selected seminars organized by special-
ized training centers in the field of project identification, preparation and
justification, design criteria, appropriate technology and procurement (six
seminars of about 1.5 months each per year during six years).



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 5
5.        Office Space.
(a) service of an architect to prepare the preliminary and detailed
designs and tender documents of SONEG's office and to supervise
construction activities; and
(b)  rehabilitation and construction of about 600 m2 of office space.
6.        Equipment and Vehicles.
(a) supply of office furniture, equipment and technology; and
(b) supply of two four-wheel drive vehicles and four station-wagons.
B. Rehabilitation of Sector Operations
7.        Creation of SEEG, a water management company jointly owned by the
State and a foreign investor/manager.
8.        Conclusion and implementation of the lease contract between SONEG
and SEEG.
C. Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities
9.        Supply of equipment, pipes and fittings, material for connections
and water meters needed for the rehabilitation of existing treatment plants,
pumping stations, transmission and distribution pipes, reservoirs, and indi-
vidual connections; and
10.       Installation of equipment, laying of pipes, civil works, and recon-
struction of connections.
D. Expansion of the Conakry Water Supply
11.       Raw Water Transmission Line.
(a) supply of about 36.3 km of 1,000 mm diameter pipe and of necessary
fittings and equipment; and
(b) transport, excavation, laying and testing of pipes.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 5
12.       Treatment Plant (40,000 m3/d).
(a) construction and operation of a pilot treatment plant to ascertain
that settlement tanks can be eliminated from the final design
(financed under the PPF);
(b) construction of a repartition cistern;
(c)  construction of six dual media declining rate filters wlth a total
surface of 162 m2 (27 M2 each) and a back wash system using air and
treated water coming from other filters;
(d) construction of a building for storage arid preparation of chemicals.
All chemicals (aluminum sulfate, lime wash to be produced by a lime
saturator and calcium hypochlorite) to be injected through gravito-
ry systems;
(e) construction of a 1,500 m3 treated water storage tank and 700 ms
outlet chamber; and
(f) rehabilitation of the existing access road and expansion of the
existing electric, water and sewerage systems.
13.       Treated Water Transmission Line.
(a) supply of about 23.7 km of 1,100 mm diameter pipe and of necessary
fittings and equipment; and
(b) transport excavation, laying and testing of pipes.
14.       Connection Lines vith Storage Reservoirs.
(a)  construction and equipment of a repartition/regulation valve cham-
ber; and
(b) supply and laying of ductile iron pipes for the supply of storage
reservoirs: 6.1 km e 800 mm for the new Kipé reservoir; 1.4 km 4
600 mm for the new Simbaya reservoir; and 3.7 km e 400 mm between
the new Kipé and the existing Kaloum reservoir.
15.       Storage Reservoirs.
(a)  construction and equipment of a 2,500 m9 reservoir at Kipé; and
(b)  construction and equipment of a 2,500 m  reservoir at Simbaya.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 5
16.       Distribution Network.
(a) Primary Distribution Network
(i) supply of about 0.7 km e 600 mm; 2.60 km e 450 mm; 2.65 km
é 400 mm;  3.00 km e 350 mm; 8.3 km 6 300 mm;  (ductile iron);
and 4.2 km e 250 mm; 1.15 km e 200 mm; 0.3 km 4 150 mm (PVC);
and
(ii) transport, excavation and laying of the primary distribution
pipes.
(b) Secondary and Tertiary Distribution Network
(i)  supply  of  1.35  km  6 250 mm;  12.75 km  6 200 mm;  47.0 km
i 150 mm; 57.0 km 6 100 mm; 42.0 km e 80 mm; 115.0 km 6 60 mm
(PVC); and
(ii)  transport, excavation and laying of the secondary and tertiary
distribution networks.
(c) Domestic Connections
(i) supply of materials for 15,000 domestic connections (including
meters); and
(ii) conç.truction of 15,000 domestic connections.
17.       Engineering Consultant
(a)  preparation  of  preliminary  and  detailed  designs  and  of  tender
documents (financed under the PPF);
(b)  preparation of the bid evaluation reports and of the final contracts
(financed under the PPF); and
(c) supervision of construction (160 man/months over a 4.5-year period).
E. Consultancy Services
18.       Preparatory Studies to the Project.   Inventories of subscribers,
sectoral assets and sectoral debts; identification of a rehabilitation
progrtm,  a  medium-term  investment  program  and  of  a water  tariff  study
(financed under the PPF).



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 5
19.       Revision of the Legal Framework
(a)  preparation of SONEG's statutes, and UWS general regulations (fi-
nanced under the PPF); and
(b) preparation of the consultation document for the creation and
operatioit of SEEG, including the draft shareholders' agreement
State/FIM, statutes, lease contract SONEG/SEEG, management contract
SEEG/FIM and subscription regulations SEEG/customers (financed under
the PPF).
20.       Technical Assistance to the Government  for the negotiations  and
final draft of the lease contract and vanagement contract (financed under the
PPF).
21.       Secondary Centers Water Supply Studies.  Preparation of preliminary
and final designs and tender documents for expansion of water supply in
selected secondary urban centers, possibly to be financed under an "Urban
Development Priject" or a follow up water supply project (24 man/months).
22.       Outplacement.   Supply of equipment  to a training center  (to be
operated by a specialized NGO) which would be in charge of implementing an
adequate training program for DEG's laid-off staff willing to launch their own
businesses in the field of plumbing, air conditioning and electricity.
AFIIN
January 6, 1989



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Expansion of the Conakry Water Supply
A. Choice of the New Water Resource
1.        A feasibility study of the expansion of the Conakry water supply was
carried out in 1984-85 by the consultant Brian Colquhoun and Partners (BCP,
London, UK) under the Conakry Water Sanitation Project (Credit 870-GUI) as a
first step towards preparation of a follow-up project- This study considered
three main alternatives to increase the water production currently limited to
an average of about 54,000 m3/d (and a maximum of about 60,000 m3/d).
2.        The Ground Water Resources of the Conakry Peninsula.  Some estimates
give a bulk figure of 50,000 m3/d for the ground water resources which could
be abstracted from the aquifers located in the Conakry peninsula up to the
foothills of the Kakoulima Mount. However, the extremely complex geology of
the peninsula and the poor experience of the first water project should lead
to a great prudence if such an alternative is to be considered.
(a) Water resources have first to be proven by the actual drilling and
testing of productive boreholes (some boreholes drilled close to
existing productive  ones  remained  totally dry).   BCP,  who were
involved in the first project, have prudantly estimated that at
least 100 reconnaissance boreholes would have to be drilled; about
40 productive boreholes would be disseminated in a 100 km2 area and
yield an expected  additional  30,000 m3/d.   This would meet  the
demand until 1996, i.e., four years only after the corresponding
facilities have been put into operation; and
(b) The issue of power supply would have to be looked into very careful-
ly since the power company is not yet in a position to guarantee a
reliable service and operation and maintenance of individual genera-
tors have proven to be extremely difficult.
3.        The Surface Water Resource of the Kakoulima Mount.  Located about
45 km east of Conakry and culminating at an elevation of about 1,000 m, the
Kakoulima Mount receives more than 4.0 m annual rainfal;. Some of its perma-
nent streams have been used since the early nineties to supply Conakry by
gravity.  Due to the great variation of their yield, storage must be envis-
aged.  Two main sites of reservoirs have been identified by BCP.
(a)  Lamikouré.  A 4.5 million m3 reservoir would guarantee an additional
20,000 ms/d and allow for a gravitory supply of the Conakry urban
and located under elevation 80; and
(b)  Kitéma.  A 16.5 million m9 reservoir would guarantee an additional
75,000 ms/d and allow for a gravitory supply at the existing Yessou-
lou treatment plant.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 4
Both sites have so far been identified at a very preliminary stage and no
feasibility study has so far been carried out.
4.        The Surface Water Resources of the Samou River.  This scheme com-
prises three main facilities:
(a) the Banéa Reservoir;
(b)  the Kalé dam which diverts part of the flow to the Dankéa power
plant; and
(c)  the Grandes Chutes dam which diverts part of the flow to the Grandes
Chutes power plant and to the Conakry water supply.
For the Conakry water supply, the currently guaranteed yield from the Grandes
Chutes reservoir (elevation 233 m) is 1.5 m3/s of raw water equivalent to
about 125,000 m3/d of treated vater. Already 45,000 ms/d are used to supply
Conakry and the additional resources available at the reservoir are equivalent
to 80,000 m3/d of treated water. At least an additional 400,000 m3/d could be
used at the outlet of the power plant (elevation 120 m).
5.        Comparison of the Various Alternative Sequences of Expansion.  A
first analysis has alloved for the elimination of a few alternatives.
(a) The Kitéma reservoir together with the raw water line to the Yessou-
lou treatment plant would require an investment about double the one
consisting in doubling of the Grandes Chutes/Yessoulou raw water
line for about the same additional quantity of water producee;
(b) The Lamikouré reservoir only guarantees an additional production of
20,000 m3/d, and therefore, would be sufficient only to meet the
water demand three years after it would be put into operation.
Thereafter, a new important investment would be required.
6.        The  two alternative  sequences which have  finally been compared
consist of:
(a)  Alternative  A.   the  Grandes  Chutes/Yessoulou/Conakry  scheme  is
expanded in two tranches able to supply an additional 40,000 m3/d
each.  This would require the following expenditure.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 4
in 1992 /                   in 1998 /
Item                    US$ M                       US$ M
--Raw Water Lines    -- 36 km 6 1.0 m     19.1      9.2 km 6 1.0 m     5.0
--Treatment Plant    -- 40,000 m3/d        3.3      40,000 m2/d        3.3
--Treated Water Line -- 30 km d 0.9 m     13.6      5 km d 0.9 m       2.3
36.0                        10.6
--Operating cost (USS M) - 0.35 + 0.016 V (V in Mm3/y)
/a  The figures given in the 1985 report have been updated with the ones pro-
vided in the 1988 preliminary design.
(b)  Alternative  B.    30,000 m3/d  of  ground  water  resources  from  the
Conakry peninsula are put into operation in 1992. In 1996, a first
tranche of the Grandes Chutes/Yessoulou/Conakry scheme is added to
supply an additional 50,000 ms/d. This would lead to the following
expenditure.
in 1992 /a                      in 1996
Item                    US$ M                           USS M
=- Boreholes, Equipment, Pipes           18.7
R- aw Water Line                                    40 km r    1.0 m    21.2
T- Treatment Plant                                  50,000 m3/d          4.2
-- Treated Water Line                               32 km 0 0.9 m       14.6
18.7                           40.0
Operating Costs (US$ M)
-- Ground  Water      0.875 + 0.165 V (V in Mm3ly)
-- Grandes Chutes     0.350 + 0.016 V (V in Mm3/y)
/a The figures given in the 1985 report have been updated with the ones pro-
vided in the 1988 preliminary design.
(c)  The economic comparison of the two alternatives gives obviously full
advantage to Alternative A as shown in the following table.
------- Net  Present Value -------
Discount Rate        Alternative A        Alternative B         S
10%                 38.1                 54.8             + 44%
12%                 35.2                 47.7             + 35%
15%                 31.9                 39.9             + 25%
(27%)               (23.3)               (23.3)             (0%)



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 4
B. First Phase of Expansion of the Conakry Water Supply
7.        The preliminary design of the expansion of the Conakry water supply
has compared two piezometric alternatives to deliver the additional quantity
of water in the urban site, recently redefined by an urban master plan pre-
pared as part of the Conakrv Urban Project (Credit 1466-GUI).
(a)  The existing "Aviation reservoir" located at the 86 m elevation.
This would require  (i) a new 900 mm treated water line from the
Yessoulou treatment plant; (ii) pumping from the Aviation reservoir
to new reservoirs to be located at the highest point- of Kipé and
Simbaya to supply all the extensions of the urban site located above
the 70 m elevation; or
(b)  The new Kipé and Simbaya reservoirs located at the 128 m elevation
and able to supply by gravity the entire urban site.  This would
require (i) a new 1,100 mm treated water line from the Yessoulou
treatment down to a repartition chamber diverting water to the Kipé,
Simbaya and Aviation reservoirs; and (ii) smaller reservoirs at Kipé
and Simbaya than the ones envisaged in the first alternative since
no extra storage would have to be included to alleviate the effect
of the currently unreliable power supply.
8.        The economic comparison carried out by BCP shows that the alterna-
tive (b) is less expensive than alternative (a), even in terms of initial
capital cost. Since this is also a preferable technical solution, the propos-
al to increase the diameter of the treated water line to supply the entire
urban site by gravity is fully justified.
9.        The initial expansion of the Conakry water supply has been designed
for an additional 40,000 m3/d which would be sufficient to meet the demand
until 1997/98.  In order to reduce the initial investment, the consultant has
proposed to:
(a)  reduce the length of the new raw water line from 45.2 km to 38.5 km;
the remaining 6.7 km being laid in 1996/97;
(b)  reduce the length of the new treated water line from 27 km to
23.7 km, the remaining 3.3 km being laid in 1996/97; and
(c)  expand the Yessoulou treatment in two phases of 40,000 m3/d each
commissioned in 1992 and 1997/98.
10.       The expansion of the water distribution network concentrates on an
area where the present demand for connection is high. Altogether, this would
require the addition of 21.2 km of primary network (e 600 mm to d 150 mm),
275 km e secondary and tertiary networks (d 250 mm to 60 mm) and 15,000 new
connections.
AFlIN
January 6, 1989



ANNEX 3-3
- 49                                                               Page 1 of 4
REPUOLILC     6UIIEA
SECOIO lATER SUPPLO PROJECT
Oetailed Project toit
6F Millon----                   -----US  million-----            ------SF millon-------           -----.USf million.-----
Local   Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign  total            Local  Foreign       Total       Local   Foreign  Total
---  . ... ...    --         .....    - ---   .....                  ----          ----        ---      .. ... ..
A.  Manageant Support Progrne to SONE6
... . . ... ..  -- -- - -- - -- -
1. Tchnical Assistence
- Adnîsor to the s  neral manager                      50.8      457.6       50B.5       0.10    0.92      1.02         72.8      648.3        721.1       0.13      1.14   1.27
- Engineer for Stuies and Nles Morks                   ft.6      419.5       466.1       0.09    0.84    0.93           66.7      594.3        661.0       0.12      1.05   1.17
2. Consultanct services
- Revision of Sater Rites                               5.1       45.8        50.g       0.01    0.09    0.10            7.0       62.6         69.7       0.01      0.11   0.12
- Lngal Couis)l                                         4.2       80.5        84.7       0.01    0.16    0.17            5.9      111.2        117.1       0.01      0.20   0.21
3. Audits                                                 94.9      379.7       474.6       0.19    0.76    0.9           135.0      533.7        668.8       0.24      0.94   1.18
4. Training Activitiio                                      0.0      169.5      169.5       0.00    0.34      0.34           0.0     249.3        249.3       0.00      0.43   0.43
5. Office Space
- Arcitetct                                            12.7        4.2        16.9       0.03    0.01     0.03          :'.4        5.6         23.0       0.03      0.01   0.04
- Construction                                         88.1      132.2      220.3        0.18    0.26    0.44          123.S      161.3        304.8       0.22      0.32   0.54
6. Equipment and Vehicles
- Office Furniture * Eqcipannt                          0.0       33.9        33.9       0.00    0.07    0.07            0.0       45.5         45.5       0.00      0.08   0.08
- 0fhicles (2n4ND 4 4 Station  Iagoncl                  0.0       S9.3        59.3       0.00    0.12     0.12           0.0       79.4         79.4       0.00      0.14   0.14
las Coot                                                      302.5    1782.2    2084.7          0.61    3.56    4.17
Phomical Contingencies                                         35.3      169.7      225.0        0.07    0.38    0.45
*             Price tontingencies                                            90.6       539.4      629.9       0.09    0.50    0.58
Total                                                         42t.4    25tl.3    2939.7          0.76    4.44    5.20          4 e.4    2511.3       2939.7        u.76      4.44   5.20
tZt:SSfl  at.::... ....    nhu  s...:. . ..     ::. t...  .....     :::..   ss...     . s . :..s.       atux     :s:.s   taut
D. Reabîîlittion of Sector Operatgons
1. SEES Initia! Equity                                    639.5       665.6    1305.1        1.:8    1.33    2.61         6t9.5        665.6      1305.1        1.28      1.33   2.61
2. Foreign Expenditures iFE)
of the Lease Contract
IFF 1.21 per collectt' cubîc atter)
- Yairs I to 4  100I   ;# the FE                         0.0    4295.3    4295.3          0.00    8.59    8.59            0.0    5976.3       59'6.3        0.00     10.47  10.47
- tîar  S          802 of the FE                         0.0    1139.9    1139.9          0.00    2.28    2.28            0.0    1750.3        1750.3       0.00      3.02   3.02
- Vear  6          t01 of ths FE                         0.0      94: 4      941.4        0.00    1.88    1.88            0.0    1497.5        1497,5       0.00      2.59   2.59
aise Coat                                                     639.5    1042.2    7681.7          1.28   14.08   15.36
PhYlIc41 ContingsnceIî                                          0.0      637.7      637.7        0.00    1.28    1.28
Prite tontingeocnin                                             0.0    2209.9    2209.9          0.00    2.05    2.05
Total                                                         639.5     9889.7   10529.2         1.28   17.41   18.69         6t9.5    9889.7    10529.2           !.28    1'.41  18.69
at..      .. ut.St         ....     ....  . .         ...   :    .S...   ::::.....                     - .:... ....:      . .. t:.



ANNEX 3-3
- 50-                                                           Page 2 of 4
REPU8LIC Of BUINCA
SEiCON IATER SUPPLY PROJECt
DOtaîled Project Colt
-- F illia on...                     USt ilion -----                    -------                ---llion...US. .ul ------
Loucl   Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign  Total          Locul  Foreign      Total       Local.  Foreign  Total
C. Reoabilitation of the Existinq F&Clat-n
1. Supply of Spcr  Parti and Equipuent                    0.0    1372.9    1372.9        0.00    2.75    2.75           0.0    1810.9       1810.9      0.00      3.32   3.32
2. Initallition, L4ying and Civil morts                 198.3      462.7     661.0       0.40    0.93    1.32         276.1      630.4       906.5      0.50      1.13   1.63
E4u Coat                                                   IS8.3    135.6    2033.9         0.40    3.67    4.07
Physiîcl Contingentics                                      29.7      275.3      305.1      0.06    0.55    0.61
Price Contîingenclas                                        48.1      330.3      378.4      0.04    0.23    0.27
Total                                                      276.1    2441.2    2717.4        0.50    4.45    4.95         276.1    2441.2       2717.4       0.50     4.45   4.95
D. Expansîon of the tonatry tater Supply
1. Rau Vater Transmnilon  <31.0 khlOOO u
- Supply 0f Pipe and Equopeant                         0.0    4491.5    4491.5        0.00    8.96    8.98           0.0    6032.3      6032.3       0.00    10.53  10.53
- Lapin; and Related Construction                   1228.6    3686.4    4915.3        2.46    7.37    9.83       106.l    5379.4       71t .5       3.14      9.36  12.50
2. Treatoent Plant 140,000 e3Id4y)                      432.2    1728.8    216t.0        0.86    3.46    4.32         631.7    2508.6       3140.2       1.10     4.37   5.47
3. treatud mater Transaîssion (21.0 kullOO ttl
SUPIY 0f Pipe and Equipount                         0.0    3474.6    3474.6         0.00   6.95    6.95            0.0    4666.5      4666.5       0.00      8.15   8.15
- Layin; und Related Construction                    735.2    2205.5    2940.7        1.47    4.41    5.88        1080.5    3218.4      4298.9       1.88      5.60   7.48
4. Rus. Connect. Lines I11.4 kt/BOO,600,400 et)
- 5fpply of pipe and EqoIpeept                         0.0     881.4      881.4       0.00    1.76    1.76           0.0    ;199.8      ;199.8       0.00      2.;0  2.09
Living and Rdl4ted Construction                     152.5     355.9      50B.5       0.31    0.71    1.02         22S.8      518.3      742.1       0.39      0.90   t.29
5. Service Reservoîrs
-ipe Oround Level reservoir  (2500 d3l               105,9     317.8      423.7       0.21    0.64    0.85         154.8     461.1       615.9       0.27      0.80   1.07
- Stebay  6round Level reservoîr (2500 d3i           105.9     317.8      423.7       0.21    0.64    0.85         154.8     461.1       61t.9       0.27      0.80   1.07
6. Dlstribution metuoris
- S.9PIY Of Prltarn DJstril. Pipes (23.0 tel          0.0      694.9      694.9       0.00    1.39    1.39           0.0     97t.8       971.8       0.00      1.69   1.69
- L.pin; cf Prtearv Ohstrib. Pipes 123.0 tol         147.5     344.1      491.5       0.29    0.69    0.9.         230.6     537.1       767.7       0.40      0.93   1.3!
- Suppl of Saccndary Dîstrîb. Pipes 1275 te)          0.0    1194.9    1194.9        0.00    2.39    2.39           0.0    1670.9      1670.9       0.00      2.91   2.91
- LaYing of SecoMdary Dlstrît. Pipes (275 ka)   1093.2    2550.B    3644.1            2.19    5.10    7.29        1709.5    !982.2      5691.7       2.96      6.89   9.B5
- Supplp of Raterial for 15,000 Coc.ections            0.0     898.3      898.3       0.00    1.80    1.80           0.0    1319.3      1319.3       0.00      2.28   2.28
- Constructior cf IS,000 Connections                 444.9     190.7      635.6       0.89    0.38    1.27         700.2     299.6       999.7       1.21      0.52   1.71
7. Engineering Consultunt
- Detalled Osigr ing tende, Docucents                  0.0      135.6     135.6       0.00    0.27    0.27           0.0      149.2       149.2      0.00      0.30   0.30
- lad Enaluatior and Prop. of tontracts                0.0      33.9       33.9       0.00    0.07    0.07           0.0       40.6        40.6      0.00      0.08   0.08
- Construction Supervision                           198.3     793.2      991.5       0.40    1.59    1.98         300.6    1196.2       1496.8      0.52      2.08   2.60
--   -    -- -  -    ------      . .....  -- --  -- - -       --- --     -- - -      --- --     --  --    -- --   -- --
Base Colt                                                 4644.5   24296.2   28940.1        9.29   49.59   57.88
Physiîcl Contingencies                                     696.7    2763.3    3460.0        1.39    5.53    6.9
rnce Contingencies                                        1651.4    7553.0    9204.4        1.46    6.15    7.61
total                                                     6992.6   34612.4   41605.0        12.14   60.27   72.41       6992.6   34612.4    41605.0        12.14    60.27  72.41
...... *:s       ::....     .:::   ::.  :.:...           .:.n.f.       s      ..:          s:.. at::5S8



ANNEX 3-3
-51 -                                                              Page 3 of 4
REPU8LIC Of 6UIIEA
.................
SECSON  Wzi~ sUmyn *OwrT.
0etailîo Projact Coit
6-F 4ill0on -------            ------USS Million .F Mlillion -------l                                          -o-.
Louil   Foreign    Total       Locl  Foreign  Total          Local  Foreign      Total       Locl  Foreign  Total
E. Coosultarty Service
1. Praparatory Studios to the Project                    0.0     271.2     271.2       0.00    0.54    0.54           0.0     271.2       271.2      0.00      0.54   0.54
2. Revîsîon of tht Ltgil Fra,amark                       0.0      33.9       33.9      0.00    0.07    0.07           0.0      33.9        33.8      0.00      0.07   0.07
3. TA to kRgotisttons of thé Leas. Contract              0.0      33.9       33.9      0.00    0.07    0.07           0.0      33.9        33.T      0.00      0.07   0.07
4. Secondary Centors Mèter Supply Studies               25.4     144.1      169.5      0.05    0.29    0.34          38.5     218.0       2%.s       0.07      0.38   0.44
5. Outpl&cotent                                         19.1      57.2       76.3      0.04    0.11    0.15          25.5      73.9        99.4      0.05      0.14   0.10
-- --     ...    --   -- --     ......  -  --- - --         .......   ..   ..                 -- --    -- --      -----
eau  Cost                                                  44.5     540.3      584.7      OO9    1.00    :.17          64.00
PhlWtîcl Contingeocîas                                      6.7      30.2       36.9      0.01    0.06    0.07
Prnc, tontînlanctis                                        12.8      60.5       73.3      0.01    0.05    0.06
Total                                                      64.0     630.9      694.9       0.11    1.19    1.31         64.0     630.9       694.9       0.11     1.19   1.31
siss       tste   Sss           t    .....  *.. ...S.tt                 ......    ssss   *    s.....   ..s        t..
Total Bsit  Cout                                     5029.3   35496.4   41325.7      11.66   70.99   82.65          64.0
Physîcil Conting ncno                                 768.4    3896.2    4664.6       1.54    7.79    9.33           0.0
Prmca Contaqtoncos                                   1802.9   10692.9   12495.9       1.60    8.98   10.57           0.0
6rsod Total                                          8400.6   50085.5   58486.1      14.79   87.76  102.55        8400.6   50085.5    58486.1      14.79    87.76 102.55
*sun..    SSII...   S8tSSI  saX-S Igsîsî sâ......... s.......  : ::: ::::::



REPIJLIC OF SU14EA
SECOiD MATER SUPY PROJECT
suary Project Coct
---6F Milion -------US- -il-  ot-----                     -------6F million .......                 lon------S
Local   Foregn    Total        Local  Foreign  Total          Local  Çoragon    total         Local   #er,îqn  Total
--  ----       ---        .....  ----.....  .._. _....                       .....      ... ..   ----.--
A.  anagonmt Support Priopa  t  SOIIES                    302.!    1782.2    2084.7        0.61    3.56    4.17        429.4    2511.3      2939.7       0.76      4.44   5.20
8. Rhhailitation of Sctotr Operotions                     639.5    7042.2    7691.7        1.29   14.08   15.36        639.5    9989.7    10529.2        1.29    17.41  18.69
C. Phabilltation of tho Exaîtinq Facîlitîn                198.3    1835.6    2033.9        0.40    3.67    4.07        276.1    244U.2       2717.4      0.50      4.45   4.95
D. Espanson of the Cotakry Miter Sopply                  4644.5   24296.2   28940.7        9.29   48.59   57.08       6992.6   34612.4    a1b".0        12.14    60.27  72.41
E. Ctmultany SMvîcau                                       44.5      540.3     584.7       0.09    1.09    I.17          64.0     630.9       694.9      0.11      1.19   1.31
total Ba" Ctt                                        5929.3   35496.4   41325.7       11.66   70.99   82.65
Phymacal Contingmncîn                                 768.4    !896.2    4664.6        1.54    7.79    9.33
P sce Contiog ncaen                                  1802.9   10692.9   12495.9        1.60    8.99   10,57
grand Total                                          S400.6   50085.5   58486.1       14.79   87.76  102.55       8400.6   50085.5    58486.1       14.79    87.76 102.55
.:sS    :      tt .......    .....  ntsc.  assa  St....      nain.:    t.::..    Ct:...        ::tan..-.::  S::.
Percent of total                                                                                                                                    14.42    85.59 100.00
AFlIN - January 6, 1989
tDu
oo 
'sr



REPUBLIC OF ,UXt
SECOIND MTER SUPPLO PROECT
etafled Fiincînti; Plan, *rocurfeent ttethod
IDA Cradit Disburn.ent Allocatton aon DOsbur$eMnt Schtdule
-US$ Millon------   ---------------------FInantînq Plan fUS$ mllion--------------------------- Project  Procmr.  IDA DOls   1D  Crtd.  IDA PmF
Loci!   Foreign  Total      IDA    IDA  A4DI   CCCE    EIB    xxx    FIN   6cvt.  O5E8 Bénèf.  Totsl Elftent  NOttho   Category   Dsbibur.
treagt   PPF                                                                                                  USS ail   US$ ail
...-   . ... ....  ----            ---     ---        .         ...     --             ---   ----   ----      -- - -  -- --            -- -- -     -------.
A.   anqetemt Support Progra  to SOIES
1. TecbnIc4l Assistànce
- AdtiWor to the 6norefl Min190r                   0.13     1.14   1.27      0.81   0.14   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.32   0.0O   t.27 TA,CJTR   CSLT          S(a)          0.74       0.14
- EngLneer for Studîes and bu toris                0.12     1.05   1.!'    0.5   Oa.16   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.06   0.00   1.17 TA,C,TR   CSLT            !(1)          0.96       0.16
2. Consultancy Sernvices
- Reviîtin of Mater Ratn                           0.01     0.11   0.12      0.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12  tà,£,TR   CSLT         3(a)          0.11
- Lequl Counsel                                    0.01     0.20   0.21      0.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.00   0.21 TA,C, T    CSLT         3(a)          0.18
3. Audits                                             0.24     0.94   1.18      1.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.06   0.00   1.18 TA,C,TR   CSLT           3a)           1.02
4. TPAtfItnf  Acit.!:mS                               0.00     0.43   0.43      0.41   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.00   0.43 t1,C,TR   CSLt          3(a)          0.37
5. Office Space
- AtcOitect                                        0.03     01   0.04        0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.04 YA,C,TR   CSLT          3(a)          0.03                          1
- Cooîtructîcr                                    0.22      0.X3   0.54      0.41   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.14   0.00   0.54    CU           ICB     111)          0.36
6. Eqaipelnt ao VehcleuI
- Office Furniture à Equiomeet                    0.00      0.08   0.08      0.08   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.08  E.UIP.    ICI          241           0.07
- VFhicIes 12t41D * 4 Station Maqonal              0.00     0.14   0.14      0.14   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.14  E8UIP.    ICB          2(al          0.12
.     ..........  ------....... ... . ----  ----     ---------------.---.---.--------------
Total                                                     0.76      4.44  53.       4.29   0.30   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.61   0.00   5.19
......   .....  ...          ..   .553,  anus  ....... =, .. : :  "                     . :  s::.. .::,
8. Rehabilitation of Sector Operations
1. SE6S Initale  Equito                                1.28     1.33   2.61      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.33   1.28   0.90   0.00   2.61    UC           MA
2. Foremlo oç moitures (FE)
o  the Leae Contract
IFF 1.21 per collected cubac uter)
- Years 1 to 4  100! of the FE                      0.00    10.47  10.47    10.47   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.47 ADJUST.    ICI            4            9.52
- Voir            8 Ott of the FE                   0.00     3.02   3.02      3.02   0.00   0.00   O.OC   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    .0    0.00   5.02 ADJUST.   ICS            4            2.75
- r  ,            bOt oF t'  FE                    0.00      2.59   -.59      2.59   0.00   0.00   0.00    Mt   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.59 ADJUSt.    ICI            4            2.35
Total                                                     1.28    17.41  18.69    16.08   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.33   1.28   0.00   0.00  08.9q                                                                          >
OQ Z
tom
CI &



REPUBLIC OF 6UlhER
SEMs  tMTER SUPPLY PRO2ECT
D taîLtd FîOAcsnq P1.., Pracureslt ththOd
IDA Credit Oîsbur e       t Rllocatîon mn  D Osureent Sciieduij
----U      illon------ ---------------------F ncg Pln I               ilion---------          ----    Project  Pru   I                D  Crd.  I 
Local   Foreign  Total      IDA    IDA   RtDB   CCC   Elt   '         F!o   6ot.  StliE6 lEnO.  Total Eln nt fistho  Catevofy   Dnhurn.
Créeit   PPF                                                                                                US$  i   USJ# mIl
, .... .......   ---.. ------  .... ..... ----. ---    --- .... ----   .... .. .. ...   ---  ----   ----   -----   ----- .-..---..
C. Rhab llittion of thé ELostin; Facîlitiîm
1. Supply of Spart Parts and Equspuint               0.00      3.32   3.32     3,32   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.32  EQUIP.    lS         2401          2.89
2. Installation, Ly9nq and Civil Morts                0.50     1.13   1.63      1.63   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.63    Co        LCB      1<0)         1.42
----    . ..... ...  .    ...... ........... ..... ....._. ...... . .._. ..... ..... .... ......
Total                                                   0.50      4.45   4.95     4.95   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.95
8 S   **t».t t..t             ..uls   *..... tse.    ttl    d    at .................fl.......
D. Ecptnoeon of thé Contkry Mater Supply
L. Rau Mater Tff înulton (i3.0 tetlOOO * 1
- Supplt o  Pipe and Equipimot                    0.00    10.53  10.53      0.00   0.00  10.53   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.53  E0UIP.    ICt
- Ltail; and Re ated Construction                 3.14      9.6  12.50      0.00   0.00  12.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  12.50   CM          ICE
2. Trutbnt Plant (40,000 i3ldayî                      1.10     4.37   5.47     5.47   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.47    Co          ItE     1(c)         4.76                                "
3. Trmted Mater Transsîelmon (21.0 b/llOO   1                                                                                                                                                                                     1
- Supply of Pipe ned EquLpoint                    0.00      0.15   0.15     0.00   0.00   0.00   S.15   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.15  E.UIP.   OTLER
- Lapin  and Related construction                  1.t8     5.60   7.48     0.00   0.00  0.    7.4B   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.48    CM         OT(IER
4. Rn. Connct. Lians (11.4 0i11100,600,400 e
- Sgpply of Pipe eand (qopent                     0.00      2.09   2.09     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.09   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 MO   0.00   2.09  EGUIP.   OtDER
- Layfng and Relite  Coastruction                 0.39      0.90   1.29     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.29   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.29    CM        OTIER
5. Srvice Riervors
- lipe 6fontZ Leui r rvroir  (2500 13)            0.27      0.0    1.07    1.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.07   CM           ICB     1(c)         0.93
- SlHaya kround Lvelv res.rnr 12500 e35            0.27     0.80   1.07     :.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.07   Ct           ICI     Oic)         0.93
6. Dastrtbatton Metiorts
- Suppli of Prmwy Distrib. Pipe  (23.0 ka)    0.00          1.69   1.69     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.69   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.69  E!UIP.   OTER
- Layîan  Of Prt ry Dtstrib. Pipn  (23.0 oie       0.40     0.93   1.33     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.33   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.33    CM        0T(ER
- Spply of Secondary DOstrb. Pipes (275 kte    0.00         2.91   2.91     2.91   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.91  EOUIP.    ICa         21ci         2.70
- Ltynq o4 Sicondary Oîstrît. Pipe§ t275 k1i   2.96         6.89   9.65     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.92   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.92   0.00   9. 5    Cm         LCE
- Supply of Matenail for 15,000 Conoectîon        0.00      2.29   2.28     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.29   0.00   2.28  EOUIP.    ICI
- Conatrîctlon of 15,000 Cnnections                1.21     0.52   1.73     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0. 00   0.00   0.00   1.73   1.73    CM        LCB
7  Enointrinq Consultant                                                                                                                                                                                                           |I
- Det,tle  Dmgn h  nd Tender Docueints            0.00      0.0   0 .30     0.00   0.28   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.00   0,00   0.30 TA,C,TR   CSLT         PPF                     0.28
- ld tuîluttlon and Prep. of Contracts            0.00      0.0   0.06     0.00   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 TA,C,TR   CSLT         PP                     0.07
- Coutructian Supervision                         0.52      2.0B   2.60      1.69   0.00   0.00   0.91   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.60 TARCtTR   CSLT        3(1D         1.47
Total                                                   12.14    60,27  72.41    12.22   0.36  23.03  10.54  11,32   0.00   0.     0.02   7.21   1.73  72.41
a... Sa. ..- . *  t.... ta.... au. ..- . »....:  Mes . -  - a..  ... .... u. .... att.. * .as ..a.a ..Sa.tu



REPUBLIC O1f BIIIE
ECBO  MATER SUPPLY PRUECT
htailed Finoanctinq Plan, Procureuot lluthoo
IDA Croit Di,iuru.unt PJlocation and Otelurnmt Schedule
-----USt Rtn------   ---------------fànancu4 Plan lUs$ illlen)- ------ - -- ---                      ----- Projett Procur. IDO DOsb  IDA Cr«.  1ID PPF
Local  Foreign  Total       IDA    IDA  A6       CCCE    E.!f    xxx    FIN   bvt.  SORES Manif.  Total Eleunt  IletOo  Ctquory   DiOo,rb .
Crudit   PFF                                                                                                  USI til    S til
~~~~._.  .............   -------.....   ......... . ---..........    ...     ...    .  ...... ....    ...._. . .... -------  .... .. _
E. Ctonultancy SvI ust
1. Proparatory Studon  to the Prjesct                 0.00      0.54   0.54      0.00   0.54   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.54 th,C,TR   CSLT          mPF                     0.54
2. Reimion of the Lqal Frumwork                        0.00     0.07   0.07      0.00   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.07 Tf,C,TR   CSLt    PmF                            0.0
3. tA to Mqotiations of the Léas. Contract             0.00     0.07   0.07      0.00   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00. 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.07 TA,C,TR   CSLT           PPF                      0.07
4. Scodary tCeotars Mater hpply Studios               0.07     0.38   0.44      0.42   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.00   0,44 TA,C,TR   CSLT    35cl                0.37
5. oDtplucmtt                                          0.05     0.14   0.1l      0.8   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.18  EOUiP,    LIe          2<d1          0.16
_......  ------... ------. ..... ----     ----     ----     ------  ----     ----     -- --     ----     ----     ----     -----,._,,,,,_U
Total                                                     0.11     1.19   1.31      0.61   0.68   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.00   1.31
......e   6*Uas  u      sas * *x8385   3883   * .    3 e --anSE .-3355  aC N       m bgg *sa.35   BaB
ar4nd Total                                          14.79    87.76 102.55    38.14   1.33  23.03  16.54  11.32   0.00   1.33   1.30   7.84   1.73 102.55                                       31.41       1.33
c585   ce-.S ..335        m"m    ".ss., as "ces <05B55. causa u8h53 55e»355SS "tata 5l
>4
tO



REPUfLlt W  0U11EA                                      *0EI 3-4
Pana 4 ef 6
tEtOID010E 91*1WSIIP PUDSECT
Sumary Flnatinq Plan
........... ........... _
-----U# 11illln-- -   .------ -         ------. F1nancng Plan   S   lionl--         -     .----
Local   Foreign  Total      IA    IDA    AfDI   CCCE   Mli    au    Flr   ovt.  SOIE16 B 1f 1   ITtal
Cradtt I PF
A. lqumnt Supwort Pirapa  to SOIE6                         0.76     4.14   5 20      4.29   0.30   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.61   0.00   5.19
e. Rmabîlltatuon Of Scttr operations                       1.26    17.41  1I.69    16.08   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.33   128   0.00   0.00  1I.69
C. RIaailiittIc  of tho Ltliting Fh litîiU                 0.50     4.45   4.5       4.95   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    .00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.95
D.  umnon of the Contry mitur Suoply                      1.1-I    60.27  72.41    12.22   0. l   23.03  16.54  11.32   0.00   0.00   0.02   7.21   1. 73  72.41
E. Cenultqcy Servies                                       0.11      1.19   1.31     0.61   0.6    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.02   0.00   1.31
.....-  ------ --... -...   . --    - ------,---   - . .. .... . ....... ... ... ...... 1... ...... . ......
Srand Total                                           14.79    87.76 102.55   32.14   1.33  23.03  16.54  11.32   0.00   1.33   1.30   7.84   3.73 102.55
ma"81,  3S....31 Ss*SSS S.     S28U1«   813388 »8 *"  888888, ..s8  ...... 838""8 *.»B  8..»» .8.8..
Percont of Total                                      14.42    e5.58 300.00    37.19   1.30  22.46  16.12  11.04   0.00   1.30   1.27   7.64   1.69  99.99
Percbt nt
FPnanclng *qancq                                   ci total
IDA Crodit                 2.57    35.57  38.14    37.19
IDA PmF                    0.00      1.3    1.33     1.30
*499                       3.14    19.B9  23.03    22.46
Cm                         2.40    14.13  16.54    16.12
EIB                        2.27      9.05  11.32    11.04
ni                 ~~~~~~0.00  0.00   0.00     0.00
FIn                        0.00      1.33   1 s3      1.30
6Snmrnnt                   1.29      0.02   1.30      1.27
tDIIE6                     1.89      5.94   7.83     7.64
Baof.                      1.21     0.52   1.13       1.69
----  ------   .......
Total                     t4.77    97.79 102.55   100.00
"ahsa        ea2*, 998       j
bMr 21, I"B



REPUBLIC OF 6UIrEA                                                                                 REPUBItIC OF BUIEA
SECOID INTER SUPPLt PRWECT                                                                         SECOND  ATER SUPPLt PROJECT
,. . ..... ..................                                                                    ....... ........ ... ....... ......
PrOCu?flhnt 00t004                                                                      Allocation and Oî60afîflmt of RDA Cridtt
(US * illilon)
lo4
Project Elttnt                ctrt           ICI       LRI      LCi      CSLT     OtIER   NLA.       ToTAL                                                                  A*nt             Espudîturo
Proj.ct  lîueout                Cetstory           US# Million          htnn:.d
t  Civil  oisrt                Total         20.66      0.00    13.21      0.00    10.10      0.00    43.97. - -                                                                                     - --
IDA           B.03      0.00     î.ôl      0.00     0.00      0.00     9.66
1. tivtl morts
2. Eqipulont                   Total         15.9       3.50     0.00      0.00    11.92      0.00    31.37               - ttSP to SOtES6                1h>                 o3                   715
IDA           3.13      3.50     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     6.63               - RMDa. of FKclîltîui           11                   1.42                100
- Cov'akry tatVi 50001w        IlcI                 6.62                100
3. T, Training, Consultant   Total            0.00      0.00     0.00      8.53     0.00      0.00     8.53
Servicus                    IDA            0.00      0.00     0.00      7.10     0.00      0.00     7.10           2. Equipuitft
- ttSP to SOIES                24a)                 0.20                îOD
4. Leom Ctottect               Total         16.09      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    16.0               - RehOs. of Facîlitîus         2ttl                 2.99                 100
IDA          16.08      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    16.09                 ton»ury Nator Supp5 1        2>c)                 2.70                 100
- COnI§UItllCta   St.rv:ca     2tD\                 0.                  IOÙ100
5. Inttsal U'Ca nquît,         Total          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      2.61     2.61
IDA           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00            3. TA, traînînq, Coniultîng
---------- ---- .... ...  S  te    3()               .32                 95
Total Proj.ct CtOt             Total         52.69      3.50    13.21      8.53    22.02      2.61   102.55               - Conakry matir                 '"pply  140>         1.4' "°
IDA          27.23      3.50     1.63      7.10     0.00      0.00    39.47                 tonsultancy Seruice           3<)                  0.3O                9f
* 88stY   *s.es   s.. ...  .gamp      55s.   *.,.- fSS
6. Lesu coitrfct                   I                  14.61                ai
S. R04înancioq of thoe  PF                              1.33
6. Unallsottid                                          4.55
Total IDA Crndlt                                    40.00
ai  1001 of Foreign E£nendîtunr  IFE) 1u cOntract VOUS 1, 2,3, and 4
801 of FE in contract year 5 îad 601 of FE la Contract yrt 6.
AFIIW
D,ce0« 20, 1989
N >
00Z
tD 
tS
o '
a' J



REPUILIC OF SUIlEA
SECOII  ITCER SIAlLV FIOJECT
Dimburumnt kschule
FIaca  9w       Davusnt           £redit Di.brunt by
ad  Profile       Suuter        ~~~Ca,iatave
Smstnrs             1           ------- US$ ilUlt»n -------                                          DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
.                 _*                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lteqa    P,dd.>
100-
52                0.0          O.00           0.00                         90                         .
f90 51                 2.0           o.se           0.eo                         eo60
12                6.0          1.60           2.40
70 -
FM   si                1t.0          2.00           4.40
92               19.0          2.00            7.20                        60-
Fm2  si                26.0          3.20          10.40                 Ic                                                         /
52               36.0          4.00           14.40                t e      0
Fm93 Si                47.0          4.40          18.80                                                                                                                                                   iA
S2               59.0          4.80           23.60                        S 
Fm4  si                70.0          4.40          28.00
S2               79.0          3.60          3L.60                         20
F    $n sI             9.0           2.80          34.40                         1/
62               92.0          2.40          36.60
Fm9  sI                960           1f F.6..s   -w,,.  . ,*  .40 sX 
s2                90           1.20            X30                                 f89       FY9100      91      F92       Fr93      Fr94      FY9t      FY96       FY97
Fixca Ycoe Sffnesfrrs
F997 sI               100.0          0.40          40.00                            0                                              4    PropomdPr<*ae
kad PWrnatatten OtItt FhttrUry 199
Ismad   Data t4 Effctivwaiust Rap 199
IIFIIII
rKe         15, 1g
Wl"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
O 
(b t
koeabw 13,1998~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



59  -
.P;ziu                                                                 AN_E X 3-t5
ablme I9lm  R*M0<
1191145 0g144414t
lgimt_tttd  4X
........ ... ....
.             ...........1............ ......................... 
I I           4îh    1o  1541.314  hit 0 0t,1                 1          4: :  444,mI .4n:444i44IF4:4044          1444.14i:44i444$4444i
:    ,   ttalttit wons"X prr4  te ISm:                                                                                            :: 
*       lttr tO th0gtrI  11f                                       1    44 NUU  Nttt        "   tNUU   UNUUUU
- t slco.i  I: rt.4tit44                                                           44             0$           444 O                        4U
:                                         :            ~       ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~       ~~: :...  :  :14  .~ o  :  :14  :4
2   ii gt t e t hé bret     Rêèmt
Iq1u (O ttttli 49 Mi metteUU 
:    .  :rrî94t,1o                                                    :             :1             :             :14  :40 444        044          41
5.   rtditos                                                      .             .st   Ntt            os,          "if
*      kclCao tai                                                       qu455fi04:    fi4   *      ft              font                          f
é dits:"Oo                                                          :                             : :m  î :fu l:                   :
4. Trainial gt%,ttl,ten                                                 os           Nf             *Uls         *Nfi          *tf           f*NN
6.   ,4g          ,1 :4î4                                                                          :
:  mi.,t 0hec                                                         t   8:41
h.ttull_t rMd Vothid
-f4 h     ,L ttUr0<t                                                        . Ét t  T    a
V< ict .    12 IV   c   *I tbtiitu CI                               t    8 145V> 
:     f4                                              :              :OothF        :             :                            :44404.4:                                          :.
tlth4bllitàt$Od d4 SCtItt 008r4tirl
1    TtlaXti {titi                                                     NUlt
:       s                                            :             :4ît6F        :              : :                         : .                          :             :64i404441
:   .Fot".       4El 01titkn (in)                       :             :             :              :
I s  tb        C Lasse  t 01rb t
IFf 1.21 t  lilyT .Ktt, t tCI0Cdat é      ,
^ Ytrs I ta t  ttXl Of the t r                                          N         U U          U       XN s
tUrly  f P      lOt *44    th~sio t t                                     s: 4t  a                                     UUNos    U.U
TUr  6          haf0Ct  the FI                                                     4 0                                                NNaNU 4 14N
*                                                           :5N4   P:u 4000.fs:                 44i:44.i.i4:4,1                    :                -
t    tbiti  Osti4 of tv e T .f stur4 2.itie . t
2.  Soltrd id c P4i4     t Md tifil   SI. *                                            4  . NUN     44N   4U
£-P ine   44 the 04         at t                     :             :             : er4:                       :             :             ..:
Ieu   mater  Transmission <    t.3  WtI   0 s i
1.anIY of Pl"t 1U9 41.t                                              Y  |          UUUNtUNUUU
Uli44 Md  Ihlîtrd Cuitruttro                                         y    1:         .i:t    4 4..4 4.4 .
:      Ol0y4 frPlan    4O  flv.ao   (2100lat :                                               in:;.            :             : ,t, i.
2. TrUtir  .toe,  tO OY inr      1 kî                                           là       m
I  io b      oi4ryd 4 sittr. 23   4 7 22.0 lt   t    ;: ;
:     Usîq t44 ?'Iharv 34.536  PUS    (3.0            :             :            B:        UN41444444 UUNU;NUU               44444444  ;4440
:  4. ft%. Crdretu urJm  Itt.  i,9,0t401)o tt:                                       ,             :
lup   oîf Plui     , do  3441  P         14t *7 I:                                   UU 4 41                           NUN
e i914 iA  Ceui  lt400         .m ,1                                      9
So U  y of ptSt       eitd trdit. pion  T3.  te                                         m    u NUuN
iL£4144If    40 Plt9.  :f                                    .             :              : :                         :4             :                                          :
:        I4t445509 0.15441                           :              :      S      :4444444:4444444:4444444:4444444:4                                     :                      
i  bibi  of 5Àe  <094  111t,ils, lpu(7  ke:ae                                                ,             ,,
-   0i4t o5î.te.o. 4t4 14    Pil es0C0 tSI    te) ;                                  U        U          U
4  3icoaly   rtvirsl O,trar 0   4 11      t31                          T    f          UU  UtN :î     on as4                                O
C. ht<.100,fh    of                                             s      444444:444i4  444 44:.i4444                                                    i
: j tillt tif. 4ugIyt09P                         :              :             :             :             :              :             '             :             :              :             :
t.tltrubtiod tttZrbo
1. lpmr4tr dt Prlurt tléit Pr*etn 13. |                                                  NNNUNU                       7 murNUSue
tiuitI Of  the uval uO t        .   aii nt.     :               :              O                                  :                     N
:   -        ta ta    d                                                          2 t:   of t,t .4on ,  b)  T: 3r
:Iotw                                                i             i             : S  t5 :                    :             :             :              :             :             :             :
: llellet        of                        . 7                                                              I             i                            i
:     - ll firt tmdr  rtTs          rbt#b                 _         C
F1.t
b00ow si, mie



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
Category of  Action  or  Procedure                                        Time  Span
A. Operations /
1.  Water Production (m3)                                                         Every four months (total)
2.  Water Sales (ms)                                                              and annually (by center)
-- Flat rate
-- Metered connections
3. Water Collected (m3)
-- Private customers
Central/local Governments
4. Number of Connections
-- Private customers
-- Central/local Governments
5. Number of Public Standpipes
6.  Population (000' inhabitants)
B.  Staff. /
1.  Permanent SEEC Staff                                                          Annually
Guinean
-- Non Guinean
2.  Permanent SONEG Staff
-- Guinean
-- Technical Assistant
3.  Total Sector Staff
-G- uinean
-- Non Guinean
4.  Number of Connections per Employee
C.  Financial
1.  Average vater rate, billings and collection (both for flat rate               Every four months.
and metered connections); customer receivable (by major customer
categorieg).
2.  Rental fee collectable by SONEG and actual payment; support to the
foreign exchange of the lease contract collectable by SEEG and
actual payment.
3.  Income statement, funds flow, balance sheet and ratio statement               Annually, not later than
for SONEG, WMC and sector including pro forma revaluation of                  six months after the end
fixed assets.                                                                 of the fiscal year.
/1  All data have to be differentiated betveen Conakry and the secondary centers.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 2
Monitoring Indicators (continued)
Category of  Action  sr  Procedure                                      Time  Span
4.  Audits of SEEG's customer accounting procedures and accounts,               Every four months, not
of the claims made for payments of the foreign exchange                     later than two months
of the lease contract, of the Special Account of the Project and            after the end of the
of the SOEs.                                                                cevered period.
5.  Audits of SONEG's and SEEG's accounts, including detailed analysis          Annually, not later than
of fixed assets, accounts receivable and payable, debt and also             eight months after the end
revalued fixed assets.                                                      of the fiscal year.
6.  SOhEG's and SEEG's operating and capital expenditure budgets.               Annually, not later than
one month after the audit
7.  Three year SONEC and sector financial projections (income state-            for fiscal year.
ments, funds flow, balance sheets, ratio statements).
D. Project Implementation
1.  Current project construction schedule                                       Every four months.
2. Current project cost estimates
3. Report on project implementation covering each component
4. Compliance with Credit and Project covenants.
AP1IN
January 6, 1989



ANNEX 4-1
- 62 -                                       Page  1 of 2
REPUELIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJEct
Water Coete end Voter Rates fCurrent CF/a8s
ite                         1989   1990   1991   1992   1998   1994   1996   199    1997   1998
A. Full Coat of Water
1. Les,. Contractor Rate (LCR)                   196    217    229    287    214    219    219    219    219    219
(a) Local Currency (LC)                          es     9C    100    104      77     77      77     77     77      77
(b) Forelgon Exchange (FE)                      109    121    128   la    18    143    148    143    148    148
2. Other Flnanclal Needo                         208    220    291    297    881    440    406    899    s8e    84e
(a) SONEG Operating Expenses (CE)                il     il     10      10      9      8       8      7      ô       S
(b) D.bt Service (DS)                           1S9   1s    191    210    190    272    U1    836    286    272
(c) Participation to Invest  nts (PI) !1         62     48     90      76    128    160      88     40     76     ô8
Tot_     8998   48U    620    688    64C    ooO   ô26        08    687   6So
(Constant US8/a )   0.76   0.74   0.88   0.82   0.80   0.98   0.86   0.79   0.74   0.08
B. Supowrt to the Water Tariff (Ln
Leass  Contrector Rate (FE)                     100%   100%   1O0X   100%    80X    ôOX    4S%    80%    16X        0%
.Oebt Service (OS)                               100X   100%    80%    oOU    40%    20%       0%     0%     0%     0%
C. Cont Sharing
1. Consumer Rite
(a) L*ase Contractor Rate                        86     96    100    104    104    184    166    176    198    219
- Local Currency Componobt (LC)            8s      96    100    104      77     77      77     77     77      77
- Foreign Exchang. Component (FE)            O      O      O       0     28     67      78    100    121    148
(b) Rental Fée                                          66    188    170    252    886    406    889    308    848
- SONEC (CE)                                l      il     10      10      9      8       8      7      6      e
- D.bt Service (OS)                          O      O     J8      84    118    218    881    880    280    27>
- Participation to Investment (PT)          62     43     90     78    120    160    s8        40     76     es
Total Consu-r Rate    160    160    239    274    856    520    a1  "6O    68            m6e
(Constant US1/0a)   0.28   0.26   0.a8   0.42   0.62   0.78   0.76   0.74   0.71   0.68
e=    e=    ==e    ==e   s=o    e             m e    = e    =    ==
X of Full Coat      88%    34%    46%    51%    6X1   79%    90%    98%    96%   100%
2. External Support
(à) National Budget (OS)                        189   16    158    126       78     U4      O       O      O      O
(b) Extornal Financing (FE)                     109    121    128    l8s    110      80      64     48     21      0
Total Support    248    286    281    269    189    140       64      48     21      0
(Constant US8/m)   0.47   0.48   0.45   0.40   0.28   0.20   0.09   0.06   0.08   0.00
e= = =ee= =   e===                                                =
% of Full Cost     02%    61%   U4%    49%    86%    21%    10%         7%     4%     0%
!/ Balance roquired to generat. adequate r*turn on net astate of SONEC.
Cost sharing between the National Budget (contribution to debt service),
vater users (consumer rate) and external financing (foreign expenditures
of the lease contract) is visualized in the following figure.



- 63 -                                  ANNEX 4-1
COST SHARING                                       Page 2 of 2
(1u Com or wata)
lm
External financing (foreign expenditures
of the lease contract)
«or                                             Consumer Rate
Support from
lm    the National Budget
(Debt Service)
s-Ea    sao    satest     eau    1eau    sea     se3a    seaue    1997    1Bo
O   Eztszulia+uam                              -  Nat. Uugt  CQtr.
CONSUMER RATES
800
sma    sa       sua      sma    sea    seaI sua           seau    s997    sema
o   cunml Gr/Ma                     +   Coisat 1989 Glu  ma
AFlIN - January 6, 1989



REPUBLIC OF CtJINEA
SECONDINWTER sUPCL  PROJECT
Financlal Statemontx -- SONEC
(OF Million et cuiront prie  )
INCONE STATEMENT                                              1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1995    1998    1997    1998 m      89-98
WATER BILLED à CQLLECTED (Mlllion es)                          4.81    9.as   10.71   11.58   18.68   15.14   17.71   19.48   22.06   24.04   149.48
RENTAL FEE (OF/cP)                                               64      6      188      170     262      a88     406     889    a86      a84
REVENUES
RENTAL FEES                                                     274     511   1 488   1 970   8 444   6841   7 184   7 682   8 881   8 069   46 269
BUDGET CONTRIBUTION TO DEBT SERVICE                           1 198   1 689   1 688   1 458   1 071       824                                      7 729
EXTERNAL FINANCINC (LEASE CONTRACT)                             460   1 183   1 878   1 638    1 508   1296   1 18        888      484       o    9 762
TOTAL REVENUES                                                1942   8 183   4 494   4 9063       019   79s9   8 a20   8 415   8 116   8 889   82 749
EXPENSES
SALARIES                                                         70      76      79       82      86       89      92      96      100     104       871
TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL                                              7       7       8        8       8        9       9       9       10       Io       84
OTHER SERVICES                                                    S       6       e        ô       7        8       9      il       12      14        88
TAXES                                                            la      1S      16       17      17       18      19      20       20      21       176
DATA PROCESS.                                                     a       a        a       8       4        4       4        6       S       6        a9
CASH OPERATINC EXPENSES                                          97     106     111    le       122      127     188     140      147      154    1 254
DEPRECIATION                                                    985   2 106   2 800   2 582   a 281   4082   4 404   4 681   4 901   S 144   84 846
AMORTIZATION (DEFERRED CHAROES)                                   O       O       O        O       O        0     406     444      478     479    1 801
TOTAL OPERATINC EXPENSES OF SONEG                             1032   2 212   2 412   2 648   8 402   4210   4 943   5 246   5 S20   6 777   87401
PAYUENT OF CONTRACTUAL SERVICES (LCR)                           489   1 183   1 873   1 636   1 s08   1 296   1 188    8s8         484       o    9 762
OPERATING INCOME                                                441    (161)    710      780   1 118   2 466   2 241   2 3as   2 811   2 862   15 687
INtEREST PREVIOUS DENT                                         sa8      S76     587      481     879    8a1       278     288      204     197    8 749
INTEREST NEW DENT                                               115     889     856   1 8s    1 608   1798   1 900   1 960   1 988   2 027   18 915
NET OPERATING INCOME                                           (207) (l 10U)   (782)   (958)   (874)    326        68      161     621    6o8    (2 078)
CORPORATE TAX                                                     O       O       O        O       0      114      22     65       217     223       e0a
NET INCOUE                                                     (207) (1 108)   (782)   (968)   (874)    212        41      98      408     416   (2 707)
Op.rat.ng Ratio (7) 771    106%                                                  84X      84%     82%      o9s     78!     721      68e     671
Cash Op.rating Expendituru o  SONEG (CF/m8 collîctod)            il      il      10       10       9        8       8       7        ô       ô
Support to D.bt Service (OF/m; çoîîocted)                       189    16      168      126      78       U4       o       o        o       o
Inv.stiont Part of T  lrff (GF/m  collîcted)                     52      48      90       76     126      160     a8       46       76      68
Qc e
fD X
o' 
1 >



REPUBLIC OF CUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financlal Statemntm -- SONEC
(OF Million et cuerrnt. prices)
BALANCE SHEET                                                1989    19n0    1981    1992    1998    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
ASSETS
MMOSS FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION                            72 699  82 100  89 812  99 418 148 419 168 5e7 171 479 188 068 196 4e9 207 954
FIXED ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                             8 695  18 679  8a  098  41 187  10 728   7 885   6 008   6 587   6 400   9 052
LESS ACCUWULATED DEPRECIATION                              82 097  88 771  40 5*2 44 696  49 764  66 887 62 475  69 685  77 321  85 658
EXCHANGE RATE VARIATION ON DEBT                             2 464   2 933   2 938    2 988   2 938    2 988   2 988   2 93a   2 938    2 98
DEFERRED CHARGES                                              469   1 ô02   2 976   4 610   6 014   7 8s    8 038   8 428   8 489   7 961
NET ASSETS                                             47 180  e8 443  90 277 108 802 118 824 120 805 125 9s8 180 625 138 980 142 341
INVENTORY                                                   2       3       a       8       a        3       4       4       4       6
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                                           192     153     871     894      517     876   1 078   1 187   1 250   1 296
CASH à BANK                                                   478     529     594     412   1 080   2 8a8   2 890   2 600   8 287   8 907
TOTAL CURRENT AUSSETS                                     ees    682      966    8so    1 663   a 214   8 467   3 787   4 687   4 902
TOTAL ASSETS                                               47 797  69 128  91 244 104 111 114 880 128 528 129 464 184 836 140 522 147 248
EQUJIY à LIABILITIES
CAPITAL                                                    88 621  88 621  83 621  88 621  88 621  83 621  a8 621  8s 621  88 621  88 621
EQuJIY CONTRIBUTION FROM IDA CREDIT                           eo3     980   1 440   1 970   2 89a   2 799   2 900   2 900   2 900   2 900              ON
REEVALUATION PROVISION                                          o   a 68    6 092   9 407  18 801  17 476  21 879  26 479  81 250  a 284
RETAINED EARNINGS                                            (207) (l 818) (2 046) (3 003) (3 877) (8 865) (a 624) (8 526) (8 122) (2 707)
TOTAL ERUITY                                           84 020  a8 824  39 108  42 054  46 448  BD 281  54 776  S9 476 e4 649  70 048
LONG TERM DEBT                                             12 177 28836  46 041  68 810 e6 070 67 364  68 792 e9 806 69 801  70 699
PREVIOUS DEBT                                               6 647  6 198   s 601   4 810   4 118   8 618   8 009   2 818   2 628   2 488
NEW DEBT                                                    6 629 20 642  40 640  68 600 60 952 83 838  66 7883 6  48e 67 178 68 161
SHORT TERN MATURITIES OF LONG TERM DEBT                       596    6o0      692     692   1 990   4 206   4 364   4 288   4 570   4 839
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                                            1 006   4 882   5 404   3 066   2 877   1 733   1 582   1 298   1 602   1 763
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                               1 601   s 469   6 096   8 747   4 a87   6 938   5 88s    6 687  0 072  6 e2
TOTAL EQUITY A LIA8ILITIES                                 47 797  89 128  91 244 104 111 114 880 128 528 129 4s4 184 aee 140 622 147 248
Cuirrnt Ratlo                                                0.42    0.13    0.16    0.22    0.36    0.54    0.69    0.67    0.76    0.74
Long Tors D.bt/Total Equlty à Long Tore D.bt (1)               24X    26%      42%     s4%    6sa       69s     67x     6sx     u41     625
OQ z
(D m
X
o'l
> t»



REPU8LIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY MOJECT
Fînancial Statemnts -- SONEC
(CF Millon et current prices)
TOTAL
SOURCES à APFLICATION OF FUNDS                               1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1995   l99      1997    1998  1989-98
NET INCOME                                                   (207) (1 106)   (782)   (968)   (874)    212       41      98     403     416   (2 707)
PLUS DEPRECIATION à AMORTIZATION                              936   2 106   2 300   2 s82   8 281   4 082   4 810   6 106   6 874   6 622  38 147
PLUS INTEREST                                                 648     U44   1 442   1 738   1 98    2 129   2 178   2 186   2 190   2 224   17 66
MINUS NON CASH WORKINO CAPITAL INCREASE (DECREASE)           (812) (8 896)   (824)  2 a72     801   1 004      402     294     (90)   (214)    (4e2)
=INTERNAL GENERATION OF FUNDS                               2 187   5 889   8 884     940   3 69    6 419  6 626   7 096   8 068   8 476   61 15
PREVIOUS DEBT SERVICE                                       1 088   1 170   1 193   1 122   1 070   1 022      879     74s     895    a87    9 0o0
- AMORTIZATION                                          561      S96    eoe      692     692     692     600      509     190     190    6817
- INTEREST                                               sa3     575     687     481     879     8al    278       286     204     197    8 749
NEW DEST SERVICE                                              115     889     866   1 808   1608   8 097   6 504   5 794  6 084   6 407   81 141
- AMRTIZATION                                              o       o       o       o       o   1 298   8 60es  846   4 098   4 880   17 226
- INTEREST                                               115     889     866   1 808   1 6s   1 79    1 900   1 960   1 988   2 027  1a 916
TOTAL DEDT SERVICE                                          1 199   1 539   2 048   2 430   2 678   4 119  6 3u8  6539   6 479   6 794   40 207
NET INTERNAL CASH CENERATION                                  989   4 00   1 28e  (1 490)    916   1 800       24a     665    1 679   1 681   11 868
SORROUINOS
CONAKRY (excludin9 WATER II)                                  644     2a8      82       o       o       o      968   1 478   1 774   2 279    7400
IDA ON LENT                                                 1 180   4 249   4 892   3 106   2 058   1 664      966       o       o       o   18 069
OTHER LOANS WATER Il                                            O   8 312  12 898   6 781   1 69       664     489     100       o       o   29 284
REHA8ILITATION CENTERS                                        812     119      21       o       o        o       o       o       o       o      462
NEU PROJECTS CENTERS 1                                      1 040   1 878   2 566   4 093   6 128   1 a80        o       o       o       o   16 028
NEW PROJECTS CENTERS 2                                                                               2 842   3 430   3 226   8 292   3 88   16 147
TOTAL DISOURSEMENTS                                     8 126  14 796  19 898  12 960   8 760   6 489   5 792   4 801   6 0e7   5 687   87 816
IDA CREDIT ONLENT AS EQUITY CONTRIBUTION                      362     374     460     580     428     401      101       o       o       o    2 646
TOTAL SOURCES                                               4 466  19 470  21 843  12 000  10 093   8 190  6 186   6 867   6 646   7 318  101 820
INVESTNENT EXPENDITURES
1/ CONAKRY PROJECTS                                    1 606  16 se7  16 817   6 264   1 929   1 151   1 464      949   1 974   8 468   60 168
- REHABILITATION                                   1 489   1 684     449       0       o       o       o       o        o       o    8461
- YESSOULOU Il                                       129  12 163  13 667   2 602     266     182       0       o        o           28 948
- PRODUCTION à DISTRIBUTION                            8   1 870   2 701   2 652   1 674   1 018   1 464      776     808     840   18 812
- YESSOULOU III                                                                                               173   1 166   2 618    8 962
2/ SECONDARY CENTERS                                   1 624   2 296  2 861   4 794   5 699   3 988   3 484   3 38 6 5    499  8 4    84 946
- REHASILITATION EXISTIN¢ CENTERS                   240       87       o       o       o       O       o       o        o       o      827
- NEW PROJECTS CENTERS 1                           1 284   2 208   2 861   4 794   6 699                                            16 786
- NEW PROJECTS CENTERS 2                                                                   8 988   3 484   3     5    499      646   17 888
a/ TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SONE¢                            898     421    657      e6o     487     466       o        o       o       o    2 848
DEFERRED CHARGES                                              469   1 188   1 373   1 63    1 603   1 296   1 1I       833     484       0    9762
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                          3 993  19 416 21 678  12 183   9 489   6 888  6 086   6 147   6 968   6 999   97 718
CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)                                      478      6e      66    (188)    624   1 802       52     210     688     319    3 607  (D
CASH END OF YEAR                                              473     529    694      412   1 038    2 338   2 890   2 6O    3 287   8 607
Intern. Cash Contr. to Invest. (From 1989 to current year   28.1%   24.8%   16.6%    9.7%    9.9%   11.0%   10.6%   10.7%   12.0%   12.9%             O
Return on Net Assets (t)                                      1.2%   -0.4%    1.5%    1.6%    1.5%    2.6%    2.65    2.6%    2.8%    2.8%
AFIIN - January 6, 1989



REPUBLIC OF CUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financill St*at.mnte -- SEEG /
(CF Mbillion *t current priceO)
TOTAL
INCOME STATENENT                                               19      1990    1991    1992    199       1994    1996    1996    1997    1990  1109-98
WATER BILLED (Million m8)                                      6.16   18.88   14.28   16.41   17.07   18.92   20.88   22.92   26.17   27.71   181.80
tATER BILLED à COLLECTED (Million *8)                          4.81    9.88   10.71   11.58   18.60   15.14   17.71   19.48   22.65   24.94   149.48
CONSUMER RATE (OF/rn)                                           150    10      289      274     a8u      520     56l    s6u       mes    "6O
REVNUES
WATER SALES                                                     928   2000   8 410   4 229   6 08o      9 880  16l 82  12 964  14 286  15 678   81 080
CONNECTIONS                                                     189     216     210      269     896      469     498    S5i       628     787    4 100
ORKS INVOICED                                                    18     188      202    10       80       60      49       48      66       70      8S2
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES                                            469   1 188   1 878   1 656   1 508   1 295   1 188       088      484             9 762
TOTAL REVENUIES                                               1 550   85 81   5 195   6 180   8 062  1140   8 1860  14 401  16 404  1  480   95 758
EXPENSES
SALARIES, LOCAL STAFF                                           170     890     429      4e4     511      u49     591     e8n    688       747    S 169
TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL, LOCAL STAFF                                19      21       28      26      28       80      8a      a8       8s       42      295
HOUSINC & TRANSPORT, EXPATRIATE STAFF                            98     219     288      188     168      176      91       94      98      102
ELECTRICITY                                                      78     188      196     218     188      207     227      254     296     849    2 190
SERVICES                                                          9      19       21      24      29       8a      8s       48      49       57      828
COLLECTED RENTAL FEES                                           274     511   1 488   1 970   8 444   5 841   7 184   7 82   8 881   8 089   46 269
TAXES                                                            26      64       74      78      76       84      96      105     121      lu8      880
TOTAL EXrENSES/LOCAL CJRRENCY                                676   1 409   2 459   2 968   4 441   8 919   8 268   8 750   9 617  10 071  S 62
SALARIES, EXPATRIATE STAFF                                      198     481     467      401      ss      888     246      266     265     276    8 274
CHEMICALS                                                       171    8se      414      449      ses     485     491     654      826     716    4 622
MATERIALS FOR MAINTENANCE AND CONNECTIONS                       a8       82     842      642     989   1 050   1 848   1 779   1 916   2 077   10 610
DATA PROCESSING                                                  14      a3       87      41      48       S6      63       72      82       94      "0
TOTAL EXPENSES/FOREIGN CURRENCY                             414      980   1 260   1 s88   1 789   1 928   2 447   2 660   2 888   8 182   18 948
CASH OPERATING EXPENSES                                       1 089   2 aa8   8 709   4 49Ô   6 180   8 841  10 706  11 410  12 50   18 284   74 507
DEPRECIATION                                                     67     144     174      207     2S4      aos    a84      428      497     672    8 005
RECEIVABLE PROVISION                                            277     600     865    1 067   1 217   1 96     1 752   1 946   1 424   1 S67   12 657
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                      1 422   8 082   4 738   S 760   7 65   11 114  12 822  1  787  14 420  15 878   90 169
OPERATDNO INCOME                                                127     449     489      889     411      626     sa8     819      977   1 107    C 684
INCONE BEFORE TAXES                                             127     449     469      U 9     411     526      688     619      977   1 107    6 684
CORPORATE TAX                                                    46     167    16       129     144      184     188     217      842     887    1 954
NET INCOME                                                       88     292     298      240     267      842     850     402      O6S     720    8 68
Op.raUlng Rautio ()                                              92      87X     911      94x    9ss       965     96s     96s      94X    9s1
Net R.turn on Equity (1)                                       12.01   17.1X   15.65   11.6%   11.7X   13.41   12.4X   12.91   17.65   17.4X
Y  Oportionu *tarting July 1, 1989.                                                                                                                         D >



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOÇD WATER SUPPL.Y PROJECT
Flnancial Statmente -- SEEC 2/
(CF Million et curren= pr ice)
BALANCE SHET                                                  1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    1996    1997    199m
ASSETS
CROSS FIXED ASSETS                                             860   1082   1805   1 C6S    1 90o    2 299   27aa   a209   8728   4298
LESS ACCUHULATED DEPRECIATION                                   67      20S     a88      ll     889   1 281   1e45   2189   2721   a408
NET FIXED ASSETS                                           798      877     917     946   1 010   1 067   1089   1070   1007           891
MATERIALS                                                        19      21      86      lo6     286     262      412     445      479     519
CHENICALS                                                       es      9e      104      112      96      109     128     189      156     179
TOTAL INVENTORY                                            lo    l1       189     278    8a8       871      s86    5se      oa5      698
ACCOUNTS RECEIVA8LE                                            452      420     689      684     780   1 180   1489   1s68   1922   2116
OTHER ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                                      285      283     848      884     876     824      284     208      121       o
CASH M    BANm                                                  47      225     299      877     509     670      746   1011   1490   2 041
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS OTHER THUN CASH                       687      703     98s   1 018   1 106   1 503   1 778   1 861   2 048   2 116
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                       784      928   1282   1 895   1 616   2 178   2619   2872   8658    4168
TOTAL ASSETS                                                 1 681   1921   2889   2 618   2 961   8 611   4148   4626   5176   6761
EQUITY à LUABILITIES
CAPITAL                                                      1 a8     1800   1800   1 800   1 800   1 80    1800   1800   1800   180 0 
REEVALUATION PROVISION                                           °       e6      99      186     178     214      256     800      a4a 3 s8
RESERVES                                                        l       72     180      176     227     298      860     488      S60     699
RETAINED EARNINCS                                               67      269     392      466     ss5    75a       897   1081   1481   176e
TOTAL EQUITY                                             1 a88    1706   1920   2 077   2 286   2 660   2814   8119   86a 4   4188
SUPPLIERS                                                        s6     e8       98      142     160      176     261     270      292     818
SONEC                                                           192     15a     871      894     617     876   1078   1187   1250   1296
TOTAL CURRENT LIA8ILITIES                                  248      216     468     536      677   1 052   1 828   1 407   1 541   1 614
TOTAL E4UITY à LUABIU TIES                                   1 681   1921   2889   2 618   2 961   8 611   4148   4528   5176   5751
j/ Operations st.rting July 1, 1989.
tD 
fb 



REPUBLIC 0F CUINEA
SECONO WATER WPPLY PROJECT
Flnanclel Statmnte -- SEEC j
(OF Milllion it eurront prico)
TOTAL
SOURCES à APPLICATION OF FUNDS                               1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    19       1997    1998  1989-98
NET INCOWE                                                     es     292     298     240      267     a42     880     402     6s      720    3 680
PLUS DEPRECIATION                                              67     144     174     207      254     ao0    8e4      428     497     572    a o00
ItNUS DIVIDENDS PAtD                                            O      33     118     121       97     108    18      141     182    260    1 176
IllUS NON CASH WORIINO CAPITAL INCREASE (DECREASE)            542      61     100      s1   o           Se     157      68     100      68    1 200
*INTERNAL CENERATION OF FUNOS                            (408)    842     254     276     419      478     419     681     870     972    4 269
CAPITAL INFLOW (Fro. .hnr.holdern)                          1 800                                                                              1 a80
TOTAL SOURCES                                                 897     842     2U4     276      419     478     419     681     870     972    S 659
INVESTUENT EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                       -b
1/ NEW INVESTMENT                                        80                                                                                850
2/ RENEWAL                                                 O     164     180     199      287     817     848 8a          891     416    2 668
TOTAL INVESTIENTS                                         060     164     180     199      287     817     848    a8       8so     410    a 518
CASH INCREASE (DECREASE)                                       47     178      76      77      182     181      76     286     479     SS8
CASH END OF YEAR                                               47     226     299     877      509     670     746   1 011   1 490   2 047
/ Op.rations *tartlng July 1, 1989.
AFlIN - January 6, 1989
>4



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECONDC WAr S LYROJECT
Con.olidst.d Financial St.t_*nt.  -- Urban Wat.r Suo i' S.ctor !/
(OF IMil1lion et. curr.nt prices)TOA
TOTAL
CONSOLIDATED INCONE STATEYENT                        1987   1986    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    199       1996    1997    1998  1909-98
REVENUES
WATER SALES          R N1    920   1 8as    2 000   a 410   4 229   a 083   9 080  11 e82  12 964  14 286  16 673  81 490
O/W UDCET LUP S    ALLOCATION                         600    eoo     300       o        0       0       o       0        o       o       o        o     aoo
COWEECTIONS                                            13     16     139     218      210     269     a86     469      493     so1     828     737   4 100
wKS INVOICED                                            2      3      10    183       202     106      80      56       49      43      66       70    8062
TOTAL OPERATINC REVENUES                          876    988   1 S40   2 399   3 822   4 695   ô t69  10 846  12 224  18 608  14 919  18 480  83 462
EmTERNAL FINANCING (LEASE CONTRACT)                     o      o     469   1 133   1 373   1 656   1 s08   1 296   1 188       883     484        0   9 762
8UET CONTRITON TO DEBT SERVICE                        973  1 126   1198   1 639   1 638   1 468   1 071        824       o       o       o        0   7 729
TOTAL REVENUES                                      1848  2 063       208   6 070   ô 834   7 58    9 184  12 464  13 80  14 401  16 404  16 480 103 942
EXPENSES
TOTAL EXPENSES IN LOCAL CURRENCY                   244   a81      ô76   1 001    005   1106   1115   1201   1203   1808   1428   1581  198
TOTAL EXPENSES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY                  84    129     482     932   1 253   1 6a    1 743   1 927   2 461   2 664   2 894   3 168  19 060
CASH OPERATING EXPENSES                               829    479   1 165 7    938    2 338   2 642   2 88   8 128   3 64   3 968   4 321   4 749  30 747
DEPRECIATION & AMORTIZATION                         1 260  1 580   1 926   2 260   2 474   2 789   3 S36   4 389   6 174   6 633   6 871   o 196  40 087   1
RECEIVABLE PROVISION                                  268    276     897     600      863   1 067   1 217   1 966   1 762   1 946   1 424   1 607  12 777
o
TOTAL OPERATINC EXPENSES                            1 837  2 386   a 480   4 783   5 665   6 438   7 610   9 488  10 651  Il 446  11 616  12 611  8         1
OPERATINC INCOME                                       Il   <272)   (272)    287   1 169   1 149   1 824   2 981   2 779   2 966   3 788   3 969  20 331
INTEREST                                              486    633     648     944   1 442   1 738    1 986   2 129   2 178   2 186   2 190   2 224  17 US
INCOIIE OEFORE TAXES                                 (424)  (806)   (919)   (657)   (273)   (589)   (462)    862       6ui     770   1 598   1 746   2 666
CORPORATE TAX                                           O      0      45      167     161     129     144     298      210     270     569      611   2 684
NET INCOME                                           (424)  (806)   (964)   (814)   (434)   (718)   (6oe)    554       891     601   1 039   1 184       82
Total Operating Ratio (x)                              991   1181    1085      94x     88a     96x     883      761     79%     79s     756      761
Average Op.ratin9 Exponditures (COF/a collected)       94    123      116     164     180     197     174      173     176     178    l6      16
Unauditd eccounte end mission estimat.  for DEC in 1987, 198  nd the firet s_ot4r of 1989; consolidoted accounts of SONEC end the SUC
from July 1989 onsards.
cz 
0ID 



REPUBULC OF CUIN£A
SECO00 WATER SOJUP   RJECT
Consolldat.d Financial Stat..onte -- Urban Water SuooIy Soctor j/
(OF Million et current price»)
CONSOLUDATED BALANCE SHEET                            1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    1996    1997    1998
ASSETS
RMS FIXED ASSETS                                   48 eo  64 879  79 0o0  104 694 129 149 146 044 168 980 171 183 183 163 195 042 208 E90 224 21
LESS ACCWUTED DEPRECIATION                         20 414 27 098  32 154 8U  976  40 930  46  5o 60 65   67 0608  64 120  71 77n    0 048  88 961
CAPITALIZED EXPENDITURES                                O       0     469   1 602   2 976   4 610   ô 014   7  080    8 038   8 428   8 489   7 961
NET ASSETS                                     28 195 87 681  47 928  69 320  91 194 104 248 114 840 121 878 127 072 181 6096 18  987 148 282
tNVENTORY                                              19      28     106     119      192     276     884     876      588     687     640      703
CURRENT ASSETS                                        628    568      687     708      983   1 018   1 106   1 508   1 778   1 861   2 04    2 11
CASH à BANK                                           882    154      620     754     894      789   1 U4    8 008   8 1 38  8611   4 778   6 o54
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                              866    718   1207   1 467   1 877   1 807   2 051   4 611   4 909   5 472   6 821   7 769
TOTAL ASSETS                                       29 069 88 826  49 288  70 896  98 262 106 880 117 826 126 268 182 619 187 766 144 447 161 704
EQUJIY à LIABILUTIES
CAPITAL                                            15 8s  16 85 8 4 921  84921  84 921  4 921  4 921  4 921   4 921   4 92   84 92±  a4 921
EQUITY CONTRIUTION FROH IDA CREDIT                     148    402     60o     980   1 440   1 970   2 as8    2 799   2 900   2 900   2 900   2 900
REEVALUATION PROVISION                              ô 882 18 980        o   8 599   6 191   9 602  18 474  17 ô90  22 186  26 779  81 598  8a 617
RESERVES                                                 O      0      16      72      180     176     227     298      800    438    650        699
RETAINED EARNING3                                   (1 167) (1 982)   (140) (1 044) (1 658) (2 658) (8 292) (2 912) (2 727) (2 446) (1 691)   (951)    `4
TOTAL EQUITY                                   21 757 28 266  8B 403  a8 828  41 028  44 131  47 728  52 791  67 690  ô2 693 68 28a  74 186
LMO  TENU  DE8T                                     6556  9188  12 177  2S sa6  40 041  58 310 e6 070 678 64 687 92  89 805  69801  70 699
CURENT LIABILITIES                                    756    939   1657   6 552   6 193   3 889   4 627   6 114   6 137   5 867  68 a4   8 920
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILTIES                          29 069 38 32S  49 2as  70 896  93 202 10S 380 117 326 126 268 182 519 187 766 144 447 161 704
Curront Ratio                                        1.16   0.79    0.79    0.28    0.83    0.64    0.68    0.80    0.89    1.03    1.17    1.22
Long Tore DObt/Tota l Equity à Long Tore D.bt (X)      238    24X      260     41%    65x       57X     58%     60X      54%     S3X     61M      49X
Cuuto4er Recatvable (in days of billlng)              218    219      168     107      94       S1      62      5a       5a      50      60       47
.j Uaeudt.ed accouate end mission estimates for DEC ln 1987, 1988 end the ftrut  _ meet.r of 1989; consolldat.d accountu of $OMEG end the WMC
f rom July 1989 onwordu.
OQZ
Il-.
o,



REPUWLIC OF OUINEA
SECOND UATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Consolidst,.d Financial Sttantmt  -- Urban Wa%tr SuDDlY Sector 2
(OF Millison t currenr price.)
TOTAL
SOURCES A APPLICATION OF FUNDS                       1987   1900    1989   lW0    1991    19m         1998    1994    1995    1996    1997    19908  1989-98
NET INCOME                                           (424)  (806)   (984)   (814)   (4a4)   (718)   (MO)    S64       391     501   1 039   1 184       82
PLUS DEPRECIATION                                   1 250  1 580   1 926   2 260   2 474   2739   a U    4889 a         174   S533    7871   6 196  40 087
PLUS DNTEREST                                         436    6a8      648     Q44   1 442   1738   1986   2129   2 178   2186   2190   2 224  17 065
NMNUS DIVIDENDS                                         O      O       O       88     118     121       97     108    18      141      182     2s6   1176
MNMUS NON CASH WORKING CAPITAL INCREASE (DECREASE)    80   (134)   (174) (8 834)   (228)  2 423        806   1 067    569      851        9    (151)    088
*INTERNAL CENERATION OF FUNDS                   1231  1 442   1 74   6 181  83  S    1210   4012   5897   7 045   7726    928             9 448  6  826
CAPITAL INFLW A EÇTYCONTRI84TIONS                       O    264   1 652      874     400     530     428      401     101       o        o       o   a946
BORROWINS                                             6s9   1 769   8 125  14 790  19 890   2 90   80760   6489        792   4801   6 0C7   6 637 80 816
TOTAL SOURCES                                       1026  8 465   6 U1  21 851  28 94   14 706  18 190  12 7J7  12 989  12 527  13 994  1  086 147 087
DEPT SERVICE                                          973  1 126   1 198   1 589   2 048   2480   2678   4119   0 a88    6589   6479   6 794  40 207
INVESTUENT EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                   O
1/ NEW INVESTNENT                                886  2 617   4 837  18 282  20 206  10 e40   7 965   6S94   4 949   4 314   t 473   6 999  88 801
2/ RENEWAL                                         O      O       0      104     100     199     287      817     843    a8u      891      416   2 068
TOTAL INVESTUENTS                                 886  2 617   4 878  18 446  20 804  10 846   8 262   6 911   6 292   4 680   & 864   7 416  91 464
DEFERRED CHARCES                                        0      0      469   1 183   1 37   15636  1503   1296   1 186          883      484       o   9762
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                  1 867  3 642   6 041  21 118  23 806  14 811  12 484  Il 324  12 811  12 062  12 828  14 209 141 433
CAH INCREASE (DECREASE)                               (32)  (178)    620      233     140    (106)    766   1 463      128     476   1 167      076   6ô54
CASH ED OF  ER                                        882    154      620     764     894     789   1646   3008   8 186  a611   477      6654
DObt Serice Coverage Ratio (Tia)                      1.3    1.2      2.1     2.1     1.9     1.8      2.1     1.6     1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2
Rate of Return (1)                                    0.0  -0.9%   -0.7%    0.7X    2.61    2.2X    2.1X    3.01   38.0       3.1%    8.71    8.71
pj Unaudlt.d accounte end oiosion eti.t.  for DEC in 1987, 1988 end the f eirt s_mster of 1989; consolidated accounts of SONEC end th. UMC
fre July 1989 onward.
AFIIN - January 6, 1989
o '
1 >



- 73 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A.   General
1.        DEG's accounts being unreliable, the assumptions for financial
projections are mainly based on analysis provided in the 1987 water
tariff study by Castalia. In addition, the preliminary design report on
the extension of the Conakry Water Supply System gives data on variable
costs (electricity and chemicals).
2.        Inflation rates applied to the relevant operating and invest-
ment expenditures are the following:
Item              (1988)    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993 to 1998
Local Inflation         (25%)     15%      8%      5%       4%         4%
Foreign Inflation       (3%)       3%      4%       4%      4%         4%
All figures in the following text are given in 1988 prices.
3.        Separate financial statements are prepared for SEEG and SONEG
for  the  period  1989-1998.   SEEG will actually  start operations  on
July 1, 1989.  Until this date, DEG, albeit engaged in a liquidation
process, will keep its responsibilities in the urban water supply
sector.  Therefore, rental fees paid by SEEG in 1989 will cover only one
semester and depreciation will be charged to SONEG's accounts on a
prorated basis.   Unaudited DEG's accounts for 1987 and estimates for
1988 are also presented along with the consolidated statements for the
urban vater supply sector.
B.   Income Statements
4.        Water consumption in Conakry is assumed to grow at a 7% annual
rate until 1992 and at 10% thereafter.  Consumption of the secondary
centers  is  derived  from  consultant's  estimates.   Assumption  for
unaccounted-for water and on the collection ratio are the following
(alternate years):
Item             1989    1991    1993    1995    1997    1998
Unaccounted for Water    35%     31%      28%      26%     24%      24%
Collection Ratio         70%      75%     80%      85%     90%      90%
5.        Water sales revenues derive from the average tariffs forecast
to be in effect year by year (para 4.04).  SONEG's rental fee is based
on actual volumes collected by SONEG and hence would not incur any
receivable provision. Connection revenues are estimated to GF96,500 per
new service connection.
6.        Annex 4-1  gives  the respective  levels  of support to debt
service and to the foreign exchange component of the local contractor
ri   (T PP'i



- 74 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 2
7.        Personnel costs of SONEG assume a constant work force of 60.
SEEG's local staff is estimated at 250 in 1989 and will grow at a 4.5%
annual rate.  Expatriate staff would decline from 9 in 1989 to 7 in
1992, 6 in 1993 and 3 from 1995 onwards.
8.        Electricity costs are based on a consumption of 0.5 kWh/mg
produced for secondary centers and ground water production in Conakry,
with an average tariff of GF54/kWh.
9.        Chemical costs per mn3 amount to GF2/ms in secondary centers
and GF12/m' in Conakry prior to the commissioning of the new treatment
plant which should allow to decrease them by 25% in real terms.
10.       Materials consumed for maintenance will be strictly limited
Ouring the rehabilitation period (1989-1990) and will represent 0.25% of
the revalued value of assets in service in 1991-1992, 0.5% in 1993-1994,
and 0.8% from 1995 onwards. Materials for construction and connections
are estimated to GF54,000 per new connection.
i1.       Corporate taxes are calculated at the present statutory level
of 35% of net income before taxes.
12.       Depreciation allowance is based on a 2.9% uniform rate for
SONEG's assets and on a 14% rate for SEEG's assets.
13.       SEEG's dividends amount to 40% of net income after taxes.
C.   Balance sheet
14.       Revaluation of assets is performed annually and the balance
between gross and net assets is brought into the revaluation reserve.
The impact of the annual revaluation of long term debt is brought into
SONEG's assets.
15.       Inventories represent 3 months of consumption of chemicals and
materials.
16.       Customers'  receivable are expected to decrease from 30% of
annual sales in 1989 to 15% in 1993.  Rental fees are transferred to
SONEG by SEEG as soon as collected and proceeds of the external support
to the LCR are transferred to SEEG three months after billing.
17.       Accounts payable represent 3 months of SONEG's capital expen-
ditures and one month of cash operating expenditures.
D.   Flow of funds
18.       Financing  conditions  of  loans/credits  other  than  IDA  are
assumed to include an annual interest of 3% and a repayment period of 20
years including five years of grace.  There is a 3-month lag between
expenditures and diabursement.
APlIN, January 6, 1989



- 75 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Affordability of Proposed Tariffs
Water rates
1.        The table below gives the values of the average vater rate and
of the social block rate.  Since the latter must be at least equal to
1.2 times the average operating expenditures, it would not be introduced
before 1991.
Water Rates (GF/M3)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994  1995
1. Average Consumer Rate   150    150     239      274     356      520   561
(constant 1989 US$/M')  0.28    0.25    0.38    0.42    0.52    0.73  0.76
Operating Costs X 1.2   210   204      216     236      209      207   211
3. Social Block Rate     n.a      n.a     216      236     236      236   236
(constant 1989 US$/M3)   n.a  n.a    0.34    0.36    0.35    0.33   0.32
n.a - Not applicable
The social block rate value of US$0.35/Msin rea'. terms compares vith
those presently observed in West African countries.
2.        Revenues and Poverty Threshold  Using the standard approach
which consists in determining a poverty threshold as a percentage
(usually 50% in less developed countries) of GDP per capita, the urban
poverty level in Conakry is estimated at GF32,000 or US$90. The latter
figure applies to a family size of six which is the value observed by
the Conakry ilousehold Survey in low-income households. Results of this
survey indicate that the incidence of poverty is around 40% in Conakry.
3.        The Task Force on Social Policy of the Ministry of Planning
has followed another approach of the definition of poverty by evaluating
the expenditure level required to meet basic needs. Assuming a house-
hold of nine, the basic monthly budget vas estimated in June 1987 at
GF89,000 (US$230). 75% of Conakry households fall short of that level
which translates into a per capita expenditure 86% higher than the urban
poverty threshold defined above.
4.        The Impact of proposed vater rates would thus be evaluated by
re-.erring to two d'fferent structures:  (a) a family of six at poverty
level consuming 25 lcd, i.e., the average daily domestic consumption,
and (b) a family of nine with revenues equivalent to the basic budget
defined above and consuming 40 lcd. The social block rate is assumed to



- 76 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 2
apply to the former households' consumption and the average consumer
rate to the latter's.
Share of Water Expenditures in Monthly Revenue
Urban Poverty Level Family                     1989      1991      1993      1995
Monthly consumption (MI)                        4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5
Monthly water expendlture
(constant 1989 US$)                            1.26      1.55      1.58      1.44
as % of monthly revenue                        1.4%      1.7%      1.8%      1.6%
Basic Needs Approach
Monthly consumption (M3)                      '".8       10.8      10.8      10.8
Monthly water expenditure
(constant 1989 US$)                            3.02      4.10      5.62      8.21
as % of basic budget                           1.3%      1.8%      2.4%      3.6%
AFlIN
January 6, 1989



ANNEX 5-2
- 77 -                             Page   of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND VATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Determination of the Averaae Incremental Cost
and of the Economic Rate of Return
1.        Economic calculations aim at determining the average
incremental cost (AIC) and the economic rate of return (ERR) ofs (a)
the expansion of the Conakry vater supply system, of which the
proposed project vill constitute the first stage; and (b) future vater
supply projects contemplated by the Government in secondary centers.
Calculations are carried out over the period starting in 1988 and
ending in 2033, i.e. 40 years after the commissioning of the
facilities constructed under the proposed project.
Benefits
2.        Economic benefits comprise:
*i) the value of the incremental consumption generated by
the projects, using the consumer rate as a proxy for
benefits; and
Sii) surplus accruing to vater consumers.
3.        Given the present conditions of the urban vater supply
systems, it is assumed that, in the absence of the proposed project,
urban vater consumption would be limited to the volume consumed in
1988.
4.        An estimate of the consumers'surplus is given by the half
product -- assuming a -0.5 price elasticity -- of the increased
consumption by the difference between the actual tariff and the
willingness to pay of the consumer. As most of DEG's customers are
billed on a lump sum basis, they get used to share their connections
with neighboring households, and request from them a monthly
contribution, with a markup of about 1002. These arrangements are
limited to the part of the city supplied by the existing network,
which regroup 602 of the total population. In other areas, the
population is supplied by traditional sources (vells) and vater
vendors. Vendors charge about GF 600/m3 (US $ 1.20/m3). Supply by
trucks may cost as much as GF 1200/m3 (US $ 2.40/m3).
5.        Therefore consumers'surplus is calculated by applying to the
first 15 lcd of the daily consumption of the additional population
served by the projects 502 of the difference between GF 600/m3 and the
consumer rate. It is assumed that SEEG vill give a priority to Conakry
in improving the supply conditions during the rehabilitation period.



ANNEX 5-2
- 78 -                             Page 2 of 4
Costs
6.        Capital costs include for Conakry the physical components of
the expansion of the water supply system up to the year 2000.
Investment costs in secondary centers are those given in the tariff
study. Capital costs and operating costs are expressed in January 1989
prices.
7.        Operating costs are derived from the financlal forecasts.
The increase of the operating costs of Conakry between 1988 and 1989
in the "without project' situation reflect the correct valuation of
chemical and energy costa which vere not properly accounted for in
DEG's accounts. Further increases of the operating costs in the
Owithout project' situation, up to the year 1995, reflect the correct
maintenance cost of existing facilities.
Results
8.        Detailed calculations are given in the two following tables.
Using a discount rate of 12, AICs for Conakry and the secondary
centers are estimated to GF 411/m3 (US $ 0.82/m3) and GF 6971m3 (US S
1.40/m3) respectively. The sector-wide AIC is estimated at GF 4891m3
(US $ 0.98/m3). The economic rate of return of the prc'ect is
estimated at 112, while projects in the secondary centers will only
generate a 52 ERR.



REPUBLIC OF CUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Econr &Ane  l  is
Conakry: OD    initTnof AIC end ERR
OPERATINC                TOTAL
CONSUMPTION              WATER  INCREMENTAL CONSUMER   TOTAL    CAPITAL                   COSTS               INCREMENTAL   NET
YEAR   W/Project WO/Proj «t Increment l RATE    REVENUES   SURPLUS   BENEFITS   COSTS    W/Proj.ct WO/Proj.ct Increwntel   COSTS    BENEFITS
------- Million m           ---------- - OF/m  - ----------------------------------------- CF Million -----------------------------------------
1988       9.8s       9.a6        0.00        60 e        o                    o        149        380         380          o         149      -149
1989      10.00       9.60        0.40      10          60         97       167         87        8S2         620        282         269      -112
1990      10.70       9.60        1.10      10         165        194       869      11287       1310         620        690       11977    -11618
1991      11.45        9.60       1.85       202        874       257        631      12695       1518         693        820       18416    -12786
1992      12.26        9.oc,      2.65       223        692       324        916      3904        1608         a1S        794        4698     -3782
1993      13.47        9.so       3.87       279       1079       845       1424       1378       1687         1s5        873        2261      -827
1994      14.82       9.60        6.22       s91       2040        270      2310        790       1742         816        927        1717        693
1995      16.80        9.e0       6.70       406       2718        293      8010        924       1906         961        946        1870       1141
1996      17.98       9.60        8.33       406       3379        835      3713        5S0       1967         961       1007        1667      2167
1997      19.73        9.60      10.13       406       4109        37e      4485       1100       2038         961       1078        2178      2808
1998      21.70        9.60      12.10       406       4908       418       5326       1860       2143         961       les8        8o0a      2298
19"       23.87        9.60      14.27       406       6788       460       6248       1760       2248         961       1288        80o8      8211
2000      26.26        9.60      16.66       406       6768        502      7259        460       2410         961       1449        1899       6380
2001      26.26        9.60      16.66       406       876s8        02      7259                  2410         961       1449        1449      5810
to
2033      28.28        9.e0      18.66       406       6758        S02      7259                  2410         961       1449        1449     S5lo
NPV O         10                  79.3                80991       8188     84179      28281                              9277       a2668       1821
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST (AIC)        411 (CF/r3)
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (ERR)           11%
b 2
o0 
' .



REPUBLIC OF CUINEA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Eeonoxte Anal tn
Secondary Centern: iDu rnation of AIC end ERR
OPERATINO               TOTAL
CONSUMPTION             WATER  INCREMENTAL CONSWER   TOTAL    CAPITAL                  COSTS              INCRENENTAL   NET
EAR   w/Projct WO/Pro:j.  Incr_e t.   RATE    REVENUES  SURPLUS   BENEFITS   COSTS    W/Projoet WO/Projejt Incro_ntel  COSTS    BENEFITS
- M--  li l lon    - - ------- - C3 - -----  -- --- - ---------- - -------- OFMilion        ------
l980       1.54       1.54       0.00       e0          o          o         o      1848       1U         1 e           o       1848     -1848
19 8       1.98       1.64       0.89      160         S8          o        se      1524        289         159       Il        1685     -1657
190       2.68       1.54       1.09      160        164        117       281      20680      a8           169        194       2252     -1972
1991       2.88       1.54       1.29      202        201        188       894      2412         ses        19S        194       2^06     -2212
1992       3.16       1.54       1.62      228        382        172       684     asoo         468        254         209       4109    -8575
199       a.60        1.54       2.06      279        574        19n       774      4880        671        2U4         aie       4696     -8928
1994       4.10       1.54       2.56      891       1000        169      1169      800o0       se          254        884       aa84     -2215
1995       4.65       1.54       2.99      406       1218        188      1401      2620        767        828         441       2961     -160"
1996      4.99        1.54       8.46      406       1899        221      1620      2840        827         826        s0o       2841     -1221
1997       5.44       1.54       8.90      400       1502        2U4      1885      2840        889        826         56a       2908     -1067
1998       6.01       1.54       4.4?      406       lis8        295      2108      2280        9S6         826        628       2908      -801
19 99      .57        1.54       5.08      406       2040        8as      2875      1860       1018        826         692       2562      -176
2000       7.12       1.54       5.58      406       228         876      2688      1140       1026         826        700       1840        799
2001       7.12       1.54       5.58      406       22s8        876      26s8                 1026         826        700        700      1989
203a       7.12       1.U4       5.68      406       220B        876      2388                 1026         826        700        700      1989
NPV O         108                 80.1                11896      2122     18617     16899                              4098      20992     -7475
AVERAGE INCREMEITAL COST (AIC)       697 (CF/s8)
ECCNOlIC RATE OF RETURIN (ERR)         S%
AFIIN - January 6, 1989
'n
o I



MAP SECTION
1
i
i
1
1
1



____________________________                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 20944
MAURITANIA       i                                                                        12'                                                        l'I
SENEGAL                                                              S  E  N    E  G    A  L
111E GAMBIA    /      -<RKI                                                                                                                                                                               .       MALI  M    A  L  I
BURKINAi
GUIMEAe.AJ  <t7.1          U       EFASO                 Koundoroa                 ...
B'SU GUINEA                                                                                                      1
SIRR            COTE
L.eON          DIVOIRE ?GIHANA |
LItqRIA<14° 2-..             1 2 .                                                                                                                                                                                      12-
GUINEA-BISSAU 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~o ,n                                                   ç À*  X
to ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t
gD ~SIURATIN 0FNTHER WAI ETIGVAER SUPPLY VES*LIBERIA*`°»   *°
URBAN CENTERS FOR WHICn, WATER SUPPLY IS                          _____MAIN ROADO                                             .(  ,                                                                       tli      
- BEINO INSTAULED OR FINANCING ACTIYELY SOUGHT I                             ALOD ~I eeo i7/~{
OTHER URBAN CENTERS TO BE EOuiPPEO                                   O_v W REIO  CAIT                                                                                           r                                  JUN .  , R 
BEFORE THE YEAR 2000                                                      REINCPTLa_                                       _                                         ro?u)(i                    t
onu
C     NATIONAL CAPITAL
_E. _  INTERNATIONAL OUNDIES                  _
_~~~~~~~~~      1| 0 N                                 5JUE 19e



