OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS1
CREDIT NUMBER 1985 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1985 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               A    a      , 1989, between
the REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by SONEG, as hereinafter
defined, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SONEG the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de
Coopration Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in an amount
of about FF 100 million to assist inter alia in financing Part D
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and CCCE; and
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount of about
ECU 10 million to assist in financing Part D of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Bank Group (the AfDB Group) loans (the AfDB Group
Loans) in an amount of FUA 5 million and UA 12 million to assist
in financing Part D of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in agreements (the AfDB Group Loan Agreements) to be entered
into between the Borrower and AfDB;
(F) the Borrower intends to request additional financing, if
need be, from other donors to assist in financing Part D of the
Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the


﻿-2-
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SONEG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "DEG" means Entreprise Nationale de Distribution d'Eau
de Guin6e, a public enterprise of the Borrower, dissolved pursuant
to Ordonnance No. 045/PRG/88 of October 1, 1988;
(b) "Contrat-Plan" means the contract referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time as set forth in said Section;
(c) "Fiscal Year" means, depending on the context, the
Borrower's or SONEG's fiscal year, which coincide with the
calendar year;
(d)  "Lease contract" means the contract entered into
pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement between SONEG and
SEEG for the operation of SONEG's urban water supply systems, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to said contract;
(e)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SONEG of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant


﻿-3-
to exchanges of letters dated March 29, 1985, March 18, 1987 and
May 18, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
(g) "SEEG" means Soci6t6 d'Exploitation des Eaux de Guin6e,
a joint venture company established pursuant to Section 5.01 (b)
of this Agreement;
(h) "SONEG" means Soci6t6 Nationale des Eaux de Guin6e, a
public enterprise of the Borrower established and operating
pursuant to Ordonnance No. 045/PRG/88 of October 1, 1988;
(i) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(j) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SONEG pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 29,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
authorize SONEG to open and maintain in dollars a special account
in- a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15,
commencing July 15, 1999 and ending January 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, 'the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Director General of SONEG is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement: (i) shall
cause SONEG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of SONEG therein set forth;
(ii) shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable SONEG to perform such
obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to SONEG as follows: (i) the proceeds allocated to
Categories (2)(d), (3)(a), (3)(c) and (5) as a contribution to
SONEG's equity; and (ii) the remaining proceeds under a subsidiary
financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
SONEG, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
which shall include bearing of the foreign exchange risk by SONEG,
an annual interest rate of 2.0%, a repayment period of thirty (30)
years, including a grace period of six (6) years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall periodically approve the adjustments
in the structure and levels of water rates required to enable
SONEG to perform its obligation under Article IV of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,


﻿-7-
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by SONEG pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31 of each year, enter into a Contrat-Plan with SONEG
covering the following three years, which shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) The Contrat-Plan shall inter alia stipulate the detailed
inventory of the urban water supply sector's debt and the bud-
getary allocations to be made in the Borrower's budget to cover
the service of such debt.
(c) Such allocations shall cover:
(i)   the full amount of the annual debt service related
to suppliers' credits entered into prior to the
date of this Agreement; and
(ii)   100% of the annual debt service, excluding sup-
pliers' credits, due in 1989 and 1990, 80% of said
debt service in 1991, 60% in 1992, 40% in 1993, 20%
in 1994 and 0% starting in 1995, the balance to be
covered by SONEG.
a
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30
in each year, transmit, or cause to be transmitted, to SONEG and
SEEG the list of administrative service connections for which
water consumption should be billed to the Borrower, the
pr6fectures or other public entities;
(b) the Borrower shall cause SEEG to submit to the Borrower,
not later than September 30 in each year, the estimated billing
amount of such connections for the following year;
(c)  the Borrower shall appropriate, and cause the
pr6fectures and other public entities to appropriate, the
necessary funds in each fiscal year to cover their respective
estimated water bills;
(d) the Borrower shall disburse, and cause the pr6fectures
and other public entities to disburse, their annual appropriation
in four quarterly installments of 30% of their estimated bill for


﻿- 8 -
the first three quarters and 10% for the final quarter, the
difference between estimated and actual consumption to be settled
in the following fiscal year; and
(e) the Borrower authorizes the suspension in the delivery
of water to any department of the Borrower, the pr6fectures or
other public entities which has arrears in excess of four months
on its payments of water bills.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not, until the Project shall
have been completed, make any new investment in the urban water
supply sector estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$1,000,000, unless such investment shall in the opinion of the
Association be technically, financially and economically viable,
based on detailed financing plans and forecasts submitted to the
Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause DEC to cease all its operations in Conakry not
later than three months after the Effective Date; and
(b) complete the liquidation of DEG, including termination
of staff and sale of assets, not later than December 31, 1989.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) SONEG shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that SONEG will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower's Ordonnances No. 045/PRG/88 of October 1,
1988 creating SONEG or No. 028/PRG/89 of April 10, 1989 ratifying
the creation of SEEG or any other instrument taken in execution
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of
the Association, the ability of SONEG to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-9-
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SONEG or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The Lease Contract shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, replaced or waived without the Association's prior
consent.
(f) Any loan or grant agreement for the financing of Part D
of the Project shall have failed to become effective by June 30,
1990, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that adequate funds for Part D of the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 10 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (g)(i)(B) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (g)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SONEG;
(b) SEEG has been established, the first two tranches of its
initial capital have been fully paid-up (including the effective
transfer of the buildings in Conakry), the Lease Contract has been
signed and the standard subscription contract between SEEG and its
subscribers adopted, all of which shall be satisfactory to the
Association; and
(c) SONEG has selected its personnel.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SONEG, and is legally binding upon SONEG in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SONEG, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SONEG in accordance with its terms;
and


﻿- 11 -
(c) that the Lease Contract has been duly authorized or
ratified by SONEG and SEEG, and is legally binding upon SONEG and
SEEG in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister or Secretary of State of the Borrower at
the time responsible for urban water supply is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secrdtariat d'Etat aux Energies
B.P. 1217
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Telex:
22366 SEE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                         0 3
Regional V ce resident
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) for Part A.3              260,000      75%
(b) for Part C              1,050,000      100%
(c) for Part D             4,850,000       100%
(2) Goods:
(a) for Part A                150,000      100%
(b) for Part C              2,120,000      100%
(c) for Part D              2,000,000      100%
(d)  for Part E.2             120,000      100%
(3) Consultants'
services and
training:
(a) for Part A              2,430,000      95%
(b) for Part D              1,080,000      65%
(c) for Part E.1              270,000      95%


﻿-14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Lease Contract             10,700,000      100% of foreign
expenditures in
contract years
1, 2, 3 and 4,
80% of foreign
expenditures
in contract
year 5 and 60%
of foreign
expenditures in
contract year 6
(5) Refunding of                  970,000      Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 3,300,000
TOTAL                 29.300.000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "contract year" means a twelve month period
starting on the first day of the month following the effectiveness
of the Lease Contract or any twelve month period after such
period.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and


﻿- 15 -.
(b) payments made for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)(c) and (2)(c),
unless all loan or grant agreements for the financing of Part D of
the Project have become effective.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the delivery of
urban water while laying the basis for the self-sustained develor-
ment of the Borrower's urban water supply system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
EAi_A:    Management Support to SONEG
1.   Support to SONEG's institutional development, including the
areas of sector planning and policy-making, rate-setting, finan-
cial management and supervision of the execution of the Lease
Contract.
2.   Development of SONEG's capacity to prepare urban water supply
investment projects and carry out related procurement and super-
vision.
3.   Preparation of preliminary and detailed designs and tender
documents for SONEG's offices (about 600 m2), construction and
equipment of said offices and supervision of construction.
4.   Acquisition of about six service vehicles.
5.   Training of SONEG staff.
kart_B:   Restructuring and Rehabilitation of Sector ORerations
1.   Creation of SEEG, a water management company jointly owned by
the Borrower and a foreign partner.
2.   Conclusion and implementation of the Lease Contract between
SONEG and SEEG.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities
Rehabilitation of existing facilities, including treatment
plants, pumping stations, transmission and distribution pipes,
reservoirs and individual connections and water meters.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:   Expansion of the Conakry Water Supply System
1.   Partial doubling of the Grandes Chutes - Yessoulou - Conakry
transmission line.
2.   Construction of a treatment plant at Yessoulou
(40,000 m3/day).
3.   Construction of water storage reservoirs at Kipd and Simbaya,
4.   Extension of the water distribution network, including about
300 km of pipes and 15,000 new domestic connections.
5.   Supervision of construction.
PartIE:   Other Activities
1.   Preparation of preliminary and final designs and tender
documents for the expansion of water supply in selected secondary
urban centers.
2.   Training of DEG staff not selected by SONEG or SEEG in the
fields of inerE g1i plumbing, air conditioning and electricity.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


﻿SCHEDULE'3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of-goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
- (c) the term "Authorized Allocation"Imeans an amount*equiva-
lent to one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 'into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be.made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfact6ry to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for,a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall .be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date


﻿- 20 -
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; oz (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request;'or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Asso-
ciation into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


