Document of
The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00002861



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-42650, TF-57514, TF-91251)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.2 MILLION
                        (US$ 22.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                    FOR A

                     SECOND JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT



                              December 19, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective September 23, 2013)

                Currency Unit = Armenian Dram (AMD)
                      AMD 1.00 = US$ 0.002462
                      US$ 1.00 = AMD 406.174

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABA     American Bar Association
AESMS   Automated Enforcement Service Management Systems
ARLIS   Armenian Legal Information System
BEEPS   Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey
CAST    Court Automation and Skills Transfer
CEELI   Central Europe and Eurasian Law Initiative
CLE     Continuing Legal Education
CoJ     Council of Justice
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
ESD     Enforcement Service Department
EU      European Union
FY      Fiscal Year
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBTF    Initiating Brief for a Trust Fund
ICT     Information and Communications Technology
IDA     International Development Agency
INT     Integrity Vice-Presidency
JD      Judicial Department
JRI     Judicial Reform Index
JTS     Judicial Training School
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoJ     Ministry of Justice
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PPF     Project Preparation Fund
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development—Japanese Trust Fund
QALP    Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio
ROLI    Rule of Law Initiative
SCORM   Shared Content Object Reference Model
TF      Trust Fund
TTL     Task Team Leader
USAID   US Agency for International Development




             Regional Vice President: Laura Tuck
                   Country Director: Henry G. R. Kerali
                    Sector Manager: Adrian Fozzard
               Project Team Leader: Davit Melikyan
                  ICR Team Leader: Ronald Myers
                                               ARMENIA
                                      Second Judicial Reform Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 11
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 30
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 51
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 52
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 53
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 54
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 55
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 56
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
  MAP
                                     DATA SHEET


A. Basic Information
                                                                          Judicial Reform Project
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:
                                                                          2
                                                                          IDA-42650,TF-
Project ID:             P099630                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          57514,TF-91251
ICR Date:               12/30/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Original Total
                        XDR 15.20M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 15.14M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 15.14M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Judicial Project Implementation Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Government of Netherlands
 Government of Japan PHRD

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/02/2006     Effectiveness:             07/05/2007        07/05/2007
Appraisal:            01/30/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/08/2007     Mid-term Review:           06/30/2010        10/01/2010
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2012        06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory       Implementing        Moderately Satisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                            Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        6                     6
Law and justice                                                         93                  93
Other social services                                                    1                     1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to law and justice                                               33                  33
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                        33                  33
Law reform                                                              17                  17
Other rule of law                                                       17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Laura Tuck                           Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Henry G. R. Kerali                   D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:              Adrian Fozzard                       Cheryl W. Gray
Project Team Leader:         Klaus Decker                         David S. Bernstein
ICR Team Leader:             Ronald E. Myers
ICR Primary Author:          Ronald E. Myers
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary development objectives of JRP2 are to: (1) provide Armenia's judiciary with
the administration, facilities and expanded capacity necessary to improve the efficiency,
reliability and transparency of judicial operations and services; and (2) continue to
improve awareness of judicial services and access to legal and judicial information. JRP2
will support the Armenian judiciary in implementing a second stage of judicial reforms
launched by passage of Constitutional amendments and the introduction of a new Judicial
Code.

  Achievement of the Project Development Objectives will be measured by performance
indicators, including Government and judicial operational statistics supplemented by: (i)
measures of court performance and user perceptions (BEEPS); (ii) expert assessments of
judicial qualifications and training (American Bar Association's CEELI Judicial Reform
Index); and (iii) project funded monitoring and evaluation efforts (court users survey and
NGO court monitoring).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values       Target Years
                  At least 20,000 square meters total area of planned courthouses and other judicial
Indicator 1 :
                  buildings rehabilitated by the end of the Project
Value
quantitative or   0 sqm                      20,000 sqm                         23500 sqm
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/08/2007                 12/31/2012                         06/30/2013
Comments
                  23,500 Square meters rehabilitated for 16 courthouses, Forensic Center of MOJ
(incl. %
                  and Academy of Justice.
achievement)
                  Increase in Judicial Reform Index Factor 1 on Judicial Qualification and
Indicator 2 :
                  Preparation from Negative to Neutral (ABA CEELI, periodic)
Value
                                             JRI factor 1-
quantitative or   JRI factor 1- Negative                                        JRI factor 1-Neutral
                                             Neutral
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 12/31/2012                         12/31/2008
Comments
                  JRI rating for Factor 1 raised from Negative to Neutral in 2008 and maintained in
(incl. %
                  2012
achievement)
                  55 percent of surveyed firms saying that courts are able to enforce their decisions
Indicator 3 :
                  (BEEPS 2011)
Value
                41.7%                        55%                                64.8%
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/20/2005                12/31/2012                          06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          BEEPs indicator replaced with survey indicator
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Percent of firms stating that implementation of laws is consistent and predictable
Value
                                            60% increase over
quantitative or   25.3%                                                         46%
                                            baseline
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                12/31/2012                          06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
                  At least 10 percent increase in the average number of completed cases versus the
Indicator 5 :
                  average number of filed cases at the 1st instance pilot courts with CAST system
Value
                                          10% increase over
quantitative or 79.6%                                                          95%
                                          baseline
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2008                  12/31/2012                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                25 percent increase in general satisfaction with the operation of courts and the
Indicator 6 : availability of information on legal rights and the courts of respondents to a court
                users survey over a 2007 baseline
Value
                                          25% increase over
quantitative or 67.5%                                                          65.6%
                                          baseline
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                  12/31/2012                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target not achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                 Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                   approval                     Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                 documents)                     Target Years
                  10 percent increase in the average monthly number of pages viewed through the
Indicator 1 :
                  Judicial Portal by the end of the Project
Value
                                            10% increase over                   36,705 pages
(quantitative   7,125 pages viewed
                                            baseline                            viewed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2011                    12/31/2012                          06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                All renovated and new courthouses (funded by JRP2 and state budget) upgraded
Indicator 2 :   according to improved design standard reflecting best international practice and
                cost efficiency principles
                                           All remaining
                                                                             All renovated and
Value                                      courthouses
                Design standards not                                         new courthouses
(quantitative                              rehabilitated
                developed yet                                                meet targeted
or Qualitative)                            according to the
                                                                             design standards
                                           design standards
Date achieved 03/08/2007                   12/31/2012                        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved
achievement)
                20 percentage point increase in the number of enforced decisions vs. the number
Indicator 3 :
                of new decisions submitted for enforcement annually
Value
(quantitative   42.8%                      62.8%                             41.3%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments
                Target not achieved. Given the sharp increase of number of incoming cases, it
(incl. %
                may be considered partially achieved.
achievement)
                Number of people internationally trained and became certified arbitration
Indicator 4 :
                specialists
                                                                             20 Armenians
                                           Proposed number                   trained on
Value
                No internationally         of people trained                 arbitration services.
(quantitative
                certified professionals    and back, working                 No certification
or Qualitative)
                                           in Armenia                        body exists
                                                                             however.
Date achieved 03/08/2007                   12/31/2012                        06/30/2013
Comments
                Partially achieved. Although the total number of trained lawyers exceeds the
(incl. %
                originally planned number, there is no certification.
achievement)
                25 percent increase in the average monthly number of pages viewed through the
Indicator 5 :
                ARLIS webpage by the end of the project
Value
                140,000 pages (2,000       175,000 pages                     1,614,929 pages
(quantitative
                visitors).                 (1,550 visitors)                  (182,520 visitors)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   12/31/2012                        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. Far exceeds the original target.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    06/12/2007       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/26/2008       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              4.36
  3    06/25/2009       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            10.23
  4    02/26/2010       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            13.61
  5    02/22/2011       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            18.92
  6    09/17/2011       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   22.00
  7    07/11/2012   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   23.62
  8    01/27/2013   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   23.62
  9    09/28/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            23.62


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Since restoring its independence in 1991 Armenia has faced number of significant challenges.
Landlocked and dependent on outside sources for energy supplies and many of its raw materials,
Armenia’s geographic isolation has long impacted economic progress, contributing to a large
number of Armenians seeking employment abroad. Public institutions were highly centralized and
inefficient. In addition, regional security risks remain high due to the latent conflict over Nagorno-
Karabakh and closed borders with Azerbaijan and Turkey. In the recent years, however, the country
has made considerable progress toward addressing urgent economic and social problems, initiating
economic liberalization to establish a market based economy, and undertaking a series of reforms to
build a more efficient and effective public administration. Before the 2009 global financial crisis,
the Armenian economy grew by about 12 percent per annum. With the global economic and
financial crisis, Armenia’s economy contracted by 14.1 percent in 2009, but started recovering in
2010. Real GDP expanded by 2.4 percent in 2010, 4.7 percent in 2011, and 7.2 percent in 2012.

Armenian governments recognized early on that broad based reform and institution building in the
public administration was necessary to underpin its private sector led growth agenda. One key
building block was to be the creation of a more efficient, effective, and independent judiciary better
able to provide services to citizens, promote more predictable rule of law, and better enforce
contracts and encourage commercial activities and investments. Legal reforms included the
creation of a three-tiered structure of courts of general jurisdiction under the 1995 Constitution as
well as a separate court which focuses on determining the constitutionality of laws. A second phase
of judicial reform began with a referendum approved constitutional amendment in 2005 intended to
reduce the dominant role of the presidency in the court system and increase the independence of the
judiciary. A Judicial Code passed in 2007 further reorganized the courts and introduced a doctrine
analogous to precedent in common law systems.

The Bank has provided technical and financial assistance through a wide variety of operations in the
area of public sector modernization in general and in the justice sector specifically. The first
Judicial Reform Project (JRP1) project (2000-2006) supported improvements in judicial
infrastructure by rehabilitating and modernizing severely deteriorated court buildings, financing the
reform and automation of case management and court administration, public education and access
to legal administration, enforcement of judicial decisions, and training of judicial staff. Challenges
remained (many courts were still in dire conditions, system administration and training lagged, a
large agenda remained for outreach to citizens, etc.) and based on the success of the first project
(whose outcome was rated Satisfactory by the World Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group) the
Government requested continued Bank involvement through a repeater operation.

The US$ 22.5 million IDA Credit-funded Second Judicial Reform Project (JRP2) was approved on
March 8, 2007 and became effective on July 5, 2007. It sought to build on the achievements of the
first project, develop and pilot some new initiatives, and essentially provide the judicial branch with
the infrastructure, information technology systems, administrative tools, and oversight mechanism




                                                  1
necessary to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of the judiciary. The project
also sought to encourage demand side interest in better judicial services by citizens and NGOs.

The project was also supported through a US$3 million PHRD grant (TF-57514), which became
effective on July 5, 2007, and a Dutch Trust Fund grant (TF- 91251) in the amount of US$4.84
million, which became effective on April 16, 2008. These resources generally supported the same
or similar PDOs and indicators and were disbursed in parallel with IDA funds in most components
but were focused on some specific technical assistance areas such as the training, exploration of
possible expansion of arbitration services, raising public awareness and access to legal information,
as well as some key ICT investments. Where details differ from the broader IDA credit they will be
noted in this report.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objectives of the IDA credit stated in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD-Report No. 38361-AM) are to: (1) provide Armenia's judiciary with the administration,
facilities and expanded capacity necessary to improve the efficiency, reliability and transparency of
judicial operations and services; and (2) continue to improve awareness of judicial services and
access to legal and judicial information.

The PDO wording in the Financing Agreement dated March 9, 2007 is the same.

The text of the PAD (page 4) said achievement of the PDOs would be measured by performance
indicators, including Government and judicial operational statistics supplemented by: (i) measures
of court performance and user perceptions (from the Business Environment and Enterprise
Performance Survey-BEEPS); (ii) expert assessments of judicial qualifications and training
(American Bar Association's CEELI Judicial Reform Index); and (iii) project funded monitoring
and evaluation efforts (court users survey and NGO court monitoring).

Six Project Outcome Indicators were detailed in Annex 3 (Results Framework and Monitoring) of
the PAD in line with this description. They include:

   1. At least 20,000 square meters total area of planned courthouses and other judicial buildings
      rehabilitated by the end of the project.
   2. Increase in Judicial Reform Index Factor 1 on Judicial Qualification and Preparation from
      Negative to Neutral (ABA CEELI, periodic).
   3. 55 percent of surveyed firms saying that courts are able to enforce their decisions (BEEPS
      2011).
   4. Percent of firms stating that implementation of laws is consistent and predictable reach 60
      percent level (BEEPS 2011)
   5. At least 10 percent increase in the average number of completed cases versus the average
      number of filed cases at the first instance courts piloting the CAST system (Judicial
      Department, annual)
   6. 25 percent increase in general satisfaction with the operation of courts and the availability of
      information on legal rights and the courts of respondents to a court users survey over a 2007
      baseline (Court Users Survey, Year 1 and Year 5).



                                                 2
The Judicial Reform Index (JRI) is an assessment tool implemented by the American Bar
Association’s Rule of Law Initiative (ABA/ROLI). It was developed in 2001 by the ABA’s Central
European and Eurasian Law Initiative (ABA/CEELI) together with other regional divisions in
Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East/North Africa to assess a cross-section of issues
important to judicial reform in emerging democracies. ABA ROLI explicitly recognizes that there
is no agreement on all the particulars involved in judicial reform much less uniformity in legal
structures and cultures. It does believe, however, that 30 topics (factors) grouped into chapters on
(i) Quality, Education, and Diversity, (ii) Judicial Powers, (iii) Financial Resources, (iv) Structural
Safeguards, (v) Accountability and Transparency, and (vi) Efficiency can provide valid insights into
a country’s judicial system, reform trajectory, and challenges. A JRI is based on objective (review
of laws, finances, personnel, etc.) and subjective (interviews with national legal experts and
stakeholders) inputs leading to factor ratings of Negative, Neutral, and Positive. In the case of
Armenia, JRI reports were conducted in 2002, 2004, 2008, and 2012. The Bank project team
believed the JRI could provide a time series of credible, independent, and legal expert assessments
of developments in the judicial system beyond the more traditional project focused output indicators
or public polls. Nine JRI factors were targeted as performance indicators including one for PDO
outcomes and the remainder for intermediate outcomes. A more detailed description of specific
factor characteristics is provided in Annex 2.

During project implementation the BEEPS series (prepared jointly by the World Bank and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2005 and 2008) ended and was
incorporated into the broader Investment Climate Survey series of the World Bank. The questions
posed in BEEPS that would serve as the basis for indicators number 3 and 4 were not retained in the
new survey instrument. Consequently the project team incorporated both questions into the
baseline and end of project Court Users Survey conducted specifically for the operation. The
decision to cease the production of BEEPS was unanticipated and outside the control of the project
team and it took proactive steps to replace it as fully as possible.

Court Users Surveys were conducted in 2009 and 2013 by an Armenian polling firm targeting
randomly selected members of the general public as well as court users (lawyers, judges, defendants,
plaintiffs). Like the JRI and BEEPS, the survey was intended to provide an additional independent
input to assess the performance of the project and broader Government’s reform effort. In several
instances, however, these perception indicators did not represent very useful benchmarks of the
actual performance or impact of the project or a specific component given problems of attribution or
timing (with improvements in performance reported before project impact was likely).
Consequently the indicators are in many cases just that—indicators, not irrefutable measures of
impact to be weighted mathematically to determine project performance.

TF-57514 (US$ 3 million PHRD Grant)

The objective of the PHRD grant, as contained in the Co-financing Agreement between the Bank
and Armenian authorities signed on March 9, 2007 was “to co-finance the institutional capacity
building and outreach activities of the Second Judicial Reform Project whose main objectives are
to: (a) provide Recipient's judiciary with the administration, facilities and tools necessary to
improve the efficiency and reliability of judicial operations: and (b) assist with the implementation
of a new Judicial Code designed to improve the operation of judicial services”. This formulation of



                                                  3
the IDA credit PDOs was clearly based on the JRP2 Project Development Objective 1 (substituting
“tools” for “expanded capacity”), but Objective 2 was different, focused on the Judicial Code and
judicial services (as opposed to “continue to improve awareness of judicial services and access to
legal and judicial information” as in the IDA credit PAD and Financial Agreement). The reason for
the divergence in reported IDA PDOs upon closer review appears to have been a simple editing
oversight without any substantive impact.

The signed agreement with Armenia said that the grant monitoring, reporting, and evaluation
“would be on the basis of indicators agreed with the World Bank”. The proposal for PHRD
resources forwarded by the Bank to Japanese authorities listed three key performance indicators for
the grant:

   1. Improved administrative capacity within the Judiciary, including human resource
      management, IT maintenance, and financial and budget controls.
   2. Increased use of automated processes, procedures, and databases by judges and judicial staff
      with IT training.
   3. Expanded public access to judicial decisions and information on laws, legal rights, and
      access to legal services.

It listed the key performance indicators for the IDA project as follows:

   1. Improved citizen access to legal information and satisfaction with judicial services.
   2. Objective measures of judicial performance are designed, measured and analyzed by the
      Judiciary and Justice Ministry, and improvements in judicial operations are recorded.
   3. Increased transparency in the judicial system through improved access to information and
      judicial decisions among judges and for the citizens.

Both sets of performance indicators are assessed in Annex 2.

TF- 091251 (US$ 4.84 million Dutch Grant)

Similar to the PHRD grant formulation, the objective of the Dutch grant was “to co-finance and
expand the institutional capacity building and outreach activities of the Second Judicial Reform
Project in order to: (a) provide the Recipient's judiciary with the administration, facilities and tools
necessary to improve the efficiency and reliability of judicial operations: and (b) assist with the
implementation of a new Judicial Code designed to improve the operation of judicial services”.

The signed agreement with Armenia said that the grant monitoring, reporting, and evaluation
“would be on the basis of indicators agreed with the World Bank”. The agreement between the
Bank and Netherlands for the Dutch grant (more specifically the Initiating Brief for the Trust Fund
(IBTF)) listed four key performance indicators in addition to those agreed under the Credit:

   1.    Number of people internationally trained and became certified arbitration specialists by end
        2010.
         [Baseline 2007: 0 arbitrators trained and certified]




                                                   4
   2.  At least 100 public information terminals established for ARLIS at courts, community
      buildings and other suitable locations by the end 2010. [Baseline 2007: no public
      information terminals available]
   3. At least 20 journalists and 30 judicial servants responsible for the relations with media pass
      special training on "court-media" relations by the end 2010. [Baseline 2007: 0 journalists
      and judicial servants trained]
   4. Development of a court monitoring strategy and implementation plan with input and
      agreement of key NGOs by end 2009.

 1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions of the PDO during the life of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The PAD does not explicitly list project beneficiaries as such. However, from its description of the
“Higher level objectives to which the project contributes” it can be assumed that the expected
beneficiaries are numerous. They would include, besides officials and staff within the Judicial
Branch (judges, administrators, support staff) and selected units in the Ministry of Justice
(Enforcement Service Department), users of court services (plaintiffs, defendants, lawyers, etc.), the
rural poor by including remote and rural courthouses as priorities for refurbishment or new
constructions, and the private sector and citizens at large by “increasing the efficiency of court
proceedings, publication of decisions, and better public awareness of judicial performance [to]
encourage the public to make greater use of the courts to handle disputes, and contribute to the
stronger protection of property and contract rights that are critical for a market economy. ” The
PAD also indicated that the project would contribute to Armenia’s efforts to improve governance
and reduce corruption within and outside the justice system.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project included six components designed to build on the achievements of the first Judicial
Reform Project and introduce new initiatives. The components were (with allocations as planned):
(i) strengthening judicial governance and administration (12% of planned IDA resources, 33% of
PHRD funds, 27% of Dutch Grant funds); (ii) courthouse rehabilitation (71% IDA, 15% PHRD);
(iii) judicial training school (9% IDA, 12% PHRD, 8% Dutch); (iv) improving enforcement of
judicial decisions (2% IDA, 13% PHRD, 12% Dutch); (v) strengthening arbitration services (0.2%
IDA, 10% PHRD, 6% Dutch); and (vi) expanding access to legal information and public awareness
(2% IDA, 17% PHRD, 44% Dutch). The remaining resources (about 4% of IDA resources, 3%
Dutch) were for project management. The amounts provided for the components below reflect
actual allocation).




                                                  5
Component 1: Strengthening Judicial Governance and Administration (US$ 6.76 Million—
IDA Contribution US$ 2.26 Million, PHRD Contribution US$ 0.84 Million, Dutch Trust Fund
Contribution US$ 2.78 Million)

This component aimed to build the capacity of new or reformed judicial organizations to better meet
their responsibilities under the amended Constitution and an anticipated new Judicial Code.

Subcomponent 1A would provide technical assistance and training to the staff of the reorganized
Council of Justice (CoJ), which is composed of a majority of judges plus two legal specialists
appointed by the National Assembly and two by the President of the Republic and charged with
developing lists of judicial candidates, evaluating judges for promotion, nominating court chairmen,
and disciplining judges. The technical assistance and training would concentrate on operating
procedures, transparency in the development of judicial nomination and promotion lists,
standardized evaluation criteria, and transparent rules for the disciplining of judges.

Subcomponent 1B aimed to build the capacity of the new Judicial Department charged since its
creation in 2006 with providing administrative support to the variety of judicial governance bodies.
Consulting services and training would focus on budgeting and financial management, collection
and analysis of statistical data and performance indicators, human resource management, oversight
of judicial facilities and infrastructure, maintenance and strategic use of IT systems, and other
general administrative matters. The subcomponent would also support the creation of a new
judicial security service through technical assistance and consultants, as well as financing a review
of the country’s judicial archive policy and procedures and subsequent funding of identified needs
in software and equipment.

Subcomponent 1C, at US$ 2.3 million in Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
investments represented 88% of IDA’s contribution under Component 1. It was designed to roll out
to newly refurbished courts (whether funded by IDA or exclusively by national funds) the
successful case management software (Court Automation and Skills Transfer-CAST- system)
developed and piloted in seven rehabilitated courthouses during JRP1. CAST was credited with
significantly improving the accurate collection, reliable archiving, speedier recall, and easier use of
case documentation by all court users. Investments would be made in workstations, servers,
monitors, printers, and LANs for the new or rehabilitated courthouses. Additionally the
subcomponent would purchase court recording devices for those courts (as successfully installed in
courthouses renovated under JRP1) as well as ICT hardware for the Judicial Department and Court
of Cassation and Ministry of Justice. Another initiative included technical assistance and training
to support the further development of a judicial database and portal to permit judges to easily access
to the findings of higher courts in support of the country’s decision to implemen t the use of
precedent to help determine the outcome of present cases.

Component 2: Courthouse Rehabilitation: Expanding to the Regions and New Cassation
Court Complex (US$ 22.78 Million—IDA Contribution US$ 17.01 Million, PHRD
Contribution US$ 0.77 Million)

Accounting for 71 percent of the entire IDA credit and 15 percent of the PHRD grant, this
component aimed to construct a new building/s for the Court of Cassation (Supreme Court),



                                                  6
construct or reconstruct courthouses throughout the country based on an agreed priority list, update
space planning and design standards in accordance with international practice, provide technical
assistance to oversee construction works, and finance furniture, equipment, and other goods to
courts, courtrooms, judges, judicial staff and pubic areas. Costs were estimated based on JRP1
experience in rehabilitating 14 courts (housed in 12 court buildings), current input costs, and
Government expectation of the dram-dollar exchange rate.

Component 3: Judicial Training School (US$ 3.08 Million—IDA Contribution US$ 2.14
Million, PHRD Contribution US$ 0.26 Million)

The component sought to strengthen the capacity of the Judicial Training School (JTS) to provide
mandatory training for judicial candidates (following an entrance exam) and continuing education
for judges and court staff. The component would scale up the initiative in JRP1 which funded a
temporary training center with a small IT laboratory by providing a permanent home for the JTS
with support from the European Union (EU) to develop required training curricula.

Subcomponent 3A aimed to renovate and reconstruct a building to house the JTS plus Ministry of
Justice Training Center and provide furniture, IT hardware and other equipment necessary for the
school to function.

Subcomponent 3B, in collaboration with the EU, sought to develop training courses and materials
for judges on the use of precedent in deciding cases and drafting judicial opinions, as well as on the
use of judicial ICT systems and administrative matters (judicial budgeting, financial management,
etc.).

Component 4: Improving Enforcement of Judicial decisions (US$ 1.49 Million—IDA
Contribution US$ 0.66 Million, PHRD Contribution US$ 0.31 Million, Dutch Trust Fund
Contribution US$ 0.25 Million)

The Enforcement Service Department (ESD) is the unit of the Ministry of Justice charged with
enforcing final judicial decisions (collecting fines, ensuring payments between adjudicated parties,
transfer of property, etc.) It received technical assistance and ICT equipment under JRP1 and
developed and piloted an Automated Enforcement Service Management System (AESMS) in three
offices. Improvements in ESD operations were reported by Armenian firms queried in the BEEPS
survey in 2005 but further improvements were considered warranted given the continual expansion
in the number of court cases. The component would finance enhancements of AESMS, its full
rollout countrywide, training on its use, and its maintenance. Additionally, upon request of the
Justice Minister funds were allocated to conduct a feasibility study of a possible introduction of
private enforcement agents, or private bailiffs, into Armenia as is done is several other countries,
and its possible piloting.

Component 5: Strengthening Arbitration Services (US$ 0.48 Million—Dutch Trust Fund
Contribution US$ 0.48 Million)

Armenia lacked a functional and effective system for arbitration and mediation as an alternative to
dispute resolution through the courts. This small component aimed at drafting comprehensive



                                                  7
legislation and regulations supporting arbitration and training Armenians in country by
competitively selected accredited international arbitration experts.

Component 6: Expanding Access to Legal Information and Public Awareness (US$ 2.14
Million—IDA Contribution US$ 0.006 Million, PHRD Contribution US$ 0.69 Million, Dutch
Trust Fund Contribution US$ 1.24 Million)

This component would expand and broaden access to legal information through the Armenian Legal
Information System (ARLIS) developed under JRP1, seek to expand public awareness of legal
rights and the roles of the judicial system, and involve civil society more directly in monitoring and
evaluating project indicators and outcomes more generally of the country’s judicial reform program.

Subcomponent 6A aimed to expand and enhance ARLIS, which provided everyone free Internet-
based access to a database of Armenian legislation and Government decisions back to 1994 with
further coverage in process to 1948. The software would be enhanced based on a review of its
functionality, more ICT hardware provided to support expanding content and increased usage, and
dedicated terminals and kiosks for public access placed in courts, state agencies, and regional or
community centers.

Subcomponent 6B aimed to improve judicial information services beyond the provision of internet
data. The public often goes first to the court chancelleries which act as receptionists for inquiries,
documents, help requests, etc. The project sought to increase the service orientation of chancellery
staff through training, production of public information bulletins on specific legal issues, drafting of
expert commentary on key Armenian laws and decisions and steps to improve communications
between judges and Judicial Department staff and the media.

Subcomponent 6C aimed to build on the success of the JRP1 funded “My Rights” television show in
increasing public awareness of judicial issues. Productions would be expanded to new areas such as
family, gender rights and criminal law issues, the subcomponent would fund periodic media and
donor briefings, information campaigns and target training seminars to raise awareness of reforms
and improvements in Armenia’s judicial and court performance. Finally NGOs and civil society
organizations would monitor the implementation of the project through surveys to broaden the
groups in society with information on and a stake in the reforms as well as to provide a check on
implementation actions taken b the judiciary and JOJ beneficiaries. For example, interest groups of
young lawyers or law faculty would assess the impact of automation, training and technical
assistance on judicial services.

TF-57514 (PHRD Grant)

There were six components in the PHRD grant (as described in the grant agreement):

Component 1 – Strengthening of institutional capacity of the Judiciary through the creation of an
effective administrative staff, expansion of the information technology systems and automation of
case management system, and helping to develop transparent procedures for the Council of Justice
of the Recipient.




                                                   8
Component 2 – Rehabilitation or reconstruction of a number of courthouses that were not covered
under the first Judicial Reform Project, and the support of the construction of a new Cassation Court
and Judicial Department building(s).

Component 3 – Rehabilitation of a building to house the Judicial training School and Ministry of
Justice training center, and development of courses for the school, through the provision of goods,
works, technical assistance, capacity building and training.

Component 4 – Enhancement of enforcement of judicial decisions, through the rollout of an
automated management system and technical assistance and training. Support for a feasibility study
on the introduction of private enforcement agents or bailiffs into the Recipient.

Component 5 – Strengthening of a new system of arbitration through provision of technical
assistance to enhance the legal and regulatory framework and to provide international training and
accreditation to a number of competitively selected Armenian arbitrators.

Component 6 – Improvement in access to legal information, expansion of public awareness and use
of monitoring of Project and reform outcomes through the provision of goods, consultants’ services
and training.

TF- 091251 (Dutch Grant)

The components of the Dutch Grant targeted specific activities from within all components
supported by the IDA credit except for courthouse construction and rehabilitation. Specifically the
components were:

Component 1 - Strengthening judicial governance and administration through the assessment and
expansion of the Court Automation and Skills Transfer case management system to add capabilities
and functions; developing and implementing a searchable electronic archive database software to
store cases; and conducting feasibility and cost study for creating a justice sector wide area network.

Component 2 - Providing assistance to the new Judicial School in the development of specific
training courses covering, inter alia, new civil, criminal and administrative procedure codes, gender
rights, corruption and interaction with media.

Component 3 - Implementing pilot of private bailiff service based on feasibility study in order to
improve the enforcement of judicial services.

Component 4 - Strengthening arbitration services by training new arbitrators and helping to promote
use of arbitration services in Armenia.

Component 5 - Improving public access to legal information and raising public awareness about
legal and judicial reform by: (i) providing access terminals for the Armenian Legal Information
System and Judicial Portal in courts and in various community buildings: (ii) creating a public
information system in courthouses; (iii) developing various public awareness campaigns and
improving media-judiciary relations.



                                                  9
1.6 Revised Components

There was one significant revision to a component. Component 2 of the IDA credit contained funds
for the construction of a new Court of Cassation building in downtown Yerevan. Difficulties in
finding an appropriate site as well as disagreements over the standards and levels of amenities
proposed for the building led the Bank and Government to agree that any construction would be
financed by national funds. Given the flexible design of the component, resources notionally
reserved for this building were largely redirected to courthouse rehabilitation or construction in the
interior of the country.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were few significant changes during project implementation. Component 5 was adjusted
during implementation as the anticipated new arbitration law had been adopted and implementing
regulations developed under a USAID-funded project. The project therefore concentrated on the
training by international experts of candidate Armenian arbiters. At the request of a Minister of
Justice additional resources were used for identification of the demand for arbitration and in
creation of a “road map” for implementing the new law. A QALP-2 review in April 2010 raised
concerns about delays in the construction of the Judicial Training School. However, construction of
the Training School building was eventually completed during the project period and its inaugural
class is expected to matriculate in early 2014. The new courses anticipated in the PAD to be
developed under this component were delivered in reduced scope (only the one on Judicial
Reasoning and Writing), but other pedagogic tools (long distance learning and a new learning
management tool) were provided.

In August 2012 the project closing date was extended by 6 months through a level II restructuring in
order to complete the Credit-funded construction of the courthouse in Kapan and PHRD - co-funded
technical assistance related to capacity building activities on judicial training, judicial budgeting,
and statistics. All were completed prior to the revised closing date of June 30, 2013.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The quality at entry was Satisfactory. JRP2 built directly on the results of the first project,
maintained its focus on courthouse rehabilitation/construction, while expanding institutional
capacity building initiatives, and deepening attention to demand side oversight and outside
assessment of the project. Lessons from the JRP1 were applied, risks were reviewed and mitigated,
and the same project teams were maintained within the Bank and the Project Implementation Unit.
A QALP-2 assessment of the operation in early 2010 confirmed that “This repeater operation has
been well designed… [and]… despite the large number of components and sub-components…its
design is simple and of high quality.”

The four lessons identified from JRP1 and addressed in the project were relevant: (i) a top priority
was to balance increased judicial independence with accountability given the lessons in other legal
and judicial reform projects and the high level of perceived corruption in the Armenian judiciary.



                                                 10
Accountability would be targeted through several project initiatives (limiting public access to
judges in courthouses, increasing transparency through expanded use of digital recording systems in
courtrooms, the development of performance evaluation mechanisms, strengthened capacity to
enforce ethical and professional standards of judges’ behavior, and rolling out IT tools to develop
monitorable indicators of judicial performance); (ii) given problems associated with rising
construction costs, the second project initiated several steps to promote more cost-effective and
efficient use of credit and government funds through use of a prioritized list of target courthouses to
be initiated based on available resources rather than a rigid total number target of courthouses,
expanded PIU capacity to oversee civil works, and more extensive and earlier assessments of
possible construction needs and costs with close and participatory oversight of design details; (iii)
the project sought to develop and implement a robust monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system,
noting the significant shortfalls in the area in the first project. The CAST case management
software would generate statistical data within the Judicial Department to be mined, and as
explained above the project would use indicators from BEEPS, JRI, and Court Users Surveys; (iv)
finally, the sustainability of deliverables, especially buildings and ICT equipment was a major topic
during JRP1 and was intensified during the second operation through the building of IT support
capacity in the various beneficiary units, inclusion of maintenance resources in approved budgets,
and design standards to facilitate cost effective maintainability.

The PAD identified seven critical risks with mitigating measures, and judged the overall risk level
as Moderate. They included the following:

     Risk                           Mitigation Measure                                   Rating
     Delay in adopting Judicial     Legislation is progressing. Alternative legal        M
     Code                           avenues available.
     Recruiting/retaining good      Recruitment will begin before JRP2                   N
     Judicial Department staff      effectiveness. A reform champion will be
                                    Deputy Director of Judicial Department
     PIU capacity for increased     Expert staff being expanded                          M
     construction oversight
     Lack of government             Continuing policy dialogue. Legal covenants on       M
     funding for operation and      adequate budgets
     maintenance
     Delay/cancellation of EU       Regular consultations. Use of PPF resources to       M
     funding on training school     advance curriculum. Possible reallocation of
     curriculum                     JRP2 resources
     Cost overruns due to input     Use of priority list rather than agreed number of    S
     cost increases/exchange rate   courthouses. Closer PIU oversight and
                                    strengthened capacity. Participatory design
                                    program to reduce costs
     Corruption in project          Series of measures to mitigate corruption risk to    M
     implementation                 the use of project funds
     Overall Risk Rating                                                                 M

The list did not include, however, an assessment of risks surrounding individual beneficiary or
borrower commitment to the reform agenda or other political economy challenges the project may


                                                  11
have faced. Directly related to this was a lack of discussion of the possible impact of corruption
within the justice system on the project’s activities, which were designed explicitly to reduce the
scope for judicial corruption. This is notable since the PAD discusses corruption in several places
and posits its reduction as a key higher level goal of the operation.

2.2 Implementation

Overall, project implementation proceeded well. All funds were expended, procurement, financial
management, and safeguard performance were satisfactory, and the major investments in
infrastructure and ICT met or exceeded expectations. Team membership in the Bank and PIU
continued with no substantive change during the course of the project. As noted above the
construction of a new Court of Cassation building did not proceed, by mutual agreement, and the
funds were largely directed within that component to other courthouse construction according to the
original order of prioritization. The Judicial Training School was completed and furnished.

The only substantive implementation issue was a slow pace in implementing some of the judicial
governance and administration initiatives in Component 1. While buildings and ICT continued to
be high priorities, the Judiciary did not implement a program of random case distribution beyond a
pilot program in Yerevan (which admittedly covers half of the national population); personnel
evaluations of judges or performance evaluation of courts or the judiciary as a whole have not been
implemented; statistical information now available to the Judicial Department through new ICT
software has not been made available publicly or critically reviewed and used internally; and
disciplinary actions of the Court continue being found as non-transparent. Several of these
developments have been criticized in reviews and reflected in continued poor ratings from the
public regarding corruption within the judiciary.

One possible reason for the slowdown was a change in leadership of the judiciary in 2009. It is also
notable that the Ministry of Justice has indicated its intention to submit in late 2013 a package of
legislative amendments focusing on various aspects of judicial self-governance and administration
(rotation of court chairmen, composition of self-governing structures, random case assignment,
statistics and evaluation of judges, etc.) in line with JRP2 recommendations and the nation’s 2012-
2016 Legal and Judicial Reform Strategy to reinforce mechanisms that would improve
accountability in the judiciary.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation of the project made extensive use of outside assessments as well as
public surveys. The use of the JRI in particular seems especially innovative, and the completion of
the most recent JRI in December 2012 was quite timely. The earlier JRIs had informed project
design. BEEPS brought another perspective to M&E, although its termination forced the team to
seek other sources for the same metrics. It seemed reasonable at the time to utilize existing data sets
rather than to duplicate, but in hindsight the Project may have missed an opportunity to build
capacity within the relevant institutions and ensure sustainability of the M&E effort by striking a
better balance between external sources and data generation under the Project. The Court User
Survey was completed twice (a baseline in 2009 and end of project poll in 2013), to capture
reactions from the general public and court users. One challenge was the reluctance of the Judicial



                                                  12
Department to utilize statistics from the CAST system to provide performance information about
the judicial system either during project implementation or this ICR. This is an example of a
challenge that may have been identified through a better understanding of the political economy
surrounding the Project, and the Mid-Term Review could have offered an opportunity to revise the
monitoring and evaluation framework accordingly.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The financial management arrangements in the PIU, which included accounting, budgeting and
planning, financial reporting, funds flow, internal control, and external auditing were satisfactory
throughout the project life. Internal controls in place for the project implementation were adequate
and provided reliable and timely information on the project. The level and timeliness of counterpart
funding was also assessed to be satisfactory.

The project’s Interim Unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs) were always submitted by due dates and
were usually acceptable to the Bank. Meanwhile, some inaccuracies were observed in the IFRs for
Quarter 2 and Quarter 3 of 2011. The issues were corrected by the PIU and updated IFRs,
acceptable to the Bank, were resubmitted. All the audited financial statements of the project were
always received by due dates with unmodified (clean) opinions issued by the auditor.

The performance of the government implementation unit in preparing the terms of reference and
bidding documents was exemplary, and procurement of the contracts generally proceeded without
problems. Monitoring of project procurement and contract execution was careful, timely, and
detailed.

In August 2010, an alleged fraud related to the procuring of a second delivery of public information
kiosks was substantiated and sanctions imposed according to the Bank’s sanctions regime.

The PIU and Bank team paid close attention to possible environmental issues in the design and
construction of courthouses and no notable problems were detected or unresolved. Consequently,
safeguards compliance throughout the Project implementation was deemed Satisfactory. Minor
shortfalls were noted in the adherence to workers’ health and safety rules, and in temporary storage
of construction waste on-site, but no tangible damage was caused in the course of works. All sites
were cleaned of the construction waste, nicely landscaped and greened according to various site
visits by the project team’s Environmental Specialist and Architect advisor although various court
houses construction/reconstructed under the Project are maintained at differing quality standards.
Operation and maintenance of the infrastructure is the sole responsibility of the individual
courthouse administrations with funds provided by the Judicial Department.

In April 2010 the government’s implementation progress report informed the Bank about a single
case of squatters’ relocation, which was resolved by the authorities after court proceedings. Upon
the Bank’s request, in February 2011, the PIU furnished a detailed report on the relocation case
along with written proofs of agreements for relocation reached between the municipality and the
users of the removed property.




                                                13
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The investments funded by the credit and grant funds in general are expected to be sustained after
project closure. During implementation maintenance of buildings and ICT systems was explicitly
targeted through legal covenants and to date adequate financial provisions have been made in the
budgets of the Judiciary and Ministry of Justice. The risks of a significant deterioration in buildings
and ICT is rated low (assuming a reasonable macro-fiscal situation) because of the high profile
productivity benefits of the investments (in terms of doubled EDS activity without staff increases,
court user electronic access to court information, case management systems used by judges and
their staff, and recording of court procedures), parallel commitment of other government agencies to
move toward modern electronic assisted public services, and expectations from court users and
citizens that the new standards would be continued.

For those reforms still to be implemented by the Judiciary the Ministry of Justice has indicated its
intention to introduce legislation in 2013 to among other things promote several (and thus fuller use
of expanded capacity in the Judiciary) pursued by the project. These conform to the national Legal
and Judicial Reform Strategy announced in 2012 and would include among other things expanded
internal and external use of judicial statistics, random case assignment nationwide, plus the
evaluation of judges. International donors including the EU and USAID may remain in the sector.
Although no new operations from the Bank directly focused on the Judiciary are currently
anticipated, the Bank is undertaking an assessment of the Legal and Judicial sector during FY14
which could help identify measures to further enhance the sustainability of the reforms. Other
operations in preparation are targeting legal reforms within the Executive Branch.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project’s objectives, design, and implementation remain fully relevant to Armenia’s priorities .
In June 2012 the President of the Republic issued a Legal and Judicial Reform Strategy for 2012-
2016 which closely parallel many of the reforms explored and recommended in the studies and
assessments produced under the project. While noting the progress already achieved, the strategy
asserts that “they may not be considered as sufficient…as numerous problems remain…to ensuring
a fair and effective judicial power.” The Strategy lays out a comprehensive program for the three
branches of government, with its first substantive chapter focusing on promoting a “Fair, Effective,
and Publicly Accountable Judicial Power”. The Strategy proposes a long list of initiatives, building
on the capacity enhancing tools provided by the project, including: (i) improved judicial candidate
selection; (ii) objective performance evaluation of judges; (iii) more effective self-governance
within the Judiciary; (iv) more objective and transparent disciplinary procedures for judges; (v)
statistics based rebalancing of court workloads; (vi) promoting objective (random) distribution of
cases among judges; and (vii) and improving the use of ICT in court proceeding. Legislation to
advance several of these initiatives is expected to be presented to the Parliament later in 2013. The
project remains highly relevant as well to the joint Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) covering the




                                                  14
period from FY09 through FY13.1 The CPS targeted two main pillars—mitigating vulnerability
(related to the impact of the global economic crisis which hit Armenia hard due to its increased
integration into the international economy) and strengthening the country’s medium term
competitiveness. Improving public sector efficiency and reducing corruption were highlighted as
core structural reforms under the competitiveness pillar. The CPS mentioned five areas of public
sector strengthening: (i) expanding the scope of judicial reform; (ii) tax and customs administration;
(iii) a more integrated approach to public expenditure management; (iv) deepening civil service
reform; and (v) a comprehensive and coherent effort to strengthen conflict of interest controls at all
levels of the government. The CPS Progress Report noted that fighting corruption in public
administration remains a key development challenge. It records that “public awareness and access
to information have improved thanks to the judicial information DataLex system installed in
courthouse and public offices throughout the country”. The results framework for the CPS had as a
goal the “application of judicial precedent makes courts more rule bound and consistent in the
interpretation of Law.”

A new CPS covering FY14-17 was discussed by the World Bank Executive Board of Directors on
November 7, 2013. It targets “Improving governance and anti-corruption measures in public
services” as one of three clusters of initiatives supporting Armenia’s Development Strategy. It
contemplates seeking trust fund resources to “roll-out legal and judicial reforms to capture demand-
side institutions, including advocacy and pre-court investigative functions and documentation”. The
CPS continues the focus on public administration, contemplating a third public sector
modernization operation with, among other components, support for the Ministry of Justice. A
separate assessment of the Legal and Judicial sector is also planned in Fiscal Year 2014. Its
primary objective is a comprehensive assessment of the Bank’s decade long involvement in legal
and judicial reform, offering the opportunity to explore in greater detail the political economy of the
reform effort.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project’s achievement of its development objectives is rated moderately satisfactory, based on
progress towards PDO outcome indicators and assessments of component outputs directly
supporting the PDOs.

Project Development Objective 1 says “Provide Armenia’s Judiciary with the administration,
facilities and expanded capacity necessary to improve the efficiency, reliability and transparency of
judicial operations and services”. The operative phrase of the objective relates to providing
administration, facilities, and expanded capacity which have been largely achieved. The
subordinate phrase posits how these are necessary to move toward higher level goals of efficiency,
reliability and transparency. The capacity building measures promoted by the project are not
sufficient necessarily for improved efficiency, reliability and transparency of judicial operations and
services, as the latter will depend on commitment, resources, time, and potentially other factors
outside the control of the project or beyond its closure date. Nevertheless Components 1, 2, 3, and


1
 A new CPS was discussed by the World Bank Executive Board of Directors on November 7, 2013, and it covers the
period from FY14 through FY17.



                                                      15
4 most directly provided the administration, facilities, and expanded capacity to achieve the first
objective. Five of six Project Outcome Indicators measure advances toward it, although some more
directly and usefully than others, thus requiring complementary reliance on component output
measures. Overall progress is judged to be Moderately Satisfactory.

     Project Outcome Indicators                         Results
     PDO Indicator 1. Total area of planned             Achieved
     courthouses and other judicial buildings
     rehabilitated                                      23,500 Square meters rehabilitated for 16
                                                        courthouses, Forensic Center of MOJ and
     Target: 20,000 (Square Meters)                     Academy of Justice.
     PDO Indicator 2. Judicial Reform Index Factor      Achieved
     1 on Judicial Qualification and Preparation
                                                        JRI rating for Factor 1 raised from Negative in
     Target: Increase from Negative to Neutral          2004 to Neutral in 2008 and maintained in
                                                        2012
     PDO Indicator 3. Satisfaction with                 Achieved
     Enforcement Services
                                                        Court Users Survey records 55% increase in
     Target: 31% increase over baseline                 satisfaction from baseline 41.7% in 2009 to
                                                        64.8% in 2013
     PDO Indicator 4. Implementation of laws and        Achieved
     regulations affecting my firm are consistent
     and predictable                                    Court Users Survey records 81% increase in
                                                        positive response, from 25.33% in 2009 to
     Target: 60% increase over baseline                 45.97% in 2013
     PDO Indicator 5. Increase in the average           Achieved
     number of completed cases versus the average
     number of filed cases at the 1st instance pilot    According to Judicial Department statistics, the
     courts with CAST system.                           ratio has increased by 19% from 79.6% in
                                                        2007 to 95% in 2012
     Target: At least 10% increase

As detailed in Annex 2, Component 1 concentrated on the strengthening of judicial governance and
administration. Performance under this component is judged to be Moderately Satisfactory, and
five of eight intermediate indicators were fully achieved and three partially achieved. The second
largest in dollar terms accounting for 12 percent of the credit, this component represented the core
technical assistance to the Judiciary Branch directly aimed to enhance governance, administrative,
budgeting, and human resource management tools. Key investments included support for the
oversight Council of Justice, the Judicial Department charged with administering the judiciary, and
core ICT systems. The inputs in technical assistance, studies, and ICT anticipated under the project
were provided and many are being utilized to improve capacity and judicial operations. These
include the upgraded case management software system, recording of courtroom procedures,
creation of a judicial portal, development of the DataLex website and courthouse kiosks providing
information to the public on court proceedings. The shortfalls prompting the moderately
satisfactory rating relates to failure so far to utilize the new statistics software to provide
information on the Judicial Portal, no significant advances in judicial evaluation, case assignment in



                                                       16
regional courts is still at the discretion of senior officials, and there was a deterioration in the
disciplinary actions related to judges, as reported by the JRI. Thus in these areas critical to issues of
governance and human resource management the project provided inputs in terms of studies and
technical assistance, but as they have not been sufficiently utilized the capacity of the Judiciary in
these areas has not arguably increased. PDO Outcome Indicator 5 above suggests an
improvement in efficiency with the number of completed cases better approaching the number of
filed cases, slowing the growth in the backlog of decisions, which is noteworthy given the
significant expansion in cases.

Component 2, which funded the construction or rehabilitation of courthouses, accounted for 71
percent of IDA resources and performance is judged to have been Highly Satisfactory. PDO
Outcome Indicator 1 above targets rehabilitating at least 20,000 square meters of courthouse and
other judicial buildings in line with international standards. The target was over achieved as 23,500
square meters were in fact rehabilitated for 16 courthouses, the Judicial Training School (a.k.a.
Academy of Justice), and the Ministry of Justice’s Forensic Expertise Center. Judges chambers
were separated from courtrooms and public spaces to limit public access (which can facilitate
corruption and disrupt dignified court proceedings), appropriate space and facilities for judges and
their staff were provided, clean and modern holding cells for criminal defendants constructed,
provision for modern ICT including connections for hardware and recording devices made, and
chairs, restrooms, improved security and court chancelleries built in part to assist the general public.
Access for the disabled was included in building designs even before the country adopted such
standards for all public buildings. Five additional courthouses were reconstructed using
government funding following the same design standards.

Component 3, rated as Moderately Satisfactory, funded the construction and equipping of the
Academy of Justice as well as providing technical assistance to develop one training course plus
long distance and training management capacity. Activities under the component were closely
coordinated with EU funding. One model online course on “Legal Reasoning and Writing” was
prepared to cover the use of precedent highlighted in the PAD. But the constructed school
(completed in 2011) and training management tool are not yet in use to increase the capacity of the
Judiciary due to delays in the passage of needed legislation until May 2013. Classes, however, are
now expected to begin in the new Training Center in January, 2014. PDO Outcome Indicator 3
was the JRI Factor 1 on Judicial Qualifications and Preparation. The same performance indicator
was used as an intermediate output indicator for Component 3. The improved rating occurred a
year after project effectiveness (perhaps in part reflecting initial activities financed under project
advances) but several years before the Component’s activities in constructing the Academy of
Justice building or developing the sample online course had been completed.

Component 4, was relatively small (2% of IDA resources, but with a higher ratio of grant support)
and implemented by the Judicial Enforcement Service Department (ESD) of the Ministry of Justice
with the aim of improving the enforcement of judicial decisions. Performance under the component
is rated as Satisfactory, despite the failure to meet some quantitative targets outside the agency’s
control. ESD significantly upgraded its case management system AESMS permitting agents to
access databases for the specific case (tapping into the CAST case management system in the
courts), plus property registry, taxes, vehicle registration, banks, domicile and other data to better
find individuals and business and determine the location of assets. The AESMS was upgraded to



                                                   17
better integrate functions and data from several sources (banks, cadastre, etc.) and its acronym
changed to MAKS, rolled out countrywide in 2012 and is now used by 100% of enforcement
officers in over 90% of all enforcements. The agency did participate in an international study of
possible outsourcing of some activities to private bailiffs, but the Ministry of Justice decided against
such a proposal. PDO Outcome Indicator 4 reflects a notable increase in positive survey
perceptions of the activities of the agency.

Project Development Objective 2 says “Continue to improve awareness of judicial services and
access to legal and judicial information”. Both would be pursued primarily through Component 6
whose performance is judged Satisfactory. The core investments in expanding public access to
legal information were achieved through an upgrading of the Armenian Legal Information System
(ARLIS) developed under JRP1, complementary efforts to reach citizens through new television
programs, a new online service from the judiciary providing information on court proceedings
(DataLex), kiosks installed in courthouses and other public buildings, training for court chancellery
staff, pamphlets on legal rights made available, and an outreach to NGOs and civil society to
encourage their oversight role. PDO Outcome Indicator 6 targeted a 25% increase in general
satisfaction with the operations of the courts as well as provision of information on legal rights.
Increases were recorded, but nowhere near the proposed levels. In hindsight, the target may appear
unrealistic given the amount and scope of the project, but was the team’s best estimate at that time.


     Project Outcome Indicator                       Results
     PDO Indicator 6. Increase in general            Not Achieved
     satisfaction with the operation of courts
     and the availability of information on legal    Respondents rated their satisfaction with
     rights and the courts of respondents to a       the operation of courts at 39% in 2009
     court users survey over a 2007 baseline         (when the baseline survey was conducted)
                                                     and 40.8% in 2013—a 5% increase.
     Target: 25% increase
                                                     Respondents rated positively the
                                                     availability of information on legal rights
                                                     (measured as a share of respondents who
                                                     agreed that juridical information is
                                                     presented to general public promptly) as
                                                     47.7% in 2009 and 51.8% in 2012—a 9%
                                                     increase.

Component 5 which funded a study and some training on Arbitration Services accounted for a
miniscule portion of credit resources (0.2%) although with important grant funding and had no
Outcome Indicator. As indicated in Annex 2, performance was Moderately Satisfactory. A
consultant conducted study and stakeholder workshop on arbitration services were completed in
2010 and a review of possible demand for arbitration services was produced. Twenty Armenian
lawyers received arbitration training in 2011 from an Armenian law firm together with the British
Institute of International and Comparative Law.        The training was held in Armenia with
participants from both the public and private sectors as well as leading law schools. The




                                                    18
government is still actively considering whether to promote arbitration and recently arranged for
further studies funded by the USAID.

3.3 Efficiency

Quantitative projections of rates of return were not prepared during preparation of the project since
the project had such a large technical assistance character beyond the construction of courthouses,
and no quantitative economic and financial analyses were prepared at appraisal. Rather it was
asserted that improvements in judicial performance facilitated by project inputs could improve the
quality of judicial decisions, increase the efficiency of the court system, and promote more rapid
resolution of disputes surrounding administration decisions. The economic benefits of more
predictable and uniform application of the rule of law, strengthened business confidence, and a
more stable investment climate together would contribute to a more level playing field for business,
spur investment, improve corporate governance and the functioning of the stock market, and
promote economic growth. The PAD also suggested that implementation of the project would
improve the use of financial resources in the judicial sector through better monitoring of the courts,
better utilization and maintenance of the IT system, and more efficient use of courthouse facilities.

The most costly component of the project is related to courthouse rehabilitation and construction.
Costs had risen sharply during JRP1 so the teams took steps to better control costs in JRP2 through
more careful attention to design standards including local participation in design decisions, the
hiring of an architectural/building expert within the PIU, and more timely cost estimates. As there
was continuing volatility and rising costs and strengthening local currency during most of the
implementation period, costs per building that averaged US$ 1 million were significantly higher
than expected at Appraisal, when the average cost was expected to be under US$ 600,000 per court.
However, that estimate was based on very rough construction unit costs available at the time, and
on a total pool of 33 courts, most of which were lower-cost rehabilitations, and many of these were
omitted early in execution. By the start of implementation in 2007, estimates made by the PIU
based on more current data and preliminary designs were more in line with what was to follow
during implementation, with an average of over $1.2 million. Compared to these early estimates by
the PIU, actual costs of construction were lower, and in the event the 23,500 square meters were
constructed/rehabilitated versus the original budgeted target of 20,000 square meters. ICT costs
were estimated jointly by the PIU and Bank teams to be in line with current market conditions.
Many consultant services were competed and won by local firms, keeping down resort to more
expensive international technical assistance services. Consequently it is fair to assume that the
financial costs of the project were reasonable and in line with fair market value.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The PDO sought to manage expectations regarding project impacts by focusing on the development
of institutional capability to improve justice sector performance rather than the roll out and
generalized application of this capability. The project is successful when assessed against these
criteria. Certainly the capacity to provide judicial services has been expanded and the extent of
information made available to the public increased. Courthouse facilities were significantly



                                                 19
improved. ICT capacity has expanded considerably, most notably in case management,
enforcement systems, and the ability (if under used) to generate statistics. Judicial productivity has
increased and first steps taken toward greater transparency in judicial operations. The Judicial
Department has available new tools to further improve the governance and administration of the
Judiciary, should it chose to do so. Information made available to the public either online or in
kiosks are real achievements exceeding initial targets and expectations. These project achievements
remain highly relevant to the country and they were delivered efficiently.

That said, these improvements in capability have not been rolled out as extensively as anticipated
during project preparation and so it is still doubtful whether the full benefit of every investment
made will be fully realized. Commitment within the senior management of the Judiciary to a
vigorous reform agenda waned by the time of the Mid-Term Review of the project. There is a risk
that key governance reforms (implementation of judicial evaluations; more transparent and
objective disciplinary procedures; better mechanisms used nationwide for assigning cases to reduce
the risk of corruption; improvements in the predictability of decisions through greater efforts to
promote deference to precedent) will not be applied systematically. This would undermine the
current and future capacity of the Judiciary to deliver efficient, reliable, and transparent judicial
operations and services. The fact that the President of the Republic has recently laid out and is
pursuing an aggressive judicial reform program explicitly underlines the gaps in institution building
by the Judiciary during this project period. It is to be hoped that the reform momentum can be
reinvigorated by encouragement from the Executive and Legislative branches capitalizing on the
investments of the project.

Armenia has sought to improve judicial independence, but increased accountability from the
Judiciary is needed. Judiciaries, unlike Executive and Legislative branch officials, which are
subject to elections, can become isolated and insulated from accountability for their performance. In
fact, sometimes the independence of the courts from the executive is emphasized without sufficient
attention to the independence of individual judges within the judiciary, which should be the ultimate
target. The investments under the project in increasing public awareness of their legal rights and the
performance of the Judiciary may need to be supplemented by more formal oversight from the other
two branches of government and the public, while maintaining substantive judicial independence.
Ultimately the choice of how to fully utilize the tools successfully and fully provided by the project
is for the country to decide.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There is no direct poverty, gender or social impact on the population from the project. However,
taking into account that the basis for the quality and speed of justice services has improved because
of the project, citizens will ultimately benefit. Rural communities and poorer individuals will have
more user friendly access to legal information through DataLex website portal, kiosks, and
pamphlets, . Should the use of precedent increase the predictability of civil law decisions the
impact on economic activity, business investments, costs of doing business, etc. should be positive,
ultimately impacting the economic wellbeing of all Armenians. Social development should be
enhanced by the project’s focus on strengthening the transparent and efficient performance of
justice services and outreach to citizens to explain their legal rights. Additionally, the efforts to


                                                 20
increase civil society monitoring of justice activities including the provision of information and
statistics to permit such oversight, and overall effort to emphasize the concept of the judiciary as a
provider of a vital public service rather than a non-transparent and little understood dispenser of
decisions that too many might perceive as based on executive instructions, corruption, or the
uninformed whim of individual judges should promote social development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Although a specific investment operation with the bulk of funding spent on infrastructure and ICT
investments, the project (including too the design of buildings, prioritization of ICT investments,
linkage between components and sub-components, etc.) reflects a fundamental orientation toward
institutional change and strengthening. As detailed throughout this report, ICT capacity has
expanded notably with the use of the judicial case management nationwide, enforcement systems
have been significantly strengthened, courthouse security improved, and the ability to generate
statistics expanded. A new Judicial Training Center with enhanced ICT tools and courses are
scheduled to open in early 2014. The Judicial Department has available new tools to further
improve the governance and administration of the Judiciary, should it chose to do so. Information
made available to the public either online or in kiosks promote transparency as well as facilitate
legal proceedings by a variety of court users. Court proceedings are recorded and can be published
on DataLex. The project funded preparation of a program budgeting action plan which will be
important as the government moves toward this budget format. Action plans for the allocation of
cases and evaluation of judges and courts funded by the project are designed to improve
institutional performance and outcomes, leveraging the strengthened technological base provided by
the project. Consequently the productivity of the Judiciary as well as Enforcement Services
Department has increased sharply and this trend should continue assuming fuller utilization of
project investments.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None to date.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Perception surveys were conducted in 2009 and 2013 with a randomly selected sample of 1,000
members of the general public. Simultaneously, over a thousand court users including business
community representatives, lawyers and legal academicians, representatives of courts and the
Ministry of Justice, and recent users of the court system-- were interviewed face to face to obtain
qualitative information. The key areas of focus included perceptions of the courts, the Enforcement
Service Department (ESD), other legal enforcement agencies such as the police, dispute resolution
practices, and public awareness. Several of the survey questions were used as project performance
indicators. In sum there are perceived improvements in court services, judicial professionalism,
facilities, staff, the ESD, and public awareness, but continuingly negative (and in some cases
deteriorating) marks regarding corruption (especially from court users).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High


                                                 21
The sustainability of the bulk of project investments, and thus its input focused PDOs, is substantial.
The rehabilitated or constructed courthouses plus ICT systems (CAST case management, digital
recording devices, DataLex kiosks, various websites, etc.) of course will require maintenance and
upgrades. Taking into account a reasonable macroeconomic and fiscal performance there should be
resources for such expenditures (as they have been included in annual budgets thus far with the
policy support of the Bank). More importantly, beneficiaries (judges, judicial staff, Enforcement
Service Department officials, the bar, etc.) as well as the public have undoubtedly become
accustomed to new standards of service and productivity which would be difficult to reverse. Given
the continuing increase in judicial caseloads, a deterioration or elimination of CAST or
AESMS/MAKS would have rapid and noticeable impacts. Moreover, through parallel projects in
Armenia (Public Sector Modernization 1 and 2) the country is making significant investments in e-
government systems which is in line with the use of modern electronic and internet based systems
in the Judicial Branch.

More problematic is an assessment whether the advanced ICT tools, recommendations, on judicial
evaluations, case assignment, program budget, statistics, etc. relating to more modern and
transparent court administration will be properly utilized. Thus far, as explained in Section 2.2,
there is reason to doubt whether these important tools will be fully deployed, as least under the
current court leadership. Should considerable time elapse before pressures from other branches of
government, the public and civil society, the bar, potential EU partners, require reviving the reform
agenda the value of some project investments in training, specific ICT integration proposals, etc,
could be impacted. Consequently there is a substantial risk that some important qualitative
improvements in the capacity of the Judiciary will not be fully utilized to improve the efficiency,
reliability and transparency of judicial operations and services.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank contributed significantly to the satisfactory quality of project design. The project team
comprised a well-balanced set of skills (ranging from legal to architectural and local public
administration expertise), reflected lessons from the first operation into the new project, and kept
the focus on courthouse rehabilitation/construction to largely complete this important foundation for
better judicial services, while expanding the project scope to include new institutional capacity
building and demand side oversight activities.            Effective collaboration with all relevant
counterparts at all stages of design permitted the preparation and successful execution of a complex,
multi-faceted operation. A QALP-2 assessment judged the operation “well designed”. Significant
improvements in judicial services and indeed installation of modern ICT could not have been
achieved without the infrastructure investments given the poor physical state of courthouses. But
the team and counterparts realized that these investments provided an opportunity as well to
promote deeper institutional reforms and thus sought to leverage the project to that end.




                                                  22
One shortcoming was that the risk of flagging commitment to the reform portions of the operation
was not identified and adequately mitigated. This risk materialized with the change in judiciary
leadership in 2009. The change was followed by a shift of the project’s trajectory more limited
toward the provision of inputs, with a lessened momentum for reforms geared towards a more
transparent and performance-based administration of the Judiciary. While such reforms were not
explicitly part of the PDOs, and capacity was improved, there is a sense of missed opportunity
which may have been mitigated through a more effective dialogue, prior conditions embedded in
the operation’s design, some high profile reforms pursued earlier in the project’s implementation, or
explicit linkage to other Bank operations or co-financing.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank maintained the same team throughout implementation. However, task team leadership
(TTL) was switched from a Headquarters based international staff to a Yerevan located member of
the task team in late 2009, with the former TTL continuing to provide support on substantive
legal/judicial issues. The QALP-2 report noted “The transfer of JRP1 TTL responsibilities from
HQ to the field during the implementation of JRP2 appears to have been seamless and the fact that
both TTLs were key members of the JRP1 task team and remain key members of the JRP2 task
team is rare best practice.” Having a field based TTL facilitated close day to day project
implementation support, timely adjustments to implementation requirements, and a more effective
interaction with the implementing agency. Implementation and Status of Results Reports (ISRs)
appear complete and their ratings accurate (this was also confirmed by the QALP-2 assessment).

The Bank’s proactivity is notable. It: (i) leveraged the Bank’s partnership with the EU budget
support team to include the relevant accountability triggers in the EU program; (ii) promoted the
inclusion of project initiatives in the 2012-2016 Legal and Judicial Reform Strategy; (iii) partnered
with the Justice Ministry for intensified efforts to build capacity in judicial statistics, budgeting, and
long distance learning; (iv) obtained support from government counterparts to secure adoption of
the Law on Academy of Justice before project closing to have a legally bound timeframe and
predictability for utilization of the delivered infrastructure and learning platform; (v) organized a
workshop for the high level decision-makers from all the branches of government with
representatives of judicial leadership from Singapore, Macedonia, Portugal and USA to promote
consensus on implementing performance management in courts and random case assignment; (vi)
moved to find alternative sources of information when BEEPS was discontinued and successfully
engaged with USAID to fund the 2012 JRI; and (vii) actively pursued positive externalities by
promoting the inclusion of other e-government services through the JRP2 funded kiosks and using
the distance learning and learning management platform for wider public/civil service use.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank provided strong support in terms of preparation and implementation support. PDOs were
largely achieved, the majority of PDO and intermediate performance indicators met, and the project
closed with successful implementation of most components. The Bank was able to build on the


                                                   23
achievements of the previous project and thus continue a long-standing partnership with Armenia in
this field.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government continued to perform in a satisfactory manner in this repeater project. Counterpart
funding was adequate and timely, despite the severe economic downturn, especially in 2009. The
Government rehabilitated five courthouses on its own in line with design standards established by
the Bank funded operation.

Administration of the project was carried out by a PIU under the direction of the Ministry of Justice,
although it worked closely and effectively with the Judiciary as well. This team was largely carried
over from JRP1 and it was financed from project funds due to the difficulty of attracting specialized
expertise under civil service compensation rules. The team was praised by the Justice Minister for
its extraordinary efforts to maintain project operations after the fire that destroyed the PIU offices
and much of its files and equipment in early 2008. Project targets were generally met and new
initiatives (such as program budgeting or long distance learning) undertaken as opportunities arose.
The rate of spending under the project exceeded the estimates made during project preparation.
This occurred despite the broad number of project activities and procurement processes,
interruptions from the fire, and dealing with several beneficiaries. The quality of construction,
frequently reviewed by the PIU and Bank experts, was fully acceptable. Fiduciary and procurement
oversight was satisfactory. Communication with the Bank team was smooth, and close coordination
helped resolve most emerging implementation issues promptly.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

There were two primary implementing agencies. The Ministry of Justice performed in a
satisfactory manner, implementing the investments in the Enforcement Services Department, and
undertaking reviews of possible initiatives in private bailiffs and arbitration services. The
performance of the Judiciary, through the Judicial Department, was moderately satisfactory. It
actively supported the extensive building program and the upgrade and or development and
installation of a wide variety of ICT hardware and software system wide. It facilitated a series of
consultancies reviewing possible initiatives in the areas of judicial governance, program budgeting,
and improved statistical services. However the Judiciary has not implemented some important
reforms or used some of the capacity building tools developed through the project undermining the
positive impact of these parts of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                                 24
The borrower implemented a multi-faceted and technically challenging civil works and institutional
strengthening program. Investments in civil works for new courthouses and in new or upgraded
ICT systems are already contributing to productivity increases. Without these investments the
conditions for a more efficient justice system would have been absent, the backlog of cases in
Armenia’s courts would have been worse, and citizen awareness of their legal rights and access to
legal services more circumscribed. Nevertheless, the inability thus far to take fuller advantage of
the opportunities afforded by multiple project interventions in areas of governance, performance
monitoring and incentivizing, substantive legal training, and especially transparency of selecting,
disciplining and promoting judges has cut short the attainment of all the benefits to Armenian
justice feasible under the project and must reduce the rating of borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Operations seeking to modernize organizational practices even through apparently low key
technical investments in ICT should expect and explicitly address potential risks, resistance,
and mitigating measures. Reform champions are rare and their long term tenure cannot be
assumed. If projects seek to reduce the scope for discretion in decision making, increase
transparency, change reporting requirements, etc. they should more directly address likely
resistance, the need for careful change management, and extensive linkage with outside domestic
and international partners as possible to leverage the reform impulse.

Change management efforts might be more effective if the accountability systems are
introduced at project inception. The procurement of ICT and furnishing should be initiated only
after the critical accountability systems (evaluation of judges and courts, disciplining, etc.) are
introduced through initial business process reengineering conducted as a part of project preparation
and formalized as effectiveness condition.

Selective use of independent project monitoring mechanisms, especially of an expert character,
can bring credible feedback on project performance. The use of ABA’s Judicial Reform Index
report brings much outside substantive legal/judicial expertise to both project preparation and
implementation. This is an additional tool to internal government reports, citizen surveys, and
project team oversight. While no source of information is perfect in such a subjective area as
judicial performance, the ABA report, similar in methodology to those done in many other countries,
does add to the collective wisdom and the iterative search for the truth. Of course such indicators
cannot substitute for well designed project related performance benchmarks. However, reliance on
external sources brings risks of their discontinuation, as happened to BEEPS and would have
happened to the JRI, without the support the task team helped secure from USAID. Moreover the
Government was more amenable to these monitoring and evaluation efforts if funded by grant
resources.

Project team continuity is valuable. The Bank project team formed in 2004-2005 remained in
place until the end of the second project. Additionally, assigning country-based TTL resulted in the
ability to promptly address implementation issues, as well as counterparts’ questions and concerns.




                                                25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

No issue raised by the Borrower requiring comment.

(b) Cofinanciers

No issue raised by cofinanciers requiring comment.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                               26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
            Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                          (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                      millions)

                Total Baseline Cost             32.69                   38.77              119
Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.00                    0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                 0.00                    0.00              0.00
                 Total Project Costs            32.69                   38.77              119
Front-end fee PPF                                1.03                    1.03               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                    0.00               .00
         Total Financing Required               31.66                   37.74              119




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                               Type of                                    Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                   Estimate       Estimate
                                             Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                           (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                  7.19           7.43           103.4
 International Development Association
                                                           22.50           23.61         104.9
(IDA)
 JAPAN: Ministry of Finance - PHRD
                                                           3.00            2.92          97.3
Grants
DUTCH Grant                                                4.84            4.81          99.4




                                                    27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

  1. Strengthening Judicial Governance and Administration – Moderately Satisfactory

    Indicator 1: Transparent and effective          Partially Achieved
    judicial selection, evaluation, and
    management of judicial careers.                 Judicial evaluation and improved
                                                    disciplinary procedures not in place.
    Target: Increase in Judicial Reform Index
    Factor 2 on judicial selection and              Factor 2 on judicial selection and
    appointment from Negative to Neutral            appointment in ABA Judicial Reform
    and Factor 17 on removal and discipline         Index (JRI) report of 2012 raised from
    from Neutral to Positive.                       Negative to Neutral - Achieved

                                                    Factor 17 on removal and discipline
                                                    declined from Neutral to Negative - Not
                                                    Achieved
    Indicator 2: Judicial Department efficiently    Partially Achieved
    manages human, fiscal and physical
    resources of judicial system.

    Target: Increase in Judicial Reform Index       Factor 26 in JRI on efficiency of the court
    Factor 26 on efficiency of the court            support staff remained unchanged at
    support staff and Factor 10 on budgetary        Neutral - Not Achieved
    input, respectively from Neutral to Positive
    from Negative to Neutral.                       Factor 10 on budgetary input raised from
                                                    Negative to Neutral - Achieved
    Indicator 3: A wide range of                    Partially Achieved
    comprehensive judicial statistics is
    designed and is being extracted through the     The IT tool and the system of indicators
    case management software and made               was developed but have not been connected
    public through judicial portal.                 to the CAST. Legislative endorsement for
                                                    connecting the statistical information to
    Target: A comprehensive list of judicial        CAST and putting it on the Judicial Portal
    indicators developed, as agreed with            is pending needed Parliamentary approval.
    IDA, and periodically updated on the            In the meantime traditional judicial
    judicial portal.                                statistics have been made available online
                                                    since 2007.
    Indicator 4: Judicial security service          Achieved
    ensures security in courthouses.
                                                    704 out of 788 judicial security staff have
    Target: Average number of trained staff in      been trained
    judicial security service operating in
    Appellate and First Instance courts equals
    about 100%




                                                   28
     Indicator 5: Case processing time is            Achieved
     improved and cases are managed
     efficiently.

     Target: Increase in Judicial Reform Index    Factor 28 in JRI on case filing and tracking
     Factor 28 on case filing and tracking        systems raised from Neutral to Positive
     systems from Neutral to Positive.
     Indicator 6: First instance courthouses have Achieved
     access to a new Judicial Decision Database.

     Target: All judges have access to the           Judicial Decision Database was developed
     database.                                       and is available online to 100% of judges
                                                     nationwide.
     Indicator 7: Judicial decisions are publicly    Exceeded
     available through Judicial Portal.

     Target: 10 percent increase in the average      Baseline number of pages viewed averaged
     monthly number of pages viewed                  7125 (in first six months of Judicial Portal
     through the Judicial Portal by the end          operation). Viewing increased over 400%
     of the Project.                                 to 36,705 on average in the first six months
                                                     of 2013.
     Indicator 8: Digital recording systems in       Achieved
     use in rehabilitated courts
                                                     Digital recording systems are installed in
     Target: No target specified                     all rehabilitated and newly constructed
                                                     courts and reportedly in regular use.

Performance under this component is judged to be Moderately Satisfactory. The second largest in
dollar terms accounting for 12 percent of the IDA credit, this component represented the core
technical assistance to the Judiciary Branch directly aimed to enhance governance, administrative,
budgeting, and human resource management tools. Key investments included support for the
oversight Council of Justice, the Judicial Department charged with administering the judiciary, and
core ICT systems. The inputs in technical assistance, studies, and ICT anticipated under the project
were provided and many are being utilized. These include the upgraded case management software
system, recording of courtroom procedures, creation of a judicial portal, etc. However core
governance reforms relating to the disciplining of judges, allocation of cases through non-
discretionary mechanisms in regional courts, critical consumption and transparent provision of
statistics to the general public, merit based evaluation of judicial performance, and movement
toward program budgeting in anticipation of its government-wide application in the next few years
have lagged.

Performance indicators reflect this discrepancy between infrastructure and governance factors. The
Mid Term Review of the project in 2010 flagged the concern about limited reform commitment in
this component, but no significant increase in commitment from the Judiciary was subsequently
observed. In essence the tools have been provided but are not being fully utilized. Whether they
will be used later following project closure or whether the investments in judicial statistics and other


                                                    29
ICT systems will be maintained remain as questions. It is noteworthy however that the issuance by
the President in 2012 of a 2012-2016 Legal and Judicial Reform Strategy with significant reform
elements, plus the anticipated submission by the Ministry of Justice later in 2013 of comprehensive
reform legislation hold the prospect of revived reforms within the Judiciary and fuller use of
capacity building tools provided under the project.

Subcomponent 1A provided technical assistance for the operation of the Council of Justice. The
Council of Justice was reorganized following legal changes with the aim of increasing judicial
independence by reducing the role of the two other branches of government in managing the
Judiciary. As now constituted, the Council is composed of a majority of judges plus two legal
specialists appointed by the National Assembly and two by the President of the Republic. Reports
were prepared with project support on possible changes in operating procedures, evaluation of
judges, random assignment of cases, improved disciplinary procedures for judges, etc. Judicial
nominations are now considered to be more merit based. However, standardized evaluations of
judges have not been implemented and transparent rules for the disciplining of judges have not been
emplaced. Indeed, regarding the latter the JRI (as discussed below) reports that disciplining has
regressed. The Ministry of Justice is submitting legislation in line with the Legal and Judicial
Reform Strategy to among other things permit the Executive to call for disciplinary hearings against
judges under the Council of Justices and to make the process more transparent including the
explanation of disciplinary cases not investigated and the disposition of those which are.

Indicator 1, which called for “Transparent and effective judicial selection, evaluation, and
management of judicial careers”, is measured by Factors 2 and 17 from the ABA’s JRI report of
2012. Factor 2 on Judicial Selection and Appointment rates whether “Judges are appointed based
on objective criteria, such as passage of an exam, performance in law school, other training,
experience, professionalism, and reputation in the legal community. While political elements may
be involved, the overall system should foster the selection of independent, impartial judges.”

The rating increased from Negative in both 2004 and 2008 to Neutral in 2012, meeting the
performance target. Under new procedures candidates are subjected to exams and vetted by the
Council of Justices before being forwarded to the President for possible appointment. The JRI
noted that interviewees “generally agreed that the procedure for judicial appointments is more
objective than in the past, noting that the qualification exam and the presentation of candidates to
the COJ are based on objective criteria.” They praised the effort to ensure better representation of
women in the judiciary. However most expressed grave concerns about the transparency of the
process, indicating that COJ interviews and voting are subjective and that there is no explanation of
reasons for accepting or rejecting a candidate. Another concern is the lack of a publicly available,
up to date, and unified list of candidates eligible to be nominated as a first instance court judge
according to the legal order of priority.

JRI Factor 17 for the same indicator rates the Removal and Discipline of Judges defined as “Judges
may be removed from office or otherwise punished only for specified official misconduct and
through a transparent process, governed by objective criteria”. The rating declined from Neutral in
2004 and 2008 to Negative in 2012 (versus a targeted increase to a Positive rating).




                                                 30
According to many of those interviewed for the JRI report “the discipline process is often applied
unfairly in order to influence judicial act making or retaliate against judges for their judicial acts.”
While removal of judges is rare—done once in the last four years—lesser sanctions are applied
arbitrarily and “that certain judges are disciplined for the same offenses that other judges committed
without being sanctioned.” It is notable that of 597 complaints filed against judges between 2008
and 2011, the Disciplinary Committee initiated 55 cases, issued reprimands in 45 cases, and
dismissed one judge. Some interviewees believed that disciplinary sanctions (such as a 25%
reduction in salary for a reprimand) are too harsh while others “felt them not harsh enough,
especially in comparison to what they perceived as a high rate of corruption and poor performance
in the judiciary.” There is a widely shared concern among judges and lawyers that disciplinary
sanctions may be applied capriciously as the Disciplinary Committee of the COJ does not provide
any justification for not opening disciplinary proceedings. Most judges preferred the new system
which limits the role of the Justice Ministry, but the JRI notes that the rules of judicial conduct
serve as a tool for punishing judges inappropriately for the content of judicial decisions and that
there exists a certain level of procedural arbitrariness in the judicial discipline process.

Subcomponent 1B sought to build the capacity of the new Judicial Department charged with
administratively supporting the Judiciary. Consulting and training were provided on budgeting and
financial management (including an extensive study of program budgeting outlining in detail its
possible implementation by the Judiciary), the collection and analysis of statistical data and
performance indicators (plus related IT system) to serve as the basis for both internal and external
assessments of justice services, human resource management to complement the evaluation of
judges and in general support more effective and accountable use of human assets, improvements in
the judicial security service, better archival policies, and related ICT software and hardware needs.
As above, the use of the inputs has been spotty. Security has been improved; but statistics gathered
through new software are not being made available on the Judicial Portal and, anecdotally, senior
Judiciary officials are either unaware or distrustful of publishing statistical data; human resource
management of support staff apparently has improved through the use of provided software
although performance evaluation is not standardize for them much less for judges. In December
2011 the Judiciary began piloting random case assignment in first instance Yerevan courts and a
workshop was organized by the Bank via videoconferencing in end-January 2012, in which senior
judges and judicial officials from Singapore, Macedonia, Portugal and the USA participated to share
their experiences with such a system as well as personnel evaluations of judges. To date the
piloting has not been expanded but the roll-out is supposed to commence shortly according to the
2012-2016 Strategy.

Several Performance Indicators were proposed in the PAD for this Sub-component. The first
Performance Indicator said that the “Judicial Department efficiently manages human, fiscal and
physical resources of judicial system”. This would be judged through two JRI factors -- Factor 26
on efficiency of the court support staff and Factor 10 on budgetary input. The first target was not
achieved although the second was.

Factor 26 rates “Each judge has the basic human resource support necessary to do his or her job, e.g.
adequate support staff to handle documentation and legal research.” The JRI rating remained
unchanged at Neutral (rather than rising to Positive) because judges believe there are not “sufficient
human resources to efficiently manage their caseloads…and judicial assistants lack knowledge of



                                                  31
new developments in Armenian and international law.” Due in part to budget pressures the number
of judicial staff declined from 1019 in 2008 to 956 in 2011. First instance judges have two
assistants who report they are too busy to avail themselves of continuing legal education. Staff
assistants salaries are low (ranging between US$ 114 and US$ 432 per month) and were frozen
since 2008, leading to high turnover and reported resort to bribery to advance hearing dates.

Factor 10 rates Budgetary Input as “The judiciary has a meaningful opportunity to influence the
amount of money allocated to it by the legislative and/or executive branches, and, once funds are
allocated to the judiciary, the judiciary has control over its own budget and how such funds are
expended.” JRI ratings increased from Negative in 2004 to Neutral i n both 2008 and 2012 as
targeted. According to the JRI, Courts are financed via the Judicial Department and “judges
perceived the budget to be minimal but adequate.”

The second Performance Indicator for this Sub-component (Indicator 3 for the entire Component)
says “A wide range of comprehensive judicial statistics is designed and is being extracted through
the case management software and made public through judicial portal”. The target was that a
comprehensive list of judicial indicators would be developed, as agreed with IDA, and periodically
updated on the judicial portal. In fact the ICT tool and the system of indicators were developed
through consultant support but the software has not been connected to the CAST case management
system which would provide the data. Legislative endorsement for connecting the statistical
information to CAST and putting it on the judicial portal has been pending needed Parliamentary
approval for years and does not seem to be a priority of the Judiciary (legislative consideration is
now on the agenda for late 2013). The Ministry of Justice, however, is pushing ahead to improve
overall reporting of judicial statistics in line with benchmarks in the Legal and Judicial Reform
Strategy.

The final Performance Indicator for this Sub-component (Indicator 4 for the entire Component) says
the Judicial security services ensures security in courthouses, measured by evidence that the average
number of trained staff in judicial security service operating in Appellate and First Instance courts
equals about 100%. In fact 90% of current security staff have been trained.

Subcomponent 1C, with US$2.3 million in ICT investments was a major investment largely in
support of judges and courts. The CAST case management system (hardware, software, monitors,
printers, LAN) was strengthened and rolled out to all rehabilitated or newly constructed courts. It is
a major tool assisting judges to increase productivity by collecting and archiving data on individual
cases for use by all court users. Recording equipment was installed in the courts to provide more
accurate transcripts and reportedly some judges cease proceedings should the recorders malfunction.
Training was provided to judges on CAST and particularly its ability to access findings of higher
courts to increase the use of precedent in pending cases.

Four Performance Indicators were proposed in the PAD for this Sub-component. The first
Performance Indicator (Indicator 5 for the entire component) says case processing time is improved
and cases are managed efficiently, as measured by an increase in the JRI rating for Factor 28 on
case filing and tracking systems from Neutral to Positive. Factor 28 rates whether “The judicial
system maintains a case filing and tracking system that ensures cases are heard in a reasonably
efficient manner.” JRI raised the rating to Positive in 2012 noting that “Judges and court personnel



                                                 32
can access case-related data through a centralized, automated CAST system, which is installed in
courts through Armenia. In addition, the electronic DataLex system was established to ensure
public access to case records, and DataLex electronic information kiosks are available in courthouse
lobbies. Interviewees believed that cases are generally entered promptly into the DataLex system,
and stated that cases are normally heard in a reasonably efficient manner.”

The second Performance Indicator (Indicator 6 for the entire component) says first instance
courthouses have access to a new Judicial Decision Database, with the target being judges in all
courts having access to the database. In fact the judicial database was developed and is available
online to 100% of 48 courthouses nationwide.

The third Performance Indicator (Indicator 7 for the entire component) says judicial decisions are
publicly available through Judicial Portal, measured by a 10 percent increase in the monthly number
of pages viewed through the Judicial Portal by the end of the project. During the first six months of
its existence (November 2010-April 2011) pages viewed averaged 7,125. With DataLex the
average monthly number of pages viewed rose from 7,125 to 36,705 in 2013 through mid-year
alone, far exceeding the target.

The fourth Performance Indicator (Indicator 8 for the entire component) says “Digital recording
systems in use in rehabilitated courts” without any number target. By the end of the project digital
recording systems are installed in all rehabilitated and newly constructed courts and reportedly are
in regular use.

A potential fifth Performance Indicator is not listed under the Results Framework (or appearing in
the table above) but it appears in the related Arrangements for Results Monitoring in the same
Annex 3 of the PAD. It states that “a 10 percent increase in the speed of processing civil cases
according to court users” is targeted. In the event, judiciary statistics indicate that for First Instance
courts the settlement of cases from the moment of filing to the moment of judgment has increased
from 114 days in 2009 to 139 days. The Administrative Court has improved, with a decline in time
from 89 to 25 days over a similar period. The Court of Appeal has increased from 103 days in 2009
to 132 days in 2013, while cases in the Court of Cassation have declined from 100 days to 93. Thus
overall performance is mixed.


   2. Courthouse Rehabilitation: Expanding to the Regions and New Cassation Court Complex –
      Highly Satisfactory

Indicator 1: Updated design standards used      Achieved
for all courthouse rehabilitation.

Target: All renovated and new courthouses       All renovated and new courthouses meet
(funded by JRP2 and state budget)               targeted design standards according to
upgraded according to improved design           Bank courthouse architect and architectural
standard reflecting best international          plans confirmed by random site visits.
practice and cost efficiency principles.
Indicator 2: The new Cassation Court and        Performance Indicator Dropped



                                                   33
Judicial Department complex constructed
on centrally located public land allocated    Joint decision of Government and Bank
by the Government.                            that national funds would be used to
                                              finance any construction/reconstruction of
Target: Not specified beyond Indicator        the Cassation Court and Judicial
                                              Department
Indicator 3: Regional courthouses have        Achieved
expanded office and courtroom space
and provide improved public access.

Target: Improvement in Judicial Reform        Factor 12 on courthouses rose from
Index Factor 12 on courthouses from           Negative in 2004 to Neutral in 2008 and
Negative to Neutral.                          2012.

Achievements under this component (with one exception) exceeded expectations and is rated
Highly Satisfactory. Sixteen courthouses plus the Judicial Training School (a.k.a. Academy of
Justice) and Ministry of Justice Forensic Expertise Center brought the total number of facilities
constructed to 18. A total space of 23,500 square meters was constructed in line with international
practices, exceeding the PDO Outcome Indicator 1 target. Five additional courthouses were
reconstructed using government funding following the same design standards. Judges chambers
were separated from courtrooms and public areas in the building with the aim of limiting public
access (which can facilitate corruption and disrupt dignified court proceedings), appropriate space
and facilities for judges and their staff were provided, clean and modern holding cells for prisoners
constructed, provision for modern ICT including connections for hardware and recording devices
made, and chairs, restrooms, improved security and court chancelleries built in part to assist the
general public. By design, cages for defendants were not included in the new courtrooms, replaced
by less overt but effective security and restraint systems. Access for the disabled was included in
designs. Furniture for the courtrooms, judicial chambers, and public areas were provided. (See
attached photos of a sample old and rehabilitated courthouse and courtroom). The courthouses were
located throughout the country, and as they are often the nicest public buildings in the town
reportedly reflect well on the justice system.

         Sample courthouse and courtroom                 Model courthouse and courtroom
               before rehabilitation                           after rehabilitation




                                                 34
In line with Indicator 1 all renovated and new courthouses meet targeted design standards according
to Bank courthouse architect and architectural plans confirmed by random site visits. According to
a May 2012 report prepared by the Bank team architectural and building expert, “new work
continues to be executed in modest but good quality, and on schedule”. The report noted that the
PIU “exercised strong control over the costs of construction and associated design, supervision and
goods”. With continuing volatility and rising costs and strengthening local currency during most of
the implementation period, costs that averaged US$1 million were significantly higher than
expected at Appraisal, when the average cost was expected to be under $600,000 per court.
However, that estimate, according to the expert’s report, was based on very rough construction unit
costs available at the time, and on a total pool of 33 courts, most of which were lower-cost
rehabilitations, and many of these were omitted early in execution. By the start of implementation
in 2007, estimates made by the PIU based on more current data and preliminary designs were more
in line with what was to follow during implementation, with an average of over $1.2 million.
Compared to these early estimates by the PIU, actual costs of construction were lower.

Due to disagreements on the level of amenities and standards for the Court of Cassation (and
following long delays related to intra-governmental discussions on the location of a new building
for the Cassation Court), it was mutually agreed in 2009 to eliminate construction of a new
courthouse using IDA resources and Performance Indicator 2 was dropped. The resources were
redirected toward regional courthouse construction with arguably higher developmental impact.

Indicator 3 is JRI’s Factor 12 which rates whether “Judicial buildings are conveniently located and
easy to find, and they provide a respectable environment for the dispensation of justice with
adequate infrastructure.” The rating increased from negative in 2004 to Neutral in both 2008 and
2012, thus meeting the target. The JRI noted the lead role of the World Bank and that “interviewees
familiar with the renovated courthouses remarked that the improvements were dramatic…the
renovated judicial buildings generally have adequate infrastructure for the administration of justice,
including a sufficient number of courtrooms, information kiosks and screens to allow access to case
information to the parties and the general public, and a sufficient number of judicial offices.” The
report did note concerns that some reconstructed/rehabilitated courthouses had not yet been
occupied, but all were being used by mid-2013.




                                                 35
   3. Judicial Training School – Moderately Satisfactory

Indicator 1: Judicial Training Center          Partially Achieved
facility renovated to included sufficient
classrooms, offices and other facilities       The new Judicial Training Center (renamed
to train judges and court staff.               Academy of Justice) was completed in
                                               2011 in line with architectural plans
Target: Not specified beyond Indicator         approved by the Bank. Equipment has
                                               been installed later and the first class is
                                               planned to matriculate in 2014.
Indicator 2: Curriculum and training           Partially Achieved
materials developed and training of trainers
completed for courses on IT systems            The curriculum for initial training school
and the use of precedent in judicial           was developed under JRP2 preparation
decision-making.                               advance. The online course on Judicial
                                               Reasoning and Writing covers the topic of
Target: Increase in JRI Factors 1 and 3 on     “use of precedent in judicial decision-
judicial qualification and preparation and     making” identified in the PAD. Formal
continuing legal education, respectively       courses on IT systems have not been
from Negative to Neutral                       developed, but training was delivered
                                               before the launch of the systems. Training
                                               of trainers has not been initiated.

                                               Factor 1 on judicial qualification and
                                               preparation rose from Negative in 2004 to
                                               Neutral in 2008 and 2012 - Achieved

                                               Factor 3 on continuing legal education,
                                               rose from Negative in 2004 to Neutral in
                                               2008 and 2012 - Achieved

Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Implementation under this component proved to
be surprisingly troublesome, leading to downgrades in ISR ratings for both Implementation
Progress and ultimately Achievement of Project Development Objectives in 2012. A government
desire to create a combined training center for judges and prosecutors created controversy within
the Armenian bar, with the EU donor, and helped delay passage of the Law on the Academy of
Justice until May 2, 2013. Uncertainty about the size of the school building needed and the focus of
school administrators on possible reorganization delayed decisions on construction as well as
development of new or revised courses. The Bank team and Country Management had to make
strenuous efforts with counterparts to make any progress. By project closure a modern and
furnished building had been constructed, an online training and learning management system (the
IT platform) had been installed in the Judicial Department ready for use once classes in the new
training center commence in 2014, and one model course on "Legal Reasoning and Writing" which
addresses the use of precedent had been prepared.




                                                 36
In line with Subcomponent 3A a new
building to house the Judicial Training
School plus Ministry of Justice Training
Center was constructed in Yerevan. The
2,700 sqm building cost US$2.07 million
and was completed in October 2011 and
supplied with equipment and furniture 2 .
The first class is expected to matriculate in
early 2014. Pending the move, judicial
training continues in temporary quarters.


Under Subcomponent 3B the project was to fund technical assistance to develop training courses
and materials for judges on the use of precedent in deciding cases and drafting judicial opinions.
(Much of the core training curriculum was developed with EU support). Additional training on the
use of judicial IT systems and administrative matters (judicial budgeting, financial management,
etc.) for incoming and existing judges was also designated in the PAD. The key course on "Legal
Reasoning and Writing" capturing the use of judicial precedent was prepared. Given the delays and
focus of school leadership on other issues related to the Academy’s focus, these additional courses
were not prepared. The Bank team sought to progress in non-substantive areas including long
distance learning, and development of a learning management system (based on Shared Content
Object Reference Model-SCORM standards developed by the US Defense Department) which
among other things permits the owners to develop their own courses and translate and customize
courses from their other training institutions. This IT platform is installed in the Judicial
Department and is supposed to be installed in the Academy in late 2013 to help in the development
of additional courses in the future with follow-on support from the EU.

With regard to the component’s two performance indicators Factor 1 in the JRI rates whether
“Judges have formal university-level legal training and have practiced before tribunals or, before
taking the bench, are required (without cost to the judges) to take relevant courses concerning basic
substantive and procedural areas of the law, the role of the judge in society, and cultural sensitivity”.
The rating increased from Negative in 2004 to Neutral in both 2008 and 2012, thus meeting the
target. The JRI noted in 2012 that while interviewees were critical of the part-time nature of the
Judicial School (6 months of training one day a week followed by two weeks shadowing a judge)
they “universally perceived the Judicial School to be a vast improvement over the pre-2008 system
that did not require any pre-appointment training for judges, and were optimistic that judicial
qualifications would continue to improve.”

Factor 3 in the JRI rates whether “Judges must undergo, on a regular basis and without cost to them,
professionally prepared continuing legal education courses, the subject matters of which are


2
 The building includes 1 big academic auditorium (80sqm for up to 50 people), 4 roundtable discussion rooms (each 25-35sqm for
up to 15-18 persons), 2 big classrooms (each 76sqm for up to 40-45 people), 3 medium size classrooms (each 50sqm for up to 25-30
people), 1 furnished courtroom (50sqm for up to 32-35 people), 1 big library with computer lab and reading room (100sqm), 1 self-
service cafeteria (90sqm service area; 90sqm fully equipped kitchen and storage area for up to 40-50 people), 16 dorm rooms for
visiting students (20sqm each for 2 persons, total 32 people), 15 administration rooms (can accommodate up to 25 permanent staff).




                                                               37
generally determined by the judges themselves and which inform them of changes and
developments in the law.” As targeted the rating increased from Negative in 2004 to Neutral in
both 2008 and 2012. Judges are required to take at least 80 hours of academic training (Continuing
Legal Education-CLE) annually from a list of between 20 and 30 courses. The judges from first
instance courts reported they are “happy with the available CLE and they believe that the courses
offered have improved their understanding of legal issues and the quality of their decisi ons.”
Practicing lawyers, however, reported that such judges “have poor knowledge of international law,
the European Court of Human Rights case law, and precedential Court of Cassation case [and] that
the courses offered are not sufficiently education judges on how to analyze and apply precedent and
international law”. They believe “the lack of proper application of precedent is a primary reason for
appealing cases, directly contributing to the high workload of the appellate court and the Cassation
Court.” The Project’s Mid Term Review noted that some observers believe the lack of deference to
Court of Cassation precedents leading to legal unpredictability and inconsistencies in judgments
reflects continued corrupt practices.

   4. Improving Enforcement of Judicial Decisions - Satisfactory

     Indicator 1: Judicial decisions are            Partially Achieved
     efficiently and effectively enforced by the
     bailiffs who working with fully operational    An upgraded AESMS was successfully
     AESMS.                                         rolled out and further upgraded to
                                                    integrated and renamed system MAKS.
                                                    The Enforcement Service became one of
                                                    the pioneers using thin-clients and Cloud
                                                    technologies country-wide.


     Target: 20 percentage point increase in the    Baseline was 42.8% in 2005 versus 41.3%
     number of enforced decisions vs. the           in 2012. While number of enforced
     number of new decisions submitted for          judicial decisions has increased from
     enforcement annually                           22,904 in 2006 to 43,602 in 2012, the sharp
                                                    increase in the number of incoming judicial
                                                    decisions (53,556 in 2006 versus 105,570
                                                    in 2012), has resulted in the failure to
                                                    improve the ratio despite significant
                                                    reduction of average time on enforcing
                                                    court decisions – Not Achieved
     --Share of bailiffs using AESMS reaches
     100% by project end                            Share of bailiffs using new software has
                                                    increased from 2.4% in 2006 to 100% in
                                                    2012 – Achieved (although no specific
     -- 10 percent decrease of average time         number target set in PAD) - Achieved
     spent on enforcing judicial decisions
                                                    The average time spent has decreased.
                                                    Before 2008, it would take around 5
                                                    months to enforce a decision. The numbers



                                                   38
                                                     fell to 125 days in 2010, 80 days in 2011,
                                                     and 60 days in 2012. As of 2013, to enforce
                                                     a judicial decision, the ESD on average
                                                     needs 31 days.
     Indicator 2: The feasibility of establishing    Achieved
     private bailiff service in Armenia is
     assessed.                                  Government undertook extensive study of
                                                practices in comparator countries but given
     Target: Government decision taken on pilot diverse international practices decided at
     for private bailiffs introducing based     least for the present to maintain judicial
     on study recommendations.                  enforcement in the public domain.

Performance under this component can be rated as Satisfactory, despite the failure to meet some
quantitative targets. The Judicial Enforcement Service Department (ESD) of the Ministry of Justice
was an enthusiastic partner in the project and anxious to improve service delivery. It sought in
JRP2 to significantly upgrade its case management system AESMS developed under JRP1 to reflect
on the ground experiences with the software and evolving needs. The enhanced AESMS, now
named MAKS, permits agents to access databases for the specific case (the CAST case management
system in the courts), plus property registry, taxes, vehicle registration, banks, domicile and other
data to better find individuals and business and determine the location of assets. MAKS enables
continuous reengineering of business processes as well as generation of statistics. It was rolled out
countrywide in 2012 and is used by 100% of enforcement officers in over 90% of all enforcements.
This contrasts to previous years when the use of ICT had been relegated to support staff. The
project also funded important investments in ICT for internal agency communications designed to
improve efficiency across the country and reduce costs, as well as a few (10) vehicles for the
official use by ESD agents.

The number of enforced decisions grew rapidly from 22,904 in 2006 to 43,602 in 2012. The target
in Indicator 1 was missed only because the denominator in the calculation—the number of judicial
decisions—also rose significantly from 53,556 in 2006 to 105,570 in 2012 due to cases involving
banks and other financial organizations stemming in part from the global economic crisis as well as
enforcement of traffic police cases transferred to ESD by legislative changes. According to statistics
of the ESD the cases filed by banks have dramatically increased since 2009. While there were 5401
cases in 2009 there have been 13,818 cases for 2012, and 11,121 cases in 2013 so far. In 2009 the
tax service filed 1,162 cases, whereas in 2013 that number rose to 8,913. These have to do with the
results of the global economic crises, the consequences of which are still seen on countries. The
target thus included a factor outside the control of the agency. Given severe fiscal constraints
during the period, the number of enforcement agents remained largely unchanged between 2008
and 2013 demonstrating a significant increase in productivity supported in part by the new software.

A study was conducted in 2008 to review the pros and cons of introducing private enforcement
agents or private bailiffs into Armenia as a parallel enforcement mechanism. A team composed of
international and local consultants reviewed experiences from several countries including private
bailiff systems in five Eastern and Western European Countries –Bulgaria, Estonia, Macedonia,
France and the Netherlands. Three of these countries were selected for the study tour for key
decision and policy makers of Armenia –Bulgaria, Estonia and Macedonia. A two day stakeholder


                                                    39
workshop followed in Yerevan. The final report strongly recommended the creation of a private
bailiff system to more rapidly improve enforcement of judicial decisions. It proposed various
implementation options, saying that such a service would be in line with the country’s economic
and financial development and consistent with the evolution of similar systems elsewhere in
Europe.

In the event, the government chose not to create a private bailiff system, at least for the present.
International experience was reported to be mixed in this regard. The ESD was rapidly improving
its service capacity and hopes that the growth of judicial decisions slows as citizen resort to the
courts reaches an equilibrium level and the pace of new commercial and civil law and regulations
related to the transition to a market economy slows. Moreover, reportedly there were doubts
expressed that the management of private bailiff services could be more easily influenced by special
economic interests. The authorities indicated that the study’s assessment would of course remain
available for consultation should demand for judicial enforcement overwhelm the capacity of the
ESD.


   5. Strengthening Arbitration Services – Moderately Satisfactory

     Indicator 1: ADR legal framework in place     Achieved
     and meets international standards.
                                                   Armenian Law #HO-55-N on Commercial
     Target: Not specified beyond Indicator        Arbitrage entered into force in February
                                                   2007 before project effectiveness.
     Indicator 2: Internationally trained and      Partially Achieved
     certified arbitrators operating.
                                                   20 Armenians trained on arbitration
     Target: Number of people internationally      services. No certification body exists
     trained and become certified arbitration      however.
     specialists.

Performance under this small component is judged to be Moderately Satisfactory. Armenian Law
#HO-55-N on Commercial Arbitrage entered into force in February 2007 providing for arbitration.
It adopted the design and methodology of the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law (UNCITRAL) on Arbitration, the model legislation widely used for developing countries and
is thus in line with international standards. Its adoption preceded project effectiveness.

A consultant conducted study and stakeholder workshop on arbitration services were completed in
2010 and a review of possible demand for arbitration services was produced. Twenty Armenian
lawyers received training in 2011 from the Armenian law firm GPartners, together with the British
Institute of International and Comparative Law.         The training was held in Armenia with
participants from both the public and private sectors. Leading law schools sent representatives as
well to facilitate the introduction of commercial arbitration courses in their curricula. No
certification process was pursued, reflecting a change in vision between different Ministers of
Justice, and a cautious view that the costs to contending parties of internationally sanctioned
arbitration (along with the local costs of certifying arbitrators, maintaining those standards, and


                                                 40
local capacity) might outweigh the anticipated demand for such services, at least at this point of the
country’s economic development. However the exploration of the issue, first with the use of PHRD
grant resources, apparently is continuing as the Ministry has recently signed an agreement with US
authorities for additional technical assistance to promote arbitration within the business community.

   6. Expanding Access to Legal Information and Public Awareness - Satisfactory

     Indicator 1: ARLIS is equipped with            Exceeded
     additional features and becomes the
     major source of legal information for          Additional features added to ARLIS and
     professionals and the public.                  average monthly number of pages viewed
                                                    through ARLIS webpage has increased
     Target: 25 percent increase in the average     from the baseline155,000 in 2006 to 1.99
     monthly number of pages viewed through         million in 2012 (a 1100% increase). For
     the ARLIS webpage by the end of the            the first six months of 2013 the average
     project.                                       number of visits was around 1.6 million.
     Indicator 2: Court chancelleries provide       Achieved
     public with information on court
     procedures, hearings and general legal         With a baseline of zero and no quantified
     information.                                   target a judgment on compliance must be
                                                    subjective. By 2012 113 chancellery staff
     Target: Number of court chancellery staff      (out of a total current chancellery staff of
     trained and legal pamphlets produced           162) were trained on new procedures and
                                                    electronic information systems.

                                                  By 2012 20,000 copies of the pamphlet “Es
                                                  Gitem” (I Know) covering legal rights were
                                                  produced and made available to the public
                                                  through a variety of means including in
                                                  courthouses. The text was also put on the
                                                  DataLex website.
     Indicator 3: Public has better understanding Partially Achieved
     of judicial reform and additional
     information on legal rights and court        Court user survey reports:
     system.
                                                      (a) Public knowledge of judicial reform
     Target: Court user survey shows 10                   activities increased by nearly 19
     percentage point increase over 2007                  percentage points from 12.5% in
     baseline: (a) public knowledge of                    2009 to 31.09% in 2013;
     judicial reform activities; (b) public           (b) Public knowledge of judicial and
     knowledge of judicial and court                      court services increased by 6.5
     services; (c) quality of service provided by         percentage points from 2.5% in
     court chancelleries; and (d) public                  2009 to 9.03% in 2013;
     confidence in judicial system.                   (c) Quality of service provided by court
                                                          chancelleries has improved (though
                                                          less than 10%) based on reported


                                                  41
                                                           satisfaction of survey respondents
                                                           increasing from 80.9% in 2009 to
                                                           83.2% in 2013;
                                                       (d) Public confidence [trust] in judicial
                                                           system remained flat at 59%
                                                           between 2009 and 2013
     Indicator 4: Civil society assists in          Achieved
     monitoring progress and impact of judicial
     reform.

     Target: Number of meetings (at least 60        More than 6 meetings were held to provide
     hosted by MoJ and judiciary to provide         public information on reform efforts and to
     public information on reform efforts and to    improve coordination with donors and civil
     improve coordination with donors and           society organizations.
     civil society organizations.

The results of this component are judged as Satisfactory. The core investments in expanding public
access to legal information were achieved through an upgraded Armenian Legal Information
System (ARLIS) developed under JRP1, complementary efforts to reach citizens through television
programs, a new online service from the judiciary providing information on court proceedings,
kiosks installed nationwide to help citizens access this information, training for court chancellery
staff, pamphlets on legal rights, and an outreach to NGOs and civil society to encourage their
oversight role. The end of project survey reported increases in citizen awareness about judicial
reform efforts, although about their specifics to a lesser extent, and improvements in court
chancellery services. Despite the inputs provided by the project, however, public trust in the
judiciary remained unchanged during the project.

Under Subcomponent 6A the Armenian Legal Information System (ARLIS) was deepened and
expanded with credit funded upgraded hardware and software. The system now provides free
internet based information on Armenian legislation and Government decisions back to 1994, draft
legal acts, orders of the Minister, judgments of the European Court, etc. A new system called
DataLex within the Judiciary, also initiated with project support, is on line (www.datalex.am) and
available through kiosks and monitors installed in all courthouses and various other government
locations. DataLex provides information on current court proceedings, court hearing schedules,
judicial decisions, search capacity for past cases with similar characteristics, copies of Armenian
law and legal articles, etc. It also permits individuals to submit applications for payment orders and
make on line (or in the kiosk) payments to several government agencies utilizing an e-payments
system whose development was also funded by the project. Heavy court users (lawyers in
particular) make extensive use of ARLIS and DataLex on line now without the need to physically
visit court chancelleries to obtain information, as in the past.

Regarding the performance indicators the target for Indicator 1 relating to use of ARLIS data online
was widely exceeded. The average monthly number of pages viewed through ARLIS webpage has
increased from the baseline 155,000 in 2006 to 1.99 million in 2012 (a 1100% increase). For the
first six months of 2013 the average number of visits was around 1.6 million.




                                                   42
Subcomponent 6B complemented the ARLIS and Datalex systems since average citizens often go
first to the court chancelleries which act as receptionists for inquiries, documents, help requests, etc.
In addition to better and more citizen friendly courthouse design, the project trained chancellery
staff on the new internet services as well as on changing approaches and attitudes toward public
service delivery. In line with Indicator 2,
113 staff were trained. Moreover a
pamphlet entitled “Es Gitem” (I Know)
covering legal rights was produced and
20,000 copies made available to the
public in courthouse chancelleries as
well as other locations (and the text is on
line).        Improved communications
between judges and Judicial Department
staff and the media was addressed
through training delivered as part of court monitoring training provided to court staff, NGOs, and
the Media. Four workshops were conducted in 2011 and 2012 covering international experiences
plus more detailed examination of court monitoring were designed to provide judges, staff, and
media a deeper understanding of the Armenian judicial system and available information sources.
Some 148 participants, including 35 from the media, attended the workshops.

        Under Subcomponent 6C the highly successful JRP1 funded “My Rights” television show
aimed at increasing public awareness of judicial issues was continued. Another show was
developed. “Court Hour”, where real cases are recorded and edited with the consent of the parties
has been fairly successful and 80 programs have been prepared. Experts provide commentary on
air on the proceedings which are split 60/40 between criminal and civil cases. A 42 minute film
was prepared and broadcast on public TV in 2012, presenting the milestones in judicial reforms in
Armenia. It is available on http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YTraolTJ-ig




                                                   43
The Ministry of Justice and Judiciary have also reached out to NGOs and civil society through a
series of meetings, sometimes attended by donors, seeking to explain the overall reform efforts and
improve communication. These efforts however seem rather limited and to date there appears to be
no significant NGO/civil society oversight of the judiciary.

Two indicators were used to track performance under this sub-component. Indicator 3 posited an
improvement in public perceptions in several areas. The first sub-indicator (a) recorded a
substantial 19 percentage point increase in the percent of respondents aware that a judicial reform
program was underway. The second sub-indicator (b) which probed respondents on the content of
the reform only increased 6.5 percentage points to 9.03%. The firm conducting the survey found
this ambiguous, and following random follow up calls to respondents surmised that some general
public respondents perhaps overstated their knowledge of an ongoing reform program which was
revealed when asked to describe actual court services. Alternatively, since most citizens do not
interact with the court, their interest in and knowledge of specific court activities might be limited.

Sub-indicator (c) relating to the quality of service provided by court chancelleries was measured
through one question in the Court Users survey. Respondents’ Satisfaction with the work of the
Court personnel recorded an over 2 percentage point increase from 80.9 % in 2009 to 83.2 % in
2013. This does not meet the 10% increase benchmark though it suggests improvement from a
relatively high base. The final sub-indicator (d) which queried respondents on their confidence
(trust) in the judiciary system did not move, staying essentially flat from 59% in 2009 to 59.1% in
2013. This result may reflect citizen concern about widespread reports of continuing corruption in
the courts, a legacy of distrust in the judicial system as an arm of central state power, and/or
political polarization in the country (the survey was conducted during a presidential election
campaign).

The survey firm also noticed but could not explain, despite further investigation, the contrast of
these 59% favorable findings in this question with those in a somewhat similar question used as a
PDO outcome indicator where only 40.8% of respondents expressed general satisfaction with the
operation of courts. This was slightly higher than the 39% recorded in 2009. The original baseline
survey was conducted in 2009, rather than in 2007 due to several rounds of elaborating the survey
methodology. This theoretically could have led to a higher baseline figures in some instances,
artificially reducing the progress recorded between the two surveys. Perhaps the only valid
conclusion is that the ratings in these two questions are not changing rapidly and show continuing
challenges to the justice system in establishing its credibility with citizens.

Indicator 4 related to holding at least 6 meetings with civil society and NGOs to discuss the reform
effort. Determining the precise number of meetings has proved a challenge since the character of
such meetings had not be defined beforehand and such information exchanges can occur in a variety
of settings. According to the PIU the number of meetings with civil society, NGOs, and press
exceeded the target. Specifically the PIU reports there were: (i) over 15 public round table
discussions including government and civil society representatives regarding both the overall
judicial reform concept as well as particular topics; (ii) more than 3 separate TV programs produced
by the project addressed in part judicial reform; (iii) up to 5 visits were made to the regions by
Deputy Justice Ministers to discuss the reform concepts and perspectives; (iv) annual meetings of



                                                  44
the Minister with media representatives to in part summarize the reform activities and achievements
for the year; (v) 3 to 4 meetings of the Minister with NGOs were conducted on a number of topics
included in the reforms agenda; and (vi) several dozen press interviews by Ministers, Deputy
Ministers and Advisers of the Minister on different topics included discussions of the reform agenda.

TF-57514 (PHRD Grant)

The following indicators were included in the agreement between the Bank and Government of
Japan in connection with the PHRD Grant. Progress under the indicators is satisfactory (and is also
described above).

   1. Improved administrative capacity within the Judiciary, including human resource
      management, IT maintenance, and financial and budget controls. This target was partially
      achieved as spending on ICT maintenance increased in order to keep the new ICT systems
      (CAST, AESMS/MAKS, DataLex) functioning. A study on program budgeting was
      provided to the Judicial Department in April/May of 2013. New human resource
      management and financial controls were not implemented by the project.

   2. Increased use of automated processes, procedures, and databases by judges and judicial
      staff with IT training. The target was achieved as the judicial case management CAST
      system was upgraded and provided to all judges, their staff, and courthouses. Training on
      CAST was provided. AESMS/MAKS is now being used by 100% of Enforcement Service
      Department agents within the Ministry of Justice.

   3. Expanded public access to judicial decisions and information on laws, legal rights, and
      access to legal services. As indicated in the discussion of Component 6 above there were
      several initiatives expanding public access to judicial decisions—most specifically through
      the DataLex system which provides information on past and current cases, the installation of
      kiosks and monitors in all courts, outreach to the media and NGOs, and new judicial focused
      television shows.

Performance is moderately satisfactory under the indicators for the IDA project itself included in
the PHRD proposal to the Japanese government:

   4. Improved citizen access to legal information and satisfaction with judicial services. In line
      with preceding performance indicator and discussion of initiatives in Component 6 above,
      notable achievements include DataLex, 100 kiosks and terminals in courthouses and other
      government buildings, TV shows, etc. Public satisfaction with judicial service is mixed—
      upgrades in survey responses on the Enforcement Service Department’s operation as well as
      courthouse staff, but less improvement in public confidence in the judiciary.

   5. Objective measures of judicial performance are designed, measured and analyzed by the
      Judiciary and Justice Ministry, and improvements in judicial operations are recorded.
      Studies were prepared on objective evaluation of judicial performance, but new systems to
      evaluate the performance of judges and courts have not yet been adopted by the Judiciary,
      although reflected in the 2012-2016 Strategy.



                                                45
   6. Increased transparency in the judicial system through improved access to information and
      judicial decisions among judges and for the citizens. More information on past judicial
      decisions as well as pending cases are provided through DataLex and the ARLIS system
      provides extensive online data on Armenian laws, regulations, executive orders, etc.

PHRD resources were especially important in funding a number of studies and interventions related
to public awareness and access to legal information. Government was reluctant to use scarce credit
resources for such investments given the greater uncertainty about their immediate practical
applications. Grant funds thus played an important role in advancing longer term benefits to
citizens.

TF- 091251 (Dutch Grant)

The following indicators were included in the agreement between the Bank and Government of the
Netherlands in connection with the Dutch Grant. Progress under the specific indicators is
satisfactory.

   1.    Number of people internationally trained and became certified arbitration specialists by
        end 2010. 20 Armenian lawyers were trained by a British organization (British Institute of
        International and Comparative Law) and an Armenian law firm. Leading law schools sent
        representatives as well to facilitate the introduction of commercial arbitration courses in
        their curricula. The Institute did not provide for a certification from this course.

   2.    At least 100 public information terminals established for ARLIS at courts, community
        buildings and other suitable locations by the end 2010. 117 public information terminals
        (37 public monitors and 80 kiosks) were installed in all courthouses and selected public
        buildings.

   3.    At least 20 journalists and 30 judicial servants responsible for the relations with media pass
        special training on "court-media" relations by the end 2010. Training was conducted in
        2011 and 2013 for 35 members of the media and 113 judicial staff.

   4.    Development of a court monitoring strategy and implementation plan with input and
        agreement of key NGOs by end 2009. Consulting services completed a study in March 2013
        on developing a court monitoring strategy including an implementation plan. NGOs were
        consulted during the study phase.

The Dutch grant resources were especially important for funding a number of innovative ICT
solutions rolled out across the judicial system. Specifically, these included the judicial case
management software (CAST) and DataLex system providing real time information to the public on
court proceedings and case histories. The Grant also helped fund the study of international
arbitration practices and their possible application to Armenia.




                                                  46
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not Applicable. While a specific investment operation, it had a large technical assistance
character beyond the construction of courthouses, and no quantitative economic and financial
analyses were prepared at appraisal. Rather it was asserted that improvements in judicial
performance facilitated by project inputs could improve the quality of judicial decisions,
increase the efficiency of the court system, and promote more rapid resolution of disputes
surrounding administration decisions. The economic benefits of more predictable and uniform
application of the rule of law, strengthened business confidence, and a more stable investment
climate together would contribute to a more level playing field for business, spur investment,
improve corporate governance and the functioning of the stock market, and promote economic
growth. In the event it is not possible to quantify this rather ambitious list of benefits which
may well respond to improved functioning of the justice system over time but also to many
other factors. The overall improvements reported in project indicators suggest movement in the
right direction which should ultimately produce some of the benefits anticipated in the PAD.

The PAD also suggested that implementation of the project would improve the use of financial
resources in the judicial sector through better monitoring of the courts, better utilization and
maintenance of the IT system, and more efficient use of courthouse facilities. No quantitative
projections were presented in the PAD, however, so the assertions which seem logical lack hard
evidence to prove or disprove them.

The most costly component of the project related to courthouse rehabilitation and construction.
Costs had risen sharply during JRP1 so the teams took steps to better control costs in JRP2
through more careful attention to design standards including local participation in design
decisions, the hiring of an architectural/building expert within the PIU, and more timely cost
estimates. As there was continuing volatility and rising costs and strengthening local currency
during most of the implementation period, costs per building that averaged US$ 1 million were
significantly higher than expected at Appraisal, when the average cost was expected to be under
$600,000 per court. However, that estimate was based on very rough construction unit costs
available at the time, and on a total pool of 33 courts, most of which were lower-cost
rehabilitations, and many of these were omitted early in execution. By the start of
implementation in 2007, estimates made by the PIU based on more current data and preliminary
designs were more in line with what was to follow during implementation, with an average of
over $1.2 million. Compared to these early estimates by the PIU, actual costs of construction
were lower. ICT costs were estimated by the Bank team’s procurement specialist to be in line
with current market conditions. Many consultant services were competed and won by local
firms, keeping down resort to more expensive international technical assistance services.




                                              47
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
             Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Alexander Astvatsatryan   Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSO2
David S. Bernstein        Senior Operations Officer            INTSC
Junko Funahashi           Lead Counsel                         LEGEN
Davit Melikyan            Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.            ECSP4
Vigen Sargsyan            Sr External Affairs Off.             ECCAR
Arman Vatyan              Sr Financial Management Specia       ECSO3
Supervision/ICR
Alexander Astvatsatryan   Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSO2
David S. Bernstein        Senior Operations Officer             INTSC
Claire Louise Greer       Operations Analyst                   SEGOM
Vahagn Harutyunyan        Consultant                            ECSP4
Davit Melikyan            Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.             ECSP4
Eric N. Peterson          Consultant                           ECSPE
Garik Sergeyan            E T Consultant                       ECSO3
Arman Vatyan              Sr Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3


(b) Staff Time and Cost




                                             48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Perception surveys were conducted in 2009 and 2013 by the same consulting firm essentially with
the same questions and methodology. Questionnaires were used with a randomly selected sample
of 1000 members of the general public. Additionally 1,119 respondents in Yerevan and 10
regions—business community representatives, lawyers and legal academicians, representatives of
courts and the Ministry of Justice, and recent users of the court system-- were interviewed face to
face to obtain qualitative information. The key areas of focus included perceptions of the courts,
the Enforcements Service Department, other legal enforcement agencies such as the police, dispute
resolution practices, and public awareness. Several of the survey questions were used as project
performance indicators. In sum there are perceived improvements in court services, judicial
professionalism, facilities, staff, the ESD, and public awareness, but continuingly high (and in some
cases deteriorating) marks regarding corruption (especially from court users).

Key findings include the following:

   -   The majority of respondents were satisfied with the results of court trials they participated in,
       (although 30% said they were not fair, punishment was not adequate, and their rights were
       not respected). The overwhelming share of successful litigants was satisfied, however.
   -   A majority were satisfied with the work of judges and their professional capacity.
   -   Similarly high numbers were satisfied with the work of other court personnel and ratings
       increased since the first survey.
   -   74% of respondents are satisfied with court facilities.
   -   Corruption in the courts is rated to be quite high. 69% of experienced court users declared
       they either faced corruption themselves or know someone who did. 62% of experienced
       respondents versus 46% of other respondents declared that either no efforts are applied to
       combat corruption in courts, or the efforts are ineffective.
   -   The perception of the performance of ESD improved (65-78% of respondents were
       completely or mainly satisfied). Corruption reportedly continues to be a problem in the
       ESD however.
   -   General satisfaction with the Police, Traffic Police, and Public Prosecutors is not bad and
       has improved since 2009.
   -   26% of respondents reported violence and involvement of criminals is effective in dispute
       resolution. However direct or mediated negotiations is the most used method, prior to
       seeking court involvement.
   -   Only a small part of respondents regularly use juridical information, but most believe
       information is published and accessible and know how to obtain it.
   -   A large 14 percentage point increase (to 58%) of respondents expressed readiness to
       “consume” court services electronically. This readiness is less in rural areas less computer
       literate.




                                                  49
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable—no stakeholder workshop was conducted.




                                            50
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Comments received from Government have not identified any issues or would require any further
comments. In a detailed Project Completion Report received from the Ministry of Justice on
September 25, 2013 the Borrower indicated that “based on the results achieved, the overall outcome
of the project against the agreed objectives should be considered as highly positive. Despite some
minor shortages for achieving the best results for public perception, the Project has contributed to
success in setting up several fundamental and institutional improvements which will be serving as
the basis for reforms in the near future.”




                                                51
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                        52
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents

Project Appraisal Report—Second Judicial Reform Project, February 9, 2007
Development Credit Agreement-- Second Judicial Reform Project
Co-financing Dutch Grant for the Second Justice Reform Project
Trust Fund grant No. TF 091251, March 17, 2008
Implementation Supervision and Results Reports (ISR) 2007-2013)
Country Partnership Strategy
QALP-2 Assessment, Quality Assurance Group, April 19, 2010
Mid-Term Review Mission Aide Memoire, Project Team, October 13, 2010
Technical Review, Component 2, Courthouse Construction, Eric Petersen, May, 2012
Comparison of the Findings of the Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the Public Perception Survey on Judicial
Reforms Implemented in Armenia

Other Documents

2012-2016 Strategic Program for Legal and Judicial Reforms, Executive Order of the President of
the Republic, NK96-A, June, 2012
Judicial Reform Index for Armenia, American Bar Association, December 2012
Judicial Reform Project 2, Public Perception Survey, Phase 2, AM Partners Consulting Company,
April, 2013
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services for Institutional Support to Council of    Justice
and Judicial Department, Human Dynamics and America, May, 2010
Judicial Statistics Modernization Report, Human Dynamics and America, April, 2010
Progress Report from Judicial Projects Implementation Unit, Chamber of Control, March 28, 2013,
Resolution No. 6/4, 28.03.2013
Brief Objections and Explanations Related to Resolution No. 6/4, 28.03.2013 of the RA Chamber of
Control, Artur Tunyan, Director, Project Implementation Unit
Feasibility Study of Private Bailiff System, DPK Consulting and America, September, 2008
Application of Program Budgeting Principles in the Judicial System-Introducing Program
Budgeting Indicators and Techniques for Judicial Department, International Center for Human
Development, May, 2013

Individuals Interviewed

World Bank

Davit Melikyan (TTL in Supervision)
David Bernstein (TTL at Board Presentation)
Klaus Decker (Team Member, Washington)
Arman Vatyan (Senior Financial Management Specialist)
Alexander Astvatsatryan (Senior Procurement Specialist)
Jean-Michel Happi (Country Manager)




                                               53
Government of Armenia

Yeghishe Kirakosyan (Deputy Minister of Justice)
Nora Sargsyan (Advisor to the Minister of Justice)
Artur Tunyan (Director of the Project Implementation Unit)
Karen Arustamyan (Head of Department, Chamber of Control)
Samvel Yolyan (Chamber of Control)
Samvel Yeganyan (Deputy Head, Enforcement Service)
Gagik Harutyunyan (Head of the IT Department, Enforcement Service)
Gagik Mirijanyan (Head of the Legal Department, Enforcement Service)
Misak Martirosyan (Head Judicial Department, Court of Cassation)
Karen Poladyan (Deputy Head, Judicial Department, Court of Cassation)
Rshtuni Aikyan (Deputy Head, Judicial Department, Court of Cassation)
Arsen Mkrtchyan (Judge, Court of Appeal)
Robert Papoyan (Judge, First Instance General Jurisdiction Court of Ararat and Vayots Dzor
Marzes)

Private Sector Armenia

Tigran Grigoryan (Consultant, Ameria Group)
Narine Gasparyan (American Bar Association Armenia Office)
Tigran Jrbashyan (Director and Partner, Ameria Group)
Davit Sargsyan (Ameria Group)
Vahe Mambreyan (AM Partners Consulting Company)




                                               54
                         43°E                                                                             To T’bilisi                To T’bilisi                                                                                          46°E                                                   47°E
                                                                                              44°E
                                                        GEOR GI A                                                                                                                                                                                G E OR G IA
                                                                      To Borjomi

                                                                                   L e s s Tashir
                                                                                           Tashir
                                                                                            er C       Alaverdi                                                                                   To Gäncä
                                                                                                    auc                                                                                                                         Ku
                                                                                                        asu                                                                                                                          ra                                                Mingechevir         41°N
                 41°N                                                                       Stepanavan          s M                                                                                                  To Gäncä                                                          Reservoir
                                                                                                                    ou
                                                                                                  LORRI                nt
                                                                             SHIRAK                                       ai                                                       Ijevan
                                                                                                                             n                                          s
                                                                                       Gyumri                           Vanadzor
                                                                                                                        Vanadzor                                              AV U S H
                                                                                                                                                                            T AV
                                                                       To
                                                                      Kars                                                                                   Dilijan


                                                                                                Artik
                                                                                                Artik                                                                                                    Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                        Aragats                                         Sevan                                                 To
                                                                      pa                                                                                                                                     Gäncä
                                                                 Ar                                     (4090 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                   Hrazdan
                                                                                         A R A G AT S O T N




                                                                                                                            Hraz d a n

                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                                                       Gavar               Lake
                                                                                                        Ashtarak
                                 T UR KEY                                                                                                                                                 Sevan




                                                                                                                                               TA
                                                                                                                                                                             GEGHARK’UNIK’




                                                                                                                                                   YK
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN                                                                         Vardenis
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vardenis




                                                                                                                                                    ’
                                             Aras
                                                                                     AV I R
                                                                               A R M AV                                 YEREVAN
                                                                                                                        YEREVAN
                                                                                   Armavir
                                                                                   Armavir                                                                                                   Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                             Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                                            nge
                                                                                                                                                                                               ni      s Ra                                                                                                40°N
                 40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                      r     de
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                                                                                   Va
                                                                                                                                              A R A R AT
                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                  VAY
                                                                                                                                                                                            V AY O T S ’
                                                                                                                            Ar



                                                                                                                                               Ararat
                                                                                                                            as


                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                        Jermuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jermuk
                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                    DZOR
                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                     Yegegnadzor
                                                                                                                                                                                             Yegegnadzor
                        43°E                                                                  44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                     Arpa                                                                        AZ E RB AIJ AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                              Naxçivan                                                                    Angekhakot

                                 ARM E NI A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Goris       Qubadli




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o tan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Naxçivan
                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                       ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Qubadli
                                                                                                                                                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) CAPITALS                                                                                                                       A ZERBA IJA N                                              SYUNIK’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                          I SLA MIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                     Kapan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                       RIVERS                                                                   O F IRA N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        0   10                20    30        40          50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39°N
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33364
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) BOUNDARIES                                                       0                10             20              30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Füzili
                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                         Megri

                                                                                                                                                                   45°E                                                                   To Ordubad                                                    47°E
