                                           89405
The World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency




                   Republic of Armenia

                   Second Judicial Reform Project

                                Redacted Report



                                          June, 2014
                                                                                        Official Use

                               Statement of Use and Limitations

    This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group’s (WBG’s) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the WBG,
regarding one or more WBG-supported activities.

    The purpose of the investigation underlying this Report is to allow the WBG to determine if
its own rules have been violated. This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are
aware of the results of the INT investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited
purpose of the investigation underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole
basis for initiating any administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report
should not be cited or referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports,
or in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

   This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on the
WBG and its officers and employees by its Articles of Agreement and any other applicable
sources of law. The WBG reserves the right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at
any time during the course of an investigation or a subsequent judicial or other proceeding
pursued in connection with this matter.




                                                 2
                                                                                      Official Use




                                      Executive Summary

This report summarizes the findings of an administrative inquiry (the investigation) by the World
Bank Group’s Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations of irregularities in a joint venture
bid submitted by Company A for a contract under the Bank-financed Armenian Second Judicial
Reform Project (the Project).

The investigation involved Company A and a Company A representative. INT investigated
allegations that Company A, under the supervison of such representative, submitted a bank
reference letter containing false information in the bid for a contract under the Project.

INT’s interviews with relevant parties and review of correspondence between Company A’s joint
venture partner, Company B, and the Issuing Bank indicate that Company B was not aware that
the bank reference letter was false.




                                                3
                                                                                               Official Use

Background

The Judicial Reform Project (the Project) was designed to provide Armenia’s judiciary with the
administration, facilities, and expanded capacity necessary to improve the efficiency, reliability
and transparency of judicial operations and services. The Project was financed by a US$20
million credit from the International Development Association (IDA).1

The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) administered the procurement for a Bank-financed
contract (the Contract) under the Project and received only one bid from a joint venture (JV)
between Company A and B. The JV submitted its bid signed by a Company A representative and
a Company B representative. The JV agreement between the companies provided that both
members of the JV gave Company A full authorization and power to act in the name of the JV,
including the signing and submission of all bidding documents.

To comply with the post-qualification requirements of the bidding documents, the JV’s bid
included a “Reference Letter of the Company Good Financial Standing” from a branch of an
international bank (the Issuing Bank). The letter, which was purportedly issued by a
representative of the Issuing Bank, certified that Company A holds an active account, is in good
financing standing, and has no financial obligations with the Issuing Bank.

Allegations

In August 2010, the WBG’s Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) received allegations of irregularities
in the JV’s bid submitted for the Contract.

Methodology

During its investigation, INT conducted interviews, reviewed relevant procurement
documentation and conducted due diligence on the JV.

Findings

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted a bank reference letter of good financial
standing that contained false information in the JV’s bid for the Contract under the
Project.

INT obtained evidence indicating that the Issuing Bank did not prepare, sign, or issue the bank
reference letter; that the letter was not authentic; that the signature did not belong to any Issuing
Bank employees; that the letter’s content departed from the Issuing Bank’s standard format; and
that the logo on the letter was not the Issuing Bank’s standard logo.

INT’s interviews with relevant parties and review of correspondence between Company B and

1
         IDA is one of the five institutions comprising the World Bank Group. The International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and IDA constitute the World Bank. Therefore, IDA and the World Bank
are used interchangeably throughout this Report.

                                                     4
                                                                                     Official Use

the Issuing Bank indicate that Company B was not aware that the bank reference letter was false.

World Bank Follow Up Action

The World Bank sanctioned Company A for engaging in a fraudulent practice with respect to its
submission of the bank reference letter. Company A, or any affiliate it directly or indirectly
contracts, is ineligible to participate in any Bank-financed activities for a period of two years
with an option for release if it takes remedial measures and implements an effective integrity
compliance program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.




                                               5
