Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7808-MU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fourth Trade and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 3, 2009  
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7808-MU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated December 3, 2009, entered into between THE REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITIUS (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support  
of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided  
to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower 
has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate 
 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree 
as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
Page  3
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and   (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Page  4
3
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
 Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economic 
 Empowerment. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment 
Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN 
4247 
(230) 213 6450 
 
Port Louis 
 
EXTERN IW 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Port Louis, Republic of Mauritius, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
By /s/ Ramakrishna Sithanen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ruth Kagia 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
Consolidation of Fiscal Performance and Improving Public Sector Efficiency
1. 
Preparation of at least four line ministries strategies for 
the Borrower’s Fiscal 
Year 2010 budget in line with program-based budget requirements.   
Improvement of Trade Competitiveness
2. 
Revision of the legal and regulatory framework of the Information and 
Communication Technology (ICT) sector in line with the international best 
practices and changes resulting from technological convergence for modern 
competitive ICT markets, as shall be evidenced by: (i) reduction of the prices of 
international private leased circuits from Mauritius to Paris; (ii) preparation and 
approval by the Board of ICTA of draft proposals for amendment to the 
Information and Communication Technologies Act; and (iii) appointment of the 
Data Protection Commissioner pursuant to the Data Protection Act. 
3
Establishment of a joint Public-Private Sector Standing Committee to review the 
design and implementation of regulatory measures relative to import and export 
licenses with a view to eliminate unwarranted barriers to trade. 
Improvement of Investment Climate
4. 
Appointment of the commissioners to the Competition Commission of Mauritius. 
5. 
Enactment of the insolvency legislation (Insolvency Act No 3 of 2009).  
Widening the Circle of Opportunity through Participation, Social Inclusion and
Sustainability
6. 
Production of a final poverty map by the Central Statistics Office of Mauritius 
(CSO) combining the Borrower’s FY 2001/02 Household Budget Survey and 
2000 Population Census data with the objective of improving the capacity for 
geographical targeting.  
7. 
Implementation of a targeted and temporary policy action in the form of a work 
and training scheme by the National Empowerment Foundation to mitigate the 
risks of widespread layoffs in the context of the economic slowdown. 
Page  7
6
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Single Tranche 
 
49,875,000 
Front-end Fee 
 
125,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
50,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by 
 
the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable  
to the Bank; and 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount  
of the Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted  
for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
Beginning December 15, 2014  
through December 15, 2028
 
3.33% 
On June 15, 2029 
                          3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 
1of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
Page  9
8
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1.  
“Competition Commission of Mauritius” means the commission established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Competition Commission Act No.25 of 
2007. 
2. 
“Data Protection Act” means the Borrower’s Data Protection Act No. 13 of 2004. 
3. 
 “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national  
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank  
or the Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which  
the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to finance under 
another loan, credit, or grant; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
10 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
4. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following year (prior to July 2009),  including the 
period commencing on July1, 2009 and ending on December 31, 2009, and 
thereafter, commencing on January 1 of each year and ending on December 31. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
6. 
 “ICT” means Information and Communication Technology. 
7. 
“ICTA” means the Information and Communication Technologies Authority 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Information and 
Communication Technologies Act No. 44 of 2001. 
8. 
“Information and Communication Technologies Act” means the Borrower’s 
Information and Communication Technologies Act No. 44of 2001. 
9. 
“National Empowerment Foundation” means the National Empowerment 
Foundation Company No. 81682 established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Companies Act No. 15of 2001. 
10. 
 “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed  
to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated September 24, 2009, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
Page  12
11 
 
11. 
“Public-Private Sector Standing Committee” means the non-tariff barriers 
committee established to monitor the implementation of the recommendations to 
promote and sustain competitiveness in both short and medium term as noted 
under paragraph 8 of the Borrower’s Cabinet Decision dated April 3, 2009. 
12. 
 “Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association
 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  13
12 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
Page  14
13 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  
 
