                                                                                                            97790
Mauritius Programmatic DPL                                                                          April 14, 2011




 Strengthened Macroeconomic Framework and Enhanced Trade
 Competitiveness of Mauritius


Overview
Drawing upon International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) funding and
technical assistance since 2006, Mauritius has consolidated its fiscal performance, improved
trade competitiveness, enhanced investment climate and empowered and assisted vulnerable
people. Revenue stabilized above 20 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) and the
number of registered companies increased by 11 percent. Mauritius is ranked 20 out of 183
economies in the ease of doing business index and is the highest ranked country in Sub-
Saharan Africa ( Doing Business, 2011). Primary and secondary school completion rates
improved from 64.9 and 78.4 percent in 2006 to 68.1 and 78.8 percent, respectively in 2010.


Challenge
In 2005/06, debt to GDP ratio exceeded prudent levels in
                                                                 More Results
Mauritius and there was poor fiscal discipline and deficient
tax administration. The country faced ineffective business

                                                                 8.8%
regulation, red tape and discretionary interventions, which
had a negative impact on trade competitiveness. Incentives
in place at that time favored production for domestic markets
rather than exports and policies to encourage product and        Reduction of public sector debt
                                                                 in 2010 (60 percent) compared to
process innovations were missing. Dealing with the               68.8 percent in 2005/06.
constraints of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) was not
considered a high priority. The investment climate was sub-
optimal due to a shortage of human capital, rigidity in
regulation on entry of foreign workers, an inflexible labor
market, and wage setting linked to inflation rather than
productivity. In addition, the country lacked policies for
                                                                 20
                                                                 Ranking of Mauritius in the
participation and social inclusion of vulnerable people. The     Doing Business index in 2011
country was also faced with the “triple trade shock” of trade    compared to 32 in 2007.

preference erosion and high oil prices.

Approach                                                         MORE INFORMATION

The programmatic Development Policy Lending (DPL) series          Mauritius Development Policy
                                                                  Loan, Development
was designed to support the government in undertaking
comprehensive structural reforms to deal with the challenges      Mauritius Second Development
mentioned above and to support the country in a transition        Policy Loan, Development
from a low wage, low skill sugar and apparel exporter to an       Mauritius Third Development
innovative, knowledge and skill-based services economy.           Policy Loan, Development
The program design was based on analytical work prior to
                                                                  Mauritius Fourth Development
the preparation of the first operation and during the             Policy Loan
preparation of the following operations, and other operations
in the portfolio. The design of the program followed the           Country Website
structure of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and was        Country Brief
conceived around and supported the government’s priorities
                                                                   Country Partnership Strategy
in four pillars of reform: (i) consolidating fiscal performance
and improving public sector efficiency, (ii) enhancing trade       Data and Statistics
competitiveness, (iii) improving the investment climate, and
(iv) democratizing the economy through participation, social
inclusion and sustainability. The approach used by the Bank
included undertaking economic and sector work (ESW) jointly
with the government, consultation with stakeholders (private
sector and academics), extensive coordination with other donors, and utilization of prior actions
to achieve the objectives of the reform agenda.

Results
The programmatic series of development policy loans has helped to support improvements in
several key outcomes:

       The DPL series supported policy measures to consolidate the fiscal framework,
       including, among others, implementation of a Medium-term Expenditure Framework and
       a Program-Based Budgeting, proclamation of the Public Debt Management Act 2008,
       which imposes a limit on public borrowing to GDP, and operationalizing the Mauritius
       Revenue Authority to strengthen tax administration. Fiscal consolidation led to the
       stabilization of revenue above 19 percent of the GDP and reduction of public sector debt
       to 60 percent of the GDP in 2010 compared to 68.8 percent in 2005/06.

       The DPL series supported policy measures to improve the investment climate and trade
       competitiveness, including, among others, unifying tax and regulatory regimes for Export
       processing Zones (EPZ) and non-EPZ firms, phased out tariff reductions, review trade-
       related regulatory measures, revision of the legal and regulatory framework of the
       information, communications, and technology (ICT) sectors, and appointment of
       commissioners to the Competition Commission of Mauritius. The intermediate results are
       an increase in the number of products not subject to tariffs from 74 percent to 87
       percent, an increase in internet bandwidth from 123 Mbps to 657 Mbps, increase in
       information, communications, and technology (ICT) sector as a percentage of GDP from
       5.5 percent to 6.4 percent, reduction in number of days to start business from 46 to 6.
       These results have contributed to the improvement in the ranking of Mauritius in the
       Doing Business index from 32 in 2007 to 20 in 2011, and an increase in Foreign Direct
       Investment FDI from 2.8 billion Mauritian rupees in 2005/06 to 13 billion rupees in 2010.

       The DPL series supported policy measures to widen the circle of opportunity through
       participation, social inclusion and sustainability, including setting up the Empowerment
       Program, replacing consumer subsidies by targeted cash transfers, poverty mapping,
       approval of a fully financed education strategy and implementation of targeted and
       temporary policy action to mitigate risk of widespread layoffs in the context of economic
       slowdown. The intermediate results are an increase in number of trained workers from
       821 to 8,000, placement of women displaced from the textile sector from 45 to 200, and
       improved primary and secondary completion rates from 64.9 and 78.4 percent in 2006 to
       68.1 and 78.8 percent in 2010.

Bank Contribution
Initially the programmatic series was intended to have three operations of US$30 million each.
However, to help Mauritius mitigate the impact of the global crisis and to insure against
plausible risks and potential disruption thereof to the reform program, the third operation in the
series was prepared with Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) and with an increased amount of
US$100 million. At the end of the series in 2010, the government requested another DPL
series to keep the momentum of reforms and coordination among development partners. Given
that the forthcoming election was near and uncertainties of global economic activities continued
to exist, it was agreed to extend the DPL series by a year with DPL4 with a value of US$50
million and then start the new series postelection.
Partners
Besides the Bank, other development partners also contributed in technical and financial terms
to make the reform agenda of the government a success. The European Union (EU) provided
budget support in terms of grants, the African Development Bank provided general budget
support, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) provided technical assistance,
and the Agence Française de Développement provided sectoral budget support loans. From
2007 to 2010, total budget support from development partners to the government amounted to
US$1,047 million (out of which US$210 million is from the Bank).

Toward the Future
After successfully addressing competitiveness issues in the programmatic DPL series, which
supported the government in its reform agenda and responded quickly yet efficiently to the
international economic and financial downturn, the government has requested another DPL
series (four operations of US$20 million each). This new series would support attaining
substantial efficiency gains through improved public service delivery, and regulatory and
administrative simplification. The authorities have requested specific support in the following
areas: (i) social protection; (ii) public enterprises and parastatals reforms; (iii) civil service
reform; (iv) raising competitiveness (trade); and (v) improve social sector delivery (education
and health). The first operation under this new programmatic series is under preparation with
disbursement scheduled for the first quarter in 2012.
