Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12567-HU
STAFF APPRIASAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MAY 17, 1995
Energy,Environment, Transport and Telecommunications Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
March 1995
Hungarian Forint (HUE
1989        1990        1991        1992        1993       1924      1925
59.10       63.20       74.75       79.00       92.00      105.1      118.4
(March)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                       US System
1 meter (m)                          =    3.2808 feet
ilkilometer (km)                     =    0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)             =    0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)                 -    0.9842 long ton (Ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =    2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
AVM         -     automatic vehicle monitoring
BCG         -     Budapest City Government
BKV         -     Budapest Transport Company
BTA         -     Budapest Transport Association
CBD         -     Central Business District
DBR         -     Proposed Number 4 Metro Line
EBRD        -     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU          -     European Union
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FYR         -     First Year Return
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IS          -     International Shopping
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         -     Limited International Bidding
MAV         -     Hungarian State Railways
MTCWM    -        Ministry of Transport, Communications and Water Management
MA0         -     Budapest Bypass (motorway)
NBH         -     National Bank of Hungary
OECD        -     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
pkm         -     Passenger Kilometer
RF          -     Revolving Fund
SOE         -     State Owned Enterprise
VOLANBUSZ         Domestic and International Road Passenger Company



HUNGARY
BI?DAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1     URBAN TRANSPORT IN BUDAPEST   .........                    ..1............. 
A. Introduction ........................................   1
B. The City, its Transport System and Institutions  ..................   2
C. The Finances of the Municipality of Budapest ...................   4
D. Budapest Transport Company (BKV)  ........................   5
E. Key Problems and Issues ................................   6
F. Bank Projects in the Sector and Lessons Learned  .................. 8
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................   9
2.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ...... .........                        .................  10
A. Project Origin  ......................................  10
B. Project Preparation  ...................................  10
C. Objectives .........................................  10
D. Description  ........................................  11
E. Policy Requirements ...................................  13
F. Costs ............................................  16
G. Financing Plan ......................................  18
3.     IMPLEMENTATION   ...................................  19
A. Responsibilities ...................................                             19
B. Implementation Schedule ................................. 19
C. Environmental Impact of Construction ........            ................  20
D. Procurement .................................... 20
E. Disbursements, Accounts and Audits .........            ................  23
F. Monitoring and Supervision ............................... 24
4.     FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  .......... ..                         .............  25
A. Introduction .........................                                          25
B. Accounting and Auditing  ...........                 ..............  25
C. Past Financial Performance .......................... 26
D. Subsidies  .........................   27
E. Fare Evasion  .........................  27
F. Forecast Financial Performance .........................                        27



- ii-
5.    ECONOMRC EVALULTioN .............................. 31
A. General ...... ................................... 31
B. Traffic ........            ............................. 31
C. Cost Benefit Analysis .32
D. Environmental Impact .33
E. Distributional Impact .33
F. Conclusion and Risks .35
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMfENDATIONS  . .37
A. Agreements Reached at Negotiations .37
B. Recommendation ................ .................... 38
TEXT TABLES
2.1 Summary of Project Costs .....................  17
2.2 Financing Plan ......................  18
3.1 Procurement Arrangements .....................  22
4.1 BKV's Financing Plan 1994-1998 . .....................  29
ANNEXES
1. Finances of the Municipality of Budapest .....................  39
2. Municipal Urban Transport Policy . .....................  49
3. Municipal Urban Transport Investment Plan   ...................   59
4. The Budapest Transport Company (BKV)  .....................  62
5. Organization Chart of BKV  .....................  68
6. Assumptions Used in Financial Projection  .....................  69
7. Income Statements, 1991-93 (Actual), 1994 (Estimate) 1995-2000 (Forecast)  71
8. Cash Flow Statements, 1991-93 (Actual), 1994 (Estimate) 1995-2000 (Forecast)72
9. Balance Sheets, 1991-93 (Actual), 1994 (Estimate), 1995-2000 (Forecast) . . 73
10. The Economic Evaluation .....................  74
11. Project Implementation Plan  .........         .............  80
12. Terms of Reference for Review of BKV's Management Information Needs  . 122
13. Selected Documents Available in the Project File .124



- iii -
MAPS
IBRD No. 25207R The Network of Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
This report is based on an appraisal mission to Budapest, Hungary in October 1993
comprising Peter Parker (Task Manager, Transport Economist), Michele Cyna (former
Task Manager, Transport Engineer), William Hayden (Financial Analyst), Krisztina Kiss
(Operations Officer), Slobodan Mitric (Urban Transport Specialist), Njeri Muhoho
(Operations/Financial Analyst), Svetislav Orlic (Railway Specialist), Gerard O'Mahony
(Consultant, Financial Analyst), Laurent Cavrois, (Research Assistant), and Robert Ebel
(Government Finance Specialist). Bernard Simon (Transport Engineer) joined the project
team following the appraisal. Mmes. Lorraine Kosi6ski, Hille Blackshaw and Lisa Fonick
assisted with the final preparation of the report. Messrs. Richard Scurfield and John Flora
provided the Peer Review. The Division Chief is Mr. Hans J. Apitz (EC2IN) and the
Department Director is Mr. Kemal Dervis (EC2DR).



HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Municipality of Budapest
Beneficiaries:    Budapest Transport Company (BKV) and Municipality of Budapest
Amount:           US$38.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Fifteen years maturity including a grace period of five years at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Poverty Category: Not applicable
Objectives:       The overall objective is to support the urban transport reforms undertaken
by the City of Budapest and BKV. Specific objectives are to: (a)
modernize and increase the commercial orientation of BKV; (b) implement
a parking control policy; (c) decrease subsidies to BKV by reducing
operating costs, increasing tariffs and separating noncore activities, and
by introducing the private provision of public transport services; (d)
contribute to the improvement of air quality in Budapest; and (e) establish
a formal contractual relationship between BKV and the City of Budapest.
Description:      The project would consist of: (a) the replacement of 50 wom-out buses
with low-polluting and energy-efficient substitutes; (b) the rehabilitation
of about 47 km of womout tramway tracks and the purchase of track
maintenance equipment; (c) the second phase of an automatic vehicle
monitoring system; and (d) technical assistance and training in financial
management, economic evaluation of projects, marketing, organization,
and technical issues.
Justification:    Car ownership, traffic congestion, and air pollution are increasing rapidly
in Budapest. Past subsidies, which Government can no longer afford,
contributed to an uneconomically high level of services, ridership, and
employment, while the financial constraints that followed contributed to
the physical deterioration of the system.  To address these issues,
Budapest is introducing a parking management scheme, improving the
coordination of urban transport services, introducing private transport
services on a trial basis, and improving investment selection. BKV is also
taking steps to increase its cost recovery, reduce fare evasion, improve
operational performance, separate noncore activities, and contract out
additional construction activities.   The institutional improvements



- ii -
supported by the project are expected to reduce the cost of public and
private transportation, and thereby increase real incomes.
Risks:             The greatest project risk is that BKV will fail to meet its cost recovery or
operating ratio targets, resulting in a further deterioration of plant and
operations. This could result from the failure of the Municipality to
approve timely and sufficient tariff increases, or to provide an adequate
level of subsidy.  Experience in other countries demonstrates that
maintenance deteriorates when public transport organizations have
insufficient funds. However, the Municipality and BKV have already
increased BKV's cost recovery from 19 percent in 1986 to 34 percent in
1994. They have provided assurances at all levels that they will take the
necessary steps to meet the 50 percent cost recovery target by 2000. In
addition, BKV is satisfactorily implementing their component of the
Second Transport Sector Project and the EBRD Urban Transport Project.
Financial risks are therefore considered to be acceptable.
A second project risk is that the Municipality or BKV might proceed with
a major uneconomic investment, thereby undermining financial capacity
to pursue project and increase self financing. The project includes a
covenant requiring the Municipality or BKV to demonstrate that all major
new transport investments have an ERR of at least 10 percent.
Local       Foreign      Total
------------------US$ million---------------
Estimated Cost:
Tram Track Renewal                    19.5        24.5          44.0
Bus Replacement                       2.1          6.3          8.4
AVM                                   1.5          1.7          3.2
Technical Assistance                    -          1.6           1.6
Contingencies                         60           3.9          9.9
Total                          29.1         38.0         67.1
Fmancing Plan:
World Bank                            0.0         38.0          38.0
Municipality                          29.1        .0.           29.1
Total                          29.1         38.0         67.1



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
(in US$ Million)
-------------------------------- IBRD FY --------------------------------------
1996         1997         1998         1999         2000
Annual        9.1         11.4          8.4          6.8           2.3
Cumulative   9.1          20.5         28.9          35.7         38.0
Economic Rate of Return:         21 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:          Report No. 12567-IH{U
Map No:                          IBRD No. 25207R
Project Identification Number:   8494



HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. URBAN TRANSPORT IN BUDAPEST
A. Introduction
1.1   The evolution of Budapest and its urban transport needs mirrors the transition of the
Hungarian economy.  In terms of scale, Budapest accounts for about 20 percent of total
Hungarian population and about 25 percent of all jobs, and therefore its management and
finances are important national features. With the 1990 Self-Government Act, local governments
now have clear jurisdiction over local infrastructure and services (including urban roads and
public transport), together with the requisite fiscal and spending powers. Central government
allocations to Budapest have been declining as a share of municipal resources to about 50 percent
in 1994, indicating increasing reliance on local revenue and borrowing. Like the central
government, Budapest is attempting to pursue policies which fmd the balance between economic
growth and social development, protect the environment, tailor expenditures to fit available
resources, and use public funds only when expected benefits exceed costs.
1.2   One of the most urgent short-term issues facing Budapest is the relative roles of mass
transport services and the automobile. While mass transport predominates (currently 70 percent
on a per trip basis), this is now changing as the result of economic restructuring, and the use
of autos has doubled in the last 10 years. Until recently, mass transport fares were quite low,
but now cover 34 percent of costs. Low fares and an extensive transit network explain why the
usage of mass transport in Budapest has been one of the highest in the world. Subsidies to mass
transport currently account for about 12 percent of the city's budget. Increased street congestion
negatively affects the services and costs of public transport modes, and generates strong
pressures for greater spending on road improvements.
1.3   Budapest is now pursuing a comprehensive approach to the provision, pricing and
financing of mass transport. It is also Budapest's policy to slow down (and in some cases,
arrest) the shift toward private cars; on the other hand, recognizing the link between economic
growth and transport, it will also consider new road projects where justified. It is also the
Municipality's strategy to both increase cost recovery from passengers and increase the
efficiency of public transport modes. The Municipality is also committed to increasing the role
of the market in the urban transport system, including privatization.
1.4   The Budapest Transport Company (BKV) operates all bus and rail-based public transport
operations serving the city. It is, by and large, an efficient and relatively well-managed
company, in the main stream of the European tradition, but burdened with the inheritances of



- 2 -
a command economy. Its fleet is inefficient and environmentally unsound. BKV is overstaffed
(particularly in nonoperating departments), and it is relies on in-house capability for functions
only remotely related to public transport. Starting in 1991, BKV has been using outside
assistance to diagnose these issues and develop plans for future improvements. It is also the
beneficiary of a small component (US$4.0 million) of the Second Transport Project (Loan 3032-
HU, 1989, US$95 million) which has been effectively used to establish a traffic control system.
The project will complement an ongoing EBRD Urban Transport Project which is being
effectively implemented.
B. The City, its Transport System and Institutions
1.5   With its slightly declining population of about 2 million people, Budapest's economy
rests, in addition to commerce and administration, on heavy industry (locomotive, bus, and ship
building), electrical machinery, food processing, and tourism. The River Danube divides the
city into hilly Buda, with its historic district and lower-density residential developments, and
Pest, built on a plain with a quasi-grid street pattern. The majority of non residential activities
in the city occur in Pest. Concentrations of large-scale industrial public enterprises in the
northern and southern suburbs line the Danube and reflecting the pattern established during the
command economy system. New, private businesses are cropping up in smaller industrial parks,
diffused throughout suburban districts. The construction of the outer ring road, now being
carried out with Bank assistance, will no doubt affect industrial and commercial siting in the near
future, and it may also reinforce housing developments on the fringes of the urban area. The
growth of the city has been managed through a series of master plans; the most recent of these
was adopted in 1988 and it is now being updated. Formerly, master plans were prepared by
state-owned consulting institutions (UTIBER, UVATERV and others), but these are now
breaking up and giving way to private consulting firms.
1.6   The Budapest capital region consists of 22 districts, each with its own locally elected
mayor and assembly. There is also an umbrella city Government (Municipality), with an elected
mayor and an assembly of 88 representatives; each district elects one representative, while the
others are elected in a city wide vote, based on proportional representation. The previous
Municipal Government was structured as a top-down hierarchy with authority for both planning
and funding decisions; the new system is based on the 1990 Self-Government Act, which gave
local Governments clear jurisdiction over local infrastructure and services (including urban roads
and public transport), together with requisite fiscal and spending powers. In Budapest, the
districts are responsible for primary and secondary education and some social programs, but the
Municipality is responsible for public transport services and other area-wide systems (e.g. water
and gas supply). The ownership of residential real estate was transferred from the state to the
districts and the Municipality, and a divestiture process is underway.



- 3 -
1.7   Personal mobility is high at 5.2 million trips per day and so is the share of trips taken
using motorized modes, at 85 percent. In spite of the recent jump in car ownership, public
transport still carries an impressive 70 percent of motorized trips. The fundamental approach
to urban transport in Budapest, as in other capitals of Central/Eastern Europe, has been to give
a primary role to public transport by providing extensive and frequent service at low fares.
Budapest's Transport Company, BKV, is a large public-sector enterprise enjoying a virtual
monopoly in the inner city; it has about 19,000 employees and a multi-modal fleet of about
3,600 vehicles. Longer-distance commuting and travel needs are served by Hungarian Railways
(MAV) and the inter-city bus company (VOLANBUSZ), both also public-sector enterprises.
Private sector activities are limited to taxis and minibuses. Bicycle ownership is relatively high,
estimated at about 300,000 bicycles, but this mode is still limited to recreational use. Some 10
km of bike-only routes have been built in Budapest; these are mainly scattered around low-
density areas, and the Municipality intends to integrate them into a coherent network.
1.8   The importance of public transport modes notwithstanding, car ownership in Budapest
was fairly substantial in the past and has recently grown at a considerable rate. Starting at about
360,000 cars in 1985 (174 cars per 1,000 inhabitants), the fleet rose to about 472,000 in 1990
and is still growing at some 6-7 percent per annum. The current ownership rate, estimated to
be around 290 per 1,000 inhabitants, is pushing Budapest into the same category as Western
European cities such as Berlin (313 cars per 1,000) or Stockholm (249 cars per 1,000
inhabitants). This growth has not been due to an overall increase in incomes and wealth.
Rather, the increase in car ownership is based on faster income growth for some social groups,
primarily the emerging class of private entrepreneurs, as well as to easier access to secondhand
western cars.
1.9   Despite the relatively high rate of car ownership, individual transport plays a modest role
in Budapest. The availability of an excellent public transport system does not alone explain this
phenomenon, since other constraints on automobile usage exist. The price of gasoline in
Hungary has traditionally been high, much as elsewhere in Europe. In August 1994, the most
frequently used 96-octane gasoline cost about HUF88 (US$0.85) per liter and diesel fuel cost
HUF69 (US$0.66) per liter. The physical layout of Budapest has also restrained the use of
private cars somewhat, the six Danube bridges are congested at peak hours, very few parking
garages exist in the central business district and, as a matter of public policy, the Municipality
has refused to add parking capacity indiscriminately.  On-street pay parking has been
implemented in limited areas, but this parking policy has been poorly enforced and improper car
parking interferes with motorized vehicles and pedestrians. Finally, a comprehensive traffic
management plan is in place in the inner city, on the Pest side of the river, and it will soon be
extended. It features pedestrian-only streets and squares, a one-way circulation system designed
to discourage cars from crossing certain areas, linked traffic lights acting as a gate system,
pedestrian subways, and some off-street car parks, both surface and multi-story types. A similar
approach has been used in the historic Castle District in Buda, with a strong focus on the
protection of the natural environment and monuments.



- 4 -
1.10 The road system of Budapest is extensive, comprising some 2,900 km of paved streets.
The City spent about US$18 million in 1994 for road and bridge maintenance. Radial roads are
better developed than ring roads. A single inner-city ring makes use of two out of six Danube
bridges. Another ring road is in the making along Hungaria Blvd; it crosses the Danube in the
north along Arpad bridge, but its southern crossing, the proposed Lagymanyos Bridge, is still
under construction (see Map IBRD 25207R). The outer ring, MO, will be of motorway standard
and will free Budapest of transit and some suburban traffic; 29 km has already been constructed.
In addition to building new bridges, developing circular roads, and moving longer-distance
traffic to new, higher-standard roads, major work will be necessary to eliminate 60 remaining
railway at-grade crossings.
C. The Finances of the Municipality of Budapest
1.11 Details on the financial sources available to the Municipality of Budapest, together with
a summary of its cash receipts and expenditures for the years 1991 through 1993 and estimates
for 1994, are shown in Annex 1. The Municipality's income as stated in forints increased by
32 percent from HUF57 billion to HUF75 billion during the period 1991-94. Inflation caused
the dollar equivalents to decline from US$740 million in 1991 to US$728 million in 1994. In
1991, about 71 percent of total revenue was received from the central Government in the form
of per capita allocations of taxes earnarked for local governments and targeted grants. The
balance of about 29 percent consisted of local taxes, miscellaneous income collected directly by
the Municipality, and loans. In 1994 central Government allocations provided about 50 percent
of the City's resources, local taxes etc. provided about 34 percent and borrowing provided 16
percent or HUF 14.1 billion (US$137 million). About 41 percent of the Municipality's income
is earmarked for special programs, e.g. social security payments, road construction, etc. with
the remaining 59 percent available for expenditure at its own discretion.
1.12 In 1991, the Municipality spent about HUF48 billion on current operations; this amount
represented about 87 percent of its total budget. One of the major items of current expenditure
was the subsidy of HUFlO billion paid to BKV; this represented about 17 percent of the City's
total budget. Capital expenditure was HUF7 billion, or about 13 percent of the total. There was
a surplus of the 1991 operations of about 5 percent, or HUF3 billion. For 1994, current and
other expenditure is estimated to be HUF65 billion, or 73 percent of the total budget, while that
part of the current expenditure allocated to the BKV subsidy remained at HUFlO billion, which
now would represent about 12 percent of the total. Capital investment at HUF24 billion is
expected to account for the remaining 27 percent of expenditures. The Municipality achieved
a surplus on the combined current and capital account of HUF7.2 billion for the three years
1991, 1992, and 1993, and broke even in 1994.
1.13 The Municipality's total borrowing as of 1993 was about HUF7.0 billion. During 1994
the Municipality signed a Loan Agreement with the EBRD for a loan of US$47 million



-5 -
equivalent which will be transferred to BKV in the form of a grant or equity contribution. In
addition to the proposed Bank loan of US$38.0 million, the Municipality proposes to borrow in
1995 a loan of HUF8.5 billion (US$65 million) for 'Investments of State Importance". The debt
service on the HUF8.5 billion loan will be financed directly by the Government and BKV will
finance the debt service on the Bank loan. With the postponement of the Metro investment, no
major borrowing program by the Municipality is foreseen in the immediate future. The
Municipality is currently financially viable and the proposed project should enhance this viability
by reducing the investment and operating support required by BKV. The Municipality agreed
at negotiations that it will not incur any debt if the estimated debt service for any succeeding
fiscal year would be more than 15 percent of its cash income for the twelve-month period
preceding the incurrence of the debt. Loans for which the debt service is financed by other
agencies will not be included in this calculation unless the debt service is in arrears.
D. Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
1. 14 The Budapest Transport Company (BKV) was created in 1968 through unification of bus
and rail-based operations serving the city, as a monopoly provider of public transport services.
Its staff and assets still reflect the important function they were performing prior to the economic
transformation. In 1987, the company had a staff of 24,600 and owned a multimodal fleet of
about 3,800 vehicles. The deficits created by the policy of low fares were financed through a
sophisticated system of operating subsidies provided by the City and the Government of
Hungary. Major cracks in this system appeared when macro-economic constraints made the
prospect of continuing subsidies (and thus a policy of low cost recovery) less and less feasible
at their past levels. The first fare increase in BKV's history took place in 1985, the next one
in 1989, and increases became annual thereafter. Traffic started to fall, because of fare
increases, increased unemployment, BKV service reductions and rising car ownership and use.
Starting in 1990, BKV sought outside assistance, financed through the Second Transport project,
to study its organization and management with a view to reducing costs and improving services.
The study, completed in 1991, indicated that BKV was obtaining satisfactory levels of
productivity from vehicles and staff directly involved in operations, but its costs were high due
to a plethora of staff in other departments (especially in administration) and its involvement in
activities that had little or nothing to do with transport (eg. construction). BKV's buses were
neither energy efficient nor environmentally friendly, and some of its rail-based infrastructure
and fleet used obsolete technologies and needed to be replaced. The study also recommended
that innovative sources of finance be developed to reduce BKV's reliance on city subsidies.
1.15 The first multi-party local elections were held in Budapest in 1990 and the Government
of Hungary started disengaging itself from financing urban services. Currently its only
remaining direct contribution to BKV's operations is compensation for concessionary fares. In
December 1991, BKV became a budgetary agency of The City of Budapest, a temporary
arrangement before its transformation into a city-owned company, operating under commercial



-6 -
law. A national law requires that the transformation process be completed by the end of 1996.
In the meantime, the City is pressing BKV to reduce its operating costs.  BKV's subsidy
represented 13.6 percent of the Municipal budget in 1994. The company has undergone two
management changes between 1991 and 1993 and has implemented a comprehensive
reorganization scheme. Staff from central departments were redeployed in operational roles, 85
managerial positions were eliminated, and total staff was reduced from 22,000 permanent and
2,000 part-time employees to a total of 19,533; the eventual goal is to reach a total of 18,000
employees by 2000. BKV is also introducing a new accounting system (along EC guidelines)
and making diverse, low-cost investments to modernize and improve its operations (e.g.
automatic vehicle monitoring system, energy-supply management, vehicle priority at
intersections), partly with assistance from the Second Transport Project. There has also been
some increase in BKV's cost recovery (31 percent from farebox, 3 percent from other activities),
although it is considered insufficient in view of the burden that BKV represents for the City's
finances. BKV is further described in Annex 4.
E. Key Problems and Issues
1.16 Five issues dominate the urban transport scene in Budapest. The first four involve BKV:
(a) size of the service network and of the company; (b) fare policy and subsidies in a shrinking
market; (c) aged and obsolete plant; and (d) formal status of BKV as an enterprise and its
relationship with the Municipality. The fifth has to do with urban automobile policies.
1.17 BKV's network design was predicated on intense use of public transport, partly induced
by very low fares. It also adopted a high level of service, in terms of frequency as well as of
access to stops, not necessarily based on passenger demand. To support this network, BKV
developed a very large organization, relying on in-house capability for most functions even
remotely relevant to public transport.  BKV is burdened by excess administrative staff,
especially in non operational departments. In a declining demand situation, BKV's network is
too large and the company is overstaffed. Meanwhile, despite significant fare increases over
the last five years, the cost-recovery ratio is still low, and BKV's subsidy providers, the
Hungary Government and the Municipality, are both facing severe budget constraints that
prevent them from financing BKV at a level allowing proper renewal of its plant. BKV's fleet
consists mainly of vehicles manufactured in Eastern Europe with high levels of noxious
emissions, high fuel consumption, and obsolete technology. Furthermore, this fleet is aged, and
frequent breakdown require a high percentage of spare vehicles, while the poor condition of
tracks and track structures has brought major disruption to the tram network. The previous
subsidy formulas were discontinued by the 1991 change of ownership and have been replaced
by an open-ended subsidy with no incentives to increase productivity. BKV maintains an
intermediate status that is not scheduled for change until 1996, and the current relationship
between BKV and the Municipality needs to be improved. The proposed project addresses all
of these issues.



- 7 -
1.18 While the use of public transport services is declining, private car ownership has grown
significantly, creating congestion and increasing pollution. The central business district (CBD)
of Budapest was built before the automobile era; its narrow streets cannot accommodate traffic
flows and parked cars obstruct traffic pedestrians. The resulting congestion has an especially
negative impact on street-based public transport vehicles and pedestrians. It is essential that the
existing traffic management activities of the Municipality, which focus on engineering measures,
be extended to include pricing instruments as well. Congestion management through a rigorous
parking policy is part of this project.
Urban Transport Policy
1.19 The Urban Transport Policy of the Municipality of Budapest is designed to address
several key issues. The major long-term urban transport policy objectives are to balance
economic growth and social development measures and to protect the environment. In the short
term, the City's main concern is how to slow down the loss of paying passengers to private car
use. At negotiations, the borrower presented a synthesis of the City's Urban Transport Policy
in a statement which is acceptable to the Bank and is included in Annex 2. The main features
of the City's policies and action programs include:
(1)   Actions to improve the financial position and performance of Budapest Transport
Company (BKV), through a combination of revenue increases, operational
improvements and cost-reduction measures. Revenues will be increased through
fare hikes, a new fare system and technology, fare unification to cover all
metropolitan area operators, and action against fare evasion.  Improved
performance and reduced costs will be achieved through BKV plant
modernization, increased priority measures for street-based mass transport
vehicles, service network rationalization, adjustment of service standards to
reflect demand, spinning off non operational functions, increased buying from the
market, and better organization and management.
(2)   Pilot programs to test the potential of private sector participation in the delivery
of mass transport services.
(3)   Actions to restrain vehicular automobile traffic in the inner city through a
combination of traffic and parking management measures, including a new system
of parking charges and better enforcement. The parking policy will charge car
users for parking in the city center but convenient park-and-ride facilities will be
provided in the outskirts. The introduction of road-user charges will also be
explored at a later date.
(4)   Expansion and interconnection of pedestrian zones and a bicycle-lane network.



- 8 -
(5)   Selected road development and rehabilitation to eliminate structural weaknesses
in the arterial network.
(6)   Revision of the City's land use and transport strategy to reflect new economic and
social parameters.
(7)   A comprehensive approach to urban transport finance, making use of new sources
and modes of finance, including a link between net revenue from parking and
public transport financing.
(8)   Improvements in the process of preparing, evaluating, budgeting and
implementing new transport projects, notably introducing cost-benefit analysis in
project selection.
1.20 In addition to the rehabilitation plan for BKV (partly financed by the EBRD and by the
World Bank), the policy calls for new investments. The main road and bridge construction
projects are listed in Annex 3.
1.21 The Municipality has also supported the establishment of a Budapest Transport
Association (BTA), whose objective is to coordinate the providers of public transport in
Budapest and to introduce a single-fare system. An agreement defining actions to be taken to
establish BTA was signed in October 1993 between the Ministry of Transport,
Telecommunications and Water Management, the Municipality of Budapest, BKV, MAV, and
Volanbusz. A draft Deed of Association for the BTA has been prepared, and the unified fare
system is planned to be introduced by January 1, 1997.  At negotiations, the Municipality
presented their Project Implementation Plan which is acceptable to the Bank (Annex 11),
including a Municipal Action Plan which defines the steps for improving parking management
and establishing a Budapest Transport Association.
F. Bank Projects in the Sector and Lessons Learned
1.22   The First Transport Project (Loan 2557-HU, 1985, US$75 million) provided assistance
to railways (MAV), to the roads system, including the construction of a 15 km section of the
Budapest Ring Road (MO), and to a parastatal trucking company (Hungarocamion). It was
completed satisfactorily, although the railway's financial performance was less than projected
due to substantial traffic losses resulting from the economic restructuring. The Second Transport
Project included follow-up assistance in the same three sectors plus a US$4.0 million component
for BKV for a traffic control system. The latter was satisfactorily implemented and is now 100
percent committed and 90 percent disbursed. The road component is close to completion. The
financial performance of MAV, and to a lesser extent Hungarocamion, deteriorated further
during implementation of this second project for the same reasons listed above. In February



1994 an agreement was reached with the Bank on a three-year business plan for MAV and an
action plan for HC; but the situation is still deteriorating because of a continuing sharp decease
in traffic and a failed attempt to reduce costs. The Roads Project (Loan 3549-HU, 1993, US$90
million) was declared effective on December 5, 1993 and is proceeding satisfactorily; the loan
is more than one-third disbursed.
1.23 Project Completion Reports have been prepared Bankwide for about 15 urban transport
projects or urban projects with significant transport components. Physical components were
generally completed as planned and cost estimates were generally of the right order. All public
transport companies made operational improvements. Institutional and policy initiatives were
partly successful. For example, bus fares were successfully increased in Kuala Lumpur and to
a lesser extent in Bombay and Madras, but not in Calcutta and Ivory Coast due to political
interference. Past urban transport projects also demonstrate the importance of ensuring that
there are sufficient funds for maintenance; this in turn depends on increasing cost recovery.
1.24 The main lessons learned from past Hungarian transport projects are: (a) the impact of
economic transformation on public transport enterprises has been very large and has exceeded
earlier expectations -- it must therefore be addressed by a commensurate action plan; (b)
increased cost recovery is important, and related objectives and timing should be agreed up
front; (c) training can have a rapid positive impact if it is linked to specific institutional
objectives and related technical assistance; (d) technical specifications must be prepared early,
so as not to delay the procurement process. These lessons have been taken into account in the
design of this project.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.25 Through early sector work and minor investments in the Second Transport Project, the
Bank has been instrumental in helping BKV to perceive the need for change and to initiate its
reorganization and streamlining process. This has already given positive results, including an
increase in BKV's cost recovery, as discussed above. Other developments which affect public
transport are taking place in Budapest -- the City Government, which unifies some 22
municipalities, is in the process of updating its long-term strategy for land use and transport,
while taking steps to upgrade traffic, parking capacity, and management in the central area.
1.26 The proposed project is designed to pursue one of the key objectives of our country
assistance strategy--namely to help raise the efficiency of social and economic infrastructure
while opening sectors to private sector initiatives. By increasing the commercial orientation of
a major public transport company and introducing the private provision of services, the project
would contribute to the larger aims of reducing the public role in the economy as well as to
pursue economic development in an environmentally sound way.



- 10 -
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.1   This Project was identified during the preparation of a possible Third Transport Project,
which would have included a limited-scope urban transport component, based on the
recommendations of the BKV Organization and Management Study. Then another study on
Urban Transport Investment Priorities Study in Budapest was completed. The initial proposal
was subsequently modified in scope and size to take into account the results of the two studies
as well as the complementary urban transport project being financed by EBRD.
B. Project Preparation
2.2   The Urban Transport Investment Priorities Study analyzed all the proposed urban
transport projects of the Municipality and screened them according to their priority. It also
defined alternative urban transport policies. In response to that study, Budapest's Mayor
indicated that the City will pursue a policy to support public transport with restrictions on car
access to the central business district (para. 1.20).
2.3   Those investments that met the three criteria of economic efficiency, urgency, and
relevance to the City's policy, were then studied in more detail. After further discussion with
the Municipality, a comprehensive urban transport program was established. In August 1993,
the EBRD and the Municipality signed a loan to finance the following parts of this program: (a)
rehabilitation of the 100 year old Millenium Metro Line, which includes waterproofing 1.5 km
of tunnel, replacement of 2.5 km track, three cross-over sections, and refurbishment of three
important stations; (b) engine replacement for buses less than six years old to install less-
polluting, fuel-saving engines; (c) bus fleet renewal for 90 midi buses and 170 articulated buses;
(d) installation of on-street pay parking; and (e) technical assistance, including: (i) assistance
with bidding procedures; (ii) assistance with project management; and (iii) guidance on
institutional issues such as contracting out support activities and restructuring fares.
C. Objectives
2.4   The overall objective of the Budapest Urban Transport Project is to support the urban
transport reforms undertaken by the City of Budapest and BKV. Specific objectives are to: (a)
modernize and increase the commercial orientation of BKV; (b) implement a parking control
policy; (c) decrease subsidies to BKV by reducing operating costs, increasing tariffs and
separating noncore activities, and by introducing the private provision of public transport
services; (d) contribute to the improvement of air quality in Budapest; and (e) establish a formal
contractual relationship between BKV and the City of Budapest.



- 11 -
D. Description
2.5   The Project comprises three investment components, and one technical Assistance
component, which will be developed, financed, and implemented by the City of Budapest and
BKV:
(a)   Bus fleet replacement
(b)   Tram track renewal
(c)   Automatic vehicle monitoring system; and
(d)   Technical assistance
Bus Fleet Replacement
2.6   Buses transport about half of the passenger trips on BKV. In 1993 and 1994, service was
provided by a fleet of about 1,750 buses, most of which were Ikarus 200-series buses
manufactured in Hungary. The Ikarus 200-series were not treated to resist corrosion and thus
their normal body lifespan is only eight years, compared to an average of twelve years for
Western buses. Financial constraints over the last few years have prevented an appropriate bus
replacement program and 36 percent of the fleet is now more than eight years old. Moreover,
most of the buses have D2156 Hungarian-made Raba engines, which are neither environmentally
friendly nor fuel-efficient. The current fleet composition leads to higher maintenance costs,
requires a higher percentage of spare buses (23 percent compared to 10-12 percent in Western
European cities), and causes more air pollution.
2.7   Fifty single buses will be purchased under the World Bank project. Including the
additional buses purchased with the EBRD loan, a total of 325 buses will be purchased during
1994-96. This will allow the replacement of all buses over twelve years old. New buses of
modern design are expected to last twelve years on average, to be cheaper to maintain, to
require fewer spare buses (based on international experience), and to consume less fuel.
Tram Track Renewal
2.8   Tram transport provides about one-quarter of all public transport trips in Budapest. The
network is concentrated in the center of the city, including important extensions to the Metro
system. The track network includes 201 km of big panel surface track which is accessible to
road vehicles, and 165 km of traditional railway-type open track with stone ballast. About 30
percent of the network is in good condition. The average age of the tracks is 19 years, and
some sections are over 40 years old; the recommended average age is about 12 years. The
technology of big panel track is now considered obsolete; it is subject to water intrusion, which
creates an inherent weakness at the junctions between panels so that the panels break at these
junctions, causing irregularities in the rails, which in turn leads to instability and excessive rail



- 12 -
wear. These problems are extremely difficult to repair, and big panel track only lasts an average
of eight years on the most heavily traveled routes.
2.9   The maintenance and renewal budget for tram track has decreased by more than 50
percent in real terms over the last five years. Track condition is deteriorating quickly -- speed
limitation is now required on 14 percent of the network and on some sections, the speed limit
is only 10 km per hour. BKV plans to replace all big panel track as it wears out with a new
type of surface track. This new surface track would be constructed with a continuous reinforced
concrete base with appropriate drainage, heavier rails, and resilient mountings using special
glues, to allow for some elasticity while preserving adherence. It is expected to last 25 to 30
years, to be cheaper to maintain, and to be quieter. However, BKV lacks funds to do the work.
Their budget for maintenance and track renewal declined from a peak US$17.0 million
equivalent in 1989 to US$7.0 million in 1992 with the result that they were able to renew only
about 6 km of track in 1992, and only about 5-6 km each year in 1993 and 1994, compared to
an average annual requirement of around 16 km.
2.10 Under the project, 47 km of track that is in most urgent need of repair (most of which
is expected to be big panel track on the most heavily travelled routes) will be replaced over a
four-year period. The work program will take into account the track condition, the suppression
of speed limits, and a consistent treatment of each route. BKV proposes to concentrate during
the first year on the rehabilitation of the Nagykorut, the most heavily traveled section of the
network (166,000 passengers per day in 1993), which forms part of the inner ring in Budapest.
2.11 In addition, the tram track renewal component will provide various types of small
equipment: (a) instruments to diagnose track condition; (b) maintenance machines and tools; and
(c) computer-controlled maintenance supervision system.
Automatic Vehicle Monitoring System
2.12 The Second Transport Project included Stage I of the implementation of an automatic
vehicle monitoring system. The purpose of the AVM system is to reduce travel time, assure an
even flow of vehicles, reduce empty runs, improve vehicle utilization, inform passengers waiting
at stations of vehicle arrival times, and reduce the cost of manual dispatching. The benefits of
this investment are reductions in the number of vehicles and operating costs required to provide
a given level of service, reduction in dispatching costs, and the increased attractiveness of the
service. Stage I implemented the basic infrastructure needed for the system and also provided
on board equipment sufficient for 250 vehicles. Stage II will provide on board equipment for
200 additional vehicles.



- 13 -
Technical Assistance - Institutional Development
2.13 Technical assistance financed under this project is entirely aimed towards institutional
development. It will include studies, some hardware and software, and local and foreign
training. Six themes are defined:
(a)   Financial Management. The project will provide funds to meet the costs of a
review by outside consultants of BKV's financial, cost-accounting, and data-
processing systems, and will provide technical assistance for their development.
(b)   Management Information System and Computerization. The objective is to
develop an integrated Management Information System to provide appropriate
training, and to procure hardware and software.
(c)   Marketing and Public relations. The objective is to improve BKV's marketing
activities. This will be achieved through study tours in selected foreign countries,
seminars in Hungary, and consultant services related to setting up the Budapest
Transport Association.
(d)   Management and Organization. To follow up the Organization and Management
study done under the Second Transport project, courses will be organized in
Hungary to improve BKV's understanding of modern management methods for
a commercialized public transport company operating in a market economy.
(e)   Technical Improvement. The objective is to improve technical knowledge for
maintenance of rolling stock and infrastructure, and to investigate traffic
management techniques designed to give priority to public transport vehicles.
This objective will be achieved through study tours abroad and seminars in
Hungary.
(f)   Economic Training. The objective is to train economists in BKV and in the
Municipality to perform analysis for transport projects. Various courses on
transport economics and its application to infrastructure planning will be
organized in Hungary.
E. Policy requirements
2.14 In the framework of the project, the City of Budapest will develop and implement policies
covering:



- 14 -
(a)   Parking pricing and availability, to restrain parking in the downtown area
and provide park-and-ride facilities in the outskirts;
(b)   The relationship between BKV and the City of Budapest;
(c)   Separation of BKV's noncore activities, in order to privatize or terminate
them, and contracting out all construction work of BKV;
(d)   Introduction of private provision of public transport on a trial basis; and
(e)   Better cost recovery for BKV, through an appropriate mixture of cost
savings, reduction of fare evasion, and fare increases.
Parking Policy
2.15 Parking control in Budapest is very weak. As a result, cars park in any available space
on both sides of the street, leaving little room for pedestrians and creating a safety hazard. Very
little on-street pay parking exists. This situation encourages drivers to use cars in the central
business district and increases congestion and pollution.
2.16 The Municipality has prepared a comprehensive parking plan, which includes: (a) the
creation of areas where driving is restricted to authorized cars; (b) the installation of on-street
pay parking with appropriate pricing and appropriate enforcement in the city center; and (c) the
creation of park-and-ride facilities on the outskirts of the city. The hourly parking fee for a
private car will vary from HUF20 in the outer part of the city's center, to HUF80 (almost a
dollar) in the inner most part. The possibility of combined park-and-ride and public transport
tickets will be explored.
2.17 The ability of the parking-management plan to actually discourage car access to the city's
center will mainly depend on its enforcement. According to the current law, towing is restricted
to cars actually obstructing traffic flows and cannot be used to ensure proper payment of parking
fees. Because it is difficult to track down car owners from the license plate numbers, the
proposal features devices preventing a car's removal, such as wheel clamping, as the main
enforcement measure.   Significant fines, as high as HUF10,000, will result from non
compliance. The municipal plan was approved by the General Assembly of Budapest, before
being submitted to each District Assembly to define more precisely the location of the park-and-
ride facilities and of the on-street pay parking areas (see also Attachment 3 to Annex 11).
Service and Performance Agreement between the Municipality and BKV
2.18 BKV is now a municipal enterprise. In the past, BKV's objectives were not precisely
defined by the Municipality and BKV did not always get appropriate support for improving its
efficiency. On the other hand, the Municipality complained about a certain lack of transparency
in BKV's operations. To remedy these problems, the two parties have agreed on some overall
policy objectives and immediate operational targets, which are set out in three separate
documents:



- 15 -
(a)   A formal agreement, signed by the Municipality and the General Manager of
BKV, which establishes general principles for the relation between BKV and its
owner, specifies BKV's mission, and defines the process for setting up annual (or
otherwise) objectives, parameter selection, reporting and evaluation.
(b)   An annual performance plan, to be prepared by BKV, which will contain its
specific short-term strategy, anticipated constraints, operational and financial
objectives, performance criteria and targets, studies, completed investments,
investments in progress and/or preparation, and actions sought by BKV from the
Municipality. This report would also include an indicative forecast of BKV's
operational and financial results for the next four years.
(c)   An annual report, which will show the progress (or otherwise) made relative to
the objectives and targets set in the preceding year's performance plan, and
containing at least five years' worth of operational and financial statistics, to put
the preceding year's achievements in perspective.
2.19  The formal agreement was signed by BKV and the Municipality in January 1995. The
targets of the first annual performance plan are included in the BKV action plan which is
included in the Project Implementation Plan (Attachment 4 of Annex 11).
Separation of Noncore Activities
2.20 BKV carries out many activities that have little or no connection with public transport,
such as construction, telecommunications, and river and tourist transport services.  Such
activities have an impact on BKV's overhead and would be more efficiently performed by the
private sector. BKV agreed to an action plan at negotiations which includes the separation of
these noncore activities from BKV. The Municipality will be their temporary owner and will
decide whether to privatize or to terminate them. A list of these activities and the number of
staff involved in each of them is found in Annex 4. A commercialization study, financed by the
EBRD, is underway to define more precisely the type and timing of the separation.
2.21 Parallel to this action, contracting out should become standard practice. BKV has already
taken significant steps in that direction.  Since 1992, BKV has contracted out all track
construction, and all the track work financed by the project will be awarded through ICB, which
will further develop BKV's capability in this area.



- 16-
Introduction of Private Provision of Publc Transport
2.22  Except for taxis, public tnsport in Budapest is run by public companies. On less-
travelled routes, where minibuses provide enough capacity to meet demand, private-sector
operation could prove less costly than public operation. The 1991 Hungarian concession law,
provides the legal framework for private operations; section 1, (1), m refers to "passenger
transport by road, running to schedule' as one of the cases where the law applies. The law
specifies that private provision of that type of service is possible under a concession regime,
following a competitive tendering process described in the law. The Municipality has expressed
its intrest in introducing private operations on a trial basis. At negotiations, it was agreed that
by December 31, 1996, the Municipality will either award at least two transport routes operated
by BKV to privately owned operators, or have regular passenger services operated by BKV
subcontracted through competitive tender so as to reduce BKV's bus fleet requirement by at least
5 percent.
Cost Recovery
2.23 Subsidies to BKV are a heavy burden on the Municipality's finances. Moreover, BKV's
lack of resources mcreases its vulnerability to budget reduction. In recent years, this has
resulted in a less than adequate replacement of obsolete vehicles and equipment.  At
negotiadons, it was agreed that BKV will achieve cost recovery rates not lower than 37 percent
in 1995, 41 percent in 1996, 43 permcnt in 1997, 45 percent in 1998, 47 percent in 1999 and 50
percent in 2000 and thereafter. These levels would be reached by a combination of fare and
other revenue increases, the reduction of fare evasion, and operating-cost decreases. The
investment component of the project wiUl contribute to the operating-cost decrease by reducing
maintenance costs and fuel consumption.
F. Costs
2.24 The project is esimated to cost US$67.1 million, including US$38 million in foreign
costs and US$29.1 million in local costs. Local costs exclude VAT but include other taxes. The
cost estimate is shown in Table 2.1.



- 17 -
Table 2.1 ProJect Cost Estimate
(US$ millions as of January 1, 1995)
Costs
Component              Tot al     Local       Foreign     Percent
Foreign
Tram Track Renewal (a          44.0        19.5        24.5        55.7
Track Renewal               40.9        18.9        22.0        53.8
Track Measuring              0.9         0.2         0.7        77.8
Instruments
Maintenance Machines         1.9         0.3         1.6        84.2
and Tools
Computer-controlled          0.3         0.1         0.2        66.7
Maintenance Supervision
System
Bus Replacement t               8.4         2.1         6.3        75.0
A. V. M.                        3.2          1.5        1.7        53.1
Technical Assistance and         1.6        0.0          1.6      100.0
Training
Total Base Costs               57.2        23.1        34.1        59.6
Physical Contingencies '        4.1          1.9        2.2
Price Contingencies(d           5.8         4.1          1.7
Grand Total                    67.1        29.1        38.0        56.6
a. About 47 km of line.
b. 50 standard-size buses.
c. Estimated at about 10 percent of works.
d. Estimated at 2.2 percent for foreign costs and 6.5 percent for local costs



- 18 -
G. Financing Plan
2.25 The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Table 2.2: Project Flnancing Plan
(US$ millions)
World Bank       City of Budapest        Total
through BKV
Foreign          38.0               0.0              38.0
Local              0.0             22L               29-1
Total            38.0               29.1             67.1
2.26 The Municipality would make available project funds to BKV (except small amounts
required for training municipal staff) in accordance with an agreement whereby the Municipality
would make available part of the proceeds of the loan to BKV, and BKV would provide
sufficient funds to the Municipality to service the loan. Signature of the agreement will be a
condition of project effectiveness.



- 19 -
3. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Responsibilities
3.1   The City of Budapest will be the Borrower. The City is the sole owner of BKV and has
all legal authority over urban transport, including fare levels and service definition. Moreover,
it is creditworthy (para. 1.14). It will be responsible for developing and implementing the policy
requirements of the project. For parking, legal responsibility is shared with the 22 districts, but
the Municipality has a coordinating role that is essential to maintain consistency.  The
Municipality will make project funds available to BKV in accordance with a "Special
Agreement" (para. 2.26).
3.2   BKV will be responsible for implementing all aspects of the project except for matters
of municipal policy and the training program, which will be implemented by the City of
Budapest. The borrower presented a Project Implementation Plan which is acceptable to the
Bank at negotiations, and is shown in Annex 11. BKV will be responsible for the preparation
of bidding documents, supplier prequalification, bid evaluation, and contract signature in addition
to normal supervision. BKV has been the implementing agency in the Second Transport Project
and has become familiar with Bank procedures. Nevertheless, this project is significantly
bigger and more complex. BKV will need technical assistance to implement it, especially with
regard to procurement.
3.3   To streamline the preparation and execution of the project, the Municipality of Budapest
will make use of the already functioning Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU will: (a)
prepare detailed work schedules to plan out phasing, critical activities, and responsibilities; (b)
coordinate the project activities; and (ci) prepare progress reports. The PIU is attached to the
Mayor's office and includes representatives of the Municipality of Budapest technical experts
drawn from the tramway and bus operation departments of BKV. The PIU also handles the
ongoing EBRD Urban Transport Project. An organization chart of the PIU is shown in Annex
11.
B. Implementation Schedule
3.4   The project is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1999. The loan closing date
would be June 30, 2000, to allow sufficient time for the release of security deposits on supply
contracts where performance guarantees are specified, and for effecting final payments for civil
work's contracts. The project implementation schedule was agreed at negotiations as part of the
Project Implementation Plan (para 2.19).



- 20 -
C. Environmental Impact of Construction
3.5   During reconstruction of the tram tracks, the local inhabitants will mainly suffer from
noise, dust, and traffic detours. For its current tram track renewal operations, BKV reduces the
impact of these inconveniences by limiting working hours on the work site, by keeping the site
as clean as possible, and by providing appropriate advance information to the surrounding
neighborhood.
3.6   Disposal of waste material from the work site will be handled in the following manner:
(a)   Stones coming from reconstructed open tram track will be sorted. The non-
polluted stones will be sold to municipalities to use in road construction. The
polluted stones will be sent to a special disposal site for hazardous waste.
(b)   Wood from the tram track renewal will be sold for buming.
(c)   Concrete from the big panels will be used for low-traffic roads such as work-site
access roads, by turning them over so that traffic rides on their flat side.
(d)   Tracks will be melted, recast, and reused.
(e)   Other materials, such as excess earth, will be used as landfill.
D. Procurement
3.7   Details on procurement are presented in Annex 11, Attachment 7. The procurement of
the 50 buses will be done through Intemational Competitive Bidding. The total cost of the
component is US$8.8 million. A single bid has been envisaged. The Bank's standard bidding
documents will be used for this component. A 15 percent domestic preference will apply to
qualifying goods, in accordance with paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 2 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines (1992 version).
3.8   Tram track renewal will also be procured through ICB. The Bank's standard bidding
documents for small works will be used. This is expected to be implemented successfully
because some tram track construction has already been contracted out in Budapest, a fairly good
private construction industry exists in Hungary, and previous World Bank loans have
familiarized these contractors with ICB.
3.9  It was agreed that track renewal works will be grouped into three packages, the first
referring to 1995-96 works, the second to 1996-97 works, and the third to 1997-98 works. The
various elements of each package will be grouped into two or three bids. This combination of
bid sizes will encourage local contractors and medium-size contractors in neighboring countries
to bid, while at the same time offering the option to bid on several contracts together in order
to attract large foreign contractors and encourage quantity discounts on materials. The technical
consistency of the work will be maintained by not splitting a tram line into different contracts.



- 21 -
The contract size will range from about US$6 million to about US$20 million, for a total cost
of US$50.1 million.
3.10 Contracts for track-measuring instruments, small machines and tools, and maintenance
supervision equipment will be grouped into packages of less than US$500,000 each (total
aggregate amount US$2.7 million), and will be awarded through International Shopping by
obtaining at least three quotations from three different countries. The installation of this
equipment is not financed by the Bank and will be procured under Local Competitive Bidding.
3.11 The automatic vehicle monitoring system is the second phase of an ongoing project. The
second phase will use the same technical specifications as did the first phase. Due to the small
number of manufacturers of such systems, the AVM system will be procured by Limited
International Bidding. The installation of the system is not financed by the Bank and will be
procured under Local Competitive Bidding. The total cost of this component is US$3.4 million.
3.12 All consultants' services will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. The main
tasks will be: (a) a review of BKV's financial, cost-accounting, and data processing systems, and
provision of technical assistance for their development, (Terms of Reference for the review of
BKV's management are attached in Annex 12); (b) limited expert help for setting up the
Budapest Transport Association; and (c) separate small contracts for the organization of the
training program. The training program was agreed at negotiations (Annex 11,
Attachment 1).
3.13 All works contracts of more than US$3 million, all procurement packages for goods of
more than US$500,000, the services of consulting firms costing more than US$100,000 and
individual consultant services will be subject to prior review. This will account for about 95
percent of the value of contracts. Other contracts for goods and services will be subject to post
review.



- 22 -
Table 3.1 summarizes the procurement methods which will be used.
Table 3.1: Procurement Methods(')
(US$ million)
Component                  ICB            LCB             Other    Not Bank               Total
Financed.
Bus Replacement                      6.5                                             2.3             8.8
(6.5)                                                           (6.5)
Tram  Track Renewal                 48.0                                             2.1            50.1
(25.6)                                                          (25.6)
Track Measuring                                                  0.7 l              0.2             0.9
Instruments                                                      (0.7)                              (0.7)
Maintenance Machines                                 0.3         1.6 )              0.1             2.0
and Tools                                            (-)         (1.6)                              (1.6)
Maintenance                                          0.1         0.2(b)                              0.3
Supervision System                                  (-)          (0.2)                              (0.2)
A.V.M.                                               1.4         1.8(c)              0.2             3.4
(-          (1-8)                              (1.8)
Technical Assistance                                              1.6(d)                              1.6
(1.6)
TOTAL                               54.5             1.8          5.9                4.9            67.1
(32.1)            (-)         (5.9)                             (38.0)
(a)     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. The difference between the Bank-
financed amounts and the total cost is financed by the Municipality through BKV.
(b)     These three subcomponents of the maintenance equipment will be procured by IS (International Shopping) in at
least six packages of less than US$500,000 each.
(c)     A.V.M. will be procured by LIB (Limited International Bidding).
(d)     The Technical Assistance Component includes the training and consultant services for an amount of about 110
man-months, to be procured under Bank Guidelines.



- 23 -
E. Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
3.14  Disbursements will cover:
(a)   100 percent of foreign expenditures (CIF) and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for buses, track-measuring instruments, maintenance machines and tools,
the maintenance supervision system, and the automatic vehicle monitoring system;
(b)   54 percent of contracts (net of VAT) for tram track renewal;
(c)   100 percent of technical assistance.
3.15    Disbursements against contracts for goods and services valued at US$500,000 or less
and for works valued at US$3.0 million or less, would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOE).  Documents to support expenditure financed under SOE would be
maintained by the Borrower in one location and made available upon request for review by Bank
representatives, in addition to being audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank.  During
negotiations, agreements were obtained on all these arrangements.
3.16 To maintain an adequate flow of funds for eligible project expenditures, with a minimum
of administrative delay, the Borrower will establish a Special Account (revolving fund) at a bank
of its choice, sufficient to cover up to about four months of loan expenditures. During the early
stages of the project, the authorized allocation of the Special Account would be limited to
US$2.0 million equivalent. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the loan have
reached US$7.0 million equivalent, the authorized allocation would be increased to US$3.0
million equivalent. Records of the Special Account proceeds and outlays would be available for
review by the Bank's supervision missions and subject to annual audit. During negotiations,
confirnation was obtained of the foregoing arrangements.
3.17  Based on the loan becoming effective in 1995, a schedule of estimated disbursements was
established. This scheduled was discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
3.18  BKV will establish and maintain project related accounts.  Such accounts will be
maintained in accordance with recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the
Bank. BKV will provide quarterly financial reports and annual financial statements to reflect
the financial performance and the position of both BKV and the project, starting from the
beginning of project execution. An auditor's opinion and report on these statements that is
satisfactory to the Bank will be provided within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The
foregoing project-accounting, financial-reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide
adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of the project. These arrangements
were discussed and confirmed during negotiations.



- 24 -
adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of the project. These arrangements
were discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
F. Monitoring and Supervision
3.19 Arrangements for project-monitoring progress reports and the project completion report
were agreed with the Borrower during negotiations and incorporated in the Project
Implementation Plan and legal documents.



- 25 -
4. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
4.1   Accounting and audit practices in Hungary have undergone undergoing major changes
during the past few years to bring the procedures and systems in line with generally accepted
accounting and audit practices. The conversion of the socialist accounting system to the Western
accounting format, combined with changes in the system that have been implemented in recent
years, have resulted in a lack of uniformity in the accounts. These problems have been
compounded by a severe shortage of experienced, qualified accountants and auditors. As a
result, the financial accounts should be interpreted with caution.
B. Accounting and Auditing
4.2   Accounting in Hungary must conform to government guidelines. Many changes in these
guidelines have been recently introduced. In particular, in 1992 the classification of fixed assets
was revised so that the cost of major equipment maintenance done in a company's own facilities
was transferred from current expenditures to capital expenditures. This resulted in a 6 percent
increase in BKV's gross fixed asset value and a 6 percent increase in the capitalization of the
cost of major repairs, which then represented from 12 percent to 15 percent per annum of
BKV's working expenses for the three years 1992-94. On the other hand, the depreciation rate
for buses was increased from 15 percent to 20 percent which appears very high, even taking into
account the quality of the fleet. Over 50 percent of BKV's vehicle fleet in operation in 1993
was fully depreciated, indicating substantial hidden reserves. As a result of the major changes
in the government's 1992 accounting guidelines, and a significant loss of senior accounting staff,
BKV had difficulties in finalizing its accounts in 1992 and 1993. This resulted in a disclaimer
in the auditor's reports in 1992 and 1993. BKV has worked closely with the auditors in
resolving these problems. The auditor has indicated that all major difficulties were satisfactorily
addressed as of November 1994. No major reservations are expected in the 1994 audit which
is presently underway.
4.3   BKV uses a computerized accounting system that runs on an obsolete mainframe
computer and about 600 separate PCs. The various subsystems were developed in COBOL and
are not integrated. Data for wages are collected from 400 locations on floppy disks and
forwarded to the computer center. Inventory data from about 100 warehouses are collected in
a similar fashion. Problems associated with the system result in a two-month delay in providing
periodic reports. BKV has a basic financial accounting system but lacks detailed management-
accounting information such as revenue per route and cost data that would allow them to
determine route profitability. BKV is aware of the inadequacies and has recently engaged
consultants to review their existing financial and management accounting procedures and to make



- 26 -
recommendations for updating the system. These consultants will also review and evaluate
BKV's data processing system and assist in establishing a strategic information plan that will be
implemented over the next three to five years (Annex 12).
C. Past Flnancial Performance
4.4   The income statements, cash flow statements, and balance sheets in current prices for
BKV for the four years 1991 through 1994 are shown in the Annexes 7 through 9. During the
three years ending December 1994, BKV's revenue (excluding subsidies) increased by about 44
percent to HUF9.5 billion, and total revenue (including subsidies) increased 37 percent to
HUF26.5 billion. During the same period, total operating expenses increased 40 percent to
HUF27.5 billion. This resulted in BKV's net operating deficit increasing twofold from HUFO.3
billion in 1991 to HUF1.0 billion in 1994. The 1992 modification in accounting practices (see
para. 4.2) was an important factor in these changes. The income statements for the four years
1991 through 1994, adjusted to December 1994 price levels to allow for inflation of about 150
percent, show that revenue (excluding subsidies) decreased by 25 percent and total revenue
decreased by 29 percent in real terms. Total operating expenses also decreased by 28 percent
in real terms, but salaries and wages decreased by only 9 percent. This represents a significant
increase in relative labor costs during the period. BKV's operational efficiency increased
marginally during the three year period but this was offset by a reduction in the level of
subsidies.
4.5   BKV's operating ratios (including subsidies) during the four-year period 1991-94 ranged
from 100 percent to 104 percent with an overall average for the period of 102 percent. This
compares to a requirement under the Second Transport Loan for an operating ratio of 98
percent. BKV's operating ratio excluding central and local Government subsidies remained
constant at about 300 percent. BKV's cost-recovery ratio from passenger and other income
averaged 33 percent during the period. Under the Second Transport project, the Government
agreed to reduce subsidies to the transport sector by 10 percent per annum in real terms, based
on the 1987 subsidy level, for the years 1989-93. This target was achieved in the case of BKV
during the five-year period. Overall, BKV's compliance with the financial covenants of the
Second Transport project was satisfactory, given the major economic changes taking place during
the period.
4.6   During the four-year period 1991-94, BKV's net internal cash generation totaled
HUF12. 1 billion. This amount was sufficient to finance BKV's investment program of HUF1 1.0
billion. The levels of debt service and borrowing were not significant. In 1991 the Government
transferred to BKV, in the form of an equity contribution, investments of about HUF6.2 billion
to cover an extension of the Metro system. In addition, the changes in accounting regulations
in 1992 increased the value of fixed assets by HUF3.3 billion.



- 27 -
4.7   During the three-year period ending in 1994, BKV's net fixed assets remained constant
at about HUF36.0 billion. BKV's own investment was about 24 percent less than the level of
depreciation. However, the Government's transfer and a revaluation of fixed assets (para. 4.6)
made up for the low level of BKV's investment. BKV's long-term debt is insignificant at
HUFO.2 billion. The value of its equity is substantial at HUF44.4 billion (US$370 million) as
of December 31, 1994. There are no problems with collection of accounts receivable. BKV's
rate of return on average net fixed assets was insignificant over the four-year period at -0.6
percent.
D. Subsidies
4.8 BKV receives subsidies from both the central and local Governments. The Government
of Hungary provides subsidies for discounted tickets issued by BKV to students, pensioners, and
other social groups. These tickets are sold by BKV at 25 percent of the standard price and the
Government pays the remaining 75 percent. This subsidy is based on the number of monthly
discounted tickets sold and therefore represents a payment for public service obligation. It
accounted for about 22 percent of BKV's revenue in 1994. The subsidy paid by the
Municipality was originally intended as a payment for the repair and maintenance of fixed assets
but now is based on BKV's projected deficit. This subsidy represented about 47 percent of
BKV's revenue and 12 percent of the Municipality's revenue in 1994.
E. Fare Evasion
4.9   Based on a sample inspection of vehicles, the percentage of passengers without tickets
on BKV's services was estimated at about 12 percent in 1993. To address this problem, BKV
increased their control staff by 100 percent during 1993, and introduced an incentive bonus
scheme. Monthly receipts from penalties increased by 91 percent in December 1993, and by
115 percent in December 1994, both compared to January 1993. In addition, BKV introduced
a discount for 'on the spot" payments, resulting in a six-fold increase in these payments between
January and December 1993. It was agreed at negotiations that BKV will implement an action
plan, acceptable to the Bank, which includes measures (improved definition of fare evasion,
additional control staff, incentive schemes and training, as explained in Annex 11) to reduce fare
evasion to 7 percent of gross receipts from fares during 1997 and thereafter.
F. Forecast Financial Performance
4.10 Given the past high levels of inflation in Hungary, it is very difficult to predict future
inflation levels within a reasonable degree of accuracy during the next few years. All the
financial forecasts have therefore been prepared in constant mid-1994 forints. This assumes that



- 28 -
tariff levels in the future will be increased in line with inflation, in addition to any real tariff
increases required. The exchange rate of mid-1994 of HUF103.0 to the US dollar was used for
conversion of foreign-exchange costs and the Bank's loan to forints.
4.11 The forecast financial statements for BKV for the six-year period 1995-2000 are shown
in Annexes 7 through 9. The estimates for 1994 are in current forints and are based on the
preliminary results for the year. In view of the current fiscal problems of central and local
government authorities in Hungary, a major objective of the proposed project is to improve
BKV's cost-recovery rate in order to transfer a higher proportion of costs to the users, in line
with a free-market economy. To offset this improvement in receipts from passengers, the level
of municipal subsidies will decrease. In preparing the financial projections, BKV's cost
recovery was forecast to increase in steps from the 34 percent achieved in 1994 to 37 percent
in 1995 and 50 percent in 2000. In addition, it was assumed that as a result of increases in
automobile use, and higher tariffs, traffic would decline at 4 percent per annum. Conservative
assumptions were made on the benefits to be secured from the purchase of new vehicles, on the
reduction in staff and fleet due to increased vehicle reliability, on increased productivity and on
any reduction in service level due to the fall in traffic. Details of the assumptions used are given
in Annex 6.
4.12 Revenue from passenger sales is projected to increase from HUF8.4 billion (US$81
million) in 1993 to HUF11.8 billion (US$115 million) in 2000. To achieve this increase, tariffs
were projected to increase in real terms by about 52 percent. To limit the impact of this
increase on customers, the period for its implementation has been extended for two years beyond
the project implementation period. During the six-year period, subsidies are projected to
decrease by 23 percent from HUF17.0 billion (US$165 million) in 1994 to HUF13.1 billion
(US$127 million) in 2000.
4.13 Operating expenses are projected to decrease by about 8 percent based on the
conservative assumptions used. Substantial further decreases in operating expenses could be
achieved through an aggressive reduction in administrative and other non operative staff and by
the selective restructuring of services based on the profitability of each route. Experience has
shown, however, that it is difficult to achieve pro-rata operating cost reductions in parallel with
reductions in service. Depreciation is forecast to increase by 28 percent, reflecting the higher
cost of new vehicles and the increased level of investments. Interest charges are insignificant,
as BKV will only be responsible for debt service on the Bank loan. BKV's operating ratio,
including subsidies, will be maintained at 100 percent during the period.
4.14 To ensure the financial viability of BKV and to improve cost recovery, agreement was
reached during negotiations that BKV will achieve cost-recovery rates not lower than 37 percent
in 1995, 41 percent in 1996, 43 percent in 1997, 45 percent in 1998, 47 percent in 1999 and 50
percent for 2000 onwards. For the purposes of the cost-recovery rate, depreciation charges are
included in costs but interest on long-term loans is excluded. During negotiations, the



- 29 -
Municipality agreed to propose at its General Assembly, tariff increases necessary to enable
BKV to achieve its cost-recovery objectives, and to provide sufficient funds to enable BKV to
achieve an operating ratio of 100 percent in 1995 and thereafter. BKV's financing plan for its
investments during the project period is as follows:
Table 4.1: BKV's Financing Plan 1995-1998
Forint      US$ Million       Percent
Sources of Funds                         Million
Gross Internal Cash Generation              19,260        187.0             70
Less: Debt Service                             670          6.5              2
Net Internal Cash Generation                18.590        180.5             68
Loans:
World Bank                                3,739         36.3(a)          14
EBRD                                      4,807        46.7              18
World Bank (Second Transport)                   15          0.1              0
Total Sources                            27 151       263.6             100
Allocation of Funds
Project Investment                           6,314         61.3tb)          23
Other Investment                            20.194        196.1             75
Total Investment                            26,508        257.4             98
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital           643          6.2              2
Total Allocation                         27151        2636              100
(a)   The US$1.7 million difference between this amount and the proposed Bank loan of
US$38.0 million represents price contingencies.
(b)   The US$5.8 million difference between this amount and the project cost of US$61.3
million represented by price contingencies.



- 30 -
4.15  BKV is forecast to generate HUF19.3 billion (US$187 million) during the four-year
project period. After debt service of HUFO.7 billion (US$6.5 million), the net internal cash
generation of HUF18.6 billion (US$181 million) will finance about 68 percent of BKV's
financial requirements. The Bank loan will finance about 60 percent of the project cost, or 14
percent of BKV's total requirement. The balance of BKV's financial requirement, which is
HUF4.8 billion, will be provided by a loan to the Municipality from the EBRD that is already
approved. The project costs represent about 23 percent of BKV's total financial requirements.
BKV's debt service coverage in 1998 is about 17.0, which is very satisfactory. During
negotiations, BKV agreed to maintain a debt-service coverage of not less than 1.5.
4.16  BKV's gross fixed assets are projected to increase by about 36 percent to HUF95.8
billion (US$930 million) and net fixed assets are expected to increase by about 16 percent during
the project period. The long-term debt is insignificant. BKV therefore has substantial potential
for future borrowing and should be in a position to meet normal investment requirements without
assistance from the Municipality.



- 31 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.1   Budapest will make important institutional improvements under the project.  These
include implementing a parking management scheme, improving the coordination of urban
transport services, introducing private transport services on a trial basis, and improving
investment selection. BKV will also increase its cost recovery, reduce fare evasion, improve
operational performance, separate noncore activities, and contract out additional construction and
maintenance activities. These improvements are expected to significantly contribute to reducing
the cost of public and private transportation in Budapest, and thereby increase real incomes.
However, it is difficult to quantify their benefits reliably. Project benefits were therefore
quantified on the basis of the expected reductions in future capital and operating costs resulting
from the investments in buses, track renewal, and the vehicle operating system to be financed
under the project. The project is also expected to generate environmental benefits which are
described, but not quantified, below. This approach significantly understates the economic
return for the project.
B. Traffic
5.2   The population of Budapest, currently around 2.0 million persons, is expected to decline
by about 2.0 percent by 2000, mostly due to the growth of the suburbs. Budapest generated
around 3.3 million internal and external public transport trips and 1.2 million private car trips
in 1991, the most recent data available. Budapest is highly public transport intensive, generating
about 1.70 trips per person per day, compared to 0.51 for representative cities in the United
Kingdom, 0.33 in France and 0.57 in Spain. Car ownership in Budapest was estimated to be
260 cars per 1,000 population in 1991, growing at a rate of 6.6 percent per annum since 1986,
and to have reached about 290 cars per 1,000 population in 1994. Car ownership is forecast to
increase at a more moderate 3.4 percent per annum to 345 cars per 1,000 population by the year
2000, consistent with the declining rate of growth experienced in other European countries. It
is also expected that the kilometers driven per car would increase some 50 percent by the year
2000 to a level more typical of Western Europe (presently about 9,700 km per annum compared,
for example, to 14,000 km per annum in the United Kingdom).
5.3   The above factors are expected to reduce the number of public transport trips irrespective
of policy changes. However, Budapest is also adopting more commercially oriented transport
policies which will affect demand. In particular, the city is carrying out a program to increase
real transport fares by around 80 percent between 1991 and 2000. It is estimated that the
elasticity of public-transport trips with respect to fares is -0.3, a typical response in other cities,
resulting in a 19 percent decline in public transport trips independent of other factors. However,
only about 20 percent of the mostly short trips deterred from taking public transport are expected



- 32 -
to result in extra car trips, the remainder being substituted by walking, combining trips, trip
suppression, or higher car occupancy. This is expected to be an economic benefit for Budapest
since the small loss in convenience will be more than offset by savings in the cost of providing
public transport. Parking restraint measures to be implemented under the project are expected
to reduce private car traffic levels in the central business district, particularly on radial routes
during the peak hour. However, the effect on aggregate public transport trips is likely to be
relatively small. Finally, it is expected that BKV would rationalize its level of service to adjust
to the decrease in traffic, resulting in a further small decline in public transport patronage. It
is expected that the combined effect of all these factors will lead to a 30 percent decline in public
transport trips between 1991 and 2000 (4.0 percent per annum). It is also expected that private
car trips will increase 53 percent during this period (+4.8 percent per annum). Under this
scenario, the ratio of public transport to private car trips would decline from around 80:20 in
1991 to 56:44 by 2000, closer to the ratio experienced in other European countries. For
purposes of project analysis, it was assumed that the number of public transport trips would
remain constant after 2000.
C. Cost-Benerit Analysis
5.4   The bus component of the project was evaluated by comparing the capital, maintenance,
and fuel costs of the bus fleet with and without the project, taking into account the traffic
forecast, and the planned procurement of additional buses by BKV. The bus component is
estimated to have an economic rate of return (ERR) of 17 percent as calculated in Annex 10.
5.5   Under the project, BKV would rehabilitate the most heavily trafficked 47 km of track in
the worst condition.  This component was evaluated by comparing the capital, track-
maintenance and tram operating costs of new surface track under forecast traffic loadings, with
the costs of continuing to use the existing big panel track, as described in Annex 10. BKV
proposes to concentrate during the first year on the rehabilitation of the 14.6 km Nagykorut, the
most heavily traveled section of the network (166,000 passengers per day in 1993), which forms
part of the inner ring in Budapest. This section is estimated to have an ERR of 51 percent. It
is also estimated that any section carrying a minimum of 30,000 ppd, or 17,000 axles per week
including sections near depots with numerous trams but fewer passengers, would yield an ERR
of at least 10 percent. The track renewal component is estimated to have an ERR of 23 percent,
as shown in Annex 10.
5.6   The project also includes the extension of the automatic vehicle monitoring (AVM)
system to cover an additional 200 vehicles. This component is estimated to have an ERR of 19
percent, as described in Annex 10.



- 33 -
D. Environmental Impact
5.7   The project is also expected to have environmental benefits which were not taken into
account in the economic evaluation. About 50 percent of Budapest's air pollution, including 90
percent of its lead emissions, is attributable to the transport sector, and 10 percent of the total
is due to public transportation. Adoption of representative West European standards, for bus
engines which is required by the Hungarians, will reduce carbon monoxide emissions by about
20 percent, hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxide emissions by 50 percent, and particulate emissions
by 75 percent. The bus components of the combined EBRD and Bank project, together with an
ongoing program of engine conversions, are expected to reduce harmful emissions in Budapest
by about 2 percent. The Bank's Environment Strategy Study also recommends that a "special
effort should be taken to maintain and enhance the viability of mass public transit," since the
reduction of car use in the city center will decrease congestion and improve air quality. During
traffic jams, SO2 and NO, measurements were found to exceed safe limits 60 percent of the
time. Tram track renewal and the AVM system will improve the quality of public transport
service, and help to slow the expected increase in automobile traffic, as will the new parking
policy. Track renewal is expected to reduce tram noise by about 50 percent and help reduce
building damage caused by tram vibration.
E. Distributional Impact
5.8   Fare increases planned under the project will affect the welfare of the poor. The Bank
is preparing a Poverty Assessment for Hungary, expected to be completed in June, 1995. Based
on preliminary data, the rate of poverty appears to have risen in Hungary due to the economic
transformation. As measured by the proportion of people living below the official subsistence
minima, poverty has increased from 7.3 percent in 1987 to 14.9 percent in 1992, and is expected
to have risen further since then. Other indicators show a lower rate of poverty in 1992 due
primarily to the bunching of incomes near the selected cutoff, e.g. 7.2 percent based on
households receiving less than half of average income, or 2.7 percent based on households
receiving less than the minimum wage. The rate of poverty in Budapest was 9.0 percent in 1992
based on the subsistence minimum.
5.9   Hungary has an extensive system of social transfers. These transfers cost 23.1 percent
of GDP in 1994 which appears unsustainable. Social transfers include pensions, unemployment
and maternity benefits, social assistance benefits, and family allowances. An estimated HUF 5.7
billion, or 0.7 percent of social transfers, went to BKV in 1994 in the form of subsidies for free
or discounted travel for targeted passenger groups discussed below, accounting for 22 percent
of BKV income (para. 4.08). Eligibility for most social transfers, including BKV subsidies, does
not depend on income level.  As a whole, social transfers are quite evenly distributed across



- 34 -
all income levels, and the idea of targeting social transfers for the poor is not yet widely
accepted in Hungary.
5.10  Following the 33 percent fare increase in March 1995, BKV's seasonal single-mode
passes cost HUF 1,000 (US$9.17) per month, or HUF 1,500 (US$13.76) for an all modes pass.
These amount to 8 and 12 percent respectively of the minimum wage of HUF 12,200 per month.
These will increase to 12 and 19 percent of the minimum wage by 2000 following the 52 percent
real increase in fares planned under the project, other things remaining equal. The Bank is also
carrying out a poverty assessment of the relatively poor 13th District of Budapest (Angyalfold).
This provides a more accurate measure of the impact of fare increases on the poor because it
is based on household expenditures rather than wages, i.e. it takes into account unemployment,
the grey economy and social transfers. Only 42 percent of poor households (subsistence criteria)
in Angyalfold had an active earner in 1992, and 56 percent of their income came from social
transfers. The assessment found that 8.2 percent of the expenditures of poor households went
for transport to work in 1992. This would increase to 11.6 percent of household income in 2000
as a result of actual and proposed fare increases under the project, other things remaining equal.
The Poverty Assessment also found that the poor in Budapest (subsistence minimum) devoted
7.2 percent of their household expenditures to transport and communications in 1993. Planned
fare increases under the project, therefore, are likely to push the cost of public transport to the
upper limit of what the poor can afford.
5.11  Based on preliminary data from the Poverty Assessment, the permanently poor are most
likely to be those where the adults have less than a primary school education, the long-term
unemployed who no longer draw insurance based unemployment benefits and who get, at best,
casual employment, families with three or more children, and the elderly who live alone. BKV
presently provides free travel to the blind and handicapped, passengers over 70, and military
personnel and the police. BKV also provides 68-75 percent discounts to pensioners and students.
However, fare subsidies are not well targeted for the poor, as is true for most social transfers
in Hungary. Students and pensioners are distributed across all income classes.  Few if any
military personnel or policemen are poor. The Angyalfold study found that few of the working
poor (mostly casual laborers) used BKV's cheapest seasonal tickets because they could not
predict their use, and possibly because a high monthly cash outlay was required. Similarly, they
could not benefit from company based transport contributions which were reserved for regular
staff. The study also found that 9 percent of the poor and near-poor practiced free riding,
whereas none of the more affluent respondents did. Women also rely more heavily on public
transport than men (83 compared to 62 percent), and are thus more vulnerable to tariff increases.
The Municipality and BKV recognize that fare increases impose an additional burden on the
poor, and are reviewing a recently completed study of the structure of BKV fares carried out
under the EBRD project, which takes the needs of the poor into account. The Bank will discuss
the study and its follow up with the Municipality and BKV. One possibility would be for a
central Government agency to buy BKV tickets and resell them at a discount based on poverty
criteria. However, cost recovery has been or will be increased in other sectors as well, e.g.



- 35 -
energy and housing, and unemployment continues to be high (11 percent in Budapest in 1994)
as uneconomic enterprises and inefficient organizations are restructured. It is the combined
impact of these factors which affects the welfare of the poor, so that a comprehensive approach
to designing a social safety net is required. The ongoing Poverty Assessment is one element in
the Bank's continuing dialogue on this subject.
5.12  Under the present system of central and municipal government subsidies to BKV, the
rural population subsidizes Budapest, and Budapest subsidizes suburban areas which receive
service but do not contribute to the municipal subsidy.  These transfers, which distort
expenditures and are economically inefficient, would be reduced under the project.
F. Conclusion and Risks
5.13  The weighted average ERR for the project is estimated to be 21 percent based on an
evaluation of components which represent 91 percent of project cost. The parameters with the
greatest uncertainty in the calculation are the cost estimates and the traffic forecast, particularly
the price elasticity of transport fares. The evaluated components are each estimated to remain
economically justified if costs are 20 percent greater than estimated, or traffic declines 6.0
percent per annum during 1993-2000 instead of 4.0 percent per annum as forecast, as detailed
in Annex 10.
5.14  The greatest risk is that BKV would fail to meet its cost-recovery or operating-ratio
targets, a major institutional objective. This would also affect the ERR, in that past projects
demonstrate that maintenance deteriorates when public transport organizations have insufficient
funds (para. 1.25). This could result from the failure of the Municipality to approve timely and
sufficient tariff increases, or to provide an adequate level of subsidy. This is a common problem
in Central and Eastern Europe, where high levels of inflation, recession, and unemployment
sometimes make it difficult to increase tariffs or implement other market reforms. However,
the Municipality and BKV have already taken steps to increase BKV's cost recovery from 19
percent in 1986 to 34 percent in 1994. They have provided assurances at all levels that they will
take the necessary steps to meet the 50 percent cost recovery target by 2000. In addition, BKV
is satisfactorily implementing their component of the Second Transport project and an EBRD
urban transport project. Financial risks are considered to be acceptable under the unusual
circumstance of a major economic transformation.
5.15  A second project risk is that the Municipality or BKV might proceed with a major
uneconomic investment, wasting scarce resources and overburdening Municipal and Central
government finances. In order to reduce this risk, the Municipality and BKV agreed at
negotiations to consult with the Bank on their transport investment plans annually, and only to
undertake transport investments greater than US$5.0 million which have an ERR greater than
10 percent calculated in accordance with a method which is acceptable to the Bank.



- 36 -
5.16 Other risks include BKV's lack of experience in procuring buses under ICB, and in
implementing a track renewal program that is significantly larger than previously attempted.
However, BKV, assisted by advisors, has implemented its component of the Second Transport
Sector Project satisfactorily. The project includes technical assistance to help with procurement
and contract administration, and the track renewal program will be carried out by contract(s)
which are packaged so as to assure good competition from both local and foreign finns.



- 37 -
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached at Negotiations
6.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal matters:
(i)   The Municipality will not incur any debt if the estimated debt service for any
succeeding fiscal year would be more than 15 percent of its cash income for the
twelve-month period preceding the incurrence of the debt (para. 1.15);
(ii)   BKV will implement an action plan, acceptable to the Bank, which includes
measures to reduce fare evasion to 7 percent of gross receipts from fares during
1997 and thereafter (para 4.9), improve its operational and financial productivity
(para 2.18), and separate noncore activities (para 2.20);
(iii)  By December 31, 1996, the Municipality will either award at least two transport
routes operated by BKV to privately owned operators or have regular passenger
services operated by BKV subcontracted through competitive tender so as to
reduce BKV's bus fleet requirement by at least 5 percent (para 2.22);
(iv)   BKV will achieve cost-recovery rates not lower than 37 percent in 1995, 41
percent in 1996, 43 percent in 1997, 45 percent in 1998, 47 percent in 1999 and
50 percent in 2000 and thereafter (paras. 2.23, 4.14);
(v)   The Municipality will initiate tariff increases at its General Assembly that are
necessary to enable BKV to achieve its cost-recovery objectives, and provide
sufficient funds to enable BKV to achieve an operating ratio of 100 percent in
1995 and thereafter (paras. 4.14);
(vi)   BKV's debt service coverage ratio will be no less than 1.5 (para 4.15);
(vii)  The Municipality and BKV will consult with the Bank on their transport
investment plans annually, and will only undertake transport investments greater
than US$5.0 million which have an ERR greater than 10 percent calculated in
accordance with a method acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.14);
(viii) Training Program (para. 3.12);
(ix)   Project cost and financing plan (para. 2.24, 2.25);



- 38 -
(x)   Arrangements and schedule for project implementation (para. 3.4);
(xi) Disbursement schedule and arrangements (paras. 3.14, 3.15, 3.17 );
(xii)  Establishment of a Special Account (para 3.16); and
(xiii) Reporting and auditing arrangements (para 3.18).
6.2   During negotiations, the borrower presented the following documents they have adopted
which are acceptable to the Bank:
(i)   The Urban Transport Policy Statement (para. 1.21); and
(ii)   The Project Implementation Plan (para. 1.23). It includes a Municipal Action
Plan, which defines the steps for improving parking management, and establishing
a Budapest Transport Association (para. 2.16), and preparing an annual
performance plan for implementating the performance agreement between the
Municipality and BKV (para. 2.19, 3.2);
6.3   The signature of an agreement between the Municipality and BKV, which requires the
Municipality to make available part of the proceeds of the loan to BKV and for BKV to provide
sufficient funds to the Municipality to service the loan, will be a condition of effectiveness (para.
2.26).
B. Recommendation
6.4   Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$38 million
equivalent to the Municipality of Budapest, with a guarantee of the Republic of Hungary, for
a term of fifteen years including five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-39-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 10
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BUDAPEST MUNICIPAL FINANCE
1.    Background
1.1   In 1990, three pieces of legislation' initiated a series of major reforms delegating
numerous spending and revenue powers to the local governments (which replaced the "local
council" system), specifying the process for the election of local officials, and transferring
ownership of the nation's publicly owned housing, and transportation and other utility assets to
the local councils and their constituent local governments.
1.2   The Law  on Local-Self Government (LSGA) reorganized Hungary's system  of
governance. Government now comprises the central government (the State), 19 county
governments plus the capital city of Budapest, and 3,148 independent local units organized as
villages or towns: and in the case of Budapest, 22 independent (sub-municipal) districts.2 Of the
3,148 local governments, 42 (which include the Budapest districts) have a population of 50,000
or more, and account for approximately 40 percent of the Hungarian population.
1.3   The role of the 19 counties is in flux. They no longer supervise village and town
councils, nor do they serve as the financing conduit between the central and local government.
Instead, they have a residual coordinating role for providing certain services such as hospitals
and secondary schools in areas of the country where the villages and towns lack the capacity to
deliver those services independently.
1.4   The LSGA dictates mandatory as well as optional areas of local government activity. The
mandatory tasks are water management, primary education, basic health and social services,
maintenance of public cemeteries, and ensuring the rights of ethnic minorities. Expenditures that
are not mandatory, but cited as part of the "competency of local governments," include local
development and resettlement programs, sewerage, maintenance of local public roads and local
mass transportation, garbage collection, and fire protection.
1.5   The central government remains responsible for activities such as the collection of most
taxes, national debt service, police, and large scale investment. In addition, it is largely (though
not wholly) financially responsible for unemployment insurance, retirement pensions, and health
services. These activities are financed through the transfer of a social security contribution to
localities, which act as the central government's agents. The local governments are, however,
1/    The Law on Local Self-Government (Act No. LXV of 1990), the Law On Local Taxes (Act C of 1990 as
Amended, 1992), and the Law on Elections of Self-Govemments (Act No. LXVI, 1990).
2/    As of January 1995 there are 23 district govemments.



-40-
Annex I
Page 2 of 10
responsible for complementing these social programs--that is, they must meet incremental
expenditures when the central financing proves inadequate.
Budapest Governmental Structure
1.6    The LSGA contains a specific chapter on the governmental structure of the Capital,
which, as amended:
*      recognizes the "special role and position' of the Capital;
*     provides for a General Assembly of 88 members;
*      mandates that within the geographical boundaries of the Capital, there shall be 22 (23 as
of January 1995) separate district self-governments. Each district is represented by one
seat in the Budapest General Assembly (the other 66 are directly elected)3;
*     generally directs that the districts execute tasks related to neighborhood services, while
the Municipality shall execute tasks and functions that affect the "whole or a large part
of the Capital." Specifically, the districts are to perform duties related to the maintenance
of local roads in their districts, whereas the maintenance and development of main roads
and routes used by public transport are the responsibility of the Municipality of Budapest.
In addition, the Municipality is assigned the maintenance of national roadways within city
boundaries, responsibility for traffic control, and public transport (trams, buses,
underground services, and suburban train lines).
1.7    The fiscal condition of the municipal budget is closely tied to its relationship with the
districts. This is true for three reasons. First, the municipal-district split of all municipal
revenues must be negotiated each year. Second, the present arrangements give to the districts
access to several taxes which the municipality does not employ.4 And, third, the division of
expenditure responsibilities between the municipality and the districts must be continuously
revisited, (including the merits of selfgovernment and the mechanisms for intra/local cooperation
in service delivery).
/      7'The General Assembly has yet to determine the changes in the assembly voting structure that will accompany the
creation of District 23.
4/     Taxes levied by the General Assembly of the Capital may not be introduced by the districts until the repeal of such
taxes.



-41-
Annex I
Page 3 of 10
2.    The Budapest Fiscal System
Local Revenues
Own Source Taxes
2.1   The Law On Local Taxes grants local self govemments authority to levy five types of
own-source taxes (taxes for which the government can set its own rates). Of these five, the
Budapest Municipality levies only the general business (turnover) tax. At present, three taxes
are district levies, and the fifth (a poll tax) is not used by any government. To summarize:
*     Local Industrial (General Business) Tax. A gross turnover tax is levied on enterprises
(public and private) based on the gross sales of revenue net of VAT and other
consumption taxes, cost of goods sold, and the value of subcontractor services. Tax base
information is provided by the central government Tax Administration Office.
*     Tourism Tax. A transient accommodations tax of four percent (4%) of the bill may be
levied and collected by all localities. Exemptions are provided for children, the elderly,
health and social care institutions, students, and relatives of the owner of a holiday
house.
*     Property Tax(es). There are two property tax bases: (i) a tax on unimproved land and (ii)
a tax on improvements. The tax on land is levied on unimproved private and public land
(unless otherwise exempt) at a maximum rate of HUF100 per m2 or one percent (1%)
of "corrected value," which is defined as 50% of observed market value. The tax on
improvements is levied on private buildings--e.g., flats, second homes, workshops,
garages. As with the land tax, the rate is based on area (Ft. 300/m2) or a corrected value
of 50% of market. For both the land and building tax, the subject of taxation is the
owner(s) of the property on the first day of the year. In case the building is encumbered,
the tax is on the user--i.e., the person(s) entitled to exercise the pecuniary rights.
Centrally Shared Taxes and Fees
2.2   There are two shared taxes and a shared fee, each fully controlled and administered by
the central government.
*     Personal Income Tax. Thirty percent (30%) of state personal income tax collections are
returned to local governments by place of origin. The remaining 70% is retained by the
state. There is a two-year lag between the central collection and eventual distribution of
the tax, which causes a significant inflation erosion.
*     Motor Vehicle (Engine) Tax. Since 1992 Budapest Municipality has been entitled to
50% of taxes imposed on vehicles brought into the city.



-42-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 10
*     Environmental Penalties. Local governments receive 3%  of environmental penalties
imposed by the state.
Sales of Assets
2.3   Budapest may generate revenues from privatization of publicly-owned housing, land, and
own-commercial enterprises, and from the profits and rents from own-entrepreneurial activities.
To summarize the key aspects:
*     Rent levels for publicly-owned flats are set by the central government and managed by
a district-owned property management company (IKV).
*     Sale of housing. Proceeds from the sale of housing accrue to the districts. The Parliament
recently enacted a law requiring 50% of housing privatization proceeds be shared with
Budapest Municipality; however, the law is currently under legal challenge.
*     Rent and sale (privatization! of commercial enterprises. Localities and their agencies may
receive some proceeds from privatization of commercial properties. Briefly, the rules of
the system are as follows: rents accrue to a municipal enterprise (which is off-budget);
sales of small enterprises accrue to the municipality; and sales of large enterprises are
managed by the National State Property Agency (SPA), which shares the proceeds with
the local government.
*     Profits from entrepreneurial activities (e.g.. joint ventures). Local governments may
generate on-budget revenues from commercial enterprises such as utilities that are not
controlled by an IKV. Examples include tourism facilities and other recreational facilities
(e.g. golf courses), construction firms.
Central Transfers
There are four categories of state fiscal transfers that appear in the Budapest budget.
The Normative (Unconditional) Grant
2.4   The single most important source of Budapest revenues, the normative grant, is an
unconditional transfer. There are two elements to the grant: (i) a lump-sum transfer for HUF2
million/yr, which is designed to provide a minimum amount to all jurisdictions; and (ii) a
formula grant based on "norms" or need indices. The norms are of three general types: a
standard service related per capita (head quota); a small matching grant (e.g., each HUF of
resort charges under the tourist tax is supplemented by 2 HUF); and 18 expenditure related
weights designed to estimate the service "demands" relating to the main LSGA-assigned
responsibilities of the municipality. The norms are not indexed and are subject to annual
negotiation. The average [norm/actual cost] ratio is about 66%.



-43-
Annex I
Page 5 of 10
Targeted (Matching) Grants
2.5   Targeted grants are allocated to local governments on a competitive basis and are
accompanied by a central-local matching requirement. The grant must meet central government
objectives. The central-local match varies by function.
Addressed Grants
2.6   Specific (addressed) grants are intended to finance projects undertaken by central
government under the prior regime. The grants are fully earmarked by the state for a specific
use; thus they provide little fiscal flexibility to the municipal government. In fact the addressed
grants are likely to generate long-term municipal costs of facility maintenance and the
development of locally-financed related on-site infrastructure.
Other Centrally Earmarked Transfers
2.7   There are two other state transfers to the Budapest budget: (i) a social security
contribution that is structured as a pass-through of funds spent on the operations of health
institutions; and (ii) special ad hoc earmarked grants.
3. Municipal Finance
3.1   Details on the annual revenue and expenditure of the Budapest Municipality for the four
years 1991 through 1994 are attached (Tables 1 and 2).  During the three years ending
December 1994 the Municipality revenue increased by 32% from HUF57.0 billion to HUF75.3
billion (US$731 million). During the same period the total flow of funds (revenue plus loans)
increased 55 % to HUF89.4 billion. In 1991 centrally allocated funds accounted for 71 % of the
Municipality's funds, Municipality's own revenue provided 19%, other revenue 9% and loan
1%. In 1994 centrally-allocated revenue fell to about 50%, the Municipality's own revenue
increased to 29%, other revenue decreased to 5%, but loans increased to 16%.
3.2   The Municipality's current expenditure during the three years ending December 1994
increased 36% from HUF47.9 billion to HUF65.0 billion, while capital expenditure increased
250% from HUF7.0 billion in 1991 to HUF 24.4 billion in 1994. This gave an overall
expenditure increase of 63 % to HUF89.4 billion for the three years. Subsidies to BKV represent
about 17% of the Municipality's total funds in 1991. This was reduced to about 12% in 1994.
As a result of the increased cost recovery ratios agreed with BKV under this project, the
percentage expenditure on subsidies will be significantly reduced over the next six years.
3.3   During three of the four years (1991, 1992, and 1993) there was a cumulative surplus
on current account totalling HUF23.5 billion but in 1994 there was a deficit of HUF4.2 billion.
On the combined current and capital accounts there was a surplus of HUF7.2 billion for the first
three years and a break-even in 1994.



-44-
Annex 1
Page 6 of 10
3.4   The Municipality's borrowing as of December 1993 was about HUF7.0 billion. During
1994 the Municipality signed a loan agreement with EBRD for a loan of US$47 million which
was transferred to BKV in the form of an equity contribution. In addition to the Bank loan of
US$38.0 million, the Municipality proposes to borrow in 1995 a loan of HUF8.5 billion (US$65
million) for "Investment of State Importance." The debt service on the HIJF8.5 billion loan will
be financed directly by the Government and BKV will finance the debt service on the World
Bank loan. To ensure a prudent policy on municipal borrowing, agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Municipality will not incur further debts, if the debt service of the
Municipality would exceed 15% of its income. Loans on which the debt service would be
financed by other agencies would not be included in this calculation unless the debt service was
in arrears.



Table I
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST REVENUES
Oin tousds of HuF)
1991.19,s 51
11992      ~       1993,9-
Revenue Sourec                      Reenu        Fund    R vtt~-FuntiWOeviie Vns                       eeu       Fns       191        92
Cebntral Regfdated Resources           4CUA>4 '74 ZQAI    461s7         fa       ff.76IJ94  US          44JC30W     oil     la;P2  1
(Stete Dsbursoment)
A lntergovwenmal Transfers               15,675,993 27.2%     17.30411f  2&6%      2Q 020,138   26%      20,39.083  22.8%     10%      16%        2%
Normative
Operationsl                         1521.564  22%        13,047,184  19.3%    13,631,793  20.4%     15,874,825  17.8%    4%        20%       2%
DeeWl4pment                                 0  0.0%         782.727  1.2%             0  0.0%               0  0.0%
Project SpeclwiTargeted                 1.635.000  2.8%       997,500  1.5%       1,096,631  1.4%        931.000  1.0%     39%       10%       15%
Contribution for SpeciWAddressed         287.709  0.5%        951,94   1.4%        677Z,84  0.9%        1.273,703  1.4%    231%      29%       J8%
Central Wage Adjustnent                        0  0.0%             0  00%               0  0.0%          479,537  0.5%
Central Assistanc to Employees                 0  0.0%             0  0.0%              0  0.0%          210,380  0.2%
Other State Assistance                  1.231,720  2.1%      1,524,721  23%      .613,830  3.4%         1,625,638  1.6%    24%       71%       3S%
a Personal Income rax                     9,40,f4a 18.3%      12,139.737  18.%     9,338,66   12.2%      11,882,912 13.1%    29X       23%       25%
C Social Sewftary Cofton                 15,525,133 27.0%    1f7,525178  26%       1f7,409,989   23%     12.752,800  1.3%     13%       1%       27%
11 Municipal Revenes                     11i141614 193%       16.371.399  24       2                     26155f909 ZJX    !M%          as        a1s                   L
A Curwnt Revenus                          8,155,346 14A2%     14,322,462  21%     16,929,973  22.1%      11,639,909  13%     76%       18%       31%
MunicWl Insdtuions                      477.4%              4.8253      Z39                 L           3.8O              .SO O 14%   1%       22%
Hleh ar                                                                                                994,787  1.1%
Socilweae                                                                                              439,278  0.5%
Education                                                                                              559,539  0.6%
ChWd + youth aer                                                                                        49,291  0.1%
CuILIM                                                                                               1,003,U8  1.1%
otes                                                                                                   490,374  0.5%
Munkow                                                                                                280,688  0.3%
Dlaepency                                                                                                 981  0.0%
LocalTaxes                               281,194  0.5%      3,930,131  5.8%      6,527,347  8.5%        5,557,095  6.2%    1298%     66%       15%
Duties                                 2,894,892  5.0%      z850,908  4.2%       2.708,010  3.5%        1,800,000  2.0%    2%        5%        34%
Environmental FInes                       13,925  0.0%         30,267  0.0%         15,400  0.0%          20,000  0.0%     117%      49%       30%
Historical Protecdon Fins                     00.0%                0  0.0%              0  0.0%               0  0.0%
Pubic eNd OrganIzatons                   479553  0.8%        558.173  0.8X        571,480  0.7%          69,XO  0. 1%     16%       2%        88%
Funds Recived for OperatIon              243,012  0.4%      Z127,947  3.1%       Z217,236  2.9%          374,828  0.4%     776%      4%        83%
e Aoumulaion and Capia Type               2,98,16a  5.2%       2,04,937  3.0%      3,098,811  40%        14616,000  1f2%     31%       51%      36s%
Sale of Asseft                           326,192  0.6%        231,701  0.3%        523,414  0.7%        4,054,692  4.5%    29%       126%     675%
PrIvafftldon                             159,895  0.3%      1,141,077  1.7%        923,739  1.2%        1,000.0w   1.1%    614%      19%       8%                O 0
SakeofLeasefRinta                              00.0%               0  0.0%              0  0.0%         1.000,000  1.1%X.>
Sale ofiOe                               664,029  1.2%         65,183  o.1%        279,60   0.4%           8,00   0.0%     90%      329%       07%               C D
ncome on Fnacial vestment                      00.0%               0  0.0%         207,161  0.3%          24,389  0.0%                        8*%
Funds Received for AccumulaUon          1,836,052  3.2%       557,210  0.8%        627,300  0.8%        8,330,850  9.3%    70%       13%      1228%
Inst Incone for Accumulation                   00.0%           53,766  0.1%        537,597  0.7%          98,069  0.1%              900%       82%
Return on Previous Budget                        00.0%                0  0.0%o0% Qo              X.0% .O



Hi VAT R                                                                  IA_.A4.             L.J1L.3%
RIV _R_SUmm*          Funds                 92_  A%           1.9.2 2^  2.92t6 ^ 16 3 ._5___
VOthe RevewesJ JJ212                                                                          .0---  --
v~~~~~~~~~-----                   .                                                                         0.0s 
Total Revenues     57.013,033           67,036,719           7048352               75.263,023           t         i2z
Loan for Opwr dons an
VI       - ----           67,y0 1                 0%             6,963      -C   61984867  0.2%          14,141.6 15.8%
TOTAL FUNDS        67.1,903  100%       67,583.672  100%     76,T77,919  100%      89394.6   fo% 
00 
O b
Oi_



tile is caled M:\EBELBDAPESTlE1; created 23196; prted 219
Table 2
MUNICIPAUTY OF BUDAPEST EXPENDITURES
pn thousands of HuF)
1991-1995 est.
EX                                     ftp;~~::. E*pend 1992' 19932 19$199
Expenditure Soure      -:    --    Expeniture-  Exp. - Expenditre   Exp.  RxpenIture - Exp. . Expendtu E.x.   1 991.2- 1992-1993 4-:
I Current Expenditures                   46.486.550  !4,6%    63.845.286 1jS;      58.352.057  J8.8%     68,367.024  65.3     16X     J       OA
A Soci Security Facd                     16,63,427  30.6%      19,010,3Z6  28.9%    18,341,957  24.8%      14,241,163  15.9%     13      4      22
Wages                                   6,680,533  12.2%     7,249,638  11.0%      6,922,824  9.3%       4,964,725  5.6%       9      5       28
S.S. contribuions                       2,881,496  5.2%      3,259.116  5.0%       3.139,241  4.2%       2,231,5SW  Z5%       13      4       29
Ohr( incl. material)                    7.268,390  13.2%     8,501,572  129%       8,279,892  11.2%      6,615,679  7.4%      17      3       20
Surplus of previous year                       0  0.0%              0  0.0%               0  0O0%          429,203  0.5%
B InsOtdonAs Fkanced by th State         29,656,123  5d.0%    34,&U,959  529%       40,010,100  64.0%     44125,C61  49.4%     17%    15%    10%
PublicTransport                         9,579,456  17.4%    11,249,802  17.1%     11,631,220  157%       10,259,570  11.5%    17      3       12
Other Purposes
Wages                                6,310,052  11.5%      7,515,751  11.4%     8,844,134  11.9%      10,463,783  11.7%     19      18     18
S.S.Cortlon                          2641,531  4.0%       3,256,429  4.9%      3,954,666  S.3%        4,549,757  5.1X      23     -21
Road + bddge Mairnenancehenovsion    1,305.068  2.4%       1,644,887  Z5%       1,932,594  Z6%         1,763,779  Z0%       26     17       9
DesirA                                      0  0.0%               0  0.0%              0  0.0%         2,379,400  2.7%
Maibl Expendiure                     9,820,018  17.9%     tt,168.090  17.0%    13,647,486  10.4%      13,621,718  15.2%     14     22       0
Surpkus d 1993 unalocd                                                                                 1,067,854  f.2%
Accumulation 4 Capital Expenditure      8217.92   16.0       11,540.664  17.5%    15t437.795  20I%      2.7 028 "fi    J4% 65%
Inissonents                             7,021,224  128%    10,637,684  16.2%A    14,248,276  19.2%A    24,43914  27.3%
Munipa Installations                    1,241,178  Z3X       1,715,124  Z6%        1,561,492  Z5%        2,435,864  Z7%       30      9      31
Local Subsidie; specft purposes          410,187  0.7%         814,797  1.2%       2,785,118  3.8%       1,216,700  1.4%      99     242     56
Assistance to Dishicts                    48,607  0.1%              0  0.0%               0  0.0%               0  0.0%
S4rs Investments                        5,329,252  9.7%      8,107.763  123%       9.601,666  13.0%     20,778,350  23.2%     52      18    t11
B Renwal of H.V. Tang/bk Asset            1,190,703  2.2%        902,980  1.4%       1,169,519  f1.6%      1,041,58  1.2%      24%    32%    12%
81         upoto Enterprise (Entrepreneur)  217.959  g_1           ....         262,029.                   0....   _7   _  _
[V General Reserves .                                                                           0 _ .0%       1 g%  i2,451  o.on4
Opewadona                                   0  0.0%               0  0.0%              0  0.0%           12,451  0.0%
AccumuSlon                                  0  0.0%               0                    O.O  00%               0  0.0% OO.
V Reserves for Spedfic Purposes                  Q  00                0 0.0Q    ,                                     00%  6.3141403 
Operation                                   0  0.0%               0  0.0%              0  0.0%         1,157.903  1.3%
Accumulation                                0  0.0%               0  0.0%              0  0.0%         4,001,900  4.5%
Reneal                                      0  0.0%               0  0.0%              0  0.0%          1t0,000  0. 1%
Support of Entrprnm                         0  0.0%               0  0.0%              0  0.0%           55,000  0.1%
VI Oth'f!er  f_ Expendituresf___   __ M24962 ___                                                                    _        _i
Total Expenditures       54,922,436  100X     66,801,426  100%      74,076,843  100%      89,394.483  100%     20%    13%    21%
SURPLUSIDEFICIT         2,090,697            1,782,247             2,701,976                    0



-48-
Annex I
Page 10 of 10
Table 3
Municipality of Budapest
HUF Billion
Summary of Current Operations and Capital Revenue
Expenditure Accounts 1991-1994
1991            1992            1993            1994
Revenue             57.6             67.6            76.8            89.4
Expenditure         54.9             65.8            74.1            89.4
SurpluslDeficit     +2.7            +1.8             +2.7            nil
I____________  Summary of Current Operations Account 1991-1994
_____________        1991            1992            1993            1994
Current Revenue     54.0             65.1            67.4            60.8
Current             47.9             55.2            59.9            65.0
Expenditure
Surplus/Deficit     +6.1            +9.9            +7.5             -4.2
on Current a/c
Summary of Capital Investment Accounts 1991-1994
1991            1992            1993            1994
Investmnent                7.0            10.6            14.2           24.4
Sources                   3.0             2.0             3.1            14.5
Capital Rev.
Loans                    .6              .5             6.3            14.1
Subtotal                3.6             2.5             9.4            28.6
Surplus/Deficit           -3.4            -8.1            -4.8           +4.2
on Capital a/c  ..              _ ._. _.. __   _



-49-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 10
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Municipal Urban Transport Policy
The following statement is the final draft of the Urban Transport Policy Statement agreed at
negotiations.
I. Ilrduction
1.1        Urban transport policy for Budapest consists of those general principles adopted
by the Budapest City Government (BCG), to guide the process of operating, regulating and
further developing this important public utility. More specific policy instruments and procedures
have been derived starting from these general principles. While the general policy orientation
is expected to be stable, policy instruments and priorities are by nature time-variant, and will
evolve together with social, political, economic and technological changes in the city and the
country.
1.2        This summary of urban trnsport policy for Budapest is compiled for use within
the context of preparing and negotiating the Budapest Urban Transport Development Project,
financed in part by the World Bank. It is based on continuing work in this area commissioned
in 1992 by the BCG. Further detail can be found in the publications TbhePgammeDofMa=z
Demszky for the City of Budadest1 Preliminary Studies (1991); Budapest Transport System
Dfvlcment, draft document of March 1993; and numerous supporting documents.
II. Cily Bacl=r=und
2.1         The city of Budapest, the capital of Hungary, has a stable population of 2.01
million and about 1,200,000 jobs. The highest level decision-maldng body of the city
government is the General Assembly, represented by the Mayor, directly elected by the
residents. There are 23 district governments on the territory of Budapest having essentially the
same degree of sovereign ruling. Urban transport is under the jurisdiction of the BCG.
2.2         The BCG budget is financed through contributions from the State budget and local
fees and taxes, currently at a 80/20 ratio. The economy of the capital is undergoing structural
change, in terms of the type, size, location and ownership of industrial and commercial
activities. The trend is away from heavy industry, away from large-scale enterprises, towards
service industries and a growing private sector. Another shift being implemented is a gradual
decrease in public spending by the State and greater spending by local governments and
individuals. Among the current consequences of economic transformation are increased



-50-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 10
unemployment in some sectors and pressure on both public and individual budgets, but also
increased wealth in those segments of the local economy which are experiencing fast growth.
2.3         Urban structure consists of the inner city, which contains the majority of
administrative and commercial activities, mixed in with traditional multi-story housing; and
single-purpose housing and industrial estates at the urban fringe. The transport system is multi-
modal and extensive. Intra-urban mass transport services are provided by Budapest Transport
Company (BKV), now a budgetary unit of the City Government. BKV has a service network
of 830 km including buses, tramways, trolley-buses, the metro and commuter railways.
Important regional, national and international transport services to and from Budapest are
provided by Hungarian Railways (MAV), and Volanbusz, the inter-city bus company. The
urban travel market, some 5 million trips per day, is characterized by the dominance of mass
transport modes. This was very pronounced throughout the 1980s, when trips using mass
transport services and those by passenger cars had a 80/20 ratio. This is now changing as result
of economic restructuring in industry and commerce, greater auto ownership, and downward
pressure on public spending for mass transport. Though still in favor of mass transport, the
modal split has slipped to a 70/30 ratio. Auto ownership has reached the level of 260 vehicles
per 1,000 population, twice that of 10 years ago, and is still growing, as is the use of autos.
The consequences include sharp environmental degradation and increased traffic delays,
particularly on the Danube crossings. Increased traffic use and congestion affect negatively the
service and costs of public transport modes which operate in mixed-traffic thoroughfares, and
generate strong pressures for greater spending for road maintenance, rehabilitation and
expansion. Vehicles parked on sidewalks have reduced the space available for pedestrians to
intolerably low levels.
III. Policy Objectives. Major Issues and Principles
3.1         The overall policy objective, guiding the decisions of the City Government which
concern current system operations, as well as those affecting changes to scale and structure of
the system, is to find the balance between economic growth and social development, to preserve
historical and cultural heritage, and protect/enhance the natural environment.
3.2         Added to the above objective is a traditional concern of the authorities, both
elected and appointed ones, to tailor expenditure programs to fit available resources, and use
public funds only when expected benefits exceed costs, where the beneficial results would be the
greatest. In addition, attempting to achieve an equitable distribution of benefits and costs
throughout the urban populace is a further requirement.
3.3         The most urgent shorter-term issue which the City Government is now facing in
the area of urban transport concerns the relative roles of mass transport services and individual
motorized and non-motorized transport modes. Another major issue, this one of longer-term



-51-
AnnC& 2
Page 3 of 10
nature, concerns the degree of road development needed by the City, linked to a general question
of major road and mass transport investments, their selection and funding.  The City
Government has adopted the policy that, as a matter of immediate and permanent concern, the
slippage of modal split towards greater use of the private car should be slowed down and, within
certain city zones and corridors, arrested. On the other hand, the BCG recognizes the link
between economic growth and private vehicle use, and will consider new road projects within
a carefully defined identification and selection process.
IV. Elaboration of Policy Principles
4.1          The following sections summarize, in the most important areas of concem, how
the BCG intends to translate the above major policy principles into more concrete policies, plans
and programs.
Mass transport fares and subsidy policy
4.2         Until very recently, mass transport fares in Budapest were quite low, covering
under 25 % of total costs of BKV; the rest was paid for from the State/City budget, which also
made major contributions towards BKV's capital investments. Low fares and an extensive
service network explain why the usage of the mass transport system in Budapest has been one
of the highest in the world. Over the past five years, the constraints on the City and state
budgets reduced the amounts available for mass transport subsidies. It was recognized that
passengers would have to bear greater proportion of BKV costs and that these costs will have
to be reduced. Fare increases and other changes already introduced have increased cost recovery
of the BKV to about 35%. At the same time, BKV has been losing passengers, in part because
of higher fares, but also due to the growth in ownership and use of automobiles. It is also
evident that BKV's overall financial position has deteriorated and the company have been
deferring maintenance and rehabilitation of their system.
4.3          The BCG acknowledge the need for a comprehensive approach to mass transport
provision, pricing and financing, linked to complementary policies in other dimensions of the
urban transport system. Taking into account the increasing demand for scarce public funds and
the need to generate funds for plant renewal, the BCG will implement an action program to
reduce operating BKV costs and gradually increase fares to achieve a 50% cost recovery rate
by 1999. At the same time, the BCG are taldng actions to reduce automobile use in the central
business district (see below).



-52-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 10
4.4         The main features of the action program directed at mass transport services will
include:
(1)   regular fare revisions aimed at reducing the gap between BKV's revenues and
expenditures, mindful of the need not to make mass transport unaffordable to
lower-income citizens;
(2)   revision of the fare system and modernization of fare sales and collection
technology, the principle of which the General Assembly has already adopted
based on recent studies;
(3)   integration of BKV fares with MAV and Budapest VOLAN fares into a unified
system, meant to increase revenues with current demand and attract more
passengers mainly by diverting them from passenger car to the public transport.
The basis for this, the creation of a Budapest Transport Association, has been
agreed with the major partners and the Ministry of Transport, Communications
and Water Management;
(4)   adoption of measures to combat fare fraud, combining improved control of access
to stations, compliance and penalty collection as well as improvement of ticket
sales and application of advanced technology;
(5)   agreement that a policy of full cost recovery should be adopted for special, on-
demand BKV services and aggressive marketing should be used to increase such
services;
(6)   review of BKV's network and services schedules, with a view of eliminating
unreasonable duplication of routes, over-supply or other inefficiencies. In order
to review the current service standards from the aspect of resource availability,
an internal task force will be created;
(7)   actions to reduce costs and improve output of BKV  operations through
organizational, procedural, divestiture and investment means (see below); and
(8)   reduction of BKV operating costs through measures to increase priority treatment
of street-based BKV vehicles; these will include additional reserved lanes and
priority of passage at intersections, this last to be achieved through modernization
of the traffic signal system.



-53-
Annex 2
Page 5 of 10
Traffic restraint in the inner city
4.5         It is a universal experience in the industrialized European societies that neither
a high-quality supply of urban mass transport nor less-than-economic fares suffice to achieve a
socially desirable split between mass transport and private motor vehicles. The BCG are
therefore committed to an activist traffic restraint approach for the inner city and an
environmentally oriented traffic-calming approach for non-central zones. In this respect,
implementation of a new parking regulation scheme is of prime importance (see next section).
Other instruments for traffic restraint in the inner city will include: inter-connection and
optimization of traffic signals to limit entry to motor vehicles using the gateway concept; new
traffic circulation plan featuring extensive use of one-way streets; increase in lanes reserved for
mass transit vehicles; new pedestrian-only streets and zones; and improved traffic law
enforcement. For tactical reasons, traffic restraint will be applied in tandem with road and mass
transport improvements, allowing timely availability of alternatives to car use. Accordingly, a
new one-way circulation system and traffic signal improvements will be timed to follow the
completion of works on Hungaria Ring and other street improvement projects.
Parking capacity and management in the inner city
4.6         Parking in the inner city has not been regulated in a systematic manner; its
financial aspects have been neglected and enforcement is weak. The BCG believe the solution
is the implementation of a comprehensive parking regulation and have commenced
implementation with a wide range of measures. Its objectives would be to act as restraint on
non-essential demand, increase traffic capacity of inner city streets, and minimize encroachment
of pedestian spaces. As a first stage of this policy, a new on-street parking regulation scheme
is being introduced based on the establishment and gradual extension of the Budapest Parking
Association, an organization involving BCG and the concerned district govemments. The
program would systematize the use of available space through the use of residential parking
permits, and a system of time limits and charges for non-residents; and propose organization
for parking management in particular those organizational arrangements ensuring compliance,
enforcement and towing away illegally parked vehicles. The program would systematize the use
of available space through the use of residential parking permits, and a system of time limits and
charges for non-residents. It will also involve a new organization for parking management,
focussing on those organizational arrangements which would ensure compliance, enforcement
and towing away illegally parked vehicles.
Using vehicle charges for traffic restraint
4.7         A proposal was also raised to introduce entry/use charges for motor vehicles in
the inner city, with a double objective of restraint and generation of funds. It is felt, however,
that too many changes adopted at the same time may be counter-productive; it was therefore



-54-
Annex 2
Page 6 of 10
decided that the new parking management program should be implemented first and its
experience evaluated, before proceeding with more drastic methods. Notwithstanding this, the
BCG have instructed the City Administration to carry out a study of feasibility of introducing
certain methods of road pricing. However, in addition to the substantial capital investment
needed for any such measure, a sensitive political decision of different relevant public bodies
would be necessary for a proposal still deemed premature,
Walking and nonrmotorized modes
4.8          The strategy adopted by the BCG is to create a network of environmentally-
friendly zones across the entire urban area: people-only streets and zones, restricted-traffic
zones, bicycle paths, etc. The approach is to develop, in cooperation with district governments,
a set of differentiated design principles for specific parts of the urban territory.
4.9         Specifically for the inner city, the BCG are committed to extending the people-
only zones, following the highly successful experience of the Vaci Street complex, and will
attempt to inter-connect these whenever possible. Moreover, traffic restraint and parking
management programs will be designed taling full account of pedestrian interests. As a matter
of high priority, it is intended to gradually return sidewalks and squares back to pedestrian use
along with preservation of green areas. The BCG will work with the local and national
authorities responsible for better enforcement of regulations protecting pedestrians in traffic.
4.10        The BCG acknowledge the growing popularity and importance of bicycle traffic,
both as a recreational activity and for transport purposes. About 22 km of bicycle paths already
exist and another 44 km are under construction. It is known, however, that more effort is
necessary if the bicycle is to realize its full potential as a transport mode. The BCG are
committed to creating an inter-connected system of bicycle paths all over the city, and will
intensively cooperate with district governments and maintain close contacts with NGOs interested
in this matter.
4.11        In order to extend the radius of bicycle use, the BCG will devise and implement
a program to add bicycle racks at various parts of the city, including the vicinity of parking lots,
mass transport stations and other activity centers.  Furthermore, opportunities to allow
passengers on mass transport modes to bring their bicycles along will be extended.
Role of the private sector and BKV status
4.12        The BCG have taken a considered view of the debate and recent international
experience on the potential involvement of the private sector in urban transport.  It is
acknowledged that private sector can be an important source of investment capital, a vehicle for
rapid transfer of technology and the know-how, and the creator of new employment. Also, the
introduction of competition in any given economic sector, where bidders would include private



-55-
Annex 2
Page 7 of 10
entrants, has potential to reduce costs and improve the supply of goods and services. The
question is where and how to call on the private sector to improve urban transport in Budapest.
4.13        Involvement of privately-owned organizations into the public transport requires
careful examination. The BCG are of the opinion -- in conformity with current legislation -- that
the ownership of major facilities and rolling stock should remain in public hands, as should the
authority to set service standards and determine fare and subsidy policies. This position
notwithstanding, the BCG are committed to increasing the role of the market in this context.
This will be done in the following three ways.
(1)   Transformation of the legal status of BKV, to provide a sound basis for a market
orientation in its service planning and internal operations. In accordance with the
Hungarian law on transformation of state enterprises, the process of looking in-
depth at various options for BKV future has to be completed by December 31,
1996. The BCG have already decided about the transformation of BKV into a
shareholding company. This option would place BKV under a commercial code
and managerial freedom will increase, while the interests of the city are still
represented adequately by a strong public presence in its Board of Directors.
(2)   Greater commercialization of BKV's operations, under the current status, in order
to reduce the size of BKV and increase its reliance on buying outside services on
the market. A study to define practical steps to achieve this was completed in
December 1994. The major thrust of the study was to look at each individual
non-operational activity of BKV and recommend its transformation, re-
organization or divestiture. It was proposed to separate the Construction Division
and Printing Shop of BKV from the company. Preparatory work for taking
relevant decisions is underway.
(3)   Use of concessions in transport operations to complement or replace existing BKV
services.  Since costs and benefits of this initiative are far from  being
unambiguous, the BCG will initiate in 1996 a demonstration program of private
provision of mass transport services on two urban routes.
BKV costs and service efficiency
4.14        The BCG are fully committed to increasing the service/cost ratio in mass transport
in Budapest. In addition to various actions already listed above, the management of BKV was
instructed to undertake a systematic program of internal re-organization and "staff profile
cleaning," updating of procedures, staff re-assignment, training and reduction. These processes
are all underway. We are in the process of developing global and partial targets for improved
BKV performance and will integrate these in the annual review process.  Also, BKV



-56-
Ann& 2
Page 8 of 10
management is instructed to analyze the service network, hours of operation and service
frequencies, with a view of removing duplication and other inefficiencies, or maldng other
propositions to increase service/cost ratio.
4.15        Finally, the BCG are e.mitted to enabling BKV to invest in modernization of
facilities; rolling stock; diverse tools and aids, hardware and software alike; and training. A
program of up-to-date vehicle identification and 2-way communication, started under a project
financed in part by the World Bank, is being followed by a larger-scale fleet renewal project
with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Another investment project,
focussing on bus replacement and tramway track renewal, is being prepared with assistance of
the World Bank. The BCG will assist BKV management in seeking grant financing to develop
and install a cost accounting system to permit better management by objectives.
Strategic urban transport planning
4.16        It is recognized that actions concerning current transport system operations and
investment decisions about individual projects need to be coherent with a long-term transport
development strategy, itself in agreement with an overall urban development strategy, and based
on realistic expectations of resource availability. The BCG have inherited a transport master
plan based on planning concepts no longer valid, including under-elaborated economic
estimations. These need to be adjusted to new and emerging socio-economic realities and trends,
and new concepts as well. The BCG have commissioned a series of studies aiming to develop
strategic urban land use documents and, in parallel, a strategic transport plan. The studies
involve considerable transport demand data collection and modelling efforts.   The
Comprehensive Budapest Traffic Survey will be available in the spring 1995. A medium-term
(up to year 2000) investment program is approaching completion and a less firm plan will be
developed for the period after year 2000. It is needed however to await the completion of the
new urban development plans, to ensure mutual coherence, before they would be presented to
the City Assembly for consideration.
Mass transport system develooment
4.17        An important objective of the ongoing strategic plaMnning is to review expensive
segregated-track mass transit proposals with due regard to their functional role, economic
performance and financial viability. The general orientation of the BCG is to limit rail-based,
reserved track modes to the most important radial and ring elements of the urban and regional
mass transport network, and use of the less expensive transport modes to the maximum degree
possible. This in no way diminishes the commitment toward protected lanes for public transport
vehicles or application of rail-based environmentally-friendly technologies of transportation.
4.18        Some of the strategic mass transport projects, notably a new metro line in the
southwestern corridor in Buda (DBR line), have been at an advanced stage of consideration for



-57-
Annex 2
Page 9 of 10
a long time. The course of action on such projects will be decided on case-by-case basis, while
respecting as much as practicable the new principles concerning strategic decisions and project
preparation and evaluation noted in the preceding and subsequent paragraphs of this summary.
Road network
4.19        Structural problems of the road system of Budapest, of which resolution is only
possible through investment, were recognized a long time ago. Under the current conditions,
these actions have only become more urgent and, in some cases, critical. The priority
investments, some of which are under construction, include: (1) two southern bridges over the
Danube, one of which is under construction; (2) connectors from the MO ring-road to the arterial
street network; (3) Hungaria Ring development; and (4) missing links in the strategic network
inside the outer ring road (road #6 in Buda, #5 in Pest, and Czepel Thoroughfare).
4.20        Aside from the network development projects, a major effort will be required to
maintain and rehabilitate the existing road network. The BCG have identified urgent road
rehabilitation works, and will take steps to systematize the work on assessing road conditions
and programming maintenance.
Project preparation and evaluation
4.21        One of the major areas where past concepts have not been adequate is project
preparation and evaluation process. What has been particularly lacking is the economic and
financial dimension in technical work and decision making. The BCG recognize that the
requisite changes in this context will be among the more difficult to introduce and sustain. An
internal assessment of the prevailing preparation and evaluation practices for major projects shall
be carried out, with a view of defining an improved sequence and contents of engineering and
economic studies for such projects and ensuring their integration into the decision-making
process. It is justified to adopt a multi-criteria approach to cost-benefit analysis in case of major
investment projects.
Implementation
4.22        Improved planning will not live to expectations unless the project implementation
procedures are effective. One of the key elements to this is to simplify and make more
transparent the system of decision making in preparing investment decisions and establish
generally applicable and transparent rules for the procedures of procurement and implementation
of works. To this end, the BCG are committed to revise its existing procedures in consideration
of the goals mentioned above.



-58-
Annex 2
Page 10 of 10
Trnsprt financ
4.23        Individual project proposals may be functionally and economically attractive, but
still be excluded from the City's investment program, or delayed to a later date. Which projects
enter the program and which get rejected or delayed does not depend only on their economic
"score" but also on the financial capacity of the BCG. Likewise, it is difficult to adopt a policy
on fares and subsidies in mass transport without knowing the relevant budgetary limits. Though
various ad hoc proposals for urban transport finance have been put forward, this subject has not
been systematically studied in Budapest. As indicated above, the contributions from mass transit
users will increase but fall far short of covering costs; likewise, expectations of capital coming
from parking charges and from private investors in either transport services or transport-related
real estate developments are modest.
4.24        In this situation, the BCG are committed to developing a comprehensive approach
to urban transport finance, distinct from looking for cost reduction opportunities in the sector.
A study will be commissioned to analyze all potential sources and modes of finance, above and
beyond the current BCG budget. Charging for the use of urban roads, already noted above, will
be only one of the numerous options to be explored. The option to create a dedicated
Transportation Fund for Budapest will be specifically explored. Our preliminary estimations
indicate that a combination of user charges and fees (still excluding road user charges); BCG and
district budget contributions; local bonds and loans; disposal of city assets; parking revenues and
other sources, could generate a transport investment resources about two to three times greater
than the current annual budget.



-59-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Municipal Urban Transport Investment Plan
Transport organization
1.          The Municipality of Budapest discharges its responsibilities in the transport
sector through specialized committees, several Deputy Mayors (including one for
Infrastructure and Services) and the Technical Department, which has four divisions in this
sector: for public transport, traffic engineering, roads and bridges, and development. In the
past, the Ministry of Transport has had functional authority over BKV. Its Transportation
Department oversaw operations of all public transport enterprises, examined their annual
performance and financial reports, as well as investment and operating plans. The Technical
Development Department of the Ministry reviewed longer-term proposals, hired consulting
firms to prepare and help implement projects, and provided coordination with the city
authorities. With the new emphasis on local government, the role of the Ministry is
changing. BKV has become a Municipal enterprise of Budapest, at least in the transition
period, and the cross relations between the municipal and national levels are still evolving.
Even if the Ministry gives up the control over micro-aspects of BKV's operations, it remains
to be seen which powers it will retain concerning the intra-sectoral reconciliation of transport
investment plans and the integration of these into an economy-wide public investment and
expenditure program.
The Municipal Investment Plan
2.          The Municipality of Budapest has launched the study of a transport master
plan called the Budapest Transport System Development. It includes road and bridge
projects, traffic management operations and improvement of the public transport network.
For the years 1993 - 2000, the projects have been rated on a one to three scale according to
their priority and cost estimates have been provided. The DBR Metro Project was
considered a first priority, but the recent decision of the Municipality to cancel the bids and
to proceed with a prefeasibility study changes its priority status. The total amounts for first
priority projects are shown in table 1.
3.          The main first priority road and bridge construction projects are:
the Lagymanyos bridge over the Danube, south of the existing bridges, mainly
financed by the State budget, and its associated road development financed by
the Municipality,



-60-
Anne 3
Page 2 of 3
the Hungaria Ring Road,
some radial roads, such as road 6, road 5 or the Csepel thoroughfare, that
should act as feeders to the various ring roads,
construction of smaller roads, especially in the Buda Hills area, and
-     reconstruction of most of the Danube's bridges.
4.          The plan includes the rehabilitation of tram tracks and the replacement of
buses, financed by the Bank and the EBRD. Some service extensions, or major
infrastructure rehabilitations, for BKV are also proposed:
-     the extension of the tramway line 1 on the Hungaria Ring Road and across the
Lagymanyos Bridge,
-     the extension of the tram lines on the embankment of the Danube,
-     the rehabilitation of the Millenium Line--the nearly hundred year old metro
line--financed by the EBRD,
-     the reconstruction of the tramway line 2 from the Chain Bridge to the Ersebet
Bridge,
-     some minor extensions or connections.
5.          A new traffic control center will be establish for the South-Buda area, traffic
lights in the northern city sector will be included in the central traffic management system,
and obsolete traffic management equipment will be replaced. The investments, required by
the enforcement of the three zones with restricted access to private cars proposed by the
Municipality and by the parking management scheme, are also included in the plan.
6.          Nonmotorized modes are a priority of the Municipality: a 110 km network of
bicycle path will be developed and significant improvements of pedestrian sidewalks are
prepared.



-61-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
Table 1 - 1993-2000 investment plan
Projects Scope                      Amounts 1993-2000
for first priority projects
in HUF million in 1993 prices
Roads and Bridges                                         45,993
Public Transport'                                         27,269
Traffic and Parking Management                            2,200
Non-motorized modes                                       2,300
Total Investment 1993-2000                                77,762
including the projects financed by the Bank and the EBRD



-62-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
The Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
1.          BKV was created in 1968, by a decision by the Budapest Municipal Council, from
the then-existing seven transport enterprises. In 1973, it assumed management of metro
operations, thus integrating all major modal components of the city's transport system. Its 1993
fleet of about 3,614 vehicles consisted of 1,685 buses, 924 trams and cog-wheels, 205 trolley-
buses, 410 metro cars, 371 suburban train cars and 19 passenger ships. The average age is 6
years for the bus fleet, 23 years for trams, 16 for suburban trains and 11 for metro cars. The
network is about 1,200 km long, of which bus lines account for 775 Iam, trams for 157 Iam,
metro lines for 35 km, suburban rail for 110 km, trolley-buses for 68 km, and river ships
account for 20 km. Some 95% of urban locations are within 400 m from the nearest public
transport stop and BKV boasts of reducing the average waiting time to 3 minutes. The capacity
offered is 26,620 million space-km, broken down by mode as follows: 10,180 (38%) buses,
6,380 (24%) metro, 5,260 (20%) tramway and cog-wheel, 3,950 (15 %) suburban trains, and 850
(3 %) trolley buses. In line with arrangements made within the COMECON trading block, buses
are of Hungarian manufacture, trams are from Czechoslovakia and Hungary, and metro cars are
from Soviet Union.
2.          At the end of 1993, BKV had 19,320 employees, a decrease of about 2,000 from
1992. The staff reduction was achieved through a decrease in the total number of employees
and an increase in the number of drivers. The increase in the number of drivers, which was
unexpected given BKV's cut in services, was due to a change in the overtime laws that now
allow only 12 hours of overtime monthly instead of 50 hours, and an increase in the number of
vehicles by 521 in 1993. Some 5,295 employees are involved in traffic operations and another
9,934 are manual workers, the remaining 4,091 are white-collar employees. The company is
organized into directorates, four of which are defined by mode, and four are typical central
departments. A mechanical/construction services directorate, employing some 2,000 staff,
represents a heritage from the time when BKV's external purchases were limited to buying
vehicles and fuel. BKV has gone through several cycles of organizational development, from
greater independence of modally-defined departments to a highly centralized system. The
current trend is towards greater decentralization and the divestiture of non/operational units. For
instance, the BKV light vehicle fleet renewal has been awarded by an international tender to a
foreign car manufacturer, Renault, who also has a maintenance contract for these cars. The
expected result is to increase the car availability and thus to reduce this light vehicle fleet from
520 vehicles to 400 vehicles (a 23% decrease).



-63-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
3.          The 1991 daily traffic was about 4.4 million passengers and 19.4 million
passenger-km, adding up to 1,620 million passengers and 7,065 million passenger-km annually.
About two-third of all trips are work-related. The patronage trend is downward, accompanying
a similar trend in the capacity supplied:
Table 1 - BKV's Patronage and Capacity
YEAR              PASSENGERS/YEAR          CAPACITY SUPPLIED
in millions           in million place-km
1987                    1,932                    8,476
1988                    1,913                    8,282
1989                     1,835                   7,982
1990                    1,687                    7,448
1991                     1,620                   7,065
1992                     1,482                   6,440
1993                    1,471                    6,407
BKV's patronage and the supply of transport decreased by about 24% during the seven year
period.
4.          BKV's fare system includes single tickets for all modes, plus daily, weekly and
monthly passes for different modal networks. Only 19% of fare revenue comes from selling
single tickets, with monthly passes -for tram only or combined for all modes- being the most
popular with 66% of the total fare revenue. Discounted passes are available to retirees and
students.
5.          BKV reports that, based on recent samples of vehicles, the percentage of
passengers riding without tickets has increased to about 12%. This percentage is bound to
increase further after the implementation of the 33% tariff increase on March 1, 1995 unless
corrective action is taken promptly. BKV is experiencing difficulties in tackling this rapidly
growing problem as it is not empowered to take effective action against defaulters. However,
BKV has increased the number of ticket controllers by about 150 in 1993 to 300 in 1994, and
is in the process of improving methodology for measuring fare evasion.
6.          The seven issues of urban transport in Budapest that involve BKV are: (a) aged
and obsolete plant; (b) company size; (c) link between productivity and remuneration; (d) the
size of the service network; (e) fare policy in the shrinking market; (f) finance sources; and (g)
formal status of BKV as enterprise.
Aged/obsolete plant
7.          The maintenance and upgrading of a plant as extensive as that of BKV requires
capital expenditures in excess of what has been available in recent years, especially since the low



-64-
Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
cost recovery of the company, its falling demand, and absence of financial management
techniques common elsewhere, placed such a heavy burden on public finances. The result has
been that BKV fell behind in its plant investments and in its maintenance program, as readily
visible from the poor state of tramway tracks, or the near-collapsed Millenium Underground
Line. Moreover, the technology is not up to the normal standards of Western European
countries. Because of the trading agreements between Eastern European (COMECON)
countries, including a rather extreme division of labor, purchasing of the rolling stock and other
equipment took place strictly inside the COMECON market, most often from a monopoly
supplier. For example, aU BKV buses came from Ikarus, a Hungarian manufacturer. Metro
cars are Soviet-made, and tramway cars were imported from Czechoslovakia (CKD Praha).
This practice had some advantages of standardization and economies of scale, but it also meant
that: (a) technological advances from the West were slow to come to Eastern Europe, in part
because of the difficulty of a gradual introduction of improvements from another technological
pool, and (b) the concept (and advantages) of competitive bidding has been largely unknown.
The consequences included lower vehicle productivity, higher operating and maintenance costs,
and higher environmental costs. As market conditions change, BKV will have to make some
difficult decisions, e.g. where to buy the replacement technology.  Not only have the
COMECON arrangements broken down, but the traditional COMECON suppliers are now
asking their hitherto special customers for payment in hard currencies and their prices have gone
up. Even the survival of some suppliers is in question. BKV is looking into new control
technology for some of its underground lines, but this is inextricably linked with the question
of future rolling stock purchases; also, environmental considerations would dictate the purchase
of "clean" buses or bus engines, but the pressure to help the domestic producer of buses is
strong.
The size of BKV
8.          BKV is altogether too large and has too large a scope of intemal activities, a
consequence of a trend towards self-sufficiency characteristic of the socialist economies.
Shortages of industrial products, large or small, were habitual, partly because of the poor
functioning of the command economies, partly due to a conviction held by central planners that
demand should always be left to exceed supply. In public transport, a sensitive urban service
where breakdowns could not be tolerated, managers responded by setting up internal units for
the manufacture of needed items. This may have started as a wish to maintain a stock of vital
spare parts, but it grew to a point where public transport companies in some Eastern European
cities bought very few goods and services from outside. BKV is not as extreme a case as some,
but it has too many internal departments for production of items that any Western company
would always buy on the market. It has developed activities that had nothing to do with public
transport, e.g. health services, sports centers, construction departments to build own housing,
gardening, etc. The number of staff working for these activities is presented in Table 2.
Needless to say, this represents a hefty addition to both fixed and variable costs of operation,
and reduces the company's ability to adapt to changes, such as a downturn in demand. BKV's
management estimates that BKV's optimal size would be around 18,000 by year 2000.



-65-
Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
However, whereas the first lay-offs - which were often early retirements in a context of a still
low unemployment - did not create any social turmoil, the coming ones may prove to be
difficult. It will require a combination of separating noncore activities and non/replacement of
retirees.
Table 2 - Number of Employees in Noncore Activities
Activity                         Number of Employees
Water Transport                                            130
Chair Lift                                                  30
Construction                                               950
Health Centers                                              75
H Tourism Agency (BKV Tours)                                50
Link between productivity and remuneration
9.          Until recently, less than 30% of BKV's revenues came from fares, the rest being
subsidies traditionally paid by the state government, and the link between internal productivity
and remuneration of staff has been weak. The subsidy formula was based on place-km put into
service and total number of boardings. This formula has now been abandoned and the subsidy
amount from the municipal budget is actually a function of BKV's forecast deficit. Still, BKV's
operational (transport) departments have efficiency ratios comparable to Western European
transport enterprises, but excess staff are found in the central and service departments, which
lowers overall results of the enterprise.
The size of BKV's service network.
10.         Exceptionally low fares have encouraged Budapest citizens to use more of public
transport services than they otherwise might have. In the short run, this means that frequency
of trips was high; in the longer run, low fares influenced the location of housing and other land
uses, leading to progressively longer journeys. Since BKV's service standards were driven by
a normative political process rather than economic calculation, the result is that the network is
quite extensive, possibly more so than in any other world city. This is a situation difficult to
maintain in times of relative economic hardship. BKV appears to have reacted by reducing
frequency of service, rather than eliminating the lines or considering work-sharing with
alternative providers of service. However recent drop in demand, and rising awareness of the
necessity of higher cost recovery ratio have changed this attitude and BKV has submitted a plan
to the Municipality that includes further reduction in off peak services, reduction by 3 hours of



-66-
Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
services is provided. This plan is considered by BKV's management as a first step, and other
line closures are studied, but it has not yet received the approval of the Municipality. The
Municipality and BKV are also studying other alternatives such as better coordination with the
existing providers of transport services, Volanbusz and MAV, through a Budapest Transport
Association, and private provision of public transport on a trial basis.
Fare policy in the shrnking market
11.         Using a basic-needs approach, BKV fares have been kept quite low. This meant
large payments of operating subsidies to the company, in addition to capital subsidies for large-
scale infrastructure investments and also rolling stock purchases. This continued until macro-
economic constraints dictated belt tightening. The first fare increase in BKV's history took place
in 1985, the next one in 1989, the increases becoming annual thereafter. Traffic started to fall
at an annual rate of 4.5% since 1987, further eroding both the fare revenue and the traffic-
dependant part of subsidies. This has been a joint result of higher fares, generally higher costs
of living for some segments of the population, higher unemployment, and a shift to using private
vehicles by the well-to-do passengers. BKV faces some difficult choices. Fares policy is under
pressure, since the current cost recovery ratio (34%) is substantially under the European average
(about 50%), but it will inevitably lead to further erosion in the patronage. Some of the "lost"
trips will shift to cars and others will be made by walking, or not at all. This is not necessarily
bad, not even some shift to private cars, since this is a part and parcel of the economic growth
and increase in the standard of living. Still, it has to be handled with great care, lest it leads
to the car-dominant situation prevalent in most European cities. Fares are not the only action
needed to increase cost recovery. With more than 10% of traffic riding without ticket, a fare
evasion reduction to 7% would provide a significant additional revenue. There is a lot of scope
in BKV to reduce operating costs, not only by serving the existing network better but also by
reducing the service network. This last does not necessarily mean the cessation of service, but
giving opportunity to the private sector to take over parts of the network, particularly the lower-
volume routes.
Finance sources
12.         In 1986, the revenue from BKV ticket sales covered only 19% of total operating
costs (23% of direct operating costs). Since BKV had additional business ventures, "other"
revenues increased cost recovery to 28 % of total costs. At that time, a combination of city and
state subsidies was paid according to a formula with an in-built performance incentive: a
"supply" subsidy from Budapest City Council of HUF 160 (then US$ 3) for each passenger-
space-km per year in service, plus a "demand" subsidy from the State (Ministry of Finance),
amounting to twice the traffic revenue earned by the BKV. These numbers excluded the capital
subsidy, which in the early 1980's was of the order of $30 million per annum. In 1990, when
cost recovery increased to 34% through fare increases, the subsidy amounted to HUF 11,197
million ($ 177 million). This was equivalent to 0.5% of the Gross Domestic Product of
Hungary in that year, and also amounted to about 15% of the total revenues of the City of



-67-
Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Budapest. A new system has been introduced, starting in 1991, whereby the Ministry of Finance
is paying a compensation for "social" fares, while the Municipality of Budapest, owner of BKV
since that time, gives a fixed-amount subsidy subject to negotiation. In 1992, revenue from
ticket sales was about HUF 6,835 million and another HUF 688 million came from advertising
and other services. The cost recovery ratio, including depreciation, was 32% in 1992. The
68% gap between total costs and sales revenues is covered by subsidies from the Ministry of
Finance and from the Municipality of Budapest. In 1991, the subsidy from the Government
came to HUF 3,214 million and municipal subsidy came to HUF 9,580 million. In 1993, the
subsidy was HUF 11,377 million from the municipal budget and about HUF 4,940 million from
the Central Govemment; the actual amount of the latter is proportionate to the actual number
of concessionary tickets sold. Fare increases should enable BKV to achieve a 100% operating
ratio, if strong actions are decided against ticketless riders.
13.         Various attempts to modify public transportation fares in the Budapest area are
on their way. The EBRD financed a restructuring study of BKV's fares, which started in June,
1993, and the Municipality will present a new fare structure with its implementation schedule.
The Budapest Transport Association, created on January 1, 1995, would, among other tasks,
promote a unified fare system for all public transportation systems in the region.
14.         The financial analysis of BKV's past accounts, shows that, after an accounting
deficit of HUF 370 million in 1991, the operating ratio went down from 101.7% in 1991, to
99.5% in 1992, and then increased to 101% in 1993. It is estimated the operating ratio will
increase to 104% in 1994. BKV's compliance with the financial targets set in the Second
Transport Project has been reasonably good prior to 1991. Financial projections for the years
1995 to 2000 were prepared, analyzed and discussed during appraisal (Annexes 6 to 9).
Status of BKV.
15.         BKV was transformed from a state enterprise into a Municipal enterprise,
belonging to the Municipality of Budapest, pursuant to Resolution Number 1608/1992 dated
December 23, 1992, and amended on November 30, 1993. The Hungarian law on the
transformation of state property requires the new status to be in place by December 31, 1996.
However, the Municipality and BKV signed an Operational Agreement in January 1995. BKV
will become a public company operating under commercial law, with joint ownership of stock
held by the Municipality of Budapest, BKV employees. Other stockholders could enter later.
The final propositions concerning the assets' ownership, the distribution of shares and the
division of powers and responsibilities between the shareholders and the management are yet to
be developed.



-68-                ~~~~~~~~Annexc5
I a  i 1  1   1
!R       I ;IH                    I 1    iii 
d~~~~~~~. 1
I-  0 i                         U               
ii4  11111    II0     t   ]1
aE ~ I          
0.         .Z .
hi d                  I



-69-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Projection
1.          The forecasts for 1995 through 2000 are in mid-1994 price levels. Conversions
from forints to US dollars for projections was at the mid-1994 level of US$1.00 = HUF103.0.
2.          Traffic was projected to decrease by 4% per annum covering a 1% change in
model split and a 3 % decrease due to real tariff increases. Tariffs were increased in real terms
by 10% in 1996, 9% in 1997, 10% in 1998, 5% in 1999, and 10% in 2000 to enable BKV to
meet the increased cost recovery rates of 37% in 1995, 41% in 1996, 43% in 1997, 45% in
1998, 47% in 1999 and 50% for 2000 onwards. VAT was not included in revenue. Fare
evasion is projected to be reduced from 12% in 1993 to 7% by 1997.
3.          Municipal subsidies were reduced in line with the increase in tariffs to a level
which enabled BKV to break even on operating expenses including depreciation but excluding
interest on long-term loans.
4.          Salaries were decreased in line with the BKV's projected decrease in staff
numbers during the six-year period 1995-2000.
5.          Energy prices were assumed to increase by 2%  in real terms in 1995 and
thereafter to remain at the 1995 level. Fuel consumption was decreased as new vehicles were
delivered. Reductions were also made to allow for the reduction in service expected as a result
of the fall in traffic and use of a more reliable new vehicle.
6.          Material costs were reduced in line with the savings expected from the acquisition
of new vehicles and the reduction in fleet.
7.          Other worling expenses were mainly related to staffing levels and were projected
in line with salaries and wages.
8.          About 15% of total operating expenses were capitalized based on the 1994 level.
9.          Existing depreciation rates, which are conservative, were used on assets acquired
prior to 1994. Buses acquired from 1995 onwards were depreciated over ten years in line with
projected useful life instead of five to seven years life used by BKV.



-70-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
10.         It was assumed that BKV would be responsible for debt service on the Bank loan
only.
11.         No equity contributions from the municipality or state were assumed.



HUNGARY
Budapet Urban T"wwp_t Ptrd.ot
Budapes Tranopo Compan  (BICVI
hemae Statamat, 1991413 (AUAs. 1994 (EstIat) 1996-2000 (Foreaawt
ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ESTI4ATE FORECAST FORECAST FOFRECAST FORECAST FORECAST FOfECAST
1991     1992     1993      1904     1995     1990      1997     1998      1999     2000
OPERATING REVENUE
PASSENGER SALES 1/                        6.809    6,935    7.334    8,380    9,079    9,807   10,510   10.922   11.3B6   1 1.840
OTHER NCOME                                 963      688      753    1.100    1.364    1,384    1.304    1.364    1.364    1,384
SUBTOTAL                                    6.572    7.523    8.087    9.480   10,443   11.171    11.880   12,286   12,762   13,210
SUBSIDY - MUNICIALITY                     9.580   10,500   11.377   11,250   11.227    8,945    7.485    6,840    6.207    5,020
. STATE                           3.214    5.403    4.940    5,800    5.916    7.099    7,951    7,951       8,110    8,110
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                    19,366   23.420   24,404   20,530   27.580   27Z216   27.310   27.083   27,009   26.340
OPERATING EXPENSES
SALAIESAND WAGES                          8.619   11.206   12533   15.160   14.919   14.839   14.758   14,677   14.697   14,616
ENERGY                                    3.11S    3.327    3.203    3.920    3.587    3,462    3,339    3.244    3.145    3,020
MATERIALS                                 4,735    6,416    6,806    7,170    7,117    6.990    0.888    0.801       6.724    6.657
OTHER WORKING EXPENSES                    1.072    1.259    1,587    1,486    1.520    1,518    1.510    1.501    1.493    1,486
WORKS CAPITALIZED                                  (2.614)  13,203)   14.2501   14.1991  14.235)   (4.205)   (4,1771   (4,160W   (4,1251
SUBTOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                  17,541    19.694   20,920   23,486   22.900   22,503   22.290   22.047   21.809   21.559
OPERATING INCOME BEFOfE DEPRECIATION        1,825    3.832    3,478    3.044    4,028    4,862    5.026    5.036    5,201    4,782
PROVISION FOR DEPFRECIATION                 2,153    3,715    3,717    4,000    4.441      4,745    4.988    5.242    5.214    5,124
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                   19,094   23.309   24.843   27,480   27,401    27,308   27.277   27,288   27.023   20.682
NET OPERATING INCOME                         13281     117      12391    19561     185       192)      38      12063     47      (3421
_sma _am=   a.==..              5    5,m5   ==lS        . 5 .  .. .f.   -.aw  S*
INTEREST ON LOANS                             42        31       19        123      25       24        22       20       18        17
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                      13703      86     (2581    19543      160      (1101      16     1226)      28      (3681
TAXES                                         17        39        0        0        72        0         7        0       13         0
NET SURPLUS8)EFICJT                         (3873       47      (2583    (9541      88      (1163       9     (226)       16     (3581
_mf   ---            ----  ____., =.=-           . -...   m....   a--   _._. ,m_,a..ma......
OPERATING RATIO JINCLUDUNG SUBSIDY) %        102       100      101      104        89      100       100      101       100      101
TARGET RATIO                                  98        99       98      100       100      100       100      100       100      100
OPEPATING RATIO IEXCLUDING SUBSIDY) %        300       310      305      290       202      244       230      222       212      202                     9
COST RECOVERY RATIO %                         33        32       33        34       38       41        44       46        47       50
TARGET RATIO                                                                        37       41        43       46        47       50
11   Eww* VAT



HUNlJ
lI ap. UWhmn Trump.. P_ok"
Bud"pest T_niwpmt Cmn.w (CV)
Cah Flow Stauenmntm, 1391-93 UAO, 103 (Esma) 1930-2000 (Fo.me4
ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ESTIMATE FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST  TOTAL    TOTAL
1991     1962     1993      1994     1996     1996      1997     1908      1999     2000   1305-1998 1992000
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        1,826    3,832    3.478    3.044    4,626    4,662    6,028    5,036    5,201    4,782    19,340   29,382
LESS:P1RFITTAX*45%                             17       39        0         0       72        0         7        0        13        0        79       92
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS              1.808    3.793    3,478    3.044    4.554    4.052    6,019    5,030    5,248    4,782    19,201   29.290
LESS: DEBT SERVICE
INTEFEST                                   42        31       19        12)      25       24       22        20       19        17        91      128
REPAYMBENT                                  0        0         0       23        31       88      189       271      298      608       579    1,534
TOTALDEBTSERVICE                               42       31       19        21      S5       112       211      291      316       674       670    1.660
N                IN WONRIG CAPITAL           804   (1,902)      485       610      423   (1.288)    (399)       80      1218)      92    (1.183)   11.307)
OTHER THAN CASH
NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                 go       .7       2974    _2.413    4.075    6.827    6Z07        Mk    S148    4.A    1*2773    83Z
INVESTMENTS
PROJECT                                     0        0        0         0      593    Z.261    2Z784       676        0         0     6,314    6,314
OTHER                                   8.128    6,600     1,990    3.600    6.916    4.739    3.210    6.324    60ooo    5,000    20,194   31,164
TOTAL INVESTM8T                             8.128    6,690    1,990    3,600    7,508    7.000    e.000    60ooo    o.000    S,OOO    26,508   37,508
SURPLuS(DEFICTm ErORE BORROWNG             (7.1001    19751     978   (1.1871   (3.4331   (1.1731    (793l  (1.3351    (8621    (94       (8,7365  (865711
EXTERNAL FNANCE
BORROW m-WD-WRLD BAK (Sgad   Trawponrtl        0        95       77        11       16        0        0         0        0         0        15       16
- OTHER                           31         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0         0        0
TOTALBOMOWWNG                                 31        96       77        11       16        0         0        0        0         0        15       15
GRANTS * WORD BANK                             0         0        0         0      299    1,234    1,490       710        0         0     3.739    3.739
EBRO                                                     0      327    1.942    1,269       803       803      690      592      4,807    6.089
. OTHER                             0.499    3.014
TOTAL EXTEINAL FUNDS AVALABLE              t630       W29!       22        n     226       2.43     2.29     1.613,               in      NMI    su&
CASH SUMLUsADEFlCITC                        (636)   2.734    1,056       (9491  (1,177)    1.320    1,505      178      (162)    (392)    1,826    1,272
0,
CASH AT BEGNNING OF YER                      143      (493)    2,241    3.206    2.447    1.270    2,589    4.095    4.273    4.111
CASH AT END OF YEAR                          1493)   2,241    3.290    2.447    1,270    2,589    4,095    4.273    4,111    3.718
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE (TiE                   43,2    122.4    183.1    143.0      81.6      41.6     23.8      17.3     16.0      7.1            03110/95
(CASH GBNERATEDIDE8T SERVICE)



HUN ARY
Ih9 l_a Urban Tr- r_t PToJeat
Sudapme Trawpoet Ceaumpa I8KVJ
8daime Shitt, 1S9183 WAUeG. 1994 lEsiWd). 199662000 IFa,eu)
ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ACTUAL ESTMATE FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST FORECAST
1991    1992      1903     1994    1995     1990      1997     1990     109O     2000
ASSETS                                     -   _    _    _                             _-    -  -_
CURIENT ASSETS
CASH                                        114    2.241    3.280    2.447    1.270    2.580    4,005    4,273    4,111    3.718
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                        594    1.124    1.206    1.007    1,990    2,418    2,017    2.095    1,872    1.947
INVENTORY                                 4,150    5.133    5.445    5.736    5.693    4.893    4.822    4.761    4.707    4.660
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                       508      508       794
TOTAL CURNT ASSETS                        5,372   9S005   10,741    9,790    8.953    0,901   10.933   11,128   106090   10,325
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                       58,781   65.533   67,681   70,479   76,033   83,287   89,787   95,787  101,787  107,287
LESS DEPRECIATION                        22,072   26.631   30,340   34,348   38.789   43.533   48.521   53.762   58.977   04.100
NET FIXED ASSETS                         36.709   38.902   37.333   36.131   37.244   30,764   41.260   4Z026   42Z810   43.187
WORK-IW-PFOGRESS                           959    1.150      998    1,900    3.754    3,00    3,000    3,000    3,000    2,500
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                       37,600   40,052   38.332   37.931   40,898   43.254   44.286   45,025   45,10   45,687
TOTAL ASSETS                             43,041   49.057   49,072   47.721   49,951   53,154   65.199  b5.163   50.600   56.012
UABLM1ES
CURRENT LUAILrTIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                            149    3.017    3,812    3,101    3,018    3,932    3.859    3,796    3.736    3.072
TOTAL CUPf0f L UABIUTIES                   149    3.617    3,812    3.101    3.018    3,932    3,859    3,796    3,736    3,672
LONG-TEIM LOANS                             31       126     203      191      18a      16       147      127      107      87
EQUITY                                   42,880   45,314   45.050   44.429   40.747   49,056   51,194   52,230   52.658   52.253
TOTAL LABLrIES & EGUITY                  43,040   49,067   49,071   47.721   49,951   53,154   55.199   56.153   50,500   56.012
.__......  ,. m.  z....... ==,* .   =mm=   =, ..   =...  **-*    -...... U-*-
CURRENT ASSETS TO CURRENT LLABMES         30.0      2.6      2.8      3.2      3.0      2.5      2.8      2.9      2.9      2.8
L/T DEBTIEQUTY RATIO                       0.1%     0.3%     0.5%     0.4%     0.4%     0.3%      0%       0%        0%      0%
RATE OF RETURN ON AVERPAE NET FIXED ASSET    -1.0%  0.2%    -0.7%    -2.6%     0.4%    -0.3%     0.0%    -0.5%     0.1%    -0.8%
03110195
%0



- 74 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 6
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Buses
1.           In the operating and financial environment prevalent in Western Europe and
North America, evaluation of bus replacement proposals normally consists of life cycle cost
calculations to determine an optimal replacement age for a batch of vehicles. If a new model
of bus is considered, the differing capital, operating and maintenance costs, and expected
lifetime of the old and new models are compared. Improved environmental characteristics,
difficult to quantify but frequently mandated by law, may be considered, as well as the
advantages of buying locally manufactured buses. The preparation of specifications and bid
documents, and the bid evaluation process, is particularly important because new vehicles
have a wide range of cost and performance possibilities.
2.           In the case of BKV's bus fleet, financial constraints have prevented the
enterprise from retiring and replacing vehicles in accordance with life cycle calculations.
Focussing on the main work-horse of BKV's fleet, the standard-size, Ikarus-made 200 series
bus, 36% of the existing BKV fleet is older than the optimal replacement life of eight years.
Ikarus has recently introduced a new 400 series of buses.
3.           The procurement of 50 single buses' was evaluated by comparing the capital
and operating costs of the bus fleet with and without the accelerated replacement financed
under the project, as shown in Attachment 1. The principal assumptions used in the
calculation are:
(a)   Ikarus 200 series buses would be replaced with buses made to meet the
currently planned specification, including an expected life of at least 12 years,
at a net of tax cost of US$250,000 equivalent.
(b)    The analysis period is ten years. The residual value of the fleet, was
estimated on a straight line basis over 12 years.
(c)    Buses would cost US$11,000 to maintain in the first year. The maintenance
costs of the buses would increase thereafter in accordance with the different
cost profiles shown in Attachment 1 which are based on discussions with BKV
specialists.
l /The number of buses included in the project was reduced from 150 to 50 at negotiations. The ERR estimate in this Annex is based on
procuring 150 buses in 1994 and 1995, and is considered to be essentially the same as for procuring 50 buses in 1996 as finally agreed
under the project.



- 75 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 6
(d)   The new bus fleet would require only 10% spare buses. This compares to
27 % required for the present 200 series fleet due to their age and low
reliability.
(e)   The 200 series buses would consume an average of 0.32 liters/km and the new
buses 0.29 liters/km of diesel fuel at an international price of US$ 0.30/liter
excluding taxes. Buses would run 65,000 km p.a.
(f)    The fleet in service would decline 4% p.a. during 1993-2000 in parallel with
the traffic forecast. The ratio of single to tandem busses would remain the
same,
(g)   BKV bought fifteen new buses with its own funds in 1994, and will buy none
in 1995 and 1996, and 100 p.a. from 1997 onwards (their historical average).
They would also buy 130 new buses in 1995 and 130 in 1996 with EBRD
financing.
Based on these assumptions, the ERR for this component is estimated to be 17% as shown in
Attachment 1. The evaluation does not take account of the increased attractiveness and
comfort of new buses, or reductions in air pollution. If the buses cost 20% more than
estimated, then the ERR of this component is estimated to be 14%. If traffic declines 6.0%
p.a. during 1993-2000 instead of 4.0% p.a. the ERR would be 14%.
B. Tram Track
4.          At present, BKV tramway tracks are of two types: big panel track, embedded
in the roadway to permit road vehicles to use it, and open track, the traditional rail track
with sleepers and ballast on an exclusive right of way. Recently, BKV has experimented
with a new type of surface track, using continuous reinforced concrete base, cast in-situ,
heavy rail (RI59 type, designed for 12-ton axle loads), and flexible base plates. The new
track is projected to have a useful life of 25 years, with a rail change after 15 years. BKV
has identified track sections for urgent replacement on the basis of condition and traffic
loading, but lacks funds to do the work. The highest priority 47 km, expected to be almost
all big panel track, would be financed under the project, at an average cost of US$960,000
per km net of tax including 10% physical contingencies.
5.          BKV does not keep records of track maintenance costs by track type or traffic
loading. During 1981-88, BKV spent about US$17.7 million equivalent p.a. on regular
maintenance including a small amount for locally funded renewal. These expenditures then
declined steadily to about US$7.0 million in 1992 (para. 8), resulting in the deterioration of
the system described in the main text. It is estimated that if the track system is to be
retained at its present size and average technical condition, then expenditure on regular
maintenance would have to rise back to the level of the 1980's, and a program of backlog



- 76 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 6
maintenance undertaken. It is further estimated that BKV would extend the life of existing
big panel tracks from 8 to 12 years by undertaking a program of rail grinding and panel
filling. This program is expected to reduce the annual requirement for regular maintenance
from US$17.7 million (1981-88 average) to US$12.7 million. It was assumed that BKV
would increase its maintenance budget in steps to US$12.7 million p.a. by 1997 to meet this
requirement.
6.          BKV has a total of about 269 km of track network carrying passengers,
including 84 km carrying more than 40,000 passengers per day (ppd), 125 kIn carrying 12-
40,000 ppd, and 60 kan carrying less than 12,000 ppd. It is estimated that the maintenance
expenditures per kan are distributed in the proportion of 4:2:1 among these three categories.
On this basis, the required maintenance budget of US$12.7 million in 1997 would be
US$6.7, US$4.8 and US$1.1 million respectively for the three categories. Thirty percent of
maintenance expenditures are estimated to be fixed, and 70% to vary in proportion to traffic.
Considering that 55% of the network is big panel track, and assuming, based on international
experience, that it costs about 1.5 times as much to maintain big panel track as open track,
then the annual maintenance requirement for big panel track carrying 30,000 ppd or more
can be expressed by the equation: US$1,120 per km plus US$1,400 per 1000 ppd.
7.          Maintenance costs are expected to fall substantially when the new track is put
in place. Taking into account that the project includes the sections which are in the worst
condition and carry the most traffic, it is estimated, based on international norms, that
regular maintenance costs would fall by 65 % when big panel track is replaced with new
surface track.
8.         In the absence of the project, BKV would also have to undertake an intensive
program of backlog maintenance, including extensive repairs particularly to remove speed
restrictions, rail replacement, and the panel grouting and rail grinding program described
above. This would be necessary to avoid the imposition of additional speed restrictions and
assure the tracks could be maintained from the regular maintenance budget. Backlog
maintenance requirements for the entire track system are estimated to be the difference
between actual and required maintenance during the period 1989-97, based on the parameters
discussed in para. 5.



- 77 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 6
Table 1: Actual and Forecast Track Maintenance
Actual/Forecast       Required
Year       Maintenance        Maintenance          Backlog
(millions of US$ net of tax)
Actual       1989             16.9               17.7                0.8
1990            10.9                17.7               6.8
1991             7.7                17.7              10.0
1992             7.0                17.1              10.1
1993             7.5                16.5               9.0
Estimated    1994             8.5                15.8                7.0
Forecast     1995            10.1                14.6                4.5
1996            11.4                13.9               2.5
1997            12.7                12.7               0
Total                     93.0               143.7               50.7
Estimated backlog maintenance of US$50.7 million amounts to an average of US$189,000
per track km that carry passengers. Since project tracks carry the most traffic and are in
the worst condition, it was assumed they would require double this amount, or $378,000 per
km.
9.          Trams will no longer have to brake for and accelerate away from sections with
speed restrictions following the project. Rehabilitation of 64 km of heavily trafficked track
would result in an estimated 1.5% savings in energy costs, or about US$95,000 p.a. in 1993.
In addition, it is estimated that fewer trams would be required which would reduce the tram
maintenance and refurbishment bill by around US$375,000, while the reduction in tram
drivers would reduce the wage bill by a further US$250,000.
10.         The economic rate of return (ERR) calculation is shown in Attachment 2.
Annual operating cost savings, and the variable portion of maintenance cost savings, are
assumed to vary in proportion to the traffic forecast. The estimated ERRs for identified
sections are as follows:



- 78 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 6
Table 2: Estimated Economic Return for Identified Track Sections
1993         1993
AADT          Axles/          Estimated
Section                      km               (000)    Week (000)          ERR(%
Nepszinhaz u.                  2.4               31          12                10
Fchervari u.                   2.5               73          21                23
Lehelu.                        5.4               37          19                12
Nagykorut                     14.6              166          41                51
Erzebet Kir.                   7.2               26          19                10
Altkotos u.                    5.2               25          17                10
Total                  37.3
11.          Assuming the remaining sections have an ERR of 10%, the track renewal
component is estimated to have an ERR of 23%. The evaluation does not take into account
travel time savings, increased passenger comfort and attractiveness, the expected 50%
reduction in ambient noise, or the expected reduction in building damage from tram
vibration. If the cost of track renewal is 20% higher than estimated, then the ERR of this
component would be 15%. If traffic declines 6.0% p.a. during 1993-2000 instead of 4.0%
p.a. the ERR would be 22%.
C. Traffic Control System
12.          An additional 50 trams and 150 buses would be equipped with AVM at a cost
US$3.2 million net of tax under the project.2  AVM system maintenance costs were
estimated on the basis of international experience to be 1.8% of the capital cost in the first
year, 1.4% in the years 2-5, rising to 2.5% in the 17th year when the system would be
scrapped. Other AVM operating costs were estimated to be 4.0% of current average vehicle
operating costs. Based on results in other countries, it is possible to operate AVM equipped
tram or bus services with 7-10% fewer vehicles. Due to apparent excess capacity in the tram
fleet, and in order to be conservative, it was assumed that the purchase of only 3% of the
2 /The number of ums and buses to be fitted with AVM equipmcnt under the project was reduced from 300 to 200 at negotiations. Tbe
ERR estimate in this Annex is based on equipping 300 trams and buses in 1996, and is considered to be essentially the same as for
equipping 200 trams and buses in 1997 as fuudly agreed under the project.



- 79 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 6
AVM equipped vehicles could be avoided in the second year of operation. It was also
assumed that due the more even distribution of vehicles on the line, the same level of service
could be provided with 3% less vehicle capacity, resulting in a savings in operating costs.
Finally, an AVM system is expected to reduce the net requirement for dispatchers by 10
persons at an estimated annual cost of US$42,000 including overheads. The ERR for this
component is estimated to be 19% as shown in Attachment 3. Benefits from reductions in
fuel consumption or vehicle maintenance due to smoother running, or increased passenger
satisfaction due to improved adherence to the timetable, were not taken into account. If the
cost of the AVM system is 20% higher than expected, the ERR is estimated to be 13%. The
calculation is not considered to be sensitive to the traffic forecast, since only about 17% of
the combined bus/tram fleet will be equipped with AVM following completion of the project.
All of these vehicles are expected to continue in service irrespective of traffic developments.



Annex 11
-80-                                 Page 1 of 42
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
A. Prject Obiectives
1.          The overall objective of the project is to support the urban transport reforms
undertaken by the Municipality of Budapest and BKV. Specific objectives are to: (a) modernize
and increase the commercial orientation of BKV; (b) implement a parking control policy; (c)
decrease subsidies to BKV by reducing operating costs, increasing tariffs and separating non-core
activities, and by introducing the private provision of public transport services; (d) contribute
to the improvement of environment protection in Budapest.
B. Project Descrption
2.          The Project includes three investment components to be implemented by BKV,
plus policy components and related technical assistance to be implemented by BKV and the
Municipality of Budapest. The investment components comprise:
(a)   47 km of tram track in most urgent need of repair will be replaced on the most heavily
travelled routes over a three year period. In addition, this component includes small
equipment: (i) instruments to diagnose track condition; (ii) maintenance machines and
tools; and (iii) a computer-controlled maintenance supervision system;
(b)   50 single buses will be purchased; and
(c)   Stage II of the implementation of an automatic vehicle monitoring system will provide
on-board equipment for 200 vehicles.
Technical assistance is described in Attachment 1.
C. EPject Cost
3.          The total project cost is estimated to be US$67.1 million, including US$38
million in foreign exchange (Attachment 2).



Annex 11
-81-                                Page 2 of 42
D. Implementation and Monitorin
4.          Municipality.  The Municipality of Budapest will be the Borrower.  The
Municipality is the sole owner of BKV and has the legal authority on urban transport, including
fare levels and service definition. The Municipality will be responsible for developing and
implementing the policy reforms for the project which are within its jurisdiction, as detailed in
a Municipal Action Plan shown in Attachment 3. The Municipality and BKV will agree on how
the proceeds of the Bank loan will be made available to BKV and how BKV will pay back this
contribution of the City. The signature of this agreement will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
5.          BKV. BKV will be responsible for implementing the four investment components
of the project as well as policy components within its jurisdiction.  An action plan covering
BKVs responsibilities is shown in Attachment 4.
6.          Project Implementation Unit.  The World Bank and EBRD projects are
complementary, and a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established at the time of the
EBRD loan under terms of reference shown in Attachment 5. The PIU is operating effectively.
In order to simplify the administration of the two projects, the PIU would also help administer
World Bank project in accordance with the requirements of the Loan, Project and Guarantee
Agreements and Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, with the following clarifications/additions to
the PIU terms of reference:
(a)   Since a primary project objective is to increase BKV's commercial orientation, BKV will
independently manage its components of the project under the overall responsibility of
the PIU and Municipality. This will include carrying out its own procurement
(preparation of bidding documents, prequalification, bid evaluation, recommendation or
selection of contractors/suppliers signing the contracts, and full implementation of the
project).
(b)   The PIU would prepare quarterly reports on the progress of the works (Attachment 8)
and semiannual progress reports on the project following receipt of the January-June and
July-December financial positions of the project. The progress reports would report on
progress in achieving the Municipal Action Plan (Attachment 3), and the BKV Action
Plan (Attachment 4).
(c)   The PIU would administer the World Bank Special Account; and
(d)   relevant references to the European Bank are understood to refer to both the World Bank
and European Bank.



Annex 11
-82-                                 Page 3 of 42
E. Procurement
7.          Procurement arrangements are shown in Attachment 7.
F. Disbursements. Accounts and Audits
8.          Based on the loan becoming effective in 1995, a schedule of estimated
disbursements was established (Attachment 9).
9.          To maintain an adequate flow of funds for eligible project expenditures with a
minimum of administrative delay, the Borrower will establish a Special Account (revolving fund)
at a bank of its choice, sufficient to cover up to 4 months of loan expenditures (i.e. about US$3
million). Records of the Special Account proceeds and outlays would be available for review
by the Bank's supervision missions and subject to annual audit.
11.         BKV will establish and maintain project related accounts. Such accounts shall be
maintained in accordance with recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the
Bank. BKV will provide quarterly financial reports (Attachment 6) and annual financial
statements to reflect the financial performance and the position of BKV and the project, from
the commencement of the project execution. An auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to the
Bank on such statements, will be provided within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
The foregoing project accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide
adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of the project.



Annex 11
Page 4 of 42
-83-
Attachment 1
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Training Program
Staff Requiring       Possible Training      Total man-     Estimated cost
Training Category and Topic             Training           Providers/Type of       months         in USS000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _T rain in g   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Financial Management                  Training of BKV        Consulting Firm/Local             12               180
financial staff in     and Foreign Courses
modem accounting
practices
Management Information System and     Review of existing     Consulting Firm                   12               180
Computerization                       practices and
development of new
computer systems for
BKV
Marketing and public Relations        Marketing staff of     Individual consultant             12               180
BKV                    and/or courses
Management and organization of BKV    BKV managers           Individual consultant             24               360
and/or courses
Technical Improvement of BKV          BKV managers and      Individual consultant              24               360
technical staff        and/or courses
Economic Training for BKV and         BKV managers and      Individual consultant              10               150
municipality                          municipal transport    and/or courses
administrators
Establish Budapest Transport          Municipal Transport    Individual consultants             6                90
Association                           administrator
Passenger Traffic Survey              BKV's operational      Individual consultants            10               100
staff                  and BKV
| Total                                                                        .              110             1,600



Annex 11
-84-                                 Page 5 of 42
Attachment 2
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES (in US$ Million) with 50 buses
(all costs are in January 1. 1995 terms)
COSTS       F.E.C.
COMPONENT                               TOTAL       LOCAL    FOREIGN         %
A. TRAM TRACK RENEWAL (a)                44.0        19.5       24.5        55.7
(1) Track renewal                       40.9        18.9        22.0       53.8
(2) Track measuring instruments          0.9         0.2        0.7        77.8
(3) Maintenance machines                 1.9         0.3        1.6        84.2
and tools
(4) Computer-controlled                  0.3         0.1        0.2        66.7
maintenance supervision system
B. BUS REPLACEMENT (b)                    8.4        2.1         6.3        75.0
C. A.V.M                                  3.2        1.5         1.7        53.1
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   1.6        0.0         1.6       100.0
AND TRAINING
E. TOTAL BASE COSTS                      57.2        23.1       34.1        59.6
F. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (c)             4.1        1.9         2.2
G. PRICE CONTINGENCIES (dl                5.8        4.1         1.7
F. GRAND TOTAL                           67.1        29.1       38.0        56.6
NOTES:
(a) about 47 km of line
(b) 50 standard-size buses
(c) estimated at about 10% on works
(d) estimated at 2.2% for F.E.C. and 6.5% for L.C.



Annex 11
Page 6 of 42
-85-
Attachment 3
HUNGARY
Budapest Urban Transport Project
Municipality of Budapest
Draft Action Plan
Action                           Date
1.   Improve Parking Management in Budapest
a.    Define the enforcement method to be used to    Completed
discourage illegal parking and non-payment of
parking fees.
b.    Locate the park and ride facilities.           Ongoing
c.    Agree with the districts in the central area on the    end 1995
parking plan.
d.    Procure the pay and display machines.          mid-1996
e.    Start implementation of the parking scheme in the   October 1995
Fifth District.
f.    Start implementation of the parking scheme in the   July 1996
central area.
g.    Build the park-and-ride facility.              Ongoing
2.    Establish the Budapest Transport Association
a.    Prepare a draft of the Association's statute and  June 30, 1995
send it to the Bank for comments.
b.    Implement the single-tariff system within the  January 1, 1997
Association.



Annex 11
Page 7 of 42
-86-
Action                           Date
3.    Introduce Alternative Provision of Public Transport
a.    Prepare a Feasibility Study.
Dec. 31, 1995
b.    Discuss the results with the Bank.
Feb. 29, 1996
c.    Prepare the bidding documents for the selected
alternative.                                   Apr. 30, 1996
d.    Start operations.
Jan. 1, 1997
4.    Estabfish and Implement an Agreement with BKV
a.    Sign with the General Manager of BKV a formal    Done on 11/15/94
agreement establishing general principles of the
relation between BKV and its owner, specifying
BKV's mission, and defining the process of setting
up annual (or otherwise) objectives, parameter
selection, reporting, and evaluation.
b.    Agree upon an annual performance plan containing  March 31 Annually
performance criteria and targets, prepared by  starting in 1995
BKV, based on a specific short-term strategy,
anticipated constraints, operational and financial
objectives, completed investments, investments in
progress and/or preparation, and actions sought by
BKV from the Municipality. Before such
agreement the Municipality should receive from
BKV a report on past performances and on forecast
of BKV's operational and financial results for the
next years.
5.    Increase the Productivity of Transport Investments
Prepare investment plan and select investments based on    Annually starting at
economic criteria.                                   Loan signature



ANNEX I 1
-87-                            Page 8 of 42
,S         BUDAPEST TRANSPORT COMPANY                           Attachment 4
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROGRAM
ACTION PLAN
of the Budspest Transport Company
Budapest, March 1995.



ANNEX 1 1
-88-                                        Page 9 of 42
Action                                      Deadline
1. Improvement of the financial mangemeent of the lKV
l,&  Ile selected consulting fIrm  will reconriddr the financial, cost
accounting and data procesing oystem of the Budapest Transport
Company and evaluates whether the accountancy of the company
rflects the organizton structure and actity of the company and
whether it complies with the requirements of the World Bank.
In the frme'ork of this.
-cecking of the procesing of accountancy procedures.
- checking of the procesing of financial procedures, with
panlcular attention to the connection to the general ledger
- according to the experiences of the review, submission of a
proposal for the modernization of the financial and accotntancy
computer system.
I st ba 199S
I.b.  The consultants offer solutions for the followi2w
- separation of the currnt system built up basically on the
accountc registration system which is inherently inadequat
for operative management and prepwradon of decisions, to
accountancy, registration and management information  ems,
- review of the infonnatics systm which wu thus far exclusively
large computer-basd, investgation of foming a comon_y
neroIrk built upon medium and small comptttes,
- replaement of the rlly  centralized data recording  and
procesng for another sytm  eaturing data recording and
checking perforned at the ste of generaton of the informttion
and controlled input.
2nd haf, 1995
- review of the computer flet of the company, involvement of
oxternal expert for the qualification of the SEMENS
environment, issue of consignment for the invtigation of the
feasbility of its development.
-  orking out of a sysftm  pln in  crlance with the now
requirement.. After is completion and company coliation, its
review by an extenal expert, qualification.
- In the ptanned changing of the proes control, in restructuring
the company according to the approved oncept and in forming
the information concept refecting it, the controlling
maament shall gvern.
l.c. Approval of the plan
31 December 1995
l.d. Cnmmencement of the implementation of the plan
01 Januay 1996



ANNEX 11
-89-                                        Page 10 of 42
Action                                       Deadline
2. Improvement of productivity
Owing to the predictable lack of substantial incmase of funds it is
necessary to implement a conscientious and planned reduction
simultaneously with the maintenance or improvement of quality.
This should be based on the dedicatadnees of the company towvard the
city planning policy purposes, keeping in mind the target syitm of
fur columns of the mass transport of the city of Budapest namely,
the balanced reltion, harmony of the city, the passenger. the travel
process and the operating company.
Therefore, to avoid the spontaneous implementation of the currntly
reducing share of mass transport, deternined teps should be
required in changing the travel process. in setting the ratio of travel
modes it is exedient to enforce these by the   tm of relaions
improving the efflciency of the company and enhancing the level of
public tansport services. To attain the"e the following package of
measures is recommended:
I  Measures for st2bilizine- the number of nassrnee. to enhance the
level of services
- Better network structure
- Improvement of the direct line network services
*Introduction of timetables with travel time balancing in order to
provide more reliability and traffic stability)
- Correladon of timetables for the sake of ataining more
favourable line change possibilities
- Complex measures enforcing the prioriry of masu transport
- E2teuion of the mas transport netwvrk of the reduced trafflc
road 2rea
- Improvement of the level of traffic and the fullilment of
environment protection requirements by a modern fleet of
vehicles
- Racionalisation of night swrvice netvmrk
IL. Solutions imDroving the oroductivily of the comov incasing
the economic efficiency. confninin the interest of the oasse ners
- Reduction of early morning, late night and week-and traffic
- Termination of lines
- Giving thfe lines outside the administrative boundaries to con-
cession
- Use ofvehicles of less -pa ity
-Exchange vehicle types betveen the days
- Seaonal timetables
The tables and figures for the imporevement of the productivity are
atached in Appendix 1.



AN:;EZ 11
-90-                                       Page I Iof 42
Action                                       Deadline
3. Increase the productivity cf trasport Ietmenots
It should be attained that only such vork be included in the
investment plan and implemented the decidsion for which are
supported by prvious calculations.
For the sace of this, the particular area should be defined - as l Iimit
value or the chxacter of the fixed aset - in which case prwvious
economic analysis is required
A limit value sholld be defined above which only those v s should
be included in the plnsu vhich vere screened by the previous
arnalyses and ae in complianc with the 10%/ pfitability crierion
dscribed by the World Bank.
Prom this am those invegtment types should be asigned in detail for
which the 10X profitability expectation can be disregarded becuue of
the character of the work: examples of this are envhronent
protection projects or, occasionally, social uelfhre investmants, eta.
It is important to stres - together with the cirmsmtanoe that the typ
of calculations and the defiLnition of the components to be
investigated will be done at the time prescribed in the tak plan -, that
the investment projecs should be anabled according to their entire
estimates of expenditure sad these data should be compaeod with the
cost and revenue data relating to the expectable cost or renue data.
For woridag out these calculadons, those cost elements or revenue
types should be named in wvhich the result of the investment is
realizd through the investment work.
The rules of the evaluation of the investments should be worked out.  30 May 1995
Also the calculation methodoloa should be elaborated according to  30 St. 1995
vwuch the inveegations can be camied out.
4.    Reduction of travelling without tickt.
The BKV will %ork out and implement a plan for the reduction of
trwel1ing without ticket: the parts of this ar
- in 1995, the company improve the   ystem of incentivNe of
controllers and tning the systm
- in 1995 it will keop the ticket controller staff
- it will efficiently improve the protection against falsifications
- it will sgt to operation new ticket vendor machines
On the bae of the the rate wlU be reduced to 7%:                   31 December 1997



ANNEX 1 1
-91-                                      Page 12 of 42
Action                                      Deadline
5.   Restmucturing of the BICV network
in the recent years the ratio of passengers using the public mass
tranpot fciliti  hs subtabelntial1y *allen back. Previously wme 30-
32% of the pasengers relied on public ransprt irle now this value
stays at about 65-70%. The changing Af this trend. can not be
prognostcated. therefore %e should not expect the increase of the
passenger nunber.
Honlver, the stucture of the city. the saturated tffic condition of its
public roads requires to keep thb cure  number of paosseng  and to
awid the increase the ratio of individual travel. For this aim care
should be taken to the rational restructuring of the network structure.
For this, it is indispensable and it has rmained still an unsolved
question in the company, to implement the socaled line owst
estimate which is more detailed than the rgecordng of coss by traffic
modes and by trvel t"ps.                                          31 December 1995
The BKV helps to the Municipality to casry out the wfrom where - to  31 December 1996
where' type passenger traffic survey to deterrine the travel customs
of the population of Budapest For this, the SKV increase the
automatic traffic surveys on the vehicles.
Annual review of the BKV netv.ork on the ground of the coBts and  from 1996
traffic dam of the difrent lines.
Budapest, March 1995



Annex 11
-92-                                  Page 13 of 42
APPENDIX 1 TO BKV ACTION PLAN
Tables and Figures for Improvement of Productivity
1.    Annual vehicle-kn per vehicle used in peak hours
2.    Vehicles used in peak hours as a percentage of total fleet
3.    Total number of vehicles
4.    Commercial speed
5.    Operational staff per vehicle
6.    Passengers per vehicle and per day
7.    Fixed operating costs per branch
8.    Variable operating costs per vehicle-lum



BUDAPESTI KOZLEKEDESI VALLALAT
Eves kocsikilometer / csfucsorai jirmfikadis igazatonkknt
1992-1998. (v
Annual vehicle-km per vehicle in peak service by branch
1992-1998. years
(kkmljimna, v-knivehicle)
Megnevezes    1992. tv    1993. cv    1994. ev     1995. ev    1996. ev    1997. tv    1998. cv
Aut6busz           79587.7     77331.4    79377.5      79567.2     82700.4      82700.4    82700.4
Villamos           67416.5    64955.1      64639.1     63729.9     64521.5     64521.5     64521.5
Trim s__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _                                                           _ _
Trolibusz          56710.3     56412.2     57625.9     57428.6     58571.4     58571.4     58571.4
Trofieybuses
HEtV               98827.8    94245.4      82901.1     91520.0     91520.0    91520.0      91520.0
Suburban train
MFAV               72000.0     71388.9    71055.6      35277.8     705S5.6    70555.6    70555.6
Milenium ine                                                    _
Metr"             114315.4    112338.9    107251.7    106439.6    106439.6    106439.6    106439.6
M etro        I  _   _ _     _I_        I__    _    _ _  _ _    I__    _    I__    _    I_
Budapest 1995. mrcius 20. (20 March 95., Budapest)
a 



BUDAPESTI KOZLEKEDESI VALLALAT
Csdcs6rai jrmuildadis a teljes jirmtipark %-Aban igazatonkknt
1992-1998. Ev
Vehicles in peak service as % of total fleet (by branch)
1992-1998. years
(%e)
Megnevez4s      1992. ev    1993. tv    1994. ev     1995. cv    1996. ev    1997. iv     199S. tv
Aut6busz               80.0        82.3         8 1.5       79.5        80.0         84.0        85.0
Buses
Viflmos                71.1        73.9         71.1        74.1        72.9         73.8        74.0
Trams           _
Trolibusz              64.4        71.8         70.7        72.4        70.7        72.5         74.1
Trolleybuses
HV                     73.6        73.6         77.1        63.6        63.6        63.6         6.36
Suburban train
MIFAV                  78.3        78.3         78.3        78.3        78.3        78.3         78.3
Mmeniu line                               .
Metr6                  77.0        77.0         77.0        77.0        77.0        77.0         77.0
Budapest, 1995. marcius 20. (20.March 1995. Budapest,)
x
IoJ



BUDAPESTI KOZLEKEDtSI VALLALAT
Jirmiivek szAma igazatonktnt
1992-1998. e
Total number of vehicdes by branch
1992-1998. years
(db, pieces)
Meguevezes      1992. tv     1993. ev    1994. ev     1995. ev     1996. cv     1997. ev     1998. ev
Autobusz               1718         1711         1623         1618        1481         1410         1395
B uses__           _ _  _ _  __ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ __                             _ _  _  _
ViaMos                  924          924          924          878         820          810          808
Trolibusz               225          206          208         203           198         193          189
Trofleybuses                  I___                                                ___
FlEV                    371          371          354         354          354          354          354
Suburban train
MIRAV                    23           23           23          23           23           23           23
MiUcoium line
Mletro                  387          387          387         387          387          387          387
Budapest. 1995. mircius 20. (20. March 95., Budapest)
a1%
o
x
A



BUDAPESTI K6ZLEKEDESI VALLALAT
Keringisi sebessig igazatonklnt
1992-1998. kv
Commerdal speed by brAnch
1992-1995. years
(km6ra, km/hours)
Megoevezes      I992. v     1993. iv     1994. ev    1995. kv     199X. Ev    1997. nv     1993. ev
AutMbM=                17,5         17,3        17,2         17,0        16,8         16,7        16,6
B uses__                        _ _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ __               _ _  _  _
Villamos               14,5         14,2        13,9         13,8        13,8         13,9        14,0
Tris            _
Trolibusz              12,9         12,7        12,9         13,0        12,4         12,4        12,4
TroBeybuses                          .       .__
AV                     23,5         23,7        23,4         22,5        2,5          22,5        22,5
Suburbas train                                                                .
MFAV                   16,2         16,5        16,4         15,1        16,6         16,6        16,6
Milenium line                                                                                    ._
Metr6                  24,9         25,0        24,6         24.1        24,1         24,1        24,1
Mt etro         _ _ __I_ _ I  I__ _ _ _   I__  _ _ _   I__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I _ _ _ _ _   _I _
Budapest, 1995. maraus 20. (20.March 1995. Budapest,)
-4-
_0,
A 



BUDAPESTI KIZLEKEDESI VALIALAT
Uzemeltet6 szem6lyzet I teljes jArmfiIomAny
Operational staff per total number vehicle in fleet
1992-1998.years                   (fr51Jrm5, person/vehicle)
Meguevez5s             1992. cv    1993. iv    1994. iv    1995. cv    1996. cv    1997. cv    1998. iv
Aut6busz                                3.5        3.6         3.7        3.6        3.8         3.9        4.0
Bases
V;Iamos                                 3.7        3.6         3.6        3.8        3.9         4.0        4.0
Trams                     _                                                _
TrolibusZ                               3.7        4.1         4.0        4.1        4.1         4.2        4.3
Troteybuses
f1tV                                    4.0        3.9        4.0         4.0        4.0        4.0         4.0
Suburban train                                                                                                                    4 
MFAV                                    6.0        6.0        6.0         5.8        5.8        5.8         5.8
MillekiOm line
Metr6                                   8.4        7.8        7.8         7.6        7.6        7.6         7.6
M etro                           I__   _ _  _  _ __  _ _  _ _  _    L___  _    I___   _   I_ _
Teljes itzedwete  szmilyzet ((o)     15104      15006       14750      14468       14094      14065      14065
Total munber Of operational stall
for the company      (person)
TelJes litszAm      (00)             1991 1     19533       19231      18628       18100      18000      17900
Totul number f gtaf  (pnon)            _    _      _   _
Budapest. 1995. mircius 20. (20.March 1995. Budapest,)
00
02



BUDAPESTI K6ZOIKED1SI VkLLALAT
UlasszAm / nap / jfirmfi Agantonkint
1992-1998. Ev
Passengers / days J number of vehicles (by branch)
1992-1998 years
(ro/nap[jmanC  pernoxday/vicles)
Megnevezes      1992. ev    1993. cv     1994. hv    1995. ev     1996. ev    M997. ev     1991. kv
Aut6busz            1067.76      1092.80     1232.07      1241.29     1359.06      1438.42     1461.36
B ases_ _           _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _  _   _ _ _ _ __ _                _   _  _
VUflmos             1067.94     1040.54      1054 88      1097.22     1163.19      1172.23     116534
T ram s         ____________  __________._
Trolibusz           1095.31     1140.78      1113.90     1137.92      1163.47     E196.88      1222.21                  90
TroHceybuses    __ ________
AEV                  544.91      524.44       542.44      538.50       534.47      533.36       529.94
Suburban train
MFAV                3523.88     3419.06      3427.16     1725.55      3441.67     3451.10     3451.10
Milenium lne
Metro               1797.70     1780.78      1845.02     1858.55      1863.20     1878.07      1886.21
M etro           L__     _   _  _ _   _  _   _  _      I__     _  _   _  _      _   _   _  _  _   _
Budapest 1995. maicius 20. (20.Marcb 1995. Budapest)
>
Pz 
m 



BUDAPESTI KOZLEKEDESI ViLLAAT
Ailand6 flzemeltetisi kbltsEg igazatonUknt (foly6 iron)
1992-1998. kv
Fixed operating costs (in current HUF)
1992-1998. years                         (mi6 Ft, million HUF)
Megpevezes      1992. iv     1993. ev    1994. ev     1995. iv     1996. ev    1997. ev     1998. ev
Aut6butz               4004        4179         4832         5136         5815        6593         7202
Buses__              _   _   __   _  _    __    _  _
Villamos               2907        3070         3549         3773         4272        4843         5291
Trams
Trolibuni               591         615          711          755          856         971         1060
Trolleybuses                                                           .    . ___
REV                    1540        1733         2004         2130        2412         2733         2987
Suburban train          .
MFAV                    179          178         205          219         248          281          307
M-ilienium line
MeWr6                  3097        3092         3575         3800        4303         4878         5329
Metro           _                        _            _           _            __._._._._.    __
Inflici6s rta         35%          23 %       22.5 %       20.2 %      20.0%          15%         15 %
Inflation ratio             _            _            _                _
Budapest, 1995. marcius 20. (20.March 1995. Budapest,                                                                               OQ |
0I



BUDAPESTI KOZLEKEDESI VALLLAIAT
Viltoz6 kUltsig / kocsildIomkter AgazaWonkint (foly6 iron)
1992-1998. tv
Variable operating costs per vehicle-km by branch (in current HUF)
1992-1998. years                     (Ft/kkm,      HUF)
Miegnevez&s    1992. ev    1993. iv     1994. ev    1995. kv    1996. ev    1997. ev    1998. hv
Autobusz              SO.D9       54.16       61.76       74.95       90.06       103.56      113.93
Buses
ViYlLmos              39.79       38.59       44.53       54.45       67.26       77.37        85.09
T ramns        _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
Trolibusz             51.56       53.90       61.74       73.09       86.34       99.27       109.27
Trvdeybuses_
HEiV                 24.68       25.07        26.86       35.74       41.08       47.30       51.96
Suburban train
MFAV                 71-76       77.04       100.08      179.53      103.15      118.90       130.71
Milenuinm line
Mdro                 25.07       26.17        30.38       37.77       43.41       49.94       54.95
Inflici6s rts         35 %        23 %      22.5 %      20.2 %       20.0 %       15 %         15%
Inflation  ratio                        _________                                                                    o __
Budapest 1995. mircius 20. (20.Marchi 1995. Budapest,)
(0 t~



Annex 1I
-101-                                  Page 22 of 42
ProDosal ror the Measurement method
of the number of Dassenfzers travelling vithout ticket
Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement of the Budapest Urban Transport Program to be
financed by the World Bank contains a provision on the Action Plan of the Budapest
Public Transport Company (BKV) including measures for the reduction of the ratio of
passengers traveling without ticket In the course of negotiation with the World Bank it
was found necessary to work out the measurement method of this ratio.
The aim of the survey is to provide to the Company reliable information on the variation
of the travels carried out with out ticket A fi2.ther aim is to gather detailed information
on the ticket acquisition behaviour of the passengers. The methods for the attainment of
these aims is given in detail in the following
1.   Statistical determination of the ratio of travels without ticket
On the vehicles of the BKV some 3.5 to 4 million travel trips are carried out. The ratio of
traveUing without ticket is determined with a statistical method on the base of a
representative sample. This representative sample extends to some 1% of the daily travel
tips in the following distribution:
An extemal firm carries out twice a year questioning-type polling - extending to 50,000
passengers in each case - independent of the BKV. It is expedient to carry out the two
data coHlections in the months March and September. This way, the distorting effects of
the less heavy summer traffic and the occasional repeated poling can be carried out
outside the sumnmer season.
On the ground of its own surveys, also the BKV processes twice a year by statistical
methods a sample obtained from the ticket control of 300,000 passengers. The basis of
tbis survey is the statistic figures of the ticket controllers. The numbers of fine events are
recorded and the ticket controUlers have to also count the numbers of the ispected
passengers. It is necessary to ensure the reliability of these infonnation by the company.
During the surveys the ticket controllers also have to record the numbers of those
passengers without ticket, where was not possible to fine them.
The typical figure for the ratio of travelling without ticket will be calculated with the
values obtained from the two kinds of data coUection - by the BKV and by the external
compaay - by statistical averaging
2.   Requirements for the tasks of the external firm (Terms of References)
The extemal firm carries out the survey independent of the BKV as follows:
a)   The querying should be effected over a period of one week, considering the day of
the week, the traffic volume, the number of travellers in the peak period and out of
it. The values relating to the sample should be within 10% from these proportions.



Annex 11
-102-                                   Page 23 of 42
A deviatiou less than 1% does not require any correction, while over this value the
result should be corrected according to the actual weights, applying statistical
methods.
b)  The sample should be proportional also concerning the mass transport means used.
Explamiing this in more detaiL this means that among the 50,000 passeagers polled
approximately the same number should be the users of the different transport
means as in the company value calculated for the entire network of the BKV. The
BKV wil give these data to the external firm, - together with the daily trafc
volume and the peak period ratio - to facilitate the planning of the work. Regarding
the individual ratio figures, a deviation of maximum 10% of the part concemed
can be accepted (e.g. in case of a part of 20%, a value between 18 and 22% is
permitted). In case of a deviation exceeding 1% the ratios obtained for the travels
without ticket should be recalculated corresponding to the shares given by the
BKV.
c)   The surveys should be conducted among the passengers waiting at the stops,
selecting the persons involved in a random manner. It is important to ask the
questions briefly, in a courteous manner and not to hold the people too long from
their trips unnecessarily. Before asking the questions the passengers should be
informed that it is n  a ticket control mad their answers will involve no sanctions.
d)  Ihe question should refer to what kind of ticket or season ticket does the passenger
use, occasionally he/she travels free of charge legally or just without ticket. The
answers should be grouped and during the questioning indicated on the data sheet
according to the following:
-  line ticket or colecting ticket;
- daily, tourist, week-end family or week-end child ticket;
-  7-day, 14-day or monthly ticket;
-  yearly ticket;
-  (company) travel card;
-  free of charge because of age (under school age or above 70);
- free of charge for other reason (e.g. blinds, reguIar soldiers, etc.)
-  travel without ticket;
-  refused to answer.
e)   The ratio of those traveling without ticket should be determined in the form of a
percentage relating to the entire sample, applying statisdcal methods. The external
firm will hand over also the basic data to the BKV, it wil be the property of the
latter.
3.   Handling of the deviation between the results of the BKV and those of the
external firm
If the percentage of the passengers travelling without ticket is at least the double or at
most the half of the respective data obtained by the BKV, then the investigation should



Annex 1
-103-                                   Page 24 of 42
be repeated. In this case, the questioning should differ from the first instance im the
following:
-  the number of questioned persons should be 10,0000, instead of the former
50,000 persons, or
-  as far as possible, the questioning should be extended - keeping the
proportions of the differeat mass tansport means - to All the passengers
staying at the stop (ia this case several polling questioners should be sent to
the same stop)
Depending on the deviation of the ratios, these two changes can be required together (ia
case of very different figures obtained).
If even after the repeated questioning still a large deviation would remain, it should be
analyzed how accurate the data of theBKV are.
Budapest, February, 1995.



Annex iI
-104-                                 Page 25 of 42
Attachment 5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNiT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Role of the Project Implenientation Unit (PIU)
The role of the PIU will be to co-ordinate, manage, monitor and evaluate all spects
of the irnplementatdon of the public transport rehabilitadon project, including the-
procurement of goods and services in accordance with the procurenent policies and
zules of the European Bank and the World Bank. The proposed strucnr of this
Unit is shown in Diagram 3. 1. It will be resonsible for providing regular pro,ress
reports to the Banks and all other informadon necessay to enable the Banks to
moritlor project perormnance. Its tasks will include, but may nor be limitod to:
1. Project Prepararion
Overseeing development of the project design for the parking control scheme,
including supervision of consultmnts;
Overseeing development of the project design for the Millennium Line
rehabilitation project;
*  Overseeing developnmenr of the project design for the tram trck rehabilitation
project:
*  Updating of ProcuremenE Plans;
*  Publication of General Procurement Notices and sending Notices to embusics in
Hungary;
*  Establishing and maintaining a database of expressions of interest from
contractors;
Notifying contractors of invitations to bid;
Overseeing preparation of tender documentation. including technical
specifications, and submission of these to the relevant Bank for approval;
Overseeing issuing of tenders and management of the tendering process;
Evaluating tenders and preparing recommnmendadons for contract award in the
form of a report to be submitted to the relevant Bank:
Awarding of contracts.



-105-                                 Page 26 of 42
* Contract administration and monitoring.
2. Project ln2plerniertatlon
a  Preparation of an implementadon timemble for each project component and
monitoring progress against each timetable;
*  Obtaining permits and other fonns of approval as requird;
Managing and co-ordinating commercial activides, including obtaining traufer
authorisations for foreign trading;
*Supervision and quality control;
*  Monitoring conipliance with environmental and octer reulatons;
3. Project Funding/Budgeting
-  Foredasting local fundinc requirements;
?  Submitting applications for runds from the Municipal budget to the relevant
Department:
* Confirming and ratifyin- invoices;
=  Forecasting disburmments to be made either through the special account or
directly to suppliers by the European Bank and monitoring progress of actual
disbursements.
* Subrniting applications to the European Bank, via the commercial bank, for
additional disbursernents to the special account:
Collecting and submittina to the commercial bank invoices for goods and
services to be financed by the European Bank, together with appropriate
application forms, either for direct payment from the special account or for
submission to the Eu ropean Bank fbr payment;
4. Project Monitoring and Reportin.-
P Preparation/gathering of reports tor submission to the European Bank. as
required under the Loan A.remnieiit. including. but not limited to:
- Fares Restructuring Plan;
- Parking Control Plan;
- Millennium Line Project Design:
-  Commercialisation Plan;
- Consultant's Reports relevant to Project Inplementation:



Annex 11
-106-                                 Page 27 of 42
-  Quaerly reports on the status of tenders, contmet awards, disburscrncnt~s
- Semi-annual reports on Implementation progress:
-  Annual reports on projcct performance;
-  Municipal budget plus subsequent modifications and BKV's financial
satements;
-  Any other information, as the European Bank may reasonably request;
- Project Completion Rcport.
Prepation/gathering and submission of reports, as required by the World
Bank;
Supporting the supervision missions of the Euroipean Bank and the World Bank.



Annex II
-107-                                         Page 28 of 42
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT STRUCrURE
lCHAIRMAAN
OVERALL CO-OROINATION GROUP
Coor Team'
it Project MAanager          Project Manager                       Project Manager             Project Manage,
Buses/ Engines             Tram Trac1s                           Millenniurn Lint            Parking Control
Core Team to include:
Technical Co-ordinators (21            Administrators (21
Financial Anelysnl1)                   Support Staff (3)
Legal Adviser (II



HVNGARY
Budapest Urban Transport Projet
Performanco Indicators
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT COMPANY (BKV)
FINANCLAL MONITORING INDICATORS |    Unit                    Target        Actual           Phase of Project
Cost Recovery Ratio         1995                 %            37%                     Annually
1996                 %            4l%
1997                 %            43%
1998                 %            45%                                                                   o
1999                 %            47%
2000                  %           50%
Debt service coverage ratio   1995 onwards      times     not less than               Annually
1.5
Operating Ratio             1995 onwards         %            100%                    Annually
l - . . ., .. .~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Annex 11
Page 30 of 42
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST TRANSPORT COMPANY (BKV)
Income Statement
(Forints Million)
Quarter Ending               Cumulative to-date
Previous Year's   Current Year's    Previous Year   Current Year
Quarter       Quarter
OPERATING REVENUE
PASSENGER SALES
OTHER INCOME
TOTAL
SUBSIDY:    MUNICIPALITY
STATE
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE
OPERATING EXPENSES
SALARIES AND WAGES
ENERGY
MATERIALS
OTHER WORKING EXPENSES
WORKS CAPITALIZED
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE
DEPRECIATION
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE TAXES
TAXES
NET SURPLUS/DEFICIT
RATIOS
OPERATING RATIO (INCLUDING SUBSIDY)
TARGET RATIO %
OPERATING RATIO (EXCLUDING SUBSIDY)
COST-RECOVERY RATIO -   ACTUAL %
-  TARGET %



An  11
Page 31 of 42
HUNGARY
Budapest Urban Transport Project
Budapest Trnsport Company (BKV)
Cashflow Statement
UOrknu MOiion)
_uarter Ending              Cmulative
Previous Yeaes  Current Year's   Previous YOa'S  Currnt YUr's
Quer          Quartur        Half Yew       Ha Yew
PUCATIONS
PERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION
S: PROFITTAX f45%)
SH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
LESS: DEST
INTEREST
REPAYMENT
OTAL DEST SERVICE
NCREASEIDECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
OTHER THAN CASH
NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
NVESTMENTS
WOFRLD BANK
OTHER
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
SURPLUS(DEFICM
SOURCES
BORROWING
WORLD BANK
OTH ER
GRANTS
MUNICIPAL (WORLD BANK)
OTHER
TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE
CASH SURPLUS(DEFICIT)
CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR
ASH AT END OF YEAR
RATIOS
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE mMES)
(OWN FUNDS/DEST SERVICE)



Annex 11
Page 32 of 42
HUNGARY
Budapest Urban Trasport Project
Budape  Transport Company (BKV)
Balance Sheet
Fordnts MlIGon)
Quarte Endh
PrevIous Year's              Current Year's
Quatw                        Quarter
SSETS
ASH
CCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
NVENTORY
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
'OTAL CURRENT ASSETS
XED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS
LESS: DEPRECIATION
NET FIXED ASSETS
WORK-IN-PROGRESS
OTAL FIXED ASSETS
OTAL ASSETS
LUABILMES
CURRENT UABLITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
TOTAL CURRENT UABILTIES
LONG-TERM LOANS
EQUITY
TOTAL LIABILITES & EQUITY
RATIOS
CURAENT ASSETS TO CURRENT UA8IUTIES
LONG-TERM DEBTIEQUITY RATIO
RATE OF RETURIN ON
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS



-1 12-
ANNEX 11
Page 33 of 42
Attachment 7
PROCUREMENT SCEDL
AND ARRANGEENT
This attachment presents detailed explanation about the procurement process and its
scheduling.
Tram Track Renewal
1.    This component will be implemented through dtree contract packages; each contract
will include the procurement of rail as well as of civil work, and will be awarded under ICB
rules according to the Bank's guidelines. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for small
works will be used. Each package will include 2 or 3 bids. The bid size will encourage
local contractors and medium size contractors in neighboring countries to bid, while at the
same time offering the option to bid on several contracts in order to attract large foreign
contractors and encourage quantity discounts on material. The technical consistency of the
work will be maintained by not splitting a tram line into different contracts. The contract
size will range from about US$6 million to about US$20 million.
3     The first contract package of about US$ 15 million for 13.5 km of track is expected
to be awarded by the end of 1995 and the works related is expected to be completed
in 1996.
*     The second contract package of about US$ 18 million for 16.5 km is expected to be
awarded at the end of 1996 and is expected to be completed during 1997.
*     The third contract package of about US$17 million for 17 km is expected to be
awarded at the end of 1997 and is expected to be completed during 1998.
The major procurement steps are scheduled as follows:
a)    First stage:
06/15/95    Draft of bidding documents sent for Bank's no objection
07/15/95    Notification of the ICB
09/15/95    Submission of bids
11/15/95    Evaluation report sent for Bank's no objection
01/01/96    Award of the contract
10/31/96    Completion of the first stage of works



-113-
ANNEX 11
Page 34 of 42
Attachment 7
b)    Second stage:
05/01/96    Draft of bidding documents sent for Bank's no objection
06/01/96    Notification of the ICB
08/01/96    Submission of bids
09/15/96    Evaluation report sent for Bank's no objection
11/15/96    Award of the contract
10/31/97    Completion of the second stage of works
c)    Third stage:
05/01/97    Draft of bidding documents sent for Bank's no objection
06/01/97    Notification of the ICB
08/01/97    Submission of bids
09/15/97    Evaluation report sent for Bank's no objection
11/15/97    Award of the contract
10/31/98    Completion of the third stage of works
Bus Replacement
2.    The 50 single buses will be procured through a single ICB according to the Bank's
guidelines. The contract amount is estimated to be US$ 8.4 million. The major steps are
scheduled as follows:
06/15/95    Draft of the bidding document sent for Bank's no objection
07/15/95    Notification of the ICB
09/01/95    Submission of the bids
10/15/95    Evaluation report sent for Bank's no objection
11/15/95    Award of the contract
11/30/96    Delivery completed



Annex 1 1
Page 35 of 42
Small Maintenance Eguipment and AVM
3. Contracts for track-measuring instruments, small machines and tools, maintenance-
supervision equipment, and hardware and software for the technical assistance component will
be grouped into packages of less than US$500,000 each (total aggregate amount US$2.7
million), and will be awarded through International Shopping by obtaining at least three
quotations from three different countries.
06/15/95           Draft of the technical specifications sent for Bank's no objection
09/01/95           Price quotations
10/15/95          Evaluation report sent for Bank's no objection
11/15/95          Award of the contract
11/30/96          Delivery completed
4. The automatic vehicle monitoring system is the second phase of an existing project. This
second phase is based on the same technical specifications as the first phase. Due to the small
number of manufacturers of such system, the AVM system will be procured by Limited
International Bidding, for an estimated contract value of US$1.7 million. The installation of the
system will be procured under Local Competitive Bidding for a total value of about US$1.4
million.
06/15/95           Draft of the bidding document sent for Bank's no objection
07/15/95           LIB documents sent to bidders
09/01/95           Submission of the bids
10/15/95          Evaluation report sent for Bank's no objection
11/15/95          Award of the contract
01/31/97           Delivery completed
Consultant Services
5. All consultancy services will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. The main
tasks will be: (a) a review of BKV's financial, cost-accounting, and data-processing systems, and
provision of technical assistance for their developmen; (b) limited expert help for setting up the
Budapest Transport Association; and (c) separate small contracts for the organization of the
training programs, and for assistance with the passenger survey.



Annex 11
-115-                               Page 36 of 42
6. The review of the financial and cost accounting systems of BKV will require about 6 man-
weeks, and will be procured on the basis of a short-list. The development of a new system will
require about 10 man-month, and will be procured on the basis of a short-list. Its expected
schedule is the following:
04/01/95          Letter of Invitation sent to the Bank for no objection
06/01/95          Submission of the bids
08/30/95          Evaluation report sent to the Bank for no objection
09/30/95          Contract signature
03/30/96          Study completion
7. The remaining consultant works will be done by individual consultants to be selected on the
basis of at least three resumes. These contracts are expected to be awarded between September
1995 and the end of 1997.



HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 1
EXPENDITURES
(in local and foreign currencies)
Expenditures
During
Original cost   New estimate    Up to the reporting   the reporting        Total
COMPONENT                                                                    period             period            (3 +4)
2                                 3                   4                 5
$               $              $        %$                  %        $
A. TRAM TRACK RENEWAL (a)
(1) Track renewal
(2) Track measuring instruments
(3) Maintenance machines
and tools
(4) Computer-controlled
maintenance supervision system
B. BUS REPLACEMENT (b)
C. A.V.M
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
E. TOTAL BASE COSTS
F. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (c)
G. PRICE CONTINGENCIES (d)
F. GRAND TOTAL
400
o0 tJ



HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Tabe 2
DISBURSMENTS
COMPONENT                                 1995                    1996                    1997                    1998                   1999
estimate    actual     estimate    actual       estimate    actual     estimate    actual      estimate  actual
A. TRAM TRACK RENEWAL (a)
(1) Track renewal
(2) Track measuring instruments
(3) Maintenance machines
and tools
(4) Computer-controlled
maintenance supervision system
B. BUS REPLACEMENT (b)
C. A.V.M
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
E. TOTAL
0I
O>e



Annex 11
-118-                                 Page 39 of 42
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 3 (a)
CONTRACT STATUS
Contract Number
Contract Scope
Contractor Name
Original Contract Value
Date of Commencement
Contract Completion Date
Value of Variation Orders to Date
Revised Contract Amount
Amount Certified tis Penod
Amount Certified to Date
% Actual Work Performed
% Work Planned
% Slip (-) or Gain (+)
Time Elapsed (%)
To be completed for each contract either:
(i)    with a value of $3 million or more, or
(ii)   awarded by ICB.



HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 4
PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
COMPONENT                             Unit          1995                    1996                    1997                   1998                  Current total
estimate    actual     estimate    actual      estimate    actual      estimate    actual      estimate  actual
A. TRAM TRACK RENEWAL (a)
(1) Track renewal                 km
(2) Track measuring instruments    %
(3) Maintenance machines           %
and tools
(4) Computer-controlled           %
maintenance supervision system
B. BUS REPLACEMENT (b)             unit
C. A.V.M                           unit
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            %
AND TRAINING
08
IA



Annex 11
-120-                                      Page 41 of 42
HUNGARY
Attachment 9
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE (in US$ Million)
COMPONENT                                1995      1996      1997      1998      TOTAL        Remarks
A. TRAM TRACK RENEWAL (a)                                                         53.3
(1)Trackrenewal                          1.7       11.7      17.2      19.5       50.1         ICB
(2) Track measuring instruments          0.3       0.6                            0.9           IS
(3) Maintenance machines                 0.6       1.4                            2.0           IS
and tools
(4) Computer-controlled                  0.1       0.2                            0.3           IS
maintenance supervision system
B. BUS REPLACEMENT (b)                    0.8       7.1       0.9                  8.8          ICB
C. A.V.M                                  0.3       3.1                            3.4           LIB
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   0.3       0.8       0.5                  1.6
AND TRAINING
TOTALS                                     4.1       24.9      18.6      19.5       67.1
(Bank financed)                           (2.5)     (15.2)    (10.2)    (10.1)     (38.0)
NOTES:
(a) about 47 km of line
(b) 50 standard-size buses
(c) estimated at about 10% on works
(d) estimated at 2.2% for F.E.C. and 6.5% for L.C.
IBRD Disbursement Schedule (attachment 10) reflects a more conservative schedule,
with payments through end 1999,
to allow for any slippage in work Implementation schedule.



AnnMe
Page 42 of 42
HUNGARY                               Attacmuent 10
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year and               USS Million
Quarter Ending                Amount  Cumulative               %   Cumulative
FY1996
September 30, 1995                1.9         1.9             5%          5%
December 31, 1995                 1.9         3.8             5%         10%
March 31, 1996                    2.7         6.5             7%         15%
June 30, 1996                     2.7         9.1             7%         22%
FY1997
September 30, 1996                2.7        11.8             7%         29%
December 31, 1996                 2.7        14.4             7%         36%
March 31, 1997                    3.0        17.5             8%         43%
June 30, 1997                     3.0        20.5             8%         51%
FY1998
September 30, 1997                2.3        22.8             6%         57%
December 31, 1997                 2.3        25.1             8%         63%
March 31, 1998                    1.9        27.0             5%         69%
June 30, 1998                     1.9        28.9             5%         74%
FY1999
September 30, 1998                1.9        30.8             5%         79%
December 31, 1998                 1.9        32.7             5%         84%
March 31, 1999                    1.5        34.2             4%         89%
June 30, 1999                     1.5        35.7             4%         93%
FY2000
September 30, 1999                1.2        36.9             3%         97%
December 31, 1999                 1.1        38.0             3%        100%



-122-
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Review of BKV's Information Management Needs
1.          BKV invites proposals from suitable qualified consultants to review their
existing accounting and data-processing systems and their proposed plan for future
development. The team of consultants might consist of two members, one versed in
accounting/finance and preferably with wide experience in municipal passenger transport
using a combination of buses, trollies, trams, and suburban rail service and a second with
experience in the new client/server architectures (but also with previous experience with
mainframe systems), database-management system (dbms) technology and knowledge of
industry and official standards in systems (like the standards around UNIX), PCs and
communications. The review and report writing is estimated to require six staff weeks.
2.          In particular, through discussions with BKV management and technical experts
and inspection of written plans (to the extent these are available), you will review BKV's
intentions for overhaul and further development of its information systems. Inter alia, the
report will:
3     summarize the current status of computerization at BKV;
3     describe in outline the business processes of BKV that could effectively
be supported by information systems and data bases;
*     evaluate scope and objectives of BKV's proposed information systems
project, i.e., organizations, processes and locations involved, and how
the project would address the known gaps/problems in data and
systems, particularly: (i) updated material and wage control system; (ii)
planning and costing repairs and maintenance; (iii) route costing; and
(iv) management information that would allow the monitoring of BKV's
business performance and management of its resources.
*     comment upon appropriateness and feasibility of BKV's ideas on
hardware architecture, operating system(s), networking, data base
management, software development tools and languages, use of off-the-
shelf application software versus own development, steps and
sequencing of the effort, and overall timetable, for arriving at a cost-
effective, comprehensive and integrated information architecture and
application systems;



-123-
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
*     assess the adequacy of staff skills and financial resources available and
planned for the project; and
*     identify any missing prerequisites including studies or strategies, and
organizational measures that need to be in place for proper project
implementation, and draft terms of reference (TOR) for the necessary
assistance which BKV would require from consultants. This TOR
should be suitable for inviting proposals from a number of firms.



-124-
Annex 13
HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    BKV, Feasibility study for the traffic control system (AVM stage m, October 1993.
2.    BKV, Complementary data on tram track renewal, November 1993.
3.    Municipality of Budapest, Preparation for the establishment of the Budapest Transport
Association, document presented to the General Assembly of the Municipality,
September 1993.
4.    Municipality of Budapest, Draft of the operation agreement between the Municipality
and BKV, November 1993.
5.    Municipality of Budapest, Report on the 1993 first half-year budget of Municipal
Budapest Self-Government, August 1993.
6.    Municipality of Budapest, Draft of the Municipality Decree of the General Assembly
of the Capital Budapest on Parking, October 1993.
7.    Municipality of Budapest, Budapest Transport System Development, March 1993
8.    Travers Morgan, Urban Transport Investment Priority Review, December 1992
9.    BKV, Annual Report, 1993
10. BKV, Draft Urban Transport Policy Budapest. February 1995
11.   Municipality of Budapest, General Contract - Budapest Transport Association,
January 1995
12.   BKV, Budapest Urban Transport Program  (Documentation for Loan Negotiations
with the World Bank), February 1995
13.   Municipality of Budapest, Budget Estimates for 1994, February 1995
14.   Municipality of Budapest, Reconstruction of 47 km track of tram network in
Budast. Phase 1: Programme of Year 1996. Prequalification Dossier, 1995



_________________________                ____________________                                      ~~IBRD     25207R
H U N    A
BUDAPEST URBAN -iRALJ,  (C-74T PROJECT
SEGMENTS O~ TRAM TRACKS
THE NETWORK  OF THE 1'k [JAPESI                                                   _           BEGMEHASIUTATED
TRANSPORT COMPA,   (f,UKV)                                                     - - METRO LINE
LOCAL TRAIN LINE
TRAMWAY LINE
BUS LINE
TROLLEYBUS LINE
_ . _  _   //                                        -RIVER
\   T    L /,    '-E LJ BUILT-UP AREA
-  CITY BOUNDARY
N _  --   X  t   t s   ___  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N~~~~~N
, / ~~~~~~~~~j f \S                                                ASrIA
( s 
/H                                                   /
0  1  2  -3  4  o   t  @  ;  1 L  K It f)Mt Ii RS                            5   100KILOETER
Ez                                                                      C~~~~~~~~ASROAIA \ o - 'y -
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~AC HU9G95 
on   *h 5   moD    do    sno-                                   K      v            ,             >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
smDlV on the port of                                           )        \   ~~~~~~-_  
ony lodgmens on he legol ~ t 0 0 1OO KILOMETER
s-otus o! ony terrenry                                                     v _ Z~~~~~~~~~~~
or any endors e CROATIA 0 50 )00 MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/4~~~~~~~~ _/  



IMAGING
Report No:      12567 HU
Type; SAP



