Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23338
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39030)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$38 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
FOR A
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
December 28, 2001
Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Sept 7, 2001)
Currency Unit = HUF
HUF I = US$ 0.0035
US$ 1 = HUF 284.81
FISCAL YEAR
January I to   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVM                      Automatic Vehicle Monitoring
BKV                      Budapest Transport Company
BTA                      Budapest Transport Association
EBRD                     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU                       European Union
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
MAV                      Hungarian State Railways
MoB                      Municipality of Budapest
MTWM                     Ministry of Transport and Water Management
NBH                      National Bank of Hungary
VOLANBUSZ                Domestic and International Road Passenger Company
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Director:    Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Transport Sector Manager:    Eva Molnar, ECSIE
Task Team Leader:    Slobodan Mitric, ECSIE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  16
6. Sustainability                                                                      18
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                      20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     22
9. Partner Comments                                                                    23
10. Additional Information                                                             25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  38
Annex 8. Finances of Budapest Transport Company (BKV), 1995-2000                       39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008494                                      Project NVame: BUDAPEST URBAN TRANS
Team Leader: Slobodan Mitric                             TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                       Report Date: Decemzber 28. 2001
1. Project Data
Name: BUDAPEST URBAN TRANS                          L/CITF Ntnber: CPL-39030
Cotnny/Department: HUNGARY                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TU - Urban Transport
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/10/1992                             Effective: 12/28/1995
Appraisal:  10/03/1993                               MTR:
Approval:  06/15/1995                             Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplemenzting Agency: MUNICIP. OF BUDAPEST/BUDAPEST TRANSPORT CO.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country AIanager:    Suman Mehra                              Ulrich Hewer
Sector Manager:      Eva Molnar                               Hans Apitz
Team Leader at ICR:   Slobodan Mitric                         Peter Parker
ICR Primaiy Author:   Slobodan Mitric; Krisztina Kiss
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfbrmance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Qutality at Entry:                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Hungary in the late-1980s was the leading reformer among the socialist countries in Eastern/Central
Europe, moving towards a market economy and a multi-party, decentralized political system. It also had
been one of the most successful socialist countries and, before that, was one of the highly industrialized and
otherwise advanced countries of Europe. This double heritage was quite evident in the urban transport



system of Budapest, Hungary's capital, with its unusually well-developed, multi-modal public transport
network and its planned ring/radial roads dating from the early days of the automobile era. The city's
"Millennium" metro line was completed in 1894, the first on the European continent, and two additional
lines were built after WWII. The system also included suburban railway lines and extensive street-based
bus, trolley-bus and tramway lines, the latter often on a partially exclusive right-of-way. The fourth metro
line was on the drawing boards. The public trarAsport modes carried 70-80% of daily trips, as was normal
in socialist cities. The services were ubiquitous, frequent, rapid and low-priced. Also standard was the
arrangement whereby the revenue from passenger fares covered a small proportion (less than one-third) of
total operating costs, the balance being provided from the public budget. The State also contributed through
capital grants for infrastructure construction and fleet purchases. Budapest Transport Company (BKV), a
state-owned enterprise, was a monopoly operator of all intra-urban services. Passengers commuting to
Budapest from the wider metropolitan hinterland and from other cities used Hungarian Railways (MAV)
and Volan Bus Company (Volanbusz). The automobile ownership was moderate, 213 per 1,000 population
at the beginning of the decade, but the use of autos was low. The roads were far less developed than the
public transport system.
Changes in the economic and political system of the country, starting in the late 1980s, have had
downstream consequences on both the supply and demand sides of public transport services. In essence, the
inherited financing arrangement for BKV became untenable. Decentralization introduced through the
Self-Government Act of 1990 gave to the Municipality of Budapest (MoB) the jurisdiction and ownership
of local infrastructure and services, including public transport. MoB received substantial real assets and the
requisite fiscal and spending powers, including the right to borrow. The problem was in the timing of the
transfer of powers and responsibilities. The State reduced its financial contributions to the municipal
sectors, but MoB was not in a position to increase its revenue in line with the reduction in State-provided
revenue. This meant that paying operating and capital subsidies for municipal services, including public
transport, could not be continued on the prior scale. This in turn led to under-spending for vehicle
replacement and maintenance, with accompanying cost inefficiencies and difficulties in keeping a high level
of service. More than that, the new policy orientation meant that service users were meant to shoulder a
higher proportion of the costs of service provision. Indeed, MoB acted quickly to reduce its contributions to
BKV and to raise fares. The latter action was and still is a sensitive political matter. On the demand side,
the early years of transition away from socialism saw a sharp contraction of the economy, leading to
reduced real wages, and a rise in unemployment and poverty. These in turn led to a lowered ability of
households to pay for public transport and other essential services exactly at the time when the new policies
required that they start paying more. In the most dynamic sectors of the economy, however, especially those
where the private sector quickly made inroads, increased incomes and a more competitive way of doing
business led to an increase in the ownership and use of private vehicles. Street congestion increased and the
demand for public transport services fell, meaning that the costs of an over-size system, much of it
operating in a deteriorating street environment, were to be borne by a diminishing number of passengers.
BKV was in danger of losing low-income passengers because of fare increases and better-to-do passengers
because driving became more attractive than taking public transport. Losing passengers (at about 4-5%
annually) is a critical development for any enterprise, but especially for one like BKV, whose technological
structure implies a high proportion of fixed operating costs.
Against this backdrop, the overall development objective of the Budapest Urban Transport Project
(hereafter called the Project) was to support the urban transport reforms undertaken by the city government
and BKV. The main features of these reforms, to be addressed by the Project, were to "improve the
financial position and performance of BKV, through a combination of revenue increases, operational
improvements and cost-reduction measures, ...; test the potential of private sector participation in the
delivery of transport services; and ... restrain automobile traffic in the inner city through a combination of
- 2 -



traffic and parking management measures" (cf. Staff Appraisal Report, para. 1.19) The specific objectives
of the Project were to: "(a) modernize and increase the commercial orientation of BKV; (b) establish a
formnal contractual relationship between BKV and the City of Budapest; (c) decrease subsidies to BKV; (d)
contribute to the improvement of air quality in Budapest; and (e) implement a parking control policy" (cf.
Staff Appraisal Report, para. 2.4).
This list of objectives is further extended in the Loan and Project Agreements. Taking dated covenants to
be the markers of importance, the primary objectives of the Project were as follows: (la) improve the
financial health of BKV, by ensuring that its revenues from all sources would cover its total operating costs
in 1995 and subsequent years; (lb) gradually increase BKV's cost recovery from business revenue to 37%
in 1995, 41% in 1996, 43% in 1997, 45% in 1998, 47% in 1999 and 50% in 2000; (lc) introduce fare
increases necessary to enable BKV to meet the cited cost recovery targets; (Id) reduce the fare evasion to
7% of BKV's gross receipts in 1997 and thereafter; and (le) introduce contracting out of transport services
to private operators by the end of 1996. The secondary objectives, stated as undated covenants were as
follows: (2a) introduce parking management, including parking charges; (2b) separate BKV's non-core
activities inlto subsidiary companies, with an implicit longer-term objective of their divestiture; and (2c)
establish a Budapest Transport Association, essentially a fare and service union including BKV, MAV and
Volanbusz. This last requirement was needed to improve the lot of passengers who travel across the city's
boundary, and now pay anew each time they change the transport mode, as well as to reduce the
redundancy in the supply of public-supported services.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Componenits:
The Project included three specific investment components together with a technical assistance and training
component.
Investment Components:
(a) Bus Fleet Replacement (base cost of US$8.4 million). Replacement of all buses over twelve years
old through the procurement of 50 standard-size buses at an estimated base cost of US$168,000 per
vehicle. The new buses would be low-floor, easy-access vehicles specialized for the central city
operation. They would trade-off higher capital costs for reduced maintenance and operating costs, have
higher reliability and lower pollutant emissions.
(b) Tram Track Renewal (base cost of US$44 million). Replacement of 47 km of track -- mostly
big-panel tracks on heavily traveled routes in most need of repair. Because of the seasonal nature of the
renewal works, possible only during the school holidays, this component was scheduled in four annual
tranches. The rehabilitation of the Nagykruit, the most heavily traveled section of the network
(166,000 passengers per day in 1993) received the highest priority in the renewal program. This
component also included various types of equipment for the maintenance of tracks and overhead lines,
and a computer-controlled maintenance supervision system.
(c) Automatic Vehicle Monitoring System (base cost of US$3.2 million). A further expansion of the
automatic vehicle monitoring system, the first stage of which was supported under the Bank's Second
Transport Project, consisting of on-board communication equipment for 220 buses, street-side presence
- 3 -



sensing, radio system modifications, computer hardware and software.
Technical Assistance and Trainin2 Component (base cost of US$1.6 million):
(a) Financial Management. A review by extemal consultants of BKV's financial, cost-accounting, and
data-processing systems, and technical assistance for their development;
(b) Management Information System and Computerization. The development of an integrated
Management Information System (hardware and software) and appropriate staff training;
(c) Marketing and Public Relations. Study tours in selected countries, seminars in Hungary, and
consultant services related to marketing, PR and the setting up the Budapest Transport Association;
(d) Management and Organization. Training courses in Hungary for BKV's managers, as a follow up
of the Organization and Management Study financed under the BKV component of the Second
Transport Project;
(e) Technical Improvements. Training seminars in Hungary and study tours abroad focused on the
maintenance of rolling stock and infrastructure, and traffic management techniques related to giving
on-street priority to public transport vehicles;
(f) Economic Analysis. Training for the staff of BKV and the Municipality of Budapest to perform
investment analysis for transport and other infrastructure projects.
3.4 Revised Conmponents:
There was only one formal revision of the Loan Agreement, in March 2000 whereby the description of the
technical assistance and training component was expanded, at BKV's request, to include the preparation of
projects aiming to increase the street priority to public transport vehicles, the preparation of a 5-year
investment plan for BKV, and technical assistance with subcontracting, concessioning and other forms of
the private sector involvement. The revised text defines the component as follows: "Technical assistance,
studies, data processing equipment and software, training seminars, conferences and study tours to improve
BKV's procedures and staff knowledge and skills, and to prepare investment projects, with regard to
organization and operation of public transport, marketing, performance evaluation, private sector
involvement, equipment replacement, and investment evaluation."
The fnancial management and the management information system were dropped from the description, at
BKV's request, since the company wished to commission (from its own funds) the installation of a
custom-tailored, all-encompassing management information system. Eventually, after an intemational
tender, BKV commissioned SAP to develop and install this system.
Also, the track maintenance control computer system was dropped, with Bank agreement, as it was no
longer necessary. BKV in 1997 identified track maintenance as a non-core activity and moved it into a
subsidiary company, in preparation for divestiture.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was approved before the formal quality-at-entry by the QAG was instituted in the Bank. The
following assessment of the quality-at-entry is made at the completion stage, with some references to
comments made at the yellow-cover (post-appraisal) review.
Assessment of Project fit with other Bank activities:
The Project was among the first free-standing urban transport operations of the Bank in the Europe and
- 4 -



Central Asia Region. It was not, however, an isolated operation. First, it fitted very well within the strategic
approach the Bank took vis-a-vis the transition economies, specifically the restructuring of the public
sector, the reduction of subsidies, and the opening towards the private sector involvement. Second, the
Project built on earlier, informal field work on urban transport in Budapest done by the Bank in 1988, and
a subsequent, BKV-focused urban transport component included in the Second Transport Project in
Hungary (Ln. 3032-HU, approved in March 1989 and completed in June 1995). This US$12.5 million
component, of which US$3 million was provided by the loan, included an automatic vehicle monitoring
(AVM) system for 250 BKV's buses, expansion of the central traffic control system to interact with the
AVM, a power control system, and an organization and management study to analyze BKV's performance
and plot its restructuring and development.
Third, the Project was designed as a complement to a loan by the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD), approved in 1993 with objectives simnilar to those cited above. The EBRD's loan
was based on a major pre-investment study for urban transport in Budapest, carried out by international
consultants, which was also to serve as the basis for the current Project. The loan was for US$38 million
and DEM58 million, to be spent on the rehabilitation of the oldest (Millennium) metro line in Budapest, the
purchase of 272 bus vehicles, the replacement of 96 bus engines with more fuel-efficient and less polluting
engines, and a purchase of 500 pay-and-display machines for a parking control system. The loan was
closed in 1997, disbursing US$32.5 million and DEM36.1 million. In the meanwhile, MoB's financial
situation had improved substantially, so the EBRD loan was pre-paid fully in June 1998. MoB has
continued successfully its cooperation with intemational financial institutions, arranging in 1998 a loan of
EURO 1 10 million, with the European Investment Bank, for infrastructure and environmental projects.
About one half of this will be used to renew the tramway fleet.
The continuity and consistency of Bank involvement in the sector, and the parallel financing with the
EBRD are positive features of the Project, and the efforts which went into its preparation by all parties
involved were impressive in both scope and depth.
Assessment of Project objectives:
The main objectives of the Project, those referring to the reduction of subsidies, BKV's cost recovery,
financial balance and restructuring were well chosen relative to the key issues in the sector and were well
matched with the investment components. The cost recovery objective, in particular, was very appropriate
in preference to setting separate targets for fare increases, service reduction and staffing ratios. This
allowed BKV and MoB some flexibility from year to year in mixing and matching these three options for
increasing the cost recovery. The Project was among the first which included a specific analysis of possible
impacts that fare increase necessary to reach 50% cost recovery might have on low-income residents of
Budapest.
The Project Agreement obliges BKV to reach the specific levels of cost recovery, as if it had a full and
unconstrained decision making power over fares. In fact, BKV's Board has had only the power of
proposing fare increases and service reduction to the Municipality. The authority to approve the proposals
is vested in the General Assembly of MoB. This is covered in the Loan Agreement, which stipulates that
MoB needed to "initiate at its General Assembly the tariff increases necessary to enable BKV to meet the
(cost recovery) requirements." The risk that MoB would not approve fare increases was identified, and
thought acceptable, given MoB's track record in raising the cost recovery from 19% in 1986 to 34% in
1994. Also, the operating ratio covenant provided an additional insurance in this regard. Even if the
transfer of cost load to passengers were not to reach the agreed targets, this covenant would oblige MoB to
pay sufficient subsidies (and take other measures) to ensure that BKV's operations would break even. What
- 5 -



was missed in the risk assessment was the role of the Government (Ministry of Finance). The Government
retained leverage over the fare setting process through its control over fare subsidies, i.e. the compensation
paid for revenue losses due to social fares available to students and retirees. Before approving any fare
increases, MoB asked the Ministry of Finance to approve the compensation arising out of the proposed
fares. This amounted to the Ministry of Finance having a decision making power over an important aspect
of the Loan, without being a party to the Loan Agreement (except as the Guarantor of the Loan).
The design of the project could have been improved by a somewhat narrower reform agenda. The size and
weight of the reform agenda are considerable. Improving the efficiency, cost recovery and financial balance
of BKV, and introducing private operators, were formidable enough to achieve and would have sufficed for
this operation. Adding the establishment of a Budapest Transport Association, which involved the Ministry
of Transport and two of its large companies, none of which was a Borrower in this Loan, proved to be too
ambitious.
Another weak aspect of the project design is low specificity in the statements of objectives, followed by
discontinuities in linking objectives with othur elements of the structure of the Project. For example, the
objective of increased commercialization of BKV is nonspecific, and subsumes the objectives of decreasing
subsidies and establishing a contractual relationship between MoB and BKV. This last is cited in the
Appraisal report as a specific objective, but it is not included as a covenant in either the Loan or Project
Agreement. A pollution reduction objective is included without an assessment of the current situation,
targets to be reached, and the corresponding before-and-after measurements capable of disceming the
contribution of the new vehicles and traffic restraint measures. Setting up a Budapest Transport
Association and implementing a parking management plan are included without any specification and
measure of success, and are not related to any investment financed by the Project.
Assessment of Project components:
The two main investment components, new buses and tramway track replacement, were of the
bread-and-butter type, i.e. essential (though not sufficient) to BKV's success in keeping a high level of
service to its passengers. The economic evaluation of both components was done at the simplest levels, on
the basis of cost savings only. For the bus component this approach was sufficient, given high utilization of
buses in Budapest and the flexibility in re-allocating vehicles should the demand call for it. For the
tramway track component, however, looking only at the cost side risked improving some lightly-used
tramway corridors, as well as high-volume ones. A preferable approach would have been to have looked at
the entire tramway network, and to have selected those sections which had an attractive return from a
combined demand-supply analysis. This, of course, may also have led to the inclusion of tramway vehicle
replacement in the Project.
Possible alternative designs:
Should the project have taken a more aggressive position as regards the participation of the private sector
in the provision of transport services? The answer is no, based on the following: (i) because BKV was still
providing good-quality services, there was no grass-roots private supply in public transport, nor was there
pressure from the intemational investors and operators to get in; (ii) BKV had been given reasonably good
marks for both cost efficiency and the level of service by the Organization and Management Study carried
out by international consultants, so the prospective benefits of privatization were not substantial; (iii) BKV
had been set up as a network operator, i.e. to unify all urban public transport modes in Budapest so as to
achieve an integrated service to passengers, the benefits of which would have been endangered by the
sudden entry of the private sector; (iv) Hungary was engaged in an accelerated program of privatization of
- 6 -



public sector enterprises and in the productive sectors, whereas public transport was low on the
Government's list of candidates (even Volanbusz was -and still is- in public ownership); and (v) MoB and
BKV management, not to mention the unions, had little interest (or knowledge) of privatization. The Project
correctly opted to use a two-pronged approach to increasing the role of the private sector: first, by
encouraging BKV to divest its non-core services; and, second, by a pilot approach to private delivery of
transport services, whereby private operators would compete for sub-contracts with BKV on specific
routes. These actions, included as covenants in the Loan Agreement, were complemented by technical
assistance and study tours for the policy makers and BKV management.
The project was criticized at the yellow-cover review stage for not including more aggressive traffic
restraint measures, specifically a congestion charging system for motor vehicles in central Budapest. The
team expressed its agreement in principle that congestion charges would be both efficient and equitable, but
correctly ruled this measure out as premature for Budapest. In addition, the Project's agenda was already
overloaded, with the introduction of parking management and charging system piggy-backing on the earlier
EBRD operation. The introduction of parking fees alone was difficult enough as regards the traffic
restraint. if and when a congestion charging system is to be included in a Bank project, it should forn the
project's entire policy agenda, and all other restraint measures should already have been implemented by the
client city. Investments included in such a project should focus on urban roads, not on public transport.
Altogether, the team's argument was valid.
Overall, the Project had a satisfactory quality at entry, in that it was timely, linked to past and parallel
activities, and addressed the key sectoral issues. Its policy and investment spheres were well matched, and
the investment components were well prepared for implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
The Project has succeeded in its overall objective to serve as a vehicle for the urban transport reforms
undertaken by the City of Budapest and BKV. Due to efforts by BKV and MoB, both within and
transcending the framework of the Project, the quality of passenger services has been maintained or
improved, BKV is a more cost-efficient organization, and the relations between MoB and BKV are better
regulated than they were or would have been without the Project.
The achievement of the specific objectives of the Project is reviewed in the following paragraphs. Since the
list of these objectives in the Staff Appraisal Report is not matched exactly with the stipulations of the
Loan and Project Agreements, the review is organized using a composite list of objectives.
A. The Modernization and Increase in the Commercial Orientation of BKV:
The progress towards reaching this objective has been satisfactory. BKV was transformed from a
State-owned enterprise to a joint stock company on January 1, 1996, managed by a Board of Directors. For
the time being, it is fully owned by MoB, which exercises its ownership rights in two ways: through its
majority representation on BKV's Board of Directors, and through an operational contract, renegotiated
annually (more details in item (b) below). The change in BKV's legal status was preceded by an asset
valuation exercise, and the new company implemented a commercially oriented management information
system, compatible with European practices.
BKV's internal organization has been restructured and streamlined under the Project, following the advice
- 7 -



from intemational consultants. Depots have been combined and 2 were closed. Some profit-making
transport activities were divested, e.g. the cable car, chair lift, tourist boat operations, and (river) shipping.
Also sold were several non-core activities, e.g. printing, clothing supply, and telecommunications. The
information technology department was closed and these services are being out-sourced. Bus vehicle and
tramway track and vehicle maintenance workshops, and escalator maintenance workshops were set up as
subsidiaries, with a view to divestiture in the near future. Currently, in-house provision of these services
has been replaced by contracting out to the subsidiary companies. The staff was reduced by 38%, from
21,000 in 1995 to 13,000 in 2001, partly through productivity gains and partly due to the divestitures and
the creation of subsidiaries.
As regards its core services, BKV has strengthened its marketing and public information activities, coupled
with service differentiation, e.g. through the introduction of "brand lines" on some key routes. It has also
made adjustments to its route network, working with the district authorities and organizations to improve
customer satisfaction. These service improvements, in addition to the provision of new vehicles and
improved track and roads helped reverse the loss of passengers (1.69 billion in 1990, 1.52 billion in 1995,
1.39 billion in 1998 and 1.43 billion in 2000). The focus of the next stage of reforms will be on the fare
system, to introduce more differentiation by trip length, location and time of day, and also to bring the
ticketing system into the information age. This last item will contribute to the technical feasibility of the
Budapest Transport Association, by providing an information base for revenue sharing between diverse
public transport operators. Another improvement in the core services has had to do with the implementation
of a pilot program to sub-contract some transport services to private operators (see item C below).
The use of extemal consultants has become an integral part of BKV's operations, be it for advice on the
general organization and management issues or more specialized technical subjects. In 1999, BKV
implemented (with own funds) an all-encompassing corporate information system, following a competitive
tender. The winning system is based on the SAP approach, giving BKV managers for the first time a rapid
insight into costs and outputs of different departments. Most recently, BKV commissioned (again from own
funds) a bench-marking and efficiency study. The consultants rated BKV highly relative to its European
comparators, but also identified areas within the company where further cost-reduction opportunities
existed. The consultants will be staying on in the second phase to advise on the implementation of the
adopted measures, with a success-based fee. The internal modernization process has become continuous.
B. The Contractual Relationship Between BKV and MoB:
This objective was substantially met. The first version of the Operational Agreement between BKV and
MoB was signed in 1995, and renegotiated annually, usually in the last quarter. Its essence are the route
and schedule specifications for the network, the performance indicators, the remuneration of managers, and
the incentives based on output and service quality indicators. Separately, BKV submits a Business Plan,
including an operational budget and investment program. The MoB's General Assembly approves the
Business Plan and the amount of operational and capital grants to the company. The Operational
Agreement is, however, just a step in the right direction. First, there is no competition involved. Second, the
Agreement is still far from being a real contract, as the agreed budgets include a substantial operating loss
for BKV and the Agreement is usually not finalized until 34 months into the fiscal year. Also, the incentive
system refers only to output performance, but not to the cost-efficiency of the company. The main benefit
of the Agreement is to have made explicit links between service requirements, costs, fares and subsidies,
which are discussed on both technical and political levels.
-8 -



C. Sub-contracting Transport Services:
This objective was met. At loan negotiations, BKV accepted with reluctance the inclusion of a pilot
program to test sub-contracting transport services in the Project. In a situation of falling demand and
surplus staff, its managers felt that contracting out for services might increase their costs. Also, their
accounting system did not give them cost data in the format necessary to make comparisons on the margin.
Nevertheless, in 1997 BKV commissioned a study to prepare the pilot tender and organize study tours in
European cities with experience in contracting out and/or concessioning public transport services. The
tender for 12 buses operating on 3 lines was published in December 1998 and led to an award of a 5-year,
gross-cost contract to a private Hungarian company. The performance of the contractor has been quite
successful, but the contractual price had to be adjusted in the second year. This positive experience, the
realization by BKV managers of its advantages in terms of savings on capital investment given their current
cash flow shortages, and the exposure of BKV managers to different approaches used in Europe led to
another tender. This was for 60 buses on 12 lines, issued following a study to determine the cost/benefit
framework for bid evaluation. This tender encountered legal problems, since the Hungarian Procurement
Law would not allow the exclusion of public-sector (subsidized) companies. The tender was re-issued and
no public-sector companies submitted bids. A contract with a private operator was signed in May 2001 for
35 buses to operate on 5 lines in South Buda. Tenders for the other 2 route groups were not successful,
with weak competition leading to high prices. No matter how the problems with the Procurement law are
resolved in the future, the sub-contracting has proven its value to BKV, permnitting the retirement of some
older vehicles and a transfer of other vehicle to lines with higher demand.
D. Reduction of Illegal Travel:
This objective was achieved in substance, though its nominal target was not reached. Targets for illegal
passengers as agreed at loan negotiations were based on a small sample survey, which had estimated a
system-wide average of 12% illegal travelers. It was agreed to reduce this during the Project by 4%, but
also to have a more thorough study of the phenomenon. In 1996, BKV commissioned a study of illegal
travel, including a series of 4 on-board surveys of passengers, staggered over a 2-year period. This was a
first such study in Eastem Europe. The study showed a wide variation in illegal travel between modal
sub-networks, the highest on the bus and trolley-bus network, the lowest for the metro. After BKV
intensified and expanded their system of roving inspectors and fines, sample surveys were repeated. These
showed that metro and suburban trains came close to the agreed target (achieving about 8-9%), but buses,
trams and trolley-buses stayed at higher levels (16-17%). The system-wide average fell to 11% in 1997, but
then increased to 13% in the Spring of 1998. The Bank supervision team agreed with BKV management
that further intensification of inspection on open-access modes was too expensive, and risked having a
negative impact on the ambiance of the service. During supervision missions, the team focused on ensuring
the effective continuation of the inspect-and-fine operation on the entire system. This has been satisfactory.
For example, in 1999, BKV's 450 inspectors found 75,000 violators; the fines in that year amounted to
HUF 390 million, equivalent to 0.7% of the total revenue. It was agreed to use other methods also, e.g. new
and hard-to-forge identification cards for students. The impact of these efforts on the fraud rate are being
monitored periodically.
E. Increase in Cost Recovery (Reduction of Subsidies Paid to BKV):
The objective of increasing cost recovery was partially met. BKV reached the agreed target in 1997, fell
behind in the next two years, and finished within 2 percent points of the target in 2000. The year by year
results were as follows (for caveats regarding these numbers, please see Annex 8):
-9-



1994  1995   1996   1997  1998   1999  2000
Cost Recovery (%)     35    36      35    43    40       41     48
Target (%)             --    37     41    43    45       47     50
The increase in the depreciation was a main factor in the failure to meet the target in 1996. Failure of MoB
in 1998 and the Government in 1999 to approve the necessary fare increases caused the shortfall in 1998
and 1999 respectively.
The intention was to reduce BKV's dependence on operating subsidies through a combination of cuts in
services, increased productivity; and fare increases. All three factors contributed to the above cited
improvement. Service levels (in terms of place-km supplied) were reduced by 16% in line with the
reduction in passengers. This was a major achievement given the difficult politics involving the General
Assembly and MoB relations with district municipalities. Operating costs, materials and energy, were
difficult to reduce given BKV's fleet, which overall is still obsolete and aged, hence not economical to
operate. Still, BKV managed to reduce its total operating expenses (without deducting capitalized
expenditures) in real terms by HUF 18.6 billion or 20% over the project period. While some of these
savings were the result of inadequate maintenance, a substantial proportion was achieved through increased
productivity. BKV managed to reduce fuel consumption through reductions in service, new engines and bus
vehicles, but increases in world fuel prices in the last years resulted in a real increase in fuel costs of 1%
over the project period.
The history of fare increases, shown in Annex 8, Table 6, is of interest. There were 7 increases in the
1995-2000 period, representing cumulatively a real increase of about 20% in the most popular fare
(monthly ticket), and about 13% in the average fare paid. This was partially offset by a loss of traffic, so
that the real increase in business revenue was about 10% over this period. The increases in the early years
of the project's life (1995-97) were considerable, exceeding the general inflation by a hefty margin. For
example, a fare increase of 33% was approved in March 1995 and another one of 39% was approved in
January 1996, while the inflation rate was 18.8% in 1994 and 28.2% in 1995. Starting in 1998, the
increases were generally well under inflation. The responsibility for fare increases is shared between BKV,
MoB and the Government (Ministry of Finance). BKV's board consistently made proposals to MoB for
fare increases in line with inflation and their estimation of the underlying price elasticities of the various
market segments. MoB agreed with these proposals every year except in 1998, when local elections took
place. MoB recommendations were then forwarded to Ministry of Finance for clearance. In the recent
years, the Ministry refused to go along with the MoB/BKV's proposals, in an effort to control inflation.
During the last years of the Project, the Ministry-imposed fare increase ceiling was 6%, with inflation
running between 8.5 and 10%. This topic will be addressed in more detail in Section 5.2.
Paradoxically, the nominal objective of reducing subsidies to BKV has been achieved, but not exactly as
envisaged in the framework of this Project, through higher fare revenue and lower operating costs. Both
MoB and the Govemment cut drastically the subsidies provided to BKV, without regard for its financial
health (Annex 8, Tables 2 and 3; and Fig. 1). In 1994, subsidies for the Government and MoB represented
62% of BKV's operational expenditures. By 2000, the Government and MoB had substantially reduced the
level of subsidies in real terms to 31% and 43% respectively so that subsidies represented 42% of operating
expenditures in that year. The Government's "subsidy" is, in reality, compensation to BKV for revenue
losses due to deep fare discounts provided to students and pensioners in line with the Govenmment's
policies. The Government pays no compensation for revenue losses due to its refusal to allow general fare
increases at the level requested by BKV and MoB. Nor are all "social discounts" fully compensated, e.g.
free travel for all persons above the age of 65 years, "granted" by the National Assembly in 1998, just
- 1 0 -



before the elections.
F. Financial Status of BKV:
Achieving good financial health of BKV was not included among the development objectives cited in the
Staff Appraisal report, but it was provided for as an operating ratio covenant and a debt service covenant
in the Loan Agreement. During implementation, the Bank team treated the operating ratio as the major
objective. Under the Loan Agreement, MoB agreed to provide additional subsidies, if necessary, to meet the
ratio. The target was to maintain an operating ratio of 100; i.e. that BKV's revenue from all sources
(including subsidies) should be at least equal to total operating costs. The first row of the following table
shows that the objective was not achieved (caveats cited in Annex 8 apply to these numbers also):
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  2000
Operating ratio       107    117    115    118    117    110
Adjustedoper.ratio    91    101    111    113    106    102
Target                100    100    100    100    100    100
The combined effects of fare revenue increases, cost reductions and subsidies were not sufficient for BKV
to break even. As a partial compensation for reducing the operational subsidy, MoB increased its capital
subsidies to BKV, earmarked for the financing of fixed assets. The funds being fungible, the difference
between MoB making operating or capital subsidy lies in the fact that BKV's Board has more control over
spending its operating budget, whereas the General Assembly of the Municipality has more control over
BKV's capital budget. These capital contributions did improve BKV's financial position, but did not help
with the operating ratio, covenanted under the Loan. In recognition of the fact that the operating ratio did
not tell the full story, the Bank, for the purpose of calculating the "contractual" operating ratio, accepted to
treat these capital contributions as an operating subsidy. As shown in the second row of the above table the
adjusted operating ratio came close to 100.
Going beyond the simple financial covenants agreed under the Loan, a full picture of BKV's accounts
shows that its overall financial situation is not good (see Annex 8, Table 5, keeping in mind that the
accounts of BKV actually understate losses because they do not reflect the deferred maintenance; also, the
depreciation write-offs are too low, since revaluation to adjust for inflation is not done). Due to an
all-too-rapid reduction in subsidies, not matched by fare revenue increases and cost savings, the company's
liquidity problems have deteriorated in the 1995-2000 period, with the current ratio falling from 1.4 in
1994 to a very unsatisfactory 0.3 in 2000. Net working capital at the end of 2000 was negative HUF 19.2
billion, caused by financing fixed assets using suppliers' credits. This of course reduced the management's
ability to maintain its fleet and facilities. The company has been running its assets down. On the other hand
the long-term debt equity ratio was low for a public transport company at 10:90. BKV's financial position
would be considerably improved if they could use more long-term loans in lieu of credit from suppliers.
The fact that MoB reduced its subsidies to BKV has not been due to the former's persistent financial
difficulties (Annex 8, Table 7). When MoB took over responsibility for local infrastructure and public
utility services in the early 1990s, it was dependent on the Government for about 70% of its revenue and
had limited authority to generate its own revenue. During the project implementation period, MoB made
substantial progress in improving its financial position, particularly in developing its own sources of
revenue. Overall revenue increased by 131% from 1995 to 2000 to HUF 276 billion, substantially higher
than the inflation level. In 1995, about 51% of revenue was provided by the Government, 39% from MoB's
own resources and 10% from loans. By 2000 the Government contribution had fallen to 28%, while MoB's
own resources had increased to 70% and loan funds decreased to 2%. MoB's success in developing its own
-11 -



revenue ensured that its debt service during the project period was insignificant.
In sum, MoB has had the resources to pay sufficient subsidies to BKV to enable it to break even, in spite of
the fact that the Government was reducing the level of its fund transfers to local governments. That the
General Assembly has not provided BKV with more financial support is at least in part due to their feeling
that the Government should meet a greater share of the subsidy burden for general (i.e. non-preferential)
fares, or approve higher fare increases. The underlying unresolved issues include the jurisdiction and
financial responsibility over local services, local government finance in general, and transition-related
problems of timing price liberalization relative to wage movements. The schedule on which these matters
will be resolved will be dictated in great part by the economic growth of Budapest and Hungary. The
process of accession to the European Union also should do much to sort these out, and a new Passenger
Transport Law, compatible with EU policies, is being developed.
G. The Budapest Transport Association (BTA):
This objective was not reached. Two technical studies were carried out to define the association, outline the
changes to the fare system, the route network and services of the three major operators involved (BKV,
owned by MoB; MAV and Volanbusz, owned by the Government), and estimate the investment costs and
the impact on the costs and revenue of the three operators. Everyone involved (MoB, Ministry of
Transport, and the operators) agreed on the desirability of the Association, from the passengers' point of
view and also to reduce costs and increase the patronage of the public transport system. As a first step
towards making this agreement operational, an Association office was set up and provided with a skeleton
staff. That the matters did not proceed further is due mainly to the fact that there has been no agreement on
compensating the three operators for the revenue losses. This is made more difficult by the likelihood that
the distribution of extra costs and extra benefits due to the Association-related changes in fares and services
will differ among the operators. In 1999, a proposal was floated to start with a reduced-scope Association,
introducing season tickets valid for all three operators within Budapest, and a discount for passengers who
came into or left Budapest using MAV and/or Volanbusz, but used BKV services for the city portion of
their journey. The three operators made all the preparations for making the common season tickets
available to passengers, have designed harmonized timetables for all major itineraries, and stand ready to
implement this system on a short notice. Again, the question of who would pay for the expected extra
compensation of HUF 540 million (USS1.9 million) per annum became a stumbling block, whose removal
may have to wait until the above cited Passenger Transport Law is passed.
H. Parking/Traffic Management Program for Central Budapest:
The parking program has met the objectives and has been a resounding success. It was initiated under the
EBRD-financed parallel project, and has been expanded continuously since 1996. Currently, the Parking
Scheme covers the entire central Pest (within the Grand Boulevard), with about 30,000 parking spaces, not
including those operated independently by some individual district municipalities. The Parking Scheme is
expanding across the Danube into Buda districts. The system uses a pay-and-display technique, and is
under private management. Parking fees are highest in the inner districts and diminish towards the fringes.
MoB has also opened 5 guarded P+R (Park and Ride) locations, and additional 2-3 will be opened next
year. Underground garages are being built in the city, with expected capacity of about 2000 car spaces to
become available in 2002. The main feature of MoB's traffic management program are highly successful
pedestrians-only zones, of which 3 (south wing of Vici Street, Raday and Haj6s Streets) were opened in the
last years, and more are planned.
- 12 -



It is of note that the purchase and installation of the hardware needed for the Parking Scheme was financed
from the EBRD loan. The Bank-funded Project did not contribute any funds to this operation, nor did the
Loan Agreement include any specific time-bound targets regarding the number of parking spaces, fees, or
method of operation. These were all decided by MoB.
I. Improvement in Air Quality in Budapest:
The objective of increasing air quality in Budapest was included in the Project on the strength of
expectations that the new buses to be purchased would have much lower emissions than the fleet then
operated by BKV, which used a lower emissions standard to start with and was also overage. In addition,
the Project included traffic restraint through parking control, which was also likely to reduce pollution in
the central area.
All of the above expectations were met. The new buses, purchased under the Project, conform to the EURO
II emission standard, as do the other new vehicles and replacement engines purchased under the EBRD loan
and from BKV funds. Also, the parking management program was implemented and is considered to have
contributed to reduced traffic congestion and pollution. As noted in the preceding section of this report, no
targets and no monitoring of air pollution were included in the Project, therefore no quantitative basis
specific to this project is available. This said, however, measurements taken by Budapest Clean Air
Protection Company, on locations with heavy bus traffic, representing two winter and two summer months,
in 1992 and again in 2000, showed that air pollution in Budapest had decreased across the board for all
types of emissions tested. This improvement is due to a combination of actions, including the closure of
heavy industries in and around Budapest, energy efficiency measures, the renewal of the automobile and
truck fleet, new road/bridge construction, as well as improvements achieved under this Project.
4.2 Ouitptuts by coinponeuits:
All investment components were implemented successfully and have already proven their value in practice
in terms of the service to passengers, company operations, and local politics.
Investment Components:
(a) Bus Fleet Replacement (US$11.67 million from the Loan and US$6.91 million from BKV
Funds): Instead of the planned 50 standard-size buses, 66 vehicles were funded from the Loan, and an
additional 5 were obtained by BKV from the supplier (Ikarus) in lieu of delay penalties. With Bank
agreement, the bus tender included an option for BKV to purchase another 50 vehicles, under the same
specification but from own funds. BKV used this option to purchase 44 buses, bringing the total to
115. The unit price was US$180,600, exclusive of VAT, which compares well to $178,000 base cost
plus price contingency estimated at appraisal. The buses are Ikarus 412A type, European-style,
low-floor city buses, convenient for boarding and alighting of the young, the aged and the handicapped.
They have met with approval by the passengers, city officials and BKV staff alike.
(b) Tram Track Renewal (US$22.67 million from the Loan and US$20.84 million from BKV
Funds): 34.5 line km of tramway track was renewed under the project, in 5 annual tranches. This is
less than the 47 km originally planned. Various track and overhead line maintenance machines were
purchased for about US$2.0 million. The maintenance control computer system, originally included in
this component, was cancelled from the Project as no longer necessary. The reason for this was that
BKV in 1997 identified track maintenance activity as a non-core one. It was then transformed into a
subsidiary company, and will be privatized.
- 13 -



Actual construction costs for the renewal works were higher than estimated at appraisal, and BKV's
investment budget did not permit higher investments. Priority was given to strategically important
tramway corridors, such as Nagykorut (Grand Boulevard). This component faced considerable
challenges, typical of construction on heavy-traffic arteries in the inner city, where traffic cannot be
halted entirely during the works. Moreover, the work season was compressed to fit the school summer
vacation. Elaborate time scheduling was needed, and very tight supervision. The Bank helped by
agreeing to separate procurement of building materials, which was done before the beginning of the
construction season. All contracts but one were completed on time and on budget, with one contract
divided (with Bank agreement) into 2 work seasons. BKV engineers estimate that the use of
competitive bidding for this component, following Bank guidelines, produced savings of about 25%
relative to what would have been achieved using the Public Procurement Law.
What made this component stand out even more was that MoB undertook from its own funds a general
rehabilitation of the streets where tramway tracks were being replaced, including the application of
traffic management methods. This meant a wall-to-wall reconstruction of the streets in question,
including traffic markings, signs, channelization at intersections, and other design changes to
accommodate public transport vehicles and pedestrians. All this contributed to making this component
the most visible and successful in the eyes of the public.
(c) Automatic Vehicle Monitoring (AVM) System (US$2.36 million from the Loan and US$1.3
million from BKV Funds): This component consisted of Phase II of a project started under of the
Bank's Second Transport Project (Loan No. HU-3032). One hundred position code transmitters were
purchased and installed and 298 buses were equipped with on-board communication devices (78 more
than originally planned), in addition to dispatcher workstations and radio system modifications. Once
completed, the AVM system included about 451) standard-size and articulated buses, amounting to
38% of the bus fleet in peak service (49% of place-km). The resulting benefits have been in terms of
reducing travel time variation, and reducing the staff needed for control at terminals. Eighteen terminals
were partially or fully closed, and 25 jobs were eliminated.
Technical Assistance - Institutional Development Component (US$1.0 million from the Loan and
US$0.05 million from BKV Funds):
(a) Studies: The following 7 studies were commissioned under the Project, 5 of which were funded
from the Loan (for a total of US$ 649,000), one (#6) was funded by BKV and one was funded by
MoB (#7): (1) Survey of illegal travel (TRANSMAN); (2) Subcontracting with private operators
(WSP Intemational, Holland); (3) Preparation of BKV Priority Investment Program for 2002-2007
Period (CIE Consult, Ireland and DUNA-BIT, Hungary); (4) Feasibility Study for Provision of Priority
for Public Transport Vehicles - I (DUJNA-BIT, Hungary); (5) Feasibility Study for Provision of
Priority for Public Transport Vehicles - II (Bentax, Hungary); (6) Exploration of Cost reduction
Opportunities in BKV (Roland & Berger Consultants, Germany); and (7) Budapest Metro Line #4
Feasibility Study (intemational joint venture led by Symonds Travers Morgan, UK).
(b) Technical Visits: Eight technical visits to Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain,
Sweden and UK were organized under 3 themes: (1) tendering for sub-contracting and concessions in
public transport services; (2) public transport management; and (3) traffic management for the
provision of on-street priority to public transport vehicles. A total of 72 BKV staff and managers
participated in these visits. BKV organized 4 of these, the others being included under WSP and CIE
study contracts. In addition to these, 4 visits to Austria and Germany were organized in connection
- 14 -



with quality control of rails and rubber elements used in the tramway track reconstruction component.
(c) Training: Two in-country training courses were funded under the Project, both for MoB and BKV
mid- and high-level managers: (I) Financial Management (2 sessions, with 15 participants each), by
Szamalk (Hungary); and (2) Economic analysis of investment projects, (2 sessions, 40 and 30
participants) by Szamalk.
4.3 Net Present Valuie/Economic rate of return:
BKV staff carried out an economic evaluation at the completion of the Project, following the approach used
at appraisal, but with up-to-date quantities, purchase prices, and operating costs. This is a stripped-down
approach to evaluation in that it only looks at supply-side costs, i.e. net-of-tax costs faced by BKV, and
then only those costs for which BKV keeps segregated accounts. It does not include impacts on demand
(travel time, comfort, safety, general attractiveness, all resulting in higher patronage), nor such things as air
pollution and noise. The analysis is therefore much closer to a financial evaluation than to an economic
evaluation. The real economic retums from these investments certainly are much higher than those cited
below, especially for the tramway track component. For each of the three main investment components,
Annex 3 provides tables showing the numerical inputs, main assumptions, and results for each component.
The actual spreadsheets are available in the project file, but the tables would suffice for replication.
For the bus component, the with-project scenario (Annex 3, Table lb) includes all 115 buses purchased
under the Project, whether or not the financing came from the Loan. New buses, Ikarus 400 series, have
longer expected lives, do not require an overhaul after 8 years of use, consume less fuel, and are
significantly less prone to breakdowns (hence requiring fewer spares) than the buses they replaced, Ikarus
200 series. The without-project scenario (Annex 3, Table la) assumes that BKV continued to use Ikarus
200 buses over the life of the Project. The evaluation is "driven" by the operating cost indices for the two
bus types drawn from the long experience of BKV with Ikarus 200 model, and a short experience with the
new model. Beyond the operating costs, the main difference between the two scenarios is in the timing of
bus replacement. The result of the evaluation is an internal rate-of-return of 17%, the same as estimated at
appraisal (Annex 3, Table lc).
For the tramway track component, even the benefits on the cost side could not be fully estimated. BKV's
maintenance costing system is kept in large aggregates, so the relationships between the type of track,
traffic (axles per week) and vehicle/track costs could not be quantified. The benefits are therefore based on
a comparison of total track maintenance costs with- and without-project, for a given standard of track
condition. The result is an internal rate-of-return of 11.3% for the whole component, significantly lower
than the 23% estimated at appraisal (Annex 3, Table 2). This is mainly due to actual construction and
materials costs being higher than forecast. Had the data allowed it, an obvious extension of this evaluation
would have been to estimate the savings in tramway vehicle operating costs and the various impacts of
removing vehicle speed restrictions on reconstructed sections. Had this been done, the rate-of return would
have increased significantly, especially on high-volume sections.
For the automatic vehicle monitoring component, the analysis included only benefits from reaching a
given level of service on the bus route network with fewer vehicles than without the control system, plus
savings in manpower and operating costs from closing control terminals. The result of the analysis is an
internal rate-of-return of 17% (Annex , Table 3). This is about the same as the rate of 19% estimated at
appraisal.
These three components account for US$63.9 million, 95% of the total Project cost of US$ 67.1 million
(with all 115 buses included). The weighted rate-of-return for the Project is 13.3%.
- 15 -



4.4 Financial rate of retitrn:
No financial evaluation of project investments were done at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project has had a significant institutional development impact, especially for BKV but also on the
MoB. First, both institutions acquired basic project management skills in procurement, financial planning,
progress monitoring, and auditing. These skills are often taken for granted, but in fact it takes years and a
sustained effort to move from previously followed practices to the new ones. The procurement of tramway
track reconstruction works, especially, was a test of both BKV's Project management group but also of the
nascent local market of private civil works contractors. This test was passed by both with flying colors.
Second, through continuous attention paid during supervision to the fare policy, illegal travel, cost
recovery, inflation, subsidies, contractual relations between BKV and MoB, quarterly budget reports and
audited financial accounts, these subjects became routine elements of the agenda inside BKV and in its
relations with MoB and the Government. Third, the technical assistance financed under the Project was
successful in all three of its axes. The first of these was the use of extemal consultants to explore the status
quo, and prepare policy reforms, investment projects and special innovative actions such as contracting out
or setting up the Budapest Transport Association. As evident in the comments made in the Borrower's
Completion report, the use of consultants is now a part of the normal functioning of BKV. The second axis
of the technical assistance program was to train staff and managers in some basic skills, not utilized before
but now accepted as essential, e.g. cost benefit analysis or financial management. The third axis was to
expose BKV and MoB managers to the newest experience in public transport operations, policy and
planning. The trips to some Westem European cities were very successful in changing the mind-set of BKV
managers, especially as concems contracting out and concessioning with a quality-of-service objective.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. l Factors ouitside the control of government or implementing agency:
BKV operating costs were affected by changes in the world energy prices and the way the Hungarian
Government regulated these prices domestically. The unit price of diesel fuel was liberalized, increasing
from HUF59.72 per liter in 1995 to HUF155.99 per liter in 2000. This represents a 29.7% increase in real
terms over the period. The prices for "traction" electricity were controlled, increasing 14.7% in real terms
over the same period. This has meant that despite the efforts undertaken by BKV to reduce their services
and control their costs, fuel costs increased from 14% to 16% of total operating costs. The increase in
energy prices also affected BKV's suppliers and contractors, especially contractors working on the
tramway track rehabilitation where at appraisal it had been estimated that energy prices would only
increase at 2% per annum (in real terms).
In the course of bus procurement, the response --or rather a lack of response-- of the international bus
manufacturers delayed the completion of this tender by about one year. In the past, all BKV buses had been
bought through direct contracting from the domestic supplier, Ikarus. The bus tender under this Project was
the first where an intemational competitive bidding procedure was followed. BKV's Technical Committee
made considerable efforts to ensure that the specifications used did not favor any supplier, especially the
domestic supplier. Moreover, BKV management were eager for the company to make a transition from the
Eastem European bus technology to a technically superior Westem European technology, as regards both
operating cost and passenger comfort. In the event, Ikarus was the only bidder, but its bid was not
- 16 -



technically responsive and was therefore rejected. At Bank's advice, BKV canvassed the international
suppliers as to the reasons for not participating. The finding was that the foreign suppliers had assessed
that Ikarus had too strong a competitive advantage. In addition, BKV acknowledged that the initial
specification may have been too rigid and unrealistic, e.g. in the duration of some guarantees, and placed
too much risk onto the supplier. For the second round of bidding, the specifications were simplified and
relaxed. This time there were two international bidders in addition to Ikarus, which is still poor compared to
about 12 in a similar, though much larger tender under a Bank project in Russia. Ikarus had a technically
responsive bid and a favorable price, and won in the second round. Buses were delivered with some delays,
but their technical quality and subsequent performance have met the expectations of BKV.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government contr-ol:
On the domestic front, the major factors affecting implementation of the financial reforms agreed under the
Project have been the actions by the Government as regards the finance of local governments, and the
policies vis-a-vis social subsidies and price regulation of basic services. The general trust of all Hungarian
governments during the Project period has been to reduce the budgetary deficit and break inflation, starting
with the "Bokros" austerity package introduced in 1994-95. In the context relevant to the Project, the
austerity regime meant a reduction of funds provided to the local governments and a reduction of subsidies
hitherto provided to BKV. As noted in Section 4, the Government discontinued its operating subsidy to
BKV (which amounted to about 7% of the company's operating costs) and the only funds it still provides to
BKV is not a subsidy but compensation for revenue losses due to Government-imposed fare discounts for
students and retired people. Otherwise, legally, the Government has no other role in public services of local
scope. Still, the public transport fare being a part of the consumer basket for calculating the Consumer
Price Index, the Government acted to prevent the Municipality of Budapest in implementing fare increases,
as a part of its (Government's) inflation control policy. This was done without providing any compensation
for revenue losses due to keeping general fares low. In the same vein, the National Assembly in 1998
approved free travel for passengers of age 65 and above, without consulting MoB and arranging for a full
compensation to BKV. Without addressing here the complicated subject of the counter-factual estimation
of the revenue lost to BKV, the inconsistency of the Govemment acting without a fair compensation is
evident, and it has caused lasting damages to the company. In the course of supervision, the Bank team had
several exchanges of views with the Ministry of Finance (in addition to continuous exchanges with MoB)
regarding the matter of prices, subsidies and the artificial reduction of inflation through the creation of
deficits within BKV. No corrective actions were taken by the Government
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agency control:
On the relation between MoB and BKV, Section 4 already addressed the policy of MoB to reduce in real
terms its operating subsidies to the company, but to increase its capital grants. Initially, the capital grants
were approved for specific investment projects. Towards the end of the Project, MoB's approval did not
include ear-marking, letting BKV's Board of Directors make investment decisions independently. Still,
letting BKV face increasing financial losses has had negative impacts on the latter's maintenance and
replacement programs.
A major positive ingredient in Project implementation has been the continuity in the top management of
both MoB and BKV, throughout the Project's life. More than that, the leadership of the Project
Implementation Units in MoB and BKV also remained the same. This meant an accumulation of both
experience and ownership of the Project, not least of which was experience of working with the Bank. The
communication channels were established at several levels, which helped both in routine aspects of
implementation and in resolving more difficult problems.
- 17-



5.4 Costs andl financing:
The only major factor affecting Project costs and financing, other than what was mentioned above, has
been that the tramway track reconstruction tenders were more expensive than forecast at appraisal.
Generally, this has been due to these forecasts being made during the early days of the contracting market,
with much to learn as regards the risks and competition. The Bank contributed to this by treating these
modest-size works as if they were much larger and of interest to large intemational contractors, i.e.
insisting on all-inclusive, 2-stage tenders, starting with pre-qualification. After the experience with the first
year's work program, BKV proposed and the Bank agreed to drop the pre-qualification stage, and -given
that the only bidders were from the emerging Hungarian contractors-- to relax some of the financial and
experience-related qualifications criteria. It was also agreed to have a separate tender for the main track
materials, thus removing a major price risk from the contractors. This gave excellent results in subsequent
years.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability rating of "likely" applies to what the Project was most successful in, which is to
have: (i) implemented successful track reconstruction and bus replacement investments; (ii) restructured
BKV into a smaller, better organized company, cost- and performance conscious, and open to
experimentation; (iii) established the first stage of a contractual relation between BKV and MoB, and a
genuine contractual relation between BKV and private transport operators; (iv) moved some of the cost
load of public transport to its passengers; and (v) framed the urban public transport policy agenda in
Budapest in terms of tightly related factors of service levels, costs and prices.
Regarding the sustainability of the first of these, it can be said with confidence that the new tracks, vehicles
and equipment were received by an organization with an excellent maintenance culture, which is there to
stay. The benefits of these investments, all other things equal, will continue well into the future. Regarding
the BKV's internal reforms, these are irreversible and are likely to be followed by further developments
area. As the Project was finishing, BKV, acting independently of Project conditionality, had commissioned
management consultants to help implement their own recommendations produced in the prior efficiency
study. The consultants' fee is based on how successful they are in reducing BKV operating costs and/or
increasing productivity. This bodes well for the sustainability of a new way of doing things. The same
holds for the successful sub-contracting of services, however small in scale, which has been of essence for
contributing to an open mental attitude of managers and city politicians towards the many options for the
evolution of public transport regulation..
The level of cost recovery from fare revenue achieved so far is very good relative to the initial position. The
fare increases and service cuts have been accepted both by the local politicians and by the passengers. Now
that the patronage of BKV has stopped falling and may be increasing, the gains on this front will not only
be difficult to reverse, but the chances of increasing them have improved. Ultimately, the prospect of
passengers paying more of the costs will depend on the depth of gains in household revenue, a clear
demonstration that BKV is a cost-efficient enterprise, the general quality of BKV services, and adopting a
useful tactic to couple fare increases with tangible "jumps" in the quality.
As for the policy agenda, whatever the exact outcome of policy discussions in any one year, MoB and BKV
leaders have intemalized the major key principles and issues involved in urban transport regulation. The
outcomes will of course depend on the politics and economics of the moment, but an informed discourse
- 18 -



will be sustained.
Is BKV's current share of the urban travel market sustainable, given the seemingly inexorable march of
private motorization? Evidently, BKV has had to run hard just to stay in one place. Even more hard
running will be necessary. BKV will have to overhaul its fare structure, introduce an up-to-date ticketing
technology, and raise its inspection level by one notch. The recently concluded study of investments for the
next 5-year period identified considerable and urgent needs for infrastructure rehabilitation, such as major
repairs to metro tunnels and tracks. Together with MoB, BKV will have to take a hard look at its tramway
system, which is its major money-loser, prune its weak branches and upgrade its surviving trunk lines into
a real pre-metro system, with high commercial speed and high comfort. Conversely, trunk bus lines should
be given more street priority than they now have, certainly including the use of buses on some of the lines
that now feature tramways. The pruning of the tramway network and bus/tramway substitution is an
approach not yet accepted fully by BKV technicians or MoB policy makers, in part because they have not
had the opportunity to see what some non-European cities have achieved with bus vehicles operating on an
exclusive right-of-way. Also, it is always easier to add and modemize than to take things away. The
prospects for favoring buses more do not look very good just now. BKV has just purchased a large quantity
of second-hand tramway vehicles from Hanover, because (as vehicles) they were a good deal. The
system-wide impacts will not be favorable. The purchase will put pressure on maintaining weak tramway
lines, rather than converting them to bus-based ones.
Alongside these technical actions, the sustainability of BKV's market share depends crucially on the
resolution of its financial status, which would permit increased current spending for maintenance and a
rational program of infrastructure repairs and vehicle replacement. The main channel for resolving the
finance problem lies in the adoption of a real contractual relationship between BKV, MoB and the
Govemment. The progress on this front is not too likely under the present circumstances. It is difficult for
an owned company, even if it operates under commercial law, to sue its owner for a breach of contract.
This points to a greater use of the private sector for operations and a greater use of the public sector to set
standards and monitor results, going well beyond what has been done under this Project. A complicated
factor in this is that BKV is owned by MoB, and the Government owns MAV and Volanbusz. Introducing
major reforms for one company at a time is not feasible. As already noted in this report, a Passenger
Transport Law is under preparation in Hungary, in line with EU policies, and may be the right instrument
for helping to resolve the pricing, subsidy and financing tangle in the public transport services in Budapest.
Finally, the sustainability of the public transport in Budapest as a competitor to other travel modes depends
on what MoB and the Government will do to regulate the use of city streets by motor vehicles. MoB has
made impressive progress using the parking management as a means of restraint. This will buy the city a
few years' time, while various levels of the government and the civil society at large absorb the lessons of
experience in other European cities as regards the private vehicles, and move towards some form of
congestion pricing.
6.2 Transition arrangement to r egular operations:
No special transition arrangements are required for this Project. Project implementation units in MoB and
BKV have made a seamless transition to dealing with new projects with or without the Bank participation.
- 19 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the preparation stage of the Project was satisfactory. The experience with a
prior operation with BKV meant that little time was lost moving from identification to appraisal. The
informal cooperation with the EBRD worked very well. The interdisciplinary appraisal team was staffed
with high level professionals, a transport economist, an urban transport specialist, a railway engineer, 2
financial specialists, and an environmental economist. The long lag between appraisal and negotiations was
due to several factors. MoB and BKV were not quite ready to provide the counterpart funds, the period
1994-95 being the most difficult in the austerity stage of transition. Also, BKV insisted on its own staff
preparing the relevant technical documentation. Some of the delay was due to the political difficulties
stemming from the loan conditionality required by the Bank's appraisal team, especially as concerns the
cost recovery from fares and the entry of private operators. The initial positions taken by the Bank may
have been too strict, taken without full appreciation of the situation in the country, especially as regards the
combined pressures on the dwindling household budgets by price increases in essential services. These
positions were modified somewhat at negotiations, thus clearing the way for the loan approval and
ratification. Another aspect of the policy conditions was that while some of the targets were based on
reasonable estimates of what was feasible, once set in the Loan Agreement, they acquired a heavier weight.
The target for reducing illegal travel is one example, with an added difficulty of needing special and costly
arrangements for measuring it. Also, the cost recovery conditions were set up without a full understanding
of the Government's leverage through its discretionary power over the level of compensation for social
fares. The cost recovery targets were entered into the Loan Agreement (between MoB and the Bank) and
into the Project Agreement (between BKV and the Bank), but it was the Government (not a party to either
of these agreements) which had de facto power over the pivotal matter of fares.
7.2 Suipervision:
Bank staff performance during supervision was satisfactory.  The missions involved experienced
professionals from the key areas of expertise needed throughout the Project: an urban transport specialist,
transport economist, financial analyst and environmental economist. This core team remained the same
during implementation, which assured good cooperation with the clients and thus contributed to the results.
Only in the last year of the Project, with the Bank working under a severe budget pressure, did the team
making visits get reduced to a bare minimum, the others (e.g. the financial management specialists)
contributing from Washington. The frequency and intensity of supervision was even and appropriate; the
reporting was clear and fair. The focus varied between missions, depending on the stage of the Project,
though financial matters received attention uniformly. Supervision missions were mounted semi annually,
with increased frequency when cost recovery and BKV financial health became critical (in 1999) or in
connection with the extension of the Closing Date (in 2000). The Project correspondence indicates that
Bank staff were constructive, flexible and helpful in problem solving. Responses to "no objection" requests
related to procurement and use of consultants were by and large prompt, clear and correct. None of the
above means that Bank staff were reluctant to address the problems under the Project. On the contrary, the
correspondence indicates a persistent stress on the key and politically most difficult issue, e.g. fare
increases.
- 20 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower during the preparation stage was satisfactorv. Preparation and appraisal
tasks were made easier by the fact that the key staff in BKV and MoB had worked on the BKV component
of the Second Transport Project. The requests for information and analytical work were answered
promptly, though some difficulties were encountered as concerns the financial information. BKV accounts
at that time were cumbersome and not meant for a quick response even to questions of fact, much less those
regarding strategy.
The general commitment to the reforms in both MoB and BKV was strong and main policy lines had been
developed independently before project appraisal. As noted above, the desire to do much of the project
preparation in-house caused some delays, but this did increase the ownership of the Project by BKV
particularly.The support of the Government at this stage of the Project was also strong. The quality and
rank of Government's representatives during negotiations were pivotal in bridging the gap between
BKV/MoB and the Bank on the most sensitive (financial) issues.
7.5 Government implenmentation performance:
The satisfactory performance of MoB during preparation continued during implementation. Apart from a
solid support for the agreed investments, conditions and procedures, MoB on its own initiative decided to
enlarge the scope of the tramway track reconstruction component and rehabilitate each street "from wall to
wall" at its expense. This did make the track works more complicated and costly, but the ultimate result
was impressive.
MoB's activities as regards the parking management program was also exemplary, more so since there had
been no specific targets and/timetables in the Loan Agreement (more on this in the Lessons, Section 8).
MoB's performance as regards the key financial covenants for BKV was mixed. The support for fare
increases was strong, whereas the support for service reduction was less so. The most contentious was the
subject of BKV's financial health, specifically the size of the subsidy. MoB's commitment to reduce the
operating subsidy was stronger than its commitment to assist BKV in balancing its operating income
statement. At least some of the reluctance exhibited by MoB to fully compensate BKV for charging less
than economic fares had to do with unresolved problems of power and responsibility between themselves
and the Govemment. These problems generally got worse since the elections of 1998. Still, MoB were open
in discussing this subject with the Bank team, commissioned local financial experts to advise them on how
to assist BKV (short of increasing its operating subsidy), and took action accordingly. On the whole,
MoB's performance during implementation is rated satisfactorv.
The Government was supportive in the early stages of the Project. However, after 1998, the Govenmment's
concem about inflation, and its desire to push public-sector companies towards greater cost efficiency,
without balancing its interventions regarding fare increases and free travel with appropriate compensation,
has had a negative impact on BKV. On this basis, the performance of the Govemment is rated not
satisfactory.
- 21 -



7.6 Implementing AgencY:
The perfornance of the Project Implementation Unit at BKV was satisfactory. The Unit continued an
effective coordination throughout implementation within BKV with top management and the financial,
operational and investment branches, while also acting as the main interlocutor with the Bank. This was no
mean feat, given the strength of BKV's central and operational complexes.
Procurement procedures and contracts were handled with great care by the Unit. They did a good job of
balancing an engineering-dominated procurement approach prevalent in BKV with the value-for-money and
competition-focused way of the Bank. Their experience with the procurement of goods gained through the
implementation of the Second Transport Project was useful, and prepared them well for dealing with more
complex procurement of buses and of civil works for track reconstruction. There was a marked trend
towards better performance throughout the Project as regards the preparation of tender documents and
processing contracts. Also, the Project Unit did an excellent job of presenting alternative approaches to
some problems encountered during procurement, e.g. separate purchasing of track materials. A great
majority of their proposals were accepted by the Bank.
Semi-annual progress reporting was adhered to, and the reports were of good quality, though it took the
arrival of Bank missions to trigger the reports' completion. The organization of briefings for Bank missions
was excellent, as were the field trips to work sites and workshops. The financial reporting was an exception
to this satisfactory performance, especially in the early stages of the Project. The old accounting system
was cumbersome, produced inconsistent numbers, and there was a general reluctance to produce financial
forecasts for BKV. All this improved after the new management information system was introduced and
passed through the calibration stage.
Annual audits were taken seriously, so that the choice of auditors, their terms of reference and the delivery
of reports all went smoothly and according to the agreed schedule. Likewise, BKV's choice of a bank to act
as the financial intermediary for the Project was very successful
7.7 Overall Borrower peiformance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The experience under this Project provides some clear lessons, but it also raises a number of issues where it
is not easy to draw lessons. Both can be of much use in other projects.
Among the key sectoral concerns in the Bank, in urban public transport as well as other municipal services,
is whether this institution should work with public-owned enterprises with a view to their improvement and
development, or merely assist in their move to the private sector or liquidation. The answer coming out of
the experience under this Project is a strong affirmative, in the sense that the Project succeeded in its main
objectives, leaving the client company, its passengers and the sector better off. This is not to say that the
current arrangement in Budapest is an optimal end-state, but it is a step very much in the right direction,
including this Project's constructive approach to increasing the involvement of the private sector and its
introduction of a contractual relationship into the public sector. The Project has closed the door on the old
public-sector monopoly, and opened several doors to better alternatives for the future.
Another important lesson for Bank lending to public sector entities is the need to gamer Government
commitment to kev policy reforms which are prerequisites for improved efficiency of the entity concerned.
- 22 -



For example, under this Project, in its efforts to achieve agreed levels of financial and operational
performance, BKV had to deal with the Government's continuing reluctance to introduce the requisite fare
increases.
Among the more general, but still clear lessons of this Project is the importance of focusing on the basics,
including know-how in procurement, accounting and other project management skills. The Borrower's
comments summarized in Section 9, indicate just how highly they value the basic management skills
acquired through this Project, for example the use of competitive bidding for works, equipment and
services; the skill of writing progress reports; the adherence to strict schedules; making forecasts (as
opposed to "planned" norms); the challenge of having to justify investments and other proposals in an
explicit, quantitative way; the use of data from cost accounts to assist in operational decisions and policy
making; the necessity of preparing timely financial forecasts, and even having audits.
Another clear lesson is the importance of adaptabilitv, which both the Borrower and the Bank showed to a
considerable degree during implementation. The correspondence available in project files indicates an
extensive cxchange of views, and a willingness to agree on a mutually satisfactory outcome consistent with
overall project objectives. Some examples include the adoption of an unusual approach to procurement
(e.g. the procurement of track materials separate from the works contracting), the details of bus vehicle
specifications, the quantities and types of the equipment to be purchased, and numerical targets agreed for
some action programs. The most notable example of constructive flexibility was the discussion about a
proposed new metro line in Budapest, where the initial positions of the Borrower and the Bank were quite
far apart, but converged and contributed to a better proposal.
Among the issues arising out of this Project where the lessons are not so clear, one concerns the scope of
the reform agenda. The Project had a very large agenda, even with such a competent and committed
borrower. For physical investments, it is much easier to judge what is doable and what is not doable with
given time and funds; yet, time and again, designs and specifications need to be changed. In the domain of
reforms, where the "building materials" are organizations, or vested interests and powers cutting across
organizational boundaries, with many opaque features involved, it is difficult to say what is doable,
according to which schedule and at what cost. In this Project, as mentioned in the assessment of quality at
entry (Section 3.5), the creation of a Budapest Transport Association proved to be too ambitious. While
this objective was not a high priority, it was supported as part of the policy dialogue during each
supervision mission, adding a bit of wind in its sails twice a year, and perhaps helped keep it alive until the
policy environment permits the implementation of reforms in ownership, prices and subsidies in passenger
transport.
Another issue in project design where this Project provides mixed evidence is the usefulness of undated
covenants. There is much agreement in the Bank that legal covenants should be highly selective, dated and
enforced. Yet one of the most successful initiatives included in this Project was the parking management
program, which was addressed through an undated covenant. Moreover, it was not backed up by an
investment, had no explicit numerical targets, and no "time-bound action plan." The program was entirely
Borrower-generated and moved at its natural speed. In other words, an excellent example of total
ownership by the Borrower. It would have been implemented whether or not it was included in the Project.
On the positive side, its inclusion provided a continuous opportunity for an amicable and useful exchange
of views between the Borrower and Bank on a subject essential to urban transport management. On the
strength of this experience, undated covenants have their benefits.
- 23 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's Completion Report provided detailed and specific comments on several aspects of the
Project.
On the positive side, the Borrower praised the continuity in the Project team, and the frequency and
continuity of supervision missions. The team's orientation to problem solving was noted, as was their
flexibility with regard to changes in various Project components dictated by changing circumstances of
BKV.
On the negative side, the Borrower noted substantial delays in effecting payments, which peaked in 1996.
There were delays of up to 3 months, forcing the Beneficiary (BKV) on several occasions to pay suppliers
and contracturs from its working capital to avoid penalties. This resulted in additional liquidity and current
account problems. Also on the administrative side, the Borrower noted that on several occasions
(procurement) documents mailed to the Bank failed to reach the addressee within the Bank. As a result, the
fate of documents had to be continuously monitored in order to ensure that they reached the appropriate
Bank official in time.
Regarding procurement, the Borrower noted that the Bank sometimes did not distinguish between essential
and non-essential aspects. The example quoted is to have had to reject a favorable bid for tramway track
reconstruction, at Bank insistence, because the period of the guarantee (bid security) was 2 days less than
the requested 120 days). On the positive side, the Borrower noted the Bank's interest to adapt its
procurement procedures to local circumstances, e.g. tendering for tramway track works without
pre-qualification (thus precluding collusion in the still under-developed construction market), and allowing
that track materials be tendered separately from track works.
The Borrower noted that the Bank was too rigid in its insistence on the financial targets for BKV, which
many public transport companies in large (Western) European cities could not meet. On the other hand, the
Bank's insistence on BKV taking action to increase efficiency was positive. In this context also, the
Borrower is not persuaded whether such rapid transformation of non-core business activities into separate
companies was beneficial. The Borrower believes that a comprehensive preliminary analysis should have
been conducted before introducing these measures, and the transformation should have been done with
more caution, in several stages.
In addition to the above comments, the Borrower and the Beneficiary summarized in their Completion
report their view of the lessons learned under the project and the benefits of association with the Bank.
These include the following:
(i) During the period of the Project, Hungary passed the Act on Public Procurement, which is
applicable to BKV's purchases from its own resources. The company successfully used its experience
with procurement under the two Bank projects to adapt its procurement practices to the new law.
(ii) Obtaining contract-based services of external organizations, such as engineering and management
consultants, is essential for infrastructure investment, and for the organization and functioning of the
company. (This used to be done in-house). The consultants can provide technical assistance at
internationally expected level, assisting with the timely and on-budget project completion, and giving an
- 24 -



independent view of technical and economic aspects. For example, the study identifying the potential
for cost-savings in BKV has been quite valuable.
(iii) Though many capital investments in the transport sector can not be financially profitable,
economic and social benefits of projects are significant. It is therefore essential to carry out both
financial and economic feasibility study of large investments.
(iv) Financial planning and financial control are essential for multi-year projects.
(v) The periodic progress reporting system not only monitors the project activities and results, but can
identify problems and induce actions to keep projects on track. The same applies to annual audits.
(vi) The finance provided under the Bank loan provided discipline as regards the contributions and
actions by the Municipality of Budapest and BKV. In some instances, MoB and BKV reserves were
used to provide counterpart funds for implementing the project when other programs and projects were
being cut due to financial constraints.
(vii) The experience of working with the Bank helped in dealing with other intemational financial
institutions.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                 ActuaULatest Estimate
BKV cost recovery ratio (total BKV revenue  48% for year 2000               46% forecast for year 2001
minus MoB subsidy minus Govemment
social fare compensation divided by total
operating cost) to reach 50% in 2000
BKV's operating ratio to be maintained at 100 110 (nominal) and 102 (adjusted) in 2000    115 (nominal) and 103% (adjusted) forecast
for 2001
BKV's debt service coverage ratio will be no  4.4                           4.4
less than 1.5
A formal, log frame based presentation of performance indicators was not prepared at appraisal for this
Project. The above performance indicators for BKV (each one addressed by a covenant in the Loan
Agreement) were identified in Attachment 6, Annex 11 of the Staff Appraisal Report.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In hst PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Replacement of 50 buses;              71 buses funded from the Loan + 44 buses  71 buses funded from the Loan + 44 buses
funded from BKV own sources           funded from BKV own sources
47 line km of tram track renewal;     34.6 line km renewed;                 34.6 line km renewed
220 buses to be equipped with on-board  298 buses equipped with on-board    298 buses equipped with on-board
communication devices + 100 position code  communications equipment + 100 position   communications equipment + 100 position
transmitters installed                code transmitters purchased and installed   code transmitters purchased and installed
End of project
A formal, log frame based presentation of output indicators was not prepared at appraisal for this Project.
The above output indicator matrix was constructed for the investment components on the basis of the
Project Description (Chapter 2 of the Staff Appraisal Report). No indicators are included for the technical
assistance component, since its various activities are not alike and thus quantitative output indicators are
not suitable. See Section 4.2 for a description of what was done under this component.
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent) _
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Tram Track Renewal                                  44.00          43.49             99
Bus Replacement                                      8.40           11.76           140
Automatic Vehicle Monitoring                         3.20           3.66            114
Technical Assistance and Training                    1.60            1.31            82
Total Baseline Cost                                 57.20          60.22
Physical Contingencies                              4.10           6.86            167
Price Contingencies                                 5.80           0.00              0
Total Project Costs             67.10          67.08
Total Financing Required             67.10          67.08
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB       Other;Ns cp DC    N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                     48.00         0.00         0.00          2.10        50.10
(25.60)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (25.60)
2. Goods                     6.50          1.80         4.30          2.80        15.40
(6.50)       (0.00)       (4.30)        (0.00)       (10.80)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          1.60         0.00         1.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.60)        (0.00)       (1.60)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     54.50          1.80         5.90         4.90         67.10
(32.10)      (0.00)        (5.90)       (0.00)       (38.00)
LIB   = Limited International Bidding
IS    = International Shopping
CP    = Commercial Practices
DC    = Direct Contracting
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB        Other"I"NSC.DC    N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         35.72          0.00           0.00           0.00          35.72
(19.30)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (19.30)
2. Goods                         30.03           0.00          0.00           0.00          30.03
(17.65)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (17.65)
3. Services                      0.01            0.27          0.77           0.00           1.05
(0.01)         (0.27)         (0.77)        (0.00)         (1.05)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         65.76           0.27          0.77           0.00          66.80
(36.96)        (0.27)         (0.77)         (0.00)        (38.00)
LIB    = Limited Intemational Bidding
IS     = International Shopping
CP    = Commercial Practices
DC    = Direct Contracting
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate      j    Actual/Latest Estimate    [
__________  Bank    Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Tram Track Renewal       28.10      0.00      24.20      22.67      0.00     20.84     80.7    0.0   86.1
Bus Replacement           6.50      0.00       3.30      11.67      0.00      6.91     179.5   0.0   209.4
Automatic Vehicle         1.80      0.00       1.60      2.36       0.00      1.30    131.1   0.0   81.3
Monitoring
Technical Assistance      1.60      0.00       0.00      0.98       0.00      0.05     61.3    0.0    0.0
Co.F = Counterpart Financing (BKV)
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The following tables provide the assumptions and results of economic evaluation for each of the three main
investment components: Tables la, lb and 1 c for the bus component; Table 2 for the tramway track
reconstruction component, and Table 3 for the automatic vehicle monitoring system.
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TABLE la: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE BUS COMPONENT: WITHOUT-PROJECT SCENARIO
BUS AGE CATEGORIES (YEARS)
I  0-1     1-2     2-3  j 3-4      4-5-  5-6    6-7  !  7-8        8-9    9-10 l10-11 1  11-12   12-13 i >13
,Unit oper.cost (HUF 000)      !                                                                               I       4         Annual
l-200_ 4747    4747.  4747i  5637,  5637   5637, 5934,   5934  16527   7121_   7418;   8308    8604,  8901 operating
1-400   3854    3854   3854   3854   4577   4577   4577    4818   4818   5059    5059    5541    5541:  5541    cost
No. of buses i                 .                     0        1     25                                                          (HUF mn)
1 1999  1-200        0       0       0       0       o        I    25       80      94      43.    234,    84       167,   316   9172
i1-400     0        0'      0l      3     156     1171   111|     16       0       0 0'            30t      0       0   2012
12000. 1-200'        0       0.      0       0       0        0      1'    25       80               43'   24        84,   443   9075
-4000                                                              80  -  94-- ~~~I--     2341        4' 44        05
0-     0:- 3-           0 0~~ -- - i ~-~-   X ------t------  - - -1561 --117!   i1-  16  0  ot    30.'     -  -    0-   203-9--
2001: 1-200       0        0       00    0o 0o                             1     25      80-  94          43     234    510   8596
1-400      0       0        0       0    0o          3'   156:    117'   111      16'       0       0      0      30   2073
! 2002  1-200+                         }0                     0'       0       1     25.      80'     94,     43'   667.  7876
1-400       70       0       i      0,      0       0      3'    156    117    ii11        16!       0       01    30   2408
2003-  1-200'     0       0        01     0'       0       0      0,      0       0        1      25      80i     94    515   6250
*   1-400    170       70       0,      0       0       0]     0        3    156 117          111       16       0,    30   3099
2004  1-200, _    0        0   0          0        0       0 0'          0       0        0,      1      25      80    439   4811
I-400    150     170      70.    0O          0      0      0,      0       3     156:    117      11i,     16      30   3769
2005 1-200'       0        0,     0       0       0 0     0               0      0        0       0       1      25'   349   3330
. 1-400    150      150.   170:    70'        0       0'     0        0'      0       3     156     117'    111,    46   4404
2006, 1-200       0        0       0       0'      0       0               0      0        0,      0       0        1    249   2225
- 1-400'    100'    150'   150    1701       70       0'      0       0       0       0       3      156     117    157   4915
2007  1-200       0                0                       0      0        0     0         0'      0       0''    - 0    135   1202
1-400    100     100'   150    150,    170         70      0       0       0        0       0       3     156    274   5425
2008. 1-200       0        0       0:     0        0       0      0        0      0        0       0'      0'       0'      0     a
1-400-   110     100    100;   1501    150        170     70       0       0       0        0'      0       3    442   6024
Residual value (HUF mn)
6554.2  5416.7' 4875.0j 6500.0, 5687.5  5525.0 1895.8      0.0     0.0     00,    0.0;    0.0        0.0    0.0
Notes: .                           j _                        : ,
1-200 is lkarus bus model 200 (the former mainstay of BKV fleet)   '                                             ' i 
1-400 is Ikarus-made bus model 400, which is taking over as the mainstay of the fleet.
Capital cost for this scenario, for any given year. is the number of buses in 0-1 age category times unit capital cost of HUF 65mn,
which is a weighted average price of standard-size and articulated buses for the model 1-400.
- 29 -



BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                  _
TABLE 1b: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE BUS COMPONENT: WITH-PROJECT SCENARIO
BUS AGE CATEGORIES (YEARS)
''' --     o ~'~~-0-1[---1-2-'-2-3-- -364 -4-5    - !66-r)7    7-8T  8-9   9-10   10-11  11-12  -12-13-->13
Unit oper.cost (HUF 000)                                                    j                                               Total
1-200   4747   4747   4747   5637   5637   5637   5934   5934  16527,  7121   7418.  8308   8604   8901 operadIng
1-400   3854   3854   3854   3854'  4577   4577   4577  4818, 4818  5059    5059   5541   5541   5541  -cost
No. of buses ------                                                                                                       (HUFmn)
i999    200      0'      0;     0    _                       25     80t 9-  4     4     _234      84 _167-256    8
-400    60W       0       f     3.   156    117    i1   16,        0      0       0      30      0       0   2244
200'   I-2000                                   0       0      1     25     80     94      43    234       84    391t  8612
' --400 -  5     60      0      0       3    156    117    ill!    16       0       0       0     30      0    2292
;'~'  2001   1-200  0i    0      0                                                                                 l:oT2-ol    0-
1-400  501    5~0    &      0 60~o                        if   25      80      94   43   234        3572
'  i 400W    501  5     60'     0       0      3    156    1171   1111    16        0       0      0      30  2517
2002   1-200      01      0      oj      0      0       0o        00;        1      25     80      94      43    48' 6283
i-400    70150           560h           0      0       3    156   117j 111i    160   0             0 30  2851
2003    200               b                                    0-  b         0i      1     25;    80       94    332  4621
_;400  1701    70      50      5;    60       0-      0      3    156!   117    111       16      0      303586
2004   1-200              0      0      0                                     I 0  0  0  0  0  0  1  25-60    270   3307
1       1400 0'   170   70j    501      5     60.                    3    156'   117'   111       16      30  4259
2005   1,200      01      0      0      0l      0       0.     0      0l     0       0      0       1      25    1911 924
1i400    1501   150    170k   70i    50        5      60      0;     0-           156  -1171 _11          46,  4930
2006   1-200      0*      0      0      -       0       0 0    0             0       0      0       0         i  i6.  1041
1400    100i   150    15W    170'    70       50       5     60      0      0       3    156      117    157  5456
2007    1-200     0-0- 0                0.      0       0      0 0    0      0       0                      0     12 i07
i400    10'   100    150dt   i50o   170       70      50      5- 60         0               3     156    274  5967
2008,  1-200      b'      0      0      0       0  0           0             b      0      0       0       0      0    0
-400      0  100       100;   150.   150    170       70     50,     5.60           0       0       3    427 6085
Resdual value (HUF mn)                                                       - .
0.0 5416.7 4875.0 6500.0 5687.55525.0  1895.8 1083.3  81.3 1650.0   0.0    0.0    0.0          0
CNotes:                                                       i                     i              ;     '   '            ' 
N -200 is lkarmbus model200      1 - o               -                                          ;       -
ii400s arus-madebus mncol 400li     1 -                   '      1                      i;
Capaia costs for this scenario, for any given year. is the number of buses in 0-1 age category times the weighted average unt capital cost
of HUF 65mn, except for years 1999-2000, where the historic costs are used for th 1 15 vehicles bought under the PFijec -
- 30 -



~~~ f ~~r                                        ( =- 
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
*i                 !
Table lc: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE BUS COMPONENT
__ ___  __I_    _     ~~~I                -     -          ,       --
Results (in HUF mn)        __
*           Annual Operating Costs -            Capital costs      Cash flow   i
Jiwithout Project    with Project    net            net              net
1999i       11184.0'        10882.0!         302.0           21218'         -1819.8
2000;       11114.0          10904.0         210.01                           -600.1
i_20011          10669.01         9645.0      1024.0             2009.4i         -985.i
i    2002        10284.0           9134.01        1150.0              0.0    -     15.
2003         9349.0           8207.0;       1142.0:              0.0          1142.0.
2004         8580.0           7566.0        1014.0;              0.0         1014.0
20054        77340i           6854.0-        880.0               0.0-         880.0
t    2006&   7140. 06497.0                   643.0,              0.0          643.0:
20071        6627.0,          60740     -    553.0' _0.0                      553.0:
-i ~    o
2008&        6024.0,          6085.0         -61.0           -7150 01        2349.4
'Residual value        -                                           4739.6          3
l ,.    r   -    --------- --------------1--  ~------------  4739.6---+---------
_ - _ _|.  _ ___  _t=  _    _- --fr _  _Internal rate-of-return (%)   - _ _  17.2%
Notes:            -    t1 |_ _                                        -       --
Annual operating costs are those shown in Tables 1a and lb.
Capital costs are based on the number of buses shown in Tables la and lb in 0-1 age category,
for any given year, and a unit cost. For with-Project option, unit costs are the historic ones.
For without-Project scenario, a weighted average unit price of HUF 65 mn was used.
Only net capital costs are shown to underline the difference between the two scenarios.
-31 -



Table 2
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Tram Track Renewal Program
(HUF 000, net of taxes, at 2000 prices)
t#-    --W-With Project             if               Without Project
A          B             C          D           E          F          G           H           I
Year   Reconstruction      Maintenance              Repair               Maintenance      Net Cash Flow
HV sections  LV Sections HV Sections LV Sections HV Sections LV Sections
1996     1,851,026     55,000     30,000    1,254,000      0        140,000     30,000    - 512,026
1997     1,355,239     35,000     30,000     809,400       0        70,000      30,000    - 510,839
1998     1,055,548     30,000     10,000     491,300       0        60,000      30,000    - 514,248
1999      866,367      30,000     10,000     650,000       0        60,000      40,000    - 156,367
2000     1,613,224     50,000      1,000     750,000        0        80,000     40,000    - 794,224
2001          -        60,000      1,000        0           0       100,000     40,000        79,000
2002                   70,000      2,000        0       1,500,000    110,000      0        1,538,000
2003                   80,000      2,000        0           0       140,000      2,000        60,000
2004                   80,000      2,000        0           0       150,000      2,000        70,000
2005                   80,000      2,000        0           0       150,000      2,000        70,000
2006                   80,000      2,000     375,000        0       140,000      2,000       435,000
2007                  100,000      2,000     243,000        0        70,000      2,000       213,000
2008                  100,000      9,000     148,000        0        60,000      2,000       101,000
2009                  100,000      2,000      195,000       0        60,000      2,000       155,000
2010   - 3,370,702    100,000      4,000     225,000        0        80,000      2,000     3,573,702
Internal Rate of Return:  11.3%
Notes:
The maintenance and repair pattems and amounts estimated by BKV track section.
The approach is to compare aggregate expenditures in each option, needed for keeping the track in operable state.
No consideration is given to potential savings in vehicle operating costs or benefits to passengers and the community.
Column B gives total investment costs for the reconstruction of 34.6 km of track under the Project (in 2000 terms)
The residual value in column B is based on a 25-year life.
HV refers to sections with high traffic volumes, typically with large-panel tracks.
LV refers to sections with low traffic loads, typically open-type track.
- 32 -



Table 3
BUDAPEST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF AUTOMATIC VEHICLE MONITORING SYSTEM
(HUF 000, net of taxes, at 2000 prices)
----------- Benefits-------------------4
AVM Costs          Fleet     Supply      Staff       Net
Year     Capital   Operating   Reduction  Reduction    Saving   Benefits
1996     37907                                                    -37907
1997    552232                                                   -552232
1998     83053    47965.5                                      -131018.5
1999         0    44038.5                 81345       11781      49087.5
2000     34776    44038.5                  81345      11781      14311.5
2001               44038.5    987563      81345       11781    1036650.5
2002               44038.5                 81345      11781      49087.5
2003                 44880                81345       11781       48246
2004                 45441                81345       11781        47685
2005               46282.5                 81345      11781      46843.5
2006                 47124                 81345      11781        46002
2007               47965.5                81345       11781      45160.5
2008               48526.5                81345       11781      44599.5
2009                 49368                 81345      11781        43758
2010               50209.5                 81345      11781      42916.5
2011                 51051                 81345      11781        42075
2012                 51612                 81345      11781        41514
2013               54136.5                 81345      11781      38989.5
Internal Rate of Return:                 17%
Notes:
The calculation assumes a given level of service.
The fleet reduction is estimated at 20 vehicles.
The term "supply" refers to vehicle-km of service.
Staff savings are based on an average cost of HUF 4mn per year.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                                     __
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
November 1992                 1   Principal Transport Economist
February 1993                 3   Principal Transport Economist,
Financial Analyst, Transport
Engineer
May/June 1993                 7   Task Team Leader, Financial
Analyst, Operations Officer,
Urban Transport Specialist,
Operations Assistant, Railway
Engineer, Institutional Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1993                 10   Task Team Leader, Financial
Analyst, Environmental
Economist, Urban Transport
Specialist, Operations
Officer, Railway Engineer,
Transport Economist,
Financial Consultant,
Research Assistant,
Transport Division Chief
March 1995                    7   Task Team Leader, Transport
Economist, Urban Transport
Specialist, Financial Analyst,
Transport Engineer, Lawyer
Supervision
November 1995                 3   Engineer, Economist,                 S             HS
Financial Analyst
July 1996                     3   Task Team Leader - Economist,        S             HS
Financial Analyst, Engineer
November 1996                 2   Financial Analyst, Transport         S             S
Specialist
May 1997                      3   Task Team Leader - Economist,        S             S
Financial Analyst, Urban
Transport Specialist
November 1997                 3   Task Team Leader - Economist,        S             S
Urban Transport Specialist,
Financial Analyst
July 1998                     2   Task Team Leader - Economist,        S             S
Urban Transport Specialist
July 1999                     3   Task Team Leader - Economist,       HS             U
Urban Transport Specialist,
Environmental Economist
December 1999                 2   Task Team Leader - Economist,       HS             U
Financial Analyst
July 2000                     3   Task Team Leader - Urban            HS              S
- 34 -



Transport Specialist,
Environmental Economist,
Transport Sector Manager
November 2000                2   Task Team Leader - Urban           HS             S
Transport Specialist,
Environmental Economist
June 2001                    1   Task Team Leader - Urban           HS             S
Transport Specialist
ICR
October 2001                 1    Task Team Leader - Urban          HS             S
Transport Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                 457
Supervision                                                           509
ICR
Total                                                                 966
The costs are only available on aggregate basis for identification through negotiations, and for supervision
through the ICR. Staff weeks are not available.
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Oi Sector Policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                   * H OSUOM O N O NA
0 Financial                                  0H *SUOM ON ONA
O Institutional Development                  0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Gender                             OH  OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development                 0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management                  0 H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
F; Other (Please specify)                    * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
The "other" category refers to the positive impact
of the Project on the competitiveness of public
transport services in Budapest relative to the
automobile
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        *HS OS  OU  O HU
O Overall                                            O HS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        *HS OS   OU  OHU
O Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
1O Implementation agencyperformance                  0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
E Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
The ratings are for BKV as implementation agency, whereas the "Government" is a composite of the
Municipality of Budapest and Ministry of Finance, weighted more heavily towards the former.
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Republic of Hungary: Budapest Urban Transport Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Report No.
12567-HU, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., May 17, 1995.
2. Hungary: Budapest Urban Transport Program, Implementation Completion Report, Budapest Transport
Company and Municipality of Budapest, November 2001
- 38 -



Additional Annex 8. Finances of Budapest Transport Company (BKV), 1995-2000
This annex includes a set of 7 tables and a figure, which support the discussion of the BKV's financial
performance in Section 5. The first 6 tables present the operating and financial statistics of BKV during the
period of the Project, including a history of fare changes. Table 7 shows the revenues and expenditures of
the Municipality of Budapest in three annual "snapshots" (1995, 1999 and 2000). Figure 1 illustrates the
change in the sources of BKV's revenues over 10 years, in current terms.
In reviewing BKV's financial indicators, it should be noted that major changes in the organization structure
and accounting system of the company were implemented during this transitional period. In 1996 BKV was
transformed into a joint stock company. As part of this progress, fixed assets were revalued resulting in a
120% increase in gross fixed assets value and a substantial increase in the annual depreciation charge.
However, no subsequent reevaluation of fixed assets was permitted under Hungarian accounting laws to
allow for inflation. Thus the assets were not revalued during the last four years when the cumulative
inflation totaled 63%. In addition, BKV's non-core activities were transformed into subsidiary companies.
This resulted in a change in the allocation of operating expenses between various expenditure headings
when BKV's accounts and the subsidiary companies accounts were consolidated. For example, wages of
maintenance staff were transferred to services costs when the maintenance operation was established as a
subsidiary. This makes it difficult to compare the evolution of operating costs during the project. Also, as
noted in Section 4, the Government and MoB had substantially reduced the level of subsidies in real terms
to BKV. The resulting cash flow problem meant a substantial reduction in the level of repair and
maintenance of the fleet. In parallel with this reduction in expenditure, BKV reduced the percentage of
operating costs capitalized as representing major overhauls, from 16% in 1994 to 2% in 2000.
While these changes had a substantial impact on BKV's accounts and tend on balance to overstate the
results achieved, the financial ratios shown below are believed to represent fairly the general trend and level
of progress made in achieving the financial objectives of the project.
Table I
Hungary- Budapest Urban Transport Project
Operational statistics for Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
1994     1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Staff (fulltime)                  19,231    18,570    17,140    15,075    14,092    13,591    13,103
Fleetowned                         3,536    3,417     3,254     3,166     3,130     3,119     3,072
Fleet in peak service              2,647    2,505     2,421     2,392     2,371     2,354     2,330
Fleet utilisation (%) (a)            75        73        74        76        76        75        75
Vehicle-km (thousand) (b)       213,040   200,234   188,242   186,985   184,552   182,153   178,825
Place-km (million) (b)           24,774    23,166    21,845    21,678    21,422    21,201    20,812
Commercial speed (km/h)             17.5      17.3      17.3      17.3     17.1      16.9      16.8
Passengers (million) (c)           1,530    1,520     1,445     1,419     1,392     1,399     1,428
Passenger km (million) (c)         6,668    6,605     6,235     6,059     5,918     5,963     6,089
Load factor (%)                     27.0     29.0      29.0      28.0      28.0      28.0      29.3
(a) In 2000, the utilisation factor ranges from 78.8% for buses to 68.5% for the metro
(b) 1999 and 2000 data include services supplied by sub-contractors
(c) For reference, in 1990, BKV carried 1,686 million passengers (7,440 million passenger-km)
- 39 -



Table 2
Hungary- Budapest Urban Transport Project
Income Statements for Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
HUF Million (current prices)
1994     1995     1996      1997     1998     1999     2000
(a)
Revenue
Passenger Revenue               8,490   10,204   13,460   16,804   18,753   22,564   25,260
Other Income                     1,302    2,088    2,324    5,246    4,000    3,397    7,615
Government Price Subsidy         5,835    7,485    9,441    10,995   12,606   13,550   14,538
Government Special Subsidies    2,000    2,300    2,000         0        0         0        0
Municipal Operating Subsidy      9,250    9,504   10,794   11,567   12,995   14,204   14,200
Total Revenue                   26,877   31,581   38,019   44,612   48,354   53,715   61,613
Operatin, Expenditure
Wages and Salaries              15,148   17,317   19,785   21,338   23,821   26,030   28,164
Fuel                            3,909    5,010    5,998    7,372    8,111    9,124   10,679
Services                         2,434    1,796    1,330    3,026    3,063    1,934    1,785
Materials                        4,134    3,969    5,607    5,214    4,956    9,724   10,436
Other Expenditure                1,685    2,611    5,762    4,399    6,169    6,002    5,732
Extraordinary Expenditure         788    1,691       530    2,868    2,289    1,479    2,226
Depreciation                    4,380    5,405    8,778    9,580    9,868   10,150   10,825
Expenditure Capitilized         -4,465   -4,047   -3,145   -2,450   -1,376   -1,551    -1,796
Total Operating Expenditure     28,013   33,752   44,645   51,347   56,901   62,892   68,051
Operating ProfitlLoss           -1,136   -2,171    -6,626   -6,735   -8,547   -9,177   -6,438
Interest on L/T Loans              88       90        94      124       173      251      421
Net Profit/Loss                 -1,224   -2,261    -6,720   -6,859   -8,720   -9,428   -6,859
Cost Recovery (b)                35%       36%      35%      43%       40%      41%       48%
Loan Target                                37%      41%      43%       45%      47%       50%
Operating Ratio                 104%      107%     117%      115%     118%     117%      110%
Capital Grant from MoB                    5,618    6,320    1,758    2,154    5,470    4,988
Adjusted Operating Ratio (c)     104%      91%     101%      111%     113%      106%     102%
Loan Target                               100%     100%      100%     100%     100%      100%
(a) These are final financial results for 1994, whereas the Staff Appraisal Report shows the provisional results.
(b) Cost recovery in the preceding years was 33% in 1991, 32% in 1992, and 33% in 1993.
(c) This adjustment consists of treating capital grants from MoB to BKV as operating subsidies.
For further details, see Section 4.01 (F) in the main text.
-40 -



Table 3
Hungary- Budapest Urban Transport Project
Income Statements for Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
HUF Millions (in December 31, 2000 prices)
1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
CPI increase (%)                 18.8     28.2     23.6     18.3     14.3     10.0      9.7
Cumulative CPI increase         100.0    128.4    158.5    187.5    214.0    235.4    258.5
Inflatorfor 12/31/2000 as base (a)    2.828    2.301    1.824    1.505    1.293    1.152    1.049
Revenue
Passenger Revenue              24,010   23,479   24,551   25,290   24,248   25,994   26,498
Other Income                    3,682    4,804    4,239    7,895    5,172    3,913    7,988
Government Price Subsidy       16,501   17,223   17,220   16,547   16,300   15,610   15,250
Government Special Subsidy      5,656    5,292    3,648       0         0        0        0
Municipal Operating Subsidy    26,159   21,869   19,688   17,408   16,803   16,363   14,896
Total Revenue                  76,008   72,668   69,347   67,141   62,522   61,880   64,632
Operating Expenditure
Wages and Salariees            42,839   39,846   36,088   32,114   30,801   29,987   29,544
Fuel                           11,055   11,528   10,940   11,095   10,488   10,511   11,202
Services                        6,883    4,133    2,426    4,554    3,960    2,228    1,872
Materials                      11,691    9,133   10,227    7,847    6,408   11,202   10,947
Other expenditure               4,765    6,008   10,510    6,620    7,977    6,914    6,013
Extraordinary Expenditure       2,228    3,891      967    4,316    2,960    1,704    2,335
Depreciation                   12,387   12,437   16,011   14,418   12,759   11,693   11,355
Expenditure Capitilized       -12,627   -9,312   -5,736   -3,687   -1,779   -1,787   -1,884
Total Operating Expenditure    79,221   77,663   81,432   77,277   73,573   72,452   71,385
Operating Profit/Loss          -3,213   -4,995  -12,086  -10,136  -11,051  -10,572   -6,753
Interest on L/T Loans            249      207       171      187      224      289      442
Profit/Loss                    -3,461   -5,203  -12,257  -10,323  -11,275  -10,861   -7,195
Performance indicators
Cost Recovery                    35%      36%      35%      43%      40%      41%      48%
Operating Ratio                 104%     107%     117%     115%     118%     117%     110%
(a) costs and revenues are assumed to be uniformly distributed over the year, whereas the inflator is based on the
end-year assumption
- 41 -



Table 4
Hungary- Budapest Urban Transport Project
Cash Flow Statements for Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
HUF Millions (current prices)
1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
Profit/Loss before Depreciation.  3,244    3,234    2,152    2,845    1,321      973    4,387
Less Debt Service
Interest                       68      279        94      124      173       251      421
Repayment                      18      148       321      131       30        30      571
Total Debt Service                 86      427       415      255      203       281      992
Increase/Decrease in Working      997     1104      -690    -1213    -6257    -3913    -2358
Capital Other Than Cash
Net intemal Cash Generation     2,161     1,703    2,427    3,803    7,375    4,605    5,753
Inveatments
World Bank Projert                         14      862    1,504    1,103    2,339    2,148
Other Investments                       9,351     9,138    7,955   12,575   12,460   12,732
Total Investments                2,391    9,365   10,000    9,459   13,678   14,799   14,880
Surplus/Deficit from Operations  -230   -7,662   -7,573   -5,656   -6,303   -10,194   -9,127
Long-term Borrowing
World Bank                       74       15      862    1,504    1,103    2,339    2,148
Other                          435    2,070    2,196    2,840    3,000    2,543    1,032
Total Borrowing                   509    2,085    3,058    4,344    4,103    4,882    3,180
Grants
Municilality                  1,499      24    1,434    1,340    2,154    5,470    4,988
Other                                  5,829    2,986                         457      696
Total Grants                     1,499    5,853    4,420    1,340    2,154    5,927    5,684
Total Borrowing and Grants       2,008    7,938    7,478    5,684    6,257    10,809    8,864
Cash Surplus/Deficit             1,778     276       -95       28       -46      615      -263
Cash at Beginning of Year       -1653      125       401      306      334       288      903
Cash at End of Year               125      401       306      334      288       903      640
Debt Service coverage (times)     37.7      7.6      5.2      11.2      6.5      3.5       4.4
- 42 -



Table 5
Hungary- Budapest Urban Transport Project
Balance Sheets for Budapest Transport Company (BKV) as of December 31.
HUF Millions (current prices)
1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                             125       401      306      334      288      903      640
Accounts Receivable              733    2,480    3,065    3,725    4,592    3,973    3,906
Inventory                       3,205    1,963    2,749    1,782    2,069    1,986    1,690
Other                            530       258      124      160      161      286    1,247
Total                        4,593    5,102    6,244    6,001    7,110    7,148    7,483
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets             74,707   83,862  184,409  191,271  201,050  213,261  224,196
Lees Depreciation              33,558   37,995    8,410   17,565   26,743   36,001   46,027
Net Fixed Assets               41,149   45,867  175,999  173,706  174,307  177,260  178,169
Work in Progress                2,238    3,068    1,251    3,462    4,708    3,769    4,504
Total                        43,387   48,935  177,250  177,168  179,015  181,029  182,673
Total Assets                   47,980   54,037  183,494  183,169  186,125  188,177  190,156
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Provisions                       -154      231      150      437      486      412      426
Accrued Expenses                 240       855    1,801    2,284    4,076    9,008   14,799
Current Liabilities             1,832    2,151    1,671    1,516    2,948    2,159    4,493
Accounts Payable                1,470    4,238    4,934    5,045    7,141    8,320    6,967
Total                         3,388    7,475    8,556    9,282   14,651   19,899   26,685
Long-term Liabilities
Other                              0       316       88      300      184       43      238
Long-term Loans                  627       257    1,171    5,428    9,697   14,764   16,311
Total                          627       573    1,259    5,728    9,881   14,807   16,549
Equity                         43,965   45,989  173,679  168,159  161,593  153,471  146,922
Total Liabilities              47,980   54,037  183,494  183,169  186,125  188,177  190,156
RATIOS
Current Ratio                     1.4      0.7      0.7      0.6      0.5       0.4      0.3
Long-term Debt Equity Ratio       1.4      1.2      0.7      3.3      5.8      8.8      10.1
-43 -



Table 6
Hungary- Budapest Urban Transport Project
Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
Fare increases January 1, 1995 - June 30, 2001
Average Cumulative
Date implemented      Increase  Increase
1-Mar-95              33.0%      33%
31-Jan-96             39.0%      85%
1-Jan-97              27.9%     136%
1-Sep-97              14.0%     170%
1-Aug-98               7.1%     189%
1-Jan-99              14.0%     229%
1-Jan-00               6.0%     249%
1-Jan-01               6.0%     270%
-44 -



Table 7
Municipality of Budapest
Summary of Revenue and Expenditure in 1995, 1999, and 2000
Revenues
1995              1999               2000
HUFbn      %      HUF bn      %      HUF bn      %
Transfers from State             61.1       51      82.6       33      77.5       28
Municipal Revenue                 41.6      35    120.8        48    140.0        51
VAT                                1.7        1      0.0        0       0.0        0
Other Funds                        3.3       3      44.1       18      52.9       19
Total Revenue                    107.6      90    247.5        99    270.5        98
Loans                             11.8      10       2.3        1       5.7        2
Total Funds Available            119.4     100    249.0       100    276.2       100
Expenditures
Current Expenditure               81.3      71     131.2       55    137.9        53
Capital Expenditure              24.7       21      58.2       24      73.1       28
Other Expenditure                 9.2        8      49.8       21      49.2       19
Total Expenditure                115.4     100    239.2       100    260.2       100
Surplus/Deficit                    3.9       3       9.8        4      16.0        6
Note: numbers may not add up due to rounding
-45 -



Figure 1. Sources of BKV Revenues, 1991-2000
30                       1           - 1
-4-State Price Supplement __252
25 -     _      and Subsidy
--Tariff revenues                             2.5
20       --*-MOB Subsidy                            Z
15_
c1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
10  i  ri.1  .  i  r^                 14
5 .
0
_ w  7  v    4      S     o      7      9            46 -
I     C     4             4      U     ,      LI    :3     I
- 46 -



