LOAN NUMBER 3903 HU
Loan Agreement
(Budapest Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST
Dated                            , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3903 HU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   OCA &14s        9.        , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the
Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
(B)   By an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date.
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;
(C)   Parts A through B of the Project will be carried out by
the Budapest Transport Company (BKV) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
BKV the part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; an4w
(D)   The Borrover has submitted to the Bank a policy
statement setting forth a set of measures designed to improve urban
transport in Budapest; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and BKV;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Lafinitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.


﻿-2-
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation sha.ll have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "BKV" means the Budapest Transport Company, a municipal
enterprise established pursuant to a Resolution Number 1608/1992 of
the General Assembly of the Borrower;
(b)   "Charter of BKV" means Resolution Number 1608/1992 of
the City Assembly of the Borrower and BKV's Deed of Foundation,
dated December 23, 1992, as amended on November 30, 1993;
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(d)   "Special Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by the Borrower and BKV in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty eight million dollars ($38,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a     six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in  Section   2.06  of   this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989


﻿-4-
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall


﻿-5-
cause BKV to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of BKV therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provisions
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BKV to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the generality of the provisions
of Section 3.01 (a), the Borrower shall initiate at its General
Assembly the tariff increases necessary to enable BKV to meet the
requirements of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, services, facilities and other resources required for
Part C of the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall make available part of the proceeds
of the Loan to BKV under an agreement (Special Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and BKV which shall have been
approved by the Bank. Such agreement shall provide, inter alia, for
BKV to provide sufficient funds to the Borrower to meet the
Borrower's debt service and repayment obligations under the Loan
Agreement in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Special
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Special Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such


﻿-6-
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct   its  affairs  in   accordance   with  sound   municipal,
administrative and financial practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against suci risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with the relevant legislation and sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have its records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year


﻿-7-
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other      information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to  be   maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such records and accounts     are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall transfer to BKV, as and when needed, amounts as
subsidies adequate to enable BKV to cover 100% of its total
operating expenses as defined in Section 4.02 (c) (ii) of the
Project Agreement, during 1995 and thereafter.
Section 5.03. By December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall take
all necessary measures on its part for either (a) the award of at
least two transport routes operated by BKV to privately owned
operators, or (b) the subcontracting to a third party or parties
through competitive tender of the regular passenger service on
transport routes operated by BKV, with the effect of reducing BKV's
bus fleet requirement in daily operations by at least 5% as compared
to its bus fleet requirement in daily operations immediately before
any such subcontracting taking effect.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take all measures required on
its part to implement the action plan relating to parking management
and the establishment of a Budapest transport association, as agreed
upon by the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to separate the non-core activities from BKV in accordance with a
schedule acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.06. During execution of the Project: (i) by December
31 of each year, the Borrower shall afford the Bank an opportunity
to review its draft transport investment plan for the following
year; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not undertake any new transport investment in excess
of an aggregate amount of the equivalent of $5 million unless its
economic rate of return is at least 10%, as calcula.ed in accordance
with a method acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such
debt the estimated maximum debt service requirement for any
succeeding fiscal year on the debt of the Borrower would be more
than 15% of the cash income of the Borrower for the twelve-month
period next preceding the incurrence of such debt. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.


﻿-9-
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or
for the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into, but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt shall be outstanding.
(c)   The term "cash income of the Borrower" means gross
revenues of the Borrower from all sources, including transfers
received from the Guarantor, excluding any borrowing.
(d)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any) of,
and interest and other charges on, debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing official rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on
the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BKV shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that BKV will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Charter of BKV shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of BKV to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BKV or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following is specified as an aelditional
event, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Special Agreement has been signed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of this
Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BKV, and is legally binding upon BKV in accordance with
its terms; and
(b)   that the Special Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and BKV and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and BKV in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Mayor of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Municipality of Budapest
Mayor's Office
P. 0. Box 1
H-1840 Budapest 501
Republic of Hungary


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/        Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST
Byiev
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                     10,500,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(2) Works                     22,000,000        54%
(3) Technical                  1,600,000        100%
assistance
(4) Unallocated                3,900,000
TOTAL                38,000,000
2.    For  the purposes of    this Schedule, te    term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and services not exceeding $500,000
equivalent and for works not exceeding $3 million equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to modernize the public
transport system and support the urban transport reforms in
Budapest.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.    Acquisition of about 50 single buses.
2.    Replacement of about 47 km of tram track.
3.    Installation of an automated vehicle monitoring system for 200
vehicles, including on-board equipment.
Part B:
1.    Strengthening of BKV's financial, cost accounting and data
processing systems and development of _n integrated management
information system.
2.    Introduction of up-to-date marketing concepts for BKV,
including seminars and study tours abroad, training to further the
understanding of modern management methods among BKV's staff,
strengthening of BKV's technical capacity to maintain its rolling
stock, and training of selected BKV's staff in cost benefit analysis
for transport projects.
Part C:
1.    Training of selected staff of the Borrower in cost benefit
analysis and its application to infrastructure planning.
2.    Training of selected staff of the Borrower in urban management
practices.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 2000
through October 1, 2009              1,900,000
And on April 1, 2010                       1,900,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1
(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other international recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Hungary may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 18 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for track renewal works and hardware
and software for Part B of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2.7 million, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Contracts for equipment relating to the automatic vehicle
monitoring system, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1.8
million, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $3 million or more and with respect to all
contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of Part C.2
hereof and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures


﻿- 19 -
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $3
million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $7 million.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for


﻿- 21 -
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervais as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 22 -
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special comitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.


﻿- 23 -
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


