Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIL                    Y
Report No. 2726-RO
ROMANIA
COVURLUT IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 17, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (plural lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.08
3.  Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting pur-
poses. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1. Beginning in
March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to convert the prices
of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the average cost
of convertible foreign exchange.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                             0.0394 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                      =      0.3937 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                            =      3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                       =      0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)               =      0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 liter (1)                            =     0.2642 gallon (gal)
1 liter per second (1/sec)             =     0.0353 cubic foot per second (ft3/sec)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)    =        35.3147 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
1 atmosphere (at)                      =      14.2239 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                        =     1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 kilogram (kg)                        =      2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)                     =      2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI         Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP          Agricultural Production Cooperative
DELIF        Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
DGEIFCA      Economic General Directorate   for Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction
GSI          Group for Supervising Investments
TAS          State Agricultural Enterprise
ICA          Intercooperative Economic Association
IELIF        Enterprise for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
ISPIF        Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Design
MAFI         Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
UAC          Unified Agroindustrial Council
SMA          Station for Agricultural Machinery
TCIF         Construction Trust for Land Reclamation Works
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ................................                        1
A.   Role of Agriculture  in the Romanian Economy                 1........ 
B.   Constraints  to Agricultural Production  ....                .........      1
C.   Policy Planning and Strategy  .......................                       2
D.   Bank Experience  in Agriculture  .....................                      3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS  ....                  .........      4
A.   The Project Area  ...................................                       4
B.   Natural Resources  ..................................                       5
C.   Agricultural Production  ............................                       6
D.   Agricultural Production Organizations  ....                 ..........      7
E.   Farm Inputs  ........................................                      10
F.   Agricultural Research and Extension  ....                 ............     11
G.   The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry  ...                ......      12
H.   Investment  Financing  ...............................                     13
I.   Marketing  ..........................................                      14
III.   THE PROJECT  ............................................                        16
A.   Objectives  .........................................                      16
B.  Detailed Features  ..................................                       16
C.   Description of Project Works  .......................                      17
D.   Water Requirements, Availability and Quality  .......                      21
E.   Water Rights  .......................................                      21
F.   Status of Engineering  ..............................                      22
G.   Cost Estimates  .....................................                      22
H.   Financing  ..........................................                      23
I.   Cost Recovery  ......................................                      24
J.   Implementation Schedule  ............................                      25
K.   Procurement  ........................................                      26
L.   Disbursements  ......................................                      26
M.   Environment  and Health  .............................                     27
N.   The Role of Women  ..................................                      27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Romania in June 1979, consisting of Messrs. M. H. Tirmazi, H. von Pogrell
and Jose Lopez-Lopez, Y.P. (IBRD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................    28
A. Organization and Management .28
B. Operation and Maintenance .29
C. Accounts and Audit .29
D.  Project Monitoring and Completion Report .30
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .31
A.  Project Production and Markets .31
B. Prices .33
C.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .34
D.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis              35
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .38
ANNEXES
Annex  Table              Heading
No.    No.
1    1   Climatological Data ...............................    39
2    1   Present and Future Cropping Pattern  ...............       40
3    1   List of Farm Machinery ...........................   41
3    2   Operation and Maintenance Equipment .........         ,   42
3    3   Equipment to be Procured Following International
Competitive Bidding.                                    43-44
4    1   Cropping Pattern and Estimated Water Requirements          45
5    1   Cost Estimate                                              46
5    2   Annual Operations and Maintenance Cost                     47
5    3   Estimated Table of Expenditure.........                    48
6 1 Financing Plan .49
7    1  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .50
8         Prices Used for Economic Analysis ...
1 Output Prices .51
2 Input Prices .52
9     1  Annual Production Costs based on Border Prices
of Inputs ......................53
10    1   Economic Cost and Benefit Streams With and
Without Project.                                        54
11     1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project Implementation File  ....................55
CHARTS
1.  Implementation Schedule (World Bank 20960) ....       ..........    56
2.  Organization of BAFI (World Bank 20959) ....        .............   57
MAPS 
Covurlui IBRD 14577



APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
A. Role of Agriculture in the Romanian Economy
1.01      Agriculture, which plays an important role within the Romanian
economy, accounted, in 1978, for 15% of national income, 33% of the total
labor force and 11.3% of total fixed assets. Agriculture has provided a
broad and expanding food base for the increasingly urban population and raw
materials for industrial production. Agriculture also serves as a reserve
pool of labor for transfer to other sectors, especially industry, generates
funds for capital investment, and is an important contributor to foreign
trade, both as a direct earner of foreign exchange and insofar as its growth
saves imports. Over the 1965-77 period, national income in the agricultural
sector has increased by 48%, or by a compound rate of 3.3% p.a.; achieved
mainly through reduced labor intensity, infusion of capital, improved tech-
nology, increased use of material inputs, scale economies from reorganization
and specialization, and expansion in irrigated areas. Livestock production
growing at about 6.2% p.a. accounted for 44% of the gross value of agricul-
tural production in 1978, and, crops, at 3.8% p.a., for the remaining 56%.
Romanian agriculture displayed a positive trade balance over the 1950-77
period; which rose from US$18.5 million in 1950 to US$227.3 million in 1977.
1.02      Romanian agriculture benefits from relatively good soils, a climate
seasonally suitable for production, and exploitable water resources. Out of a
national total of 23.8 million ha, 14.9 million are used for various types of
agricultural production. Of the agricultural total, arable land accounts for
65.8%, (9.8 million ha) pasture 20.1%, (3.0 million ha) meadowland 9.4% (1.4
million ha), and vineyards and orchards 4.7% (0.7 million ha). Romania can be
divided into three agroclimatic zones based on climatic factors, topography,
soils, and other natural conditions influencing land use and agricultural
performance. The Plains Zone, located in the western, southern, and eastern
parts of the country, is especially well endowed with fertile soils and irri-
gation infrastructure; it contains approximately 53% of total arable land
but only 18% of land under pastures and meadows. Crop yields tend to be
highest in this region. The Foothills Zone, situated mainly to the north of
the Plains Zone, is characterized by shallow, less productive soils. About
28% of the total arable land and 32% of total pasture and meadowlands are
situated in the Foothills. The Mountain and Tableland Zone, including dis-
tricts in the northern and central parts of the country, accounts for 19% of
total arable area but 50% of pasture and meadowlands.
B. Constraints to Agricultural Production
1.03      Despite its importance, agriculture remains underdeveloped relative
to other sectors of the economy. One of the major constraint to increasing
and stabilizing production is the wide variation in yearly rainfall, partic-
ularly in the southern and eastern plains. Approximately 2.5 million ha in



-2-
the flood plains of numerous rivers are subject to flood damages, and inade-
quate drainage limits crop production on much of this area. Soil erosion is
also a major problem. Large scale irrigation and flood control works have
been introduced relatively recently and as a result irrigated area has
increased from 199,700 ha or 2% of arable land in 1960 to 2,216,000 ha or 23%
of arable land in 1978. By 1985 the total irrigated area is expected to be
about 3.7 million ha.
1.04      In the past the State farms (IAS's) have received a higher share of
investments relative to their share of cultivated land and as a result the
marginal productivity of capital has tended to be lower in the State farms
than in the Agricultural Production Cooperatives (CAP's).  The position of the
CAP's has been further exacerbated, through allocations to the IAS's, of a
greater share of fertile land, farm machinery and farm inputs. The Government
has only recently recognized that further growth of the agricultural sector
depends largely on the development of agriculture in cooperatives. Their
potential is to be developed in the future by allocating an increasing share
of agricultural investments through the newly created Unified Agroindustrial
Councils who are responsible for dispersing equal levels of services and
inputs to the IAS's and the CAP's.
C. Policy Planning and Strategy
1.05      Agricultural policy is formuliated within the framework of a national
plan at the highest State level i.e. tha Romanian Communist Party. In order
to achieve centrally delineated socio-economic targets, the plan encompasses
all aspects of investment, finance, production and marketing. Policy is then
transmitted through general guidelines and indicators for preparation of
detailed five-year and annual plans beginning at the farm level. The draft
guidelines for preparation of Romania's new five-year plan (1981-85) were
published in July 1979; and the detailed plan was presented and approved by
the 12th Congress of the Romanian Communist Party, in November 1979. These
guidelines on agriculture indicate that the gross agricultural production will
increase at an annual rate of 4.5 to 5.0% as compared to 4.8% over the period
1965-77. Provisions will be made for rapid and intensive development and
modernization of agriculture during this plan period, as agriculture is being
given top priority, on which also depends the development of industry and the
welfare of a large percentage of the population.  The specific components of
the agricultural sector of the plan include, inter alia, the following:
(a)  investments of lei 133,000 million on State and cooperative farms;
(b)  an increase of arable area by about 154,000 ha, by 1985, through
reclamation of land in the Danube delta and in other zones, bring-
ing the total to about 10 million ha;
(c)  an increase of irrigated areas from 2.2 million ha in 1979 to about
3.7 million ha by 1985;



-3 -
(d)  provision of drainage facilities for an additional 0.8 million ha
and soil erosion control works to protect an additional 1.0 million
ha;
(e)  an increase in the use of high power tractors, to reach 140,000
units, and self-propelled harvesters to 40,000 units, including a
wide range of other multipurpose farm machinery and equipment;
(f)  an increase in high potency fertilizer applications to about 3.8
million tons p.a. by 1985;
(g)  provision of adequate quantities of pesticides and high yield
seeds and seedlings; and
(h)  improvement of the present breeds of livestock and development
of new ones.
1.06      Irrigation is important in Romania for agricultural growth as it
enables crop diversification, stability in production and yield improvement.
The Government recognizes this and has given priority to irrigation, drainage
and soil erosion control in the five-year plan for 1981-85 (see paras. c and
d above). The Covurlui project aims at reducing growth constraints through
ensuring investment in agriculture, and expansion of area under irrigation,
thereby reducing dependence on weather and fluctuations in output. The
project is a priority project of the Government of Romania, is in line with
the guidelines of the five-year plan, and, also, meets the Bank criteria for
lending to the agricultural sector.
D. Bank Experience in Agriculture
1.07      The Bank has made twenty three loans to Romania since it became a
member in December 1972, for a total lending volume of US$1,262.8 million.
Ten of these, totalling US$601.5 million, have been in agriculture, of which
four are irrigation projects, one irrigation and agricultural development
project, one agricultural credit project, one agricultural component of a
flood recovery project, and three livestock projects. The first irrigation
project (Giurgiu-Razmiresti Loan 1082-RO) has already been completed satis-
factorily and a completion report is being prepared. Progress on the others,
viz. Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project (Loan
1247-RO), Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project (Loan 1368-RO), Viisoara
Irrigation Project (Loan 1509-RO) is satisfactory. Construction of project
works on the Mostistea-Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project (Loan 1670-RO)
which was approved in April 1979 has also been started and procurement actions
for this project are now being finalized.
1.08      In these five irrigation projects, the Bank has made a substantial
contribution to improve the technical quality of these projects. In particular
several suggestions were given as a result of which the finally selected
alternatives of canal alignments, and pumping stations were technically and



- 4 -
economically better than the original proposals. Suggestions given by the
Bank staff also improved the design of canals in loess soils, design of
drainage works and soil reclamation. Because of such contributions, it has
also become possible for the Bank staff to get involved in detailed discus-
sions about future projects atearlier stages of project preparation, and as a
result the proposed project is relatively better conceived and prepared than
the earlier projects.
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Project Area
2.01       Location.  The project area, about 148,400 ha gross (about 145,200
ha presently cropped), is located in the southern prolongation of the Moldovian
Plateau about 250 km northeast of Bucharest (Map IBRD 14577). In Romania the
area is known as the Covurlui Plain and covers about 98% of Galati district
and 2% of Vaslui district. To the east, the area is bounded by the flood plain
of River Prut (nam-ly Bratesul de Jus and Bratesul de Sus), to the south by
the Siret Plain, to the west by the Birlad River, a tributary of the Siret
River and to the north by a conventio-ial line which follows the watershed of
the Birlad and Siret hydrographical basins. Galati, which is an inland harbor
on the Danube and capital of the district (population 250,000), is located in
the southeast corner of the project area, close to the confluence of the
Rivers Prut and Siret with the River Danube. The distance from Galati Port to
the Black Sea is about 150 km.
2.02      Topography and Drainage.  Topographically the project area is a part
of the central Covurlui plateau rising from about 80 m to 260 m above the
level of the Danube. The plateau is fairly uniform with slightly rolling
relief and a gentle north south slope of about 0.5%. Six streams, namely:
Corozel, Calmatui, Gerului, Suhurlui, Lazova, and Malina cross the plateau
from north to south dividing it into seven separate terraces. The banks of
these streams show varying degrees of soil erosion.  The valleys are narrow
and suffer from floods which cause damages to crops and interrupt access
between the terraces. All six streams provide natural drainage into the Siret
River, which joins the Danube River, south of Galati, and drainage therefore
does not represent any particular problem on the plateau where groundwater is
below 10 m. Drainage facilities would be necessary only in an area of about
11,000 ha in the flood plains of Corozel, Calmatui, Gerului and Suhurlui
streams.
2.03       Population.  Total population in the project area is estimated at
520,000, with about 200,000 living in the rural areas, of which 92,700 (46%)
constitute the active labor force. Labor employed in the agricultural sector
is derived mainly from the rural areas and is estimated at about 74,200, of
which 22,900 are employed by the state farms and 51,300 are active members
of the cooperatives. The rural population is traditionally employed in rain-
fed farming and is generally colnversant with agricultural practices.



- 5 -
2.04      Electricity and Water Supply.  All towns and villages in the project
area, as well as isolated state farms and livestock units, are served with
electricity which is supplied from the national grid. The water for village
households is drawn manually from shallow open wells, built along the main
village roads or within each private plot. The towns of Galati and Tecuci
however are provided with piped water supply.
2.05      Communications.  The project area is well linked with the national
Romanian railway and road network. One single-track railway line, from Galati
to Birlad, runs from north to south on the eastern border of the project area.
A second single track line, which is presently being upgraded to double
track, circles the area on its western border connecting the towns of Galati
and Tecuci. Average hauling distance between any one village in the project
area and the nearest railway station seldom exceeds 30 km. Two primary
roads border the project area in the east and west parallel to the railway
line. Several secondary eastwest roads interconnect towns and villages
to the primary roads. Almost all villages in the project area are accessible
by asphalt roads, which also serve as the main streets of the villages. The
existing farm road network which is mostly ungravelled, adequately serves the
needs of the areas on the plateau. Some farm roads, along streams and valleys
would require grading and improvement. The port of Galati can accommodate
seagoing vessels of 30,000 tons (dead weight), and would serve as the main
export terminal for the project area.
2.06      Livestock in the Project Area.  Livestock plays an important role
in the project area and livestock activities can be found in practically every
commune. About 29,200 heads of cattle, 85,500 pigs, 190,300 sheep and 306,900
poultry are presently raised in about 66 livestock units in the social sector.
These livestock units are separate organizations with specialized personnel
operating within the framework of the existing state farms and cooperatives.
Feed requirements are met from local fodder production. Estimates of present
and future livestock development, until 1987, are summarized below:
Present                Future
Type of Livestock                Farms       Head       Farms       Head
Cattle                            34       29,200        43        49,500
Pigs                               9       85,500        12       158,500
Sheep                             17      190,300        18       199,300
Poultry                            6      306,900         7       426,900
B. Natural Resources
2.07      Climate.  The principal climatological data from Galati and Tecuci
weather stations which are located in the project area, is given in Annex 1,
Table 1. The climate is basically continental with hot summers and cold
winters. In the growing season (April 1-October 31), the average monthly
temperature varies from a high of 22.60C in July to a low of 10.60C in October.
Sunshine hours during the cropping season averages 1,720 hours.. First frost



-6 -
occurs in late September, while late frost may occur up to late April.  The
average snow cover from December to March is about 5 cm. Rainfall varies
widely from year to year and is particularly torrential in the summer. During
the cropping season April-October the average rainfall in Galati and Tecuci
amounts to 312 mm and 354 mm respectively; however, minimum rainfall can be as
low as 160 mm in the cropping season with droughts sometimes extending to over
60 days. Irrigation can greatly improve the yields for summer crops. Wind
velocity would not be a constraint to sprinkler irrigation, as strong winds
prevail mainly from January to May, when the need for irrigation is minimal.
2.08      Soils.  The pedological study of Covurlui plateau was carried
out and mapped to a scale of 1:50,000. The soils consist of chernozems,
formed on loess deposits under steppe conditions, with continental climate
characteristized by cold winters, dry summers and average rainfall of less
than 500 mm.  Most of the chernozem soils are deep and in different stages of
transformation. Sandy chernozems prevail in the western part of the project
area which are very permeable. Alluvial soils influenced by groundwater exist
near and within the valleys. Due to deforestation in the northern part of the
plateau and steep slopes along river banks, moderate to heavy soil erosion is
in evidence and would require control measures.
2.09      Land Classification.  About 61% of the lands in the project area
belong to Class I 1/ which are topographically best suited for sprinkler
irrigated farming, able to produce sustained high yields for a wide variety of
crops. These lands are very fertile, well structured, of medium texture and
with good water retention capacity. Thirty one percent of the lands belong to
Class II and are suitable for irrigated farming with adequate soil erosion
control measures. These soils also have a medium texture, high water retention
capacity, moderate permeability and are not affected by salinization. Eight
percent of the project area has a high ground water table and would require
surface drainage, and only 0.75% of the project area would require sub-surface
drainage.
C. Agricultural Production
2.10      Present Land Use.  Of the gross area of about 148,400 ha in the
project area the net cultivable area is presently about 145,200 ha; the
remaining is occupied by waterways, roads and forests. Of the net area about
133,600 ha (92%) is under rainfed cultivation and 11,600 ha (8%) is presently
irrigated from several local schemes. With the exception of the Vinatori
scheme (area about 4,000 ha), all other irrigation schemes for the remaining
7,600 ha are of a rudimentary and improvised nature and are inefficient to
operate and maintain. Even the Vinatori scheme is dependent on sparse summer
flows in the Chineja stream. Presently the cropping intensity on the rainfed
1/   USDA Land Classification.



-7-
land is 100%, it is also no more than 100% on the irrigated land due to
inadequate water supplies.  Presently, 37.5% of the cultivated land are grown
with maize grain, 26.8% with wheat, 10.5% with sunflower, 10.3% with alfalfa,
6.2% with vineyards and orchards, 2.7% with vetch as green mass and the
remaining 6.0% with barley, sugarbeet, vegetables, linseed for oil and beans.
No double cropping is possible due to the lack of irrigation.
2.11      Production.  Crop yields are low for the area presently irrigated
from small schemes due to inadequate supplies, but are reasonable for the
rainfed area as production is supervised by well qualified personnel. Due to
a wide variation of rainfall, yields of rainfed crops are subject to yearly
fluctuations and in some years there may be a complete failure of some crops
due to extended drought periods. Based on five representative years, the
average yields of major crops obtained under irrigation on the Vinatori scheme
are: maize 5.9 ton/ha; wheat 3.1 ton/ha, sunflower 1.7 ton/ha; sugarbeet
32.4 ton/ha; vegetables 16.5 ton/ha and alfalfa (hay) 5.7 ton/ha. Under rain-
fed conditions average yields of major crops are: maize 3.3 ton/ha, wheat 2.6
ton/ha, sunflower 1.5 ton/ha and alfalfa 4.8 ton/ha. Details of land use and
yields are given in Annex 2, Table 1.
D. Agricultural Production Organizations
Agricultural Production Cooperatives (CAPs)
2.12      Background.  Collectivization of private farms started in 1945 and
was completed by 1962. During its final stage private farms and agricultural
associations 1/ were merged into what are presently known as Agricultural
Production Cooperatives (CAP's). Cooperatives, whose membership includes
about 3.4 million families, own 9.1 million ha, (60.6%) of agricultural land,
of which 7.3 million ha is arable representing 74.1% of the total arable land
in Romania.  Almost oine million ha of the total agricultural land or less than
0.3 ha per family are set aside as private plots for the personal use of
cooperative members. Cooperatives produce about 67% of all cereals, 48% of
green peas, beans and soybeans, 41% of potatoes and vegetables, 58% of forage
crops, 99% of sugarbeet and 80% of oilseeds.
2.13      Organization and Management.  The land and assets of CAPs are owned
jointly by their members, with the exception of farm machinery. CAPs do not
own farm machinery or equipment but rely on the services of state owned and
operated stations for agricultural machiniery (SMAs). These enterprises are
responsible for providing all machinery services to CAPs whenever required.
The management of a CAP is the responsibility of its President, the Vice
President, a Management Council and a General Assembly. The President and the
Vice President conduct the day-to-day operations and are assisted by the Chief
1/   Agricultural Associations, an intermediary form of organization introduced
in the early 1950's, allowed participating farmers to pool their lands
without loosing title and to be paid according to their contribution to
production.



- 8 -
Economist, who is responsible not only for the accounting and the financial
affairs but also for the preparation of the investment plans. The Management
Council, the executive body of the CAP, is responsible for coordinating the
CAPs operations.  Its membership consists of the President and Vice President,
the Chief Economist, Chiefs of the Farms in the CAP and the elected repre-
sentatives of technicians and members.  The governing body of a CAP is its
General Assembly, which consists of all working adults (ages 16-62) in the
CAP.  The General Assembly is responsible for drafting productivity investment
and financial plans, for ratifying major contracts and for deciding the income
allocation.
2.14      CAPs in the Project Area.  In the project area 51 CAPs currently
own about 122,300 ha or 84% of the total cropped project area. CAP holdings
range from 250 to 6,000 ha with an average holding size of 2,400 ha. Small
private plots retained by CAP members for their personal use amount to 3,100
ha or about 2.5% of the CAP land. CAP members provide all necessary permanent
and seasonal labor. CAPs normally utilize about 6,900 male and 20,850 female
workers permanently. Another 17,700 male and 5,850 female workers are engaged
full time, on seasonal work with different production organizations including
the CAPs. About 80% of CAP workers are engaged in crop production with the
remainder engaged in livestock production.
State Agricultural Enterprises (IASs)
2.15      Background.  In the early postwar period State Agricultural Enter-
prises were initially established on land expropriated from landlords, on
church land and existing government owned land. By 1950, 9.2% of total arable
land had been allocated to state units including research stations and seed
farms; and by 1965 the corresponding figure was 20%. The structure of the
state sector has, however, been changed through a policy of consolidation by
which the number of IASs was reduced from 721 in 1965 to 215 in 1972. As of
1977, the number had increased again to 392. These changes have been asso-
ciated with efforts to reorganize some IASs into agroindustrial type complexes
where state enterprises and their individual farm units have been separated
and reassigned to form specialized enterprises. The trend toward specializa-
tion has occurred mainly in pig, poultry and grain production. IASs currently
own about 2.0 million ha of agricultural land of which about 1.7 million ha
are arable and employ about 267,000 persons.  They produce about 19% of all
cereals, 40% of green peas, beans and soybeans, 19% of oilseeds, 5% of pota-
toes and vegetables and 29% of forage crops.
2.16      Organization and Management.  IASs are operated and managed by
employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI). One
single IAS may consist of several farms or specialized production units.
Transport and farm equipment are supplied by and maintained by a Central
Service Unit owned by the SMA organization. Until 1978, IASs used exclusively
their own equipment but under the new system of Agroindustrial Councils (see
para. 2.18) it is jointly used with nearby cooperatives under the auspices of
SMAs. The chief executive officer of an IAS is a director, who is appointed
by the General Director of IASs in the Ministry. He is assisted by the chief
engineers of the farms in the IAS and a chief economist or accountant. Other



- 9 -
technicians required for the farms are included on the staff. The governing
body or workers council of an IAS consists of the top management, chiefs of
the farms, representatives of the unions and the party, and elected repre-
sentatives of the workers. In keeping with the territorial organizations of
planning and administration, the Director reports to the trust of IASs and the
Agroindustrial Councils at the judet level as well as to the Workers Council
of the Enterprise. The Workers Council typically meets monthly to make the
most important decisions. An executive bureau headed by the director, tech-
nical directors, chief mechanical engineer and chief accountant manage the
day-to-day operations.
2.17       IASs in the Project Area.  Out of a total of about 145,200 ha of
currently cropped area, seven IASs own about 22,800 ha or 16%. IAS holdings
range from 420 to 6,000 ha with a median holding of 3,200 ha. To meet their
labor requirements IASs in the project area employ permanently 11,500 male and
1,250 female workers and seasonally 3,000 male and 7,150 female workers
recruited from neighboring CAPs.
2.18      Unified Agroindustrial Councils (UACs) and Stations for Agricul-
tural Mechanization (SMAs). The use of agricultural machinery in Romania has
recently undergone an important reorganizational change. In the past, state
farms were fully mechanized with their own machinery, whereas the cooperatives
did not own equipment and were served by Stations for Agricultural Machinery
(SMAs). As a result discrepancies in production levels between state farms
and cooperatives developed. A large number of machines in the state farms
remained underutilized while cooperatives suffered shortages of equipment.
In February 1979 important steps were taken to remove the performance dispari-
ties between IASs and CAPs. The main feature of the new policy is an attempt
to promote uniform development of agriculture on IASs and CAPs through the
creation of "State and Cooperative Unified Agroindustrial Councils". These
councils are responsible for coordinating the planning of all agricultural
activities in the area and for dispensing equal levels of services and inputs
(mechanization, irrigation, fertilizer, seeds, plant protection, etc.), for
the CAPs and IASs in their jurisdiction. With introduction of the new system
of Agroindustrial Councils, farm machinery owned by IASs was handed over to
existing SMAs which in turn would serve the common needs of both state farms
and cooperatives. The formation of the Agroindustrial Councils is expected
to improve the use of agricultural machinery and remedy previous shortcomings
in the services rendered by the SMAs to the cooperatives. In the past, SMAs
were simple service suppliers and were paid by the CAPs in cash or kind based
on fixed norms. Compensation to SMAs will now be based directly on achieved
production levels. Respective targets and tariffs are presently being set.
The competence and responsibilities of SMAs has been upgraded. The President
of the SMA would in addition be the Vice President of the respective Agro-
industrial Council. In the project area there now exist 18 SMAs which
coincide with the number of the newly established Agroindustrial Councils.
Agricultural machinery pooled under the Agroindustrial Councils is either
stationed on state farms or stations for agricultural machinery (SMAs) which
are fully equipped with repair shops, spare parts and trained maintenance
staff and will serve the common needs of both State farms and cooperatives.



-10 -
E. Farm Inputs
2.19      Mechanization.  Agricultural machinery is locally manufactured and
some, including tractors, is already being exported. The production program
is standardized to the extent possible facilitating operation and maintenance
on the farm level. New farm equipment is developed and tested by the Institute
for Agricultural Mechanization under auspicies of MAFI in close collaboration
with the manufacturers. Research efforts are directed to economize labor and
energy. The production program is tailored to the specific needs of large
farm operations. It includes tractors of 45-180 HP, self-propelled combines,
and complex soil preparation and seeding equipment for row crops. Land
preparation and sowing, fertilizer, biocides 1/ application, transport, cereal
harvesting and straw bailing are fully mechanized. Weeding between rows,
consisting of 80% of weeding requirement is mechanized, while the remaining
20% along the rows of crops is inaccessible to machines and is done by hand.
As an average, there is one tractor to 60-80 ha. Large scale farm operation
in the southeastern plains of Romania, where the project is located, make the
use of agricultural machinery essential for timely and full achievement of
production targets. The existing farm equipment is adequate for rainfed
farming, however, additional equipment will be required for incremental
production. This additional equipment is being provided under the project.
2.20      Labor.  In addition to mechanization, hand labor is required for
various field crops and operations.  There are two peak periods of labor, one
in May for weeding, thinning sugarbeet, and transplanting vegetables, and, the
other in September-October at harvesting time. The available labor force in
rural areas is shared between state farms and cooperatives. Requirements of
labor for the project have been estimated at about 990,000 man-days per month
during the peak period. Sufficient labor is available in the project area to
meet the above demand.
2.21      Seed.  Improved seeds for all project crops are available in Romania
in the required quantities and would be used in the project area.  Seed
requirement per cultivated ha and price per kilo are fixed by MAFI. Seed
development and multiplication of elite seed is entrusted to the research
stations and selected state and cooperative farms and is supervised by a
specialized state organization SEMRON. Processing, testing and certification
of seed meet international standards. Romanian seeds of maize and sunflower
are considered of high quality and are exported to several countries. Of the
seeds provided by the seed enterprises, wheat and barley seeds are renewed
every two years, while for other crops seeds are renewed on an annual basis.
2.22      Fertilizer.  National fertilizer production of ammonium nitrate
is estimated at 4.3 million tons and of superphosphate at 2.2 million tons per
year. About 128,000 tons of potash are imported. Use of compound fertilizers
1/   Herbicides, fungicides, insecticides and other chemicals for plant
protection.



- 11 -
is less common in Romania.  The allocation of fertilizers to state farm and
cooperatives, which is based on soils, climatic conditions and crop require-
ments is reviewed each year by MAFI and the Chemical Industries Ministry.
Following introduction of irrigation, the project area would receive priority
in the allocation of fertilizer which would be increased to the levels recom-
mended by research and the results from soil fertility laboratories. The
fertilizer formulae proposed for the project are appropriate. Under rainfed
conditions there is no significant application of potash, however, with
irrigation, the high projected yields would necessitate some use of potash,
which has been included.
2.23      Plant Protection.  Regional research and forecasting stations under
the Ministry of Agriculture (MAFI) advise CAPs and IASs on timely and
appropriate plant protection treatments which are carried out by the SMA's.
In addition, a plant protection department exists in the Directorate for
Agriculture which deploys special equipment including planes for spraying
insecticides. At present about 1.9 million ha are sprayed in Romania by air.
Basic research, long-term forecasting, testing of new products is undertaken
by the Central Institute for Plant Protection in Bucharest which also conducts
large scale experiments in agricultural fields of IASs and CAPs. A wide
range of pesticides and herbicides is used, with a satisfactory rate of
application.
F. Agricultural Research and Extension
2.24      Research.  Agricultural Research in Romania is coordinated by the
Academy of Agriculture and Forestry and is carried out in 13 institutes, 6
central stations and 41 research stations. These research facilities are
distributed throughout the country's ecological zones over an area of about
80,000 ha and are well staffed with over 1,600 scientists. Specific research
needs and experiments for the project area are attended to by the Research
station in Braila, about 30 km south of Galati. This station has existed for
25 years and is carrying out applied research and experiments on cereals and
industrial crops, soil reclamation and irrigation. The Fundulea Research
Institute, about 20 km from Bucharest, is the main research station in the
country and is responsible for applied research in cereals and industrial
crops. Some of Fundulea's research findings under experimental conditions and
actual yields obtained upto 1978 in IAS's and CAP's in the production sector
are summarized below:
Yield under       Actual Yield
Experimental      in the Produc-
Irrigated Crops                 Conditions         tion Sector
-----------(tons/ha)-----------
Wheat                              7to 8              4to 6
Barley                            8 to 11           6.5 to 7.5
Maize                             10 to 14            7to 9
Sunflower                         3 to 4.5            3 to 3.5
Soybeans                        3.5 to 4.5              3.5
Sugar beet                       70 to 90            60 to 70
Alfalfa (hay)                    16 to 18               12



- 12 -
2.25      Extension.  Extension services in Romania, which are provided
through the General Directorate of Agriculture in each district, are efficient
and effective. The General Directorate of the district of Galati has a staff
of about 20 specialists in crop and livestock production, CAP activities,
marketing and planning. In addition, each CAP or IAS has its own specialists
who are provided by the General Directorate in case of CAPs and by Department
of State Agriculture in case of IAS. The General Directorate coordinates the
programs for IASs and CAPs in accordance with technical guidelines received
from the Ministry of Agriculture. The extension staff has a direct say in
improvement of cultural practices and application of technology instead of an
advisory role. Research findings pass rapidly into practice and the super-
visory staff of each CAP and IAS adequately monitor their application. Train-
ing of both IAS and CAP field staff is periodically provided by the General
Directorate through short and medium term courses. For more specialized
personnel, graduate courses are organized during the winter. Irrigated
schemes and land reclamation works near the project area provide opportunities
for gaining practical experience with works similar to those under the project.
G. The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2.26      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is a State-owned
credit institution established in 1968 to finance and supervise investments
and operations in agriculture and agroindustries, for State, cooperative and,
to a limited extent, individual production units. The general organization
of BAFI and its departments is illustrated in Chart 2. The principal respon-
sibilities of BAFI are to:
(a)   act as fiscal agent for collection and distribution of State
budgetary funds;
(b)   provide short-term production credit;
(c)   review both technical and financial aspects of investment
proposals of State enterprises and cooperatives;
(d)   provide long-term investment credit;
(e)   exercise financial control over execution of investment
and financial plans;
(f)   maintain deposit accounts for State enterprises and coop-
eratives; and
(g) cooperate with foreign and international organizations to
finance investment in agriculture and agroindustries.
2.27      The Administrative Council is BAFI's policy-making body.  It is
composed of BAFI's President, Vice Presidents, department directors from the
Bucharest head office and major branches, economic and agricultural experts,



- 13 -
representatives of ministries and other central State agencies, and a delegate
designated by the General Trade Union of Romania. Between the sessions of
the Administrative Council, the Executive Bureau acts as the decision-making
body. Its members are the President, Vice Presidents, three department
directors and the trade union representative.
2.28      BAFI operates through 39 branches, 92 sub-branches and about 850
credit cooperatives which serve as its agents for small-scale lending.
Three operational departments in the head office (agroindustries, cooperative
sector and State sector) serve enterprises of national importance. Two BAFI
branches operate in the project area, all within Galati district.
H. Investment Financing
2.29      Investment projects are planned at the farm level (IAS and CAP) on
the basis of guidelines and indicators issued by judet agricultural organiza-
tions within the framework of the national plan. Tentative plans then move
through a system of reviews, aggregations, adjustments, and clearances up
through the Grand National Assembly after whose approval they are enacted into
law. Once a project is included in the annual plan, the CAP or IAS prepares a
technical and financial proposal with the help of staff from BAFI and the con-
cerned General Directorate of Agriculture. This proposal is normally backed
up by detailed studies and designs made by relevant specialized institutes.
After the proposal is approved by the competent authority, it is reviewed by
BAFI, revised if necessary, and a decision to finance the project is taken.
2.30      Investments in CAPs are financed from the Development Fund (see
para. 3.30) and from BAFI loans. The Fund may finance up to 30% of the costs
and the BAFI loans up to 95%, depending on the project, the financial status
of the cooperative, and other similar criteria.
2.31      Once a project has been appraised, the Branch Council of BAFI
approves the amount and term of the loan. The repayment terms may be in equal
installments or in declining or ascending amounts, depending on the nature of
the loan. Each January, the President and Council of the CAP establishes the
month, in which the loan installment will be repaid. Loan repayment terms
vary, generally matching the expected economic lives of the assets being
financed; repayment periods for typical loans are: vineyard or orchard, 10
years including 4 years of grace; feedmill, 12 years including 2 years of
grace; dairy unit, 20 years including 3 years of grace; on-farm irrigation
equipment; 8 years including 3 years of grace; on-farm buried irrigation pipe
network, 25 years including 5 years of grace. Current interest rates on
investment loans to CAPs amount to 3% including interest during construction,
and a penalty rate of 5%.
2.32      Currently few investment loans are made to IASs, except for small
mechanization and some minor investments. Most long-term IAS investments, as
well as short-term capital requirements, are financed from the State budget,
funds for which are channelled through BAFI. In the case of credit financing,



- 14 -
payments are made from profits, or where no profits occur, from the IAS's own
funds. The financing plan establishes repayment on a quarterly basis and the
schedule is monitored by a BAFI loan officer. Interest rates on investment
loans to IASs are higher than for CAPs and range from 2% during construction
to 4% thereafter; the penalty rate on delayed payment ranges up to 6%. Maximum
repayment periods are ten years after start of operations. In future the IAS
system will change. The portion of profits currently paid into the Consolida-
tion Fund 1/ will remain unchanged, but the proportion of profits channelled
into the State budget and own funds will shift significantly with the major
share going into own funds. Investments will therefore be mainly financed
from IAS's own funds and also increasingly through credit financing by BAFI.
The trend toward more internal generation of resources and debt financing
reflects a policy decision to require greater financial discipline of State
Enterprises.
2.33      Interest rates play little or no resource allocative role in the
country because they are "taxes-on" rather than "prices-of" capital. Over
the medium term, there appears to be no intention of changing interest rates,
which are already higher than in other socialist countries. There is, how-
ever, some indication that interest rates are beginning to be used to a
limited extent as an allocative tool: for undisbursed funds interest rates
may be decreased in favor of CAPs, penalty rates for CAPs may also decrease,
and for loans to enterprises needing to borrow due to poor management, interest
rates may be increased by 2 to 3%. These measures are in line with a shift in
preference in allocating funds from IASs to CAPs.
I. Marketing
2.34      Organization and Management.  Marketing of agricultural products in
Romania is entrusted to State owned and operated marketing Centrals, estab-
lished in the late 1960's to assist MAFI in the procurement, grading, pro-
cessing, storage and distribution of agricultural products. Currently, there
are 13 Centrals which specialize in marketing specific commodities such as
cereals, vegetables and fruits, sugar, meat, milk, etc. With the exception
of the Central for sugar, each Central has its headquarters in Bucharest and
an enterprise in each of the country's 39 judets. The enterprises are the
executing agencies of the Centrals which organize the collection, transport,
and delivery of farm products.  The Central for Sugar is organized differently
from the others in that, instead of having district enterprises and collection
centers, it owns and operates 17 sugar factories. The CAP and the IASs farms
are responsible for the delivery of products to the collecting centers but all
costs of transportation are paid by the Centrals. Each farm is expected to
1/   Normally about 10% of the net profits of an IAS are credited to a Con-
solidation Fund used to finance minor on-farm investments on any enter-
prise under MAFI, 25% of profits in excess of planned profits are also
allocated to the Consolidation Fund.



- 15 -
provide its own packaging materials; the collecting centers reimburse the IAS
farms for such materials (about lei 17 or US$0.8 per ton for grain) but not
the CAP farms, who are allowed to take back their materials after delivery of
products. Products from individually-owned plots and some surplus CAP produc-
tion, i.e. production exceeding quotas contracted to the Centrals, are marketed
through peasant free markets and Agro-cooperatives. Agro-cooperatives are
marketing cooperatives formed and operated by the CAPs. Both channels are
under the jurisdiction of the local People's Councils and handle mainly vege-
tables and fruits (less than 5% of total output marketed) and also live
chickens and dairy products to some extent.
2.35      Each Central is headed by a director general who reports directly
to the concerned Deputy Minister. He is assisted by directors of commerce/
marketing, economics/accounting, and technical matters. The composition of
each district enterprise's administrative personnel is similar to that
of the Central: its staff usually includes a chief engineer, a marketing
specialist, and an economist or accountant.
2.36      Transport, Marketing and Storage Processing Capacities in the
Project Area. Incremental project output would be handled by the appropriate
marketing Centrals described above through their enterprises and collection
centers in the project area for which adequate transport is available. The
Centrals and the enterprises are well equipped to facilitate smooth flow of
products without excessive losses. Storage and processing capacities in
the area are planned in accordance with the Government policy on promoting
integrated agricultural development and implemented, based on the Five-Year
Planning cycle. The following additional storage and processing facilities
have been planned and would be completed during the 1981-85 plan period:
(a) Grain silos at Galati and another suitable location for
88,000 tons.
(b) Modernization of existing oil factory "Prutul" Galati to
handle 600 tons of soybeans and 70 tons of oil in 24 hours.
(c) Sugar factory lanca-Braila for 4,000 tons of sugar beet per
24 hours.
(d)  Yearly increase in wooden storage facilities for maize.
2.37      Some of the sugar beet production would also be processed at the
existing sugar factories at Bacau and Buzau, which at present are operating
below capacity. The existing capacities for processing vegetables, fruits and
tc&.a+ces are considered sufficient to absorb the incremental production.  The
new facilities, including modernization, are being financed by BAFI outside
the ptojecL. Asstirances were sought during negotiations, that funds would be
mad^ a9aila!.1e f^- tuLe corpletion of these facilities in time to satisfy
thi- needs ctf the pr-jcct   With these additions and modernization, the storage
-ld , oce 3iLLg caparity ii tLhe project area would be adequate to handle
incLemerital rtoductrisn from the project.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01       The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize
crop production in a gross area of about 148,400 ha (about 143,250 ha net) and
to raise crop production and labor productivity through construction of
irrigation and drainage facilities and soil erosion control.
B. Detailed Features
3.02       The project works would consist of:
(i) a fixed pumping station on the Danube River to lift water
into the main irrigation canal in the flood plain;
(ii)  a fixed pumping station at the foot of the plateau to
further lift water into the main terrace canal;
(iii) a system of main canals (115.6 km) and secondary canals
(75.5 km) in the flood plain and on the plateau;
(iv)  sixteen repumping stations on the main and secondary canals
on the plateau;
(v)  a storage dam in the Suhurlui valley to store off-season
pumped supplies from the Danube River;
(vi)  forty four pressure pumping stations to feed piped
irrigation systems;
(vii) surface drainage works to serve a gross area of about
11,350 ha (about 10,800 ha net);
(viii) tile drainage works for an area of about 1,100 ha;
(ix)  soil erosion control works to protect a gross area of
about 45,300 ha (about 44,300 ha net);
(x)  valley training of 4 streams in a length of 267 km;
(xi)  equipment for operation and maintenance of irrigation
and drainage works; and
(xii) farm machinery to intensify agriculture on the area to
be irrigated by the project.



- 17 -
Brief description of these works is given in paras. 3.03 to 3.20. Major irri-
gation and drainage systems and soil erosion control works are illustrated in
Map IBRD 14577.
C. Description of Project Works
Pumping Stations and Power Supply
3.03      Pumping Station on the Danube River.  This station (SPA Dunare)
would be located about 7 km below the town of Galati and would have a capacity
to pump 53.5 m3/sec over a maximum head of 4.5 m. A stationary pumping
station has been selected for this site. Many factors, inter alia, stability
of river bank; substantial depth of natural channel for submerged operation of
foot valves; and favorable foundation conditions have contributed to this
decision. This stretch of the Danube River is a major navigation channel with
congested shipping lanes. The Lower Danube Shipping Authority has also
advised that a floating pumping station would be an obstruction to navigation
and should not be constructed.  One open type caisson (49.5 m x 17.8 m) would
be sunk to a depth of 12.5 m to provide the foundation for the station which
would be located about 200 m inland from the river edge. The river bank would
be further stabilized through provision of stone protection on the river
slope, upstream and downstream of the station and a flexible stone apron in
the river bed adjoining the slope. Water would be siphoned over the Danube
flood protection dyke, through twelve steel pipes, to an equal number of
pumps. The installed power capacity at this station would be 4,900 kw.
3.04      Vinatori Pumping Station:  This pumping station (SRPl) would be
located about 19 km from the Danube on the main canal in the flood plain
and would lift about 46 m3/sec to the plateau over a height of 94.0 meters.
This would be the largest pumping station in the system, with an installed
capacity of 60,325 kw. Foundation works would consist of an open caisson 18 m
x 56 m which would be sunk 11 m below the ground.  Ten pumps would discharge
into two pipes, each 1,250 m in length and 3.1 m in diameter. The pipes would
cross under the existing railway line, and the Chineja stream, and discharge
on the plateau into a concrete lined stilling chamber.
The Canal System
3.05      The main canal in the flood plain of the Prut River would be about
13 km long and would be aligned along the foot of the Covurlui terrace. The
canal would extend from the discharge basin of the Pumping Station on the
Danube (SPA) to the Pumping Station Vinatori SRP1 (Map IBRD 14577). For the
first 4 km, the canal would be in the old flood plain of the Danube. In the
next 9 km, it would follow the periphery of existing Lake Brates, using the
existing embankment of the lake as one bank of the canal.  In the remaining 4
km, it would run parallel to the Chineja stream. The canal would have a
trapezoidal section with its bed width varying from 10 m to 15 m. The
canal would have a slope of 0.1 per thousand and the conveyance velocity
would be 0.5 to 0.6 m/sec.



- 18 -
3.06       On the terrace, the main canal (CMT) would be about 102.5 km long
and would have a capacity of 46.0 m3/sec at its head. The main canal would
start from SRP1 Vinatori and pass through 3 siphons (namely, Malina, Lozova
and Suhurlui; total length 10.8 km). One canal system (CP1) would offtake
immediately below SRPI Vinatori, along the Chineja stream; while two
canal systems (CP3 and CP4) would take off, from the CMT canal, below Malina
and Lozova siphons. At km 37.5, a repumping station (SRP2 Vladimirescu)
would lift the water to an elevation of 112 m a.b.s.l. 1/ into (a) CA2 canal
(13.1 km) for Suhurlui storage, and (b) into the second reach of the main
canal CMT. This pumping station would also feed the canal system CA5. The
CA2 canal (capacity 17.8 m3/sec) would fill the Suhurlui pumped storage during
off peak periods and flow in the reverse direction during July and August when
pumping from the Danube (SRP1) would need to be augmented from Suhurlui
storage for meeting peak irrigation requirements. Suhurlui storage would also
feed canal systems CP6 and CP7. The second reach of the main canal (CMT),
after Repumping Station SRP2 Vladimirescu, would be 45.8 km long, and apart
from feeding sub-systems, CD I-M, CD 2-M and CD 3-M, would also serve directly
five pressure pumping stations.
3.07       All canals would be lined with concrete; 90% of the work would be
done with canal lining machines, while 10% in difficult terrain would be
carried out manually. The bed width of the main canal in the first reach (up
to SRP2) would vary from 8 to 10 m, its slope from 0.08 to 0.97 per thousand
and its velocity of flow from 0.94 to 1.1 m/sec.
3.08       Operation of the canal system would be automated by the use of
hydraulically operated constant downstream water level gates at the regulating
structures. Some canal reaches would have adequate capacity to store flow
variations, resulting from differences between supply and demand. At suitable
locations, escape weirs would be provided to spill surplus water into the
canal downstream or nearby natural drainages. A total of about 105 structures
would be constructed on the canal system.
3.09       Repumping Stations:  A total of sixteen fixed pumping stations would
lift supplies within the network of irrigation canals; of these, 14 stations
would be located on the main canal and 2 on the distributaries. The total
installed capacity at the 16 sites would be 109,000 kw. The largest repumping
station (SRP2 Vladimirescu) would pump 25.7 m3/sec over about 40 m from the
main canal; into main canals CA2 and CA5. This pumping station would also
serve to fill the storage at Suhurlui during off peak season.
3.10       Pressure Pumping Stations:  There would be a total of 44 fixed
pressure pumping stations on the irrigation system; their location is shown on
Map IBRD 14577. Twenty nine stations would be equipped with units with
horizontal shafts, according to land configuration and minimum level in the
canal and 15 units would be equipped with vertical shafts. These stations
would serve an area of about 137,250 ha; of which about 105,400 ha would be
1/   a.b.s.l. above Baltic Sea level.



- 19 -
supplied by 29 high pressure stations and about 31,900 ha of furrow area by 15
low pressure stations. Smaller areas totalling 4,400 ha would be served by 41
semi-mobile pumps. The capacity of these fixed stations would vary from 0.43
m3/sec to 3.0 m3/sec and the maximum pressure imparted at these stations would
range from 60 m to 80 m. Their installed capacity would total to about 75,500
kw. The aggregate installed capacity of the semi-mobile pumps would be about
3,400 kw.
3.11      Power Supply Works.  About 114 km of 110 kv and 20 kv power lines
would be constructed to supply energy to the pumping stations. Transformer
substations supplied from 110 kv lines would be constructed at the locations
of main irrigation pumping stations. Power to smaller pumps would be supplied
through pole mounted transformers, from a network of 20 kv lines.
3.12       Suhurlui Pumped Storage.  Comparison of a number of alternatives
indicated that the inclusion of a storage in the supply system represented
the most efficient and economical variant for meeting the peak requirements
during July and August. Stability of foundations, geological and topographical
considerations, availability of construction materials, and economy of cost
versus storage was considered for a number of sites, and the presently selected
location on Suhurlui stream near village Rediu was found the most suitable for
the construction of a pumped storage for conserving 156 Mm3 gross (144 Mm3
net) through pumping from the Danube River during off peak season through the
canal network at the maximum rate of 17.8 m3/sec. The dam will have a height
of 36 m above bed level and would be constructed of homogenous earth fill
which is available at the site. The Suhurlui stream has a small flow, varying
between zero and 0.2 m3/sec and a spillway for a flood of 0.1% frequency has
been provided. The concept of the dam and its associated structures and the
adequacy of their design would be reviewed by qualified experts of the National
Water Council. Also periodic reviews during construction and following
completion of the dam would be arranged to ensure the quality of construction
and adequacy of maintenance and method of operation of the structures.
3.13       Sprinkler Irrigation.  A total area of about 109,800 ha would be
served by sprinkler irrigation. About 44% of this area would be served with
self propelled and longitudinally towed equipment, and the remaining 56%
with manually handled sprinkler equipment. Distribution pipes (antennae)
would be spaced 612 m apart and their length would extend to about 2,700 m
according to the terrain. Hydrants would be located on the antennae at a
spacing of 72 m and each hydrant would supply water to six laterals (three on
either side) by rotation, but only two would be served simultaneously.
Sprinklers would be placed at 18 m intervals, each to serve an area of 18m x
24 m. The laterals would be of aluminum with a diameter of 10 cm. The
sprinkler nozzle would have a diameter of 7 mm, and operating at a pressure of
three atmospheres would be able to supply water at an hourly intensity of
about 6.6 mm. The laterals would be in one position for 11 hours with a
return period of 14 days.
3.14       Furrow Irrigation.  About 31,900 ha of the project area would
be served by furrows with a network similar to that for sprinkler irrigation
but the hydrants would be spaced 216 m apart. Each hydrant would feed 16 to



- 20 -
20 furrows through portable aluminum and mobile flexible butyl rubber pipes
with outlets at furrow spacings. Length of each furrow would be about 200 m
and its maximum discharge would not exceed 2.0 1/sec.
3.15       Surface Drainage Networks.  Surface drainage would be required
for about 11,350 ha, within the flood plains of Corozel, Gerului and Suhurlui
valleys.  Main drains would outfall by gravity into the three streams.  The
main drains are relatively short in length (2 to 3 km) and are spaced 300 m to
400 m apart. The drains would be designed to remove, in two days, the runoff
resulting from a storm precipitation of about 100 mm in 24 hours in the month
of August with a 1% probability. The specific design discharge has been
estimated at 0.6 1/sec/ha.
3.16       Sub-Surface Drainage and Reclamation of Saline Soils.  The present
depth to water table, mostly in the lower flood plain of Suhurlui valley is
less than 2.0 m and after introduction of irrigation water table will tend to
rise further in this low area, with adverse effect on crop production.
The project, accordingly, provides for the construction of subsurface tile
drains on an area of about 1,100 ha. Tile drains would be designed with a
specific flow of 0.6 1/sec/ha; made of ceramic pipe 70 mm in diameter and
would be laid at a median depth of 1.5 m to ensure that groundwater level does
not rise above 1.2 m. The individual drains would be 200 m long with a longi-
tudinal slope of 1.5 to 2 per thousand and would be spaced 40 m apart.
The tiles would have a filter envelope of 100 mm, consisting of graded cinder
from the steel factory at Galati. The drainage effluent would discharge into
the Suhurlui stream by gravity. A small area of 700 ha would require reclama-
tion measures which would include levelling, deep ripping, mole ploughing,
deep ploughing without turning, application of chemical amendments, and
leaching.
3.17       Valley Training.  Corozel, Calmatui, Suhurlui and Lozova streams
overflow their banks during high floods, causing damage to crops and communica-
tions. Embankments would be provided on these streams in a length of 267 km,
which would contain high flows corresponding to a probability of 5%. Four
small bridges and their access roads would also require raising.
3.18       Soil Erosion Control Works.  Soil erosion control works would
be carried out to protect an area of about 44,300 ha of irrigated land with
existing slopes between 3 and 15%. The works consist of levelling of rain-
washes, realignment of land for contour ploughing, terracing and protective
plantation. In addition, the project would provide for an improved all weather
feeder road network on 582 km including about 150 river crossings, 10 bridges
and 63 km of interception canals.
3.19       Farm Machinery.  About 270 tractors and 206 combines would be
provided to SMAs for State farms and cooperatives under the project to culti-
vate and harvest the increased production (see Annex 3, Table 1). This
machinery, which would partly replace the old equipment and partly meet the
additional requirements generated by the project, is necessary to ensure
development of full agricultural potential following irrigation.



- 21 -
3.20      Operation and Maintenance Equipment.  The equipment listed in Annex
3, Table 2 is considered necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
project and would be provided under the project.
D. Water Requirements, Water Availability and Quality
3.21      Water Requirements.  Net water requirements for project crops were
estimated at 3,294 m3/ha, the highest monthly net demand of 967 m3/ha would
occur in July (Annex 4, Table 1). The irrigation efficiency for the sprinkler
area has been estimated at 73%, and for the furrow area at 65% giving an
overall system efficiency of 71%. Gross water requirement, at source, per
cropped hectare would be 4,639 m3/ha which would amount to a total demand
of 782 Mm3 during the croping season and 230 Mm3 (29%) in July. The July
and August demand would correspond to a maximum flow of about 85.7 m3/sec of
which 53.5 m3/sec would be supplied by pumping from the Danube and the remain-
ing would be released from the Suhurlui reservoir, which would have a storage
capacity of 144 Mm3. During periods of shortages, the existing pumping
station on the Prut river, which can supply up to 9.0 m3/sec, will be operated.
3.22      Water Availability.  About 98% of the project's water supply would
be derived from the Danube, which drains about 814,000 km2 in central and
eastern Europe and is a reliable source of water. It reaches its peak flow
between mid March and mid June corresponding to the snow-melt period. Minimum
flows occurs between the end of August and November. The peak water require-
ment for Covurlui Project would occur in the month of July and, in a dry year,
is estimated to be about 85.7 m3/sec of which only 53.5 m3/sec would be pumped
from the Danube. In a typical dry year, the lowest discharge in the Danube
during July is about 4,500 m3/sec. The peak withdrawal would thus be only
about 1.2% of the Danube flow in July. The demand in September, when the
river is at its lowest flow of about 2,000 m3/sec, would be 17.3 m3/sec which
is less than 0.9% of the Danube flow. Some supplies would also be stored from
the catchment from the Suhurlui valley but due to these uncertainties these
have not been included in the water balance. Water supply for the project's
irrigation system, therefore, is assured. It will also not affect adversely
the requirements of international navigation.
3.23      Water Quality.  The Danube water is potable and of good quality for
irrigation and is already used in five large Bank financed and other irrigation
projects. Analysis of samples of Danube water collected at the future pump-
site downstream of the industrial area of Galati shows that it has an average
ph of 7.7 and contains about 482 mg/l of total suspended solids. The water
is classified as of C S1 category and can be used for irrigation without any
restriction.
E. Water Rights
3.24      There is no international agreement among the Danube River riparian
states for the use of its water for irrigation but a convention exists for
development of the River for mutual benefits, and for protection of navigation



- 22 -
and water quality. The International Water Commission for the Danube River,
of which Romania is a member, is mainly concerned with schemes which may inter-
fere with navigation and water quality. The maximum diversion for the project,
in July, would amount to about 1.2% of the minimum river flow in that month.
Even when all of the 2.34 million ha that are potentially irrigable from the
Danube River have been equipped for irrigation, the aggregate diversions from
the Danube would not exceed 20% of its flow (1,130 m3/sec) in July; 11% (440
m3/sec) in September and 4% (90 m3/sec) in October. Diversions for the present
and future projects dependent on the Danube River would not adversely affect
the Danube supplies for international navigation. There is no reason to
expect, therefore, that the project would raise issues on the use of Danube
waters, and no agreement of other riparians would be required. However,
as for the previous Bank financed irrigation projects in Romania, Government
has furnished a satisfactory letter of representation to the Bank setting
forth Romania's treaty obligations on the use of Danube waters and confirming
that the project would present no problem on the use of international waters.
F. Status of Engineering
3.25       The project has been studied in detail by the Institute for Land
Reclamation Studies and Design (ISPIF). Plans for pumping facilities, Suhurlui
dam, canal alignments, drainage, soil erosion control, sprinkler and furrow
irrigation works have already been finalized by ISPIF. A number of variants
were considered, inter alia, irrigation from storages on Siret River and con-
struction of more than one storage within the project area. The selected
alternative is the most appropriate and economical and is acceptable to the
Bank. Detailed design and major drawings have already been completed by ISPIF,
while the detailed drawings for construction would be ready much ahead of com-
mencement of construction.
G. Cost Estimates
3.26       The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at lei 6,384.1
million (US$354.6 million). The estimate includes duties and taxes and is
based on expected December 1979 prices. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$105.5 million or 29.8% of total cost. The cost estimates
are based on unit rates-of works that are prevailing in Romania under the
system of regulated prices of materials and wages. Cost of equipment and
spare parts expected to be procured from foreign suppliers has been calculated
at the international prices likely to prevail at the end of 1979 and is esti-
mated at US$13.5 million. Customs duty on imported materials and equipment
which now averages about 10% amounts to lei 21.6 million (US$1.2 million) and
is included in the cost estimate. Because detailed engineering has already
been carried out, physical contingencies have been provided at 7.5% of irriga-
tion, drainage, soil reclamation and soil erosion control works and 5% of



- 23 -
other minor works, which is consistent with previous Bank experience. Price
contingencies on foreign costs are compounded annually at 9% (1980), 8% (1981),
7% (1982-85) and 6% (1986-87). Due to near zero inflation in Romania, price
contingencies on local costs are compounded at 1% per annum. Cost estimates
are summarized in the table below; details are in Annex 5, Table 1.
Foreign
Item                  Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign Total   Exchange
------lei million ------    -----US$ million----         %
Irrigation Works    2,765.9  1,087.9  3,853.8  153.7   60.4   214.1            28
Drainage Works           39.5       9.9     49.4    2.2    0.5        2.7      20
Miscellaneous
Works                654.3    115.5    769.8   36.4    6.4    42.8           15
Land Compensation        19.3         -      19.3    1.1       -      1.1       -
Equipment               252.0    146.3    398.3   14.0    8.1    22.1          37
Engineering &
Admn.                 340.6     38.0    378.6   18.9    2.1    21.0          10
Base Cost          4,071.6  1,397.6  5,469.2  226.3   77.5   303.8           26
Physical
Contingencies          279.9     98.5    378.4   15.5    5.5    21.0          26
Price Con-
tingencies             131.1    405.4    536.5    7.3   22.5    29.8          76
Total (contg.)          411.0    503.9    914.9   22.8   28.0    50.8          55
Total Project
Cost               4,482.6  1,901.5  6,384.1  249.1  105.5   354.6           29.8
H. Financing
3.27      According to Romanian law, the State will finance 100% of the
total cost of main canals and drains, all pumping stations, drainage, and
river training works. First time levelling, ripping and soil reclamation
are also financed by the State but subsequent works of this type are financed
by the respective CAP or IAS. The cost of buried pipeline, on-farm sprinkler
and furrow equipment, and small secondary open drainage canals serving CAP-
owned and IAS lands will be transferred to the CAP's and IAS's. The cost of
farm machinery and operation and maintenance equipment would be financed from
the State budget.
3.28      The proposed Bank loan of US$90 million, to be made to BAFI, will
finance about 25% of total project costs, and will be equivalent to 85% of the
estimated foreign exchange component. Judging by the response of co-financiers
to other Bank-financed projects in Romania it is expected that offers of
co-financing will be obtained. The amount and timing of co-financing will
depend on market conditions and amounts being raised by Romania on other



- 24 -
Bank-financed projects. It is likely that for this project cofinancing of
up to US$100 million equivalent will become available. A summary financing
plan, which includes physical and price contingencies is shown at Annex 6,
Table 1.
I. Cost Recovery
3.29       Recovery of CAP Loans and Cost of Farm Machinery.  Of the costs to
be transferred to CAPs, about 30% would come from their own funds with the
remaining 70% financed through BAFI loans. These loans would be recovered in
accordance with standard on-lending terms derived from established amortiza-
tion practices. For on-farm buried pipelines, the loans would be for 25 years
including 5 years of grace, and for on-farm irrigation equipment, 8 years
including 3 years of grace. The interest rate would be 3% including interest
during construction, with penalty rates for late payment of up to 5%. The
cost of farm machinery would be recovered by the State through unit rates paid
by IASs and CAPs to SMAs for mechanization services and SMA's contributions to
the Depreciation Fund as per law 62 of 1968.
3.30       Investment, Operation and Maintenance, and Replacement Cost.  The
State recovers a part of the project costs from IASs through 50% of annual net
profits credited to the State budget. The State also recovers a part of the
project costs through payments to the Depreciation Fund which are used to
finance future investments, and through payments of 10% of net profits to the
Consolidation Fund which are used to finance minor on-farm investments. The
present value of these compulsory contributions to the two funds over an
assumed project life of 40 years in constant prices and a discount rate of 9%
is estimated at lei 113 million (US$6.3 million), which amounts to a recovery
of about 2.2% of the total investment costs, O&M and replacement. Similarly,
costs are recovered indirectly by the State from CAPs through the compulsory
portion of net income paid into the Development Fund for future investments.
The Development Fund is a compulsory saving mechanism, under which funds are
set aside for future investments including payments for certain services, for
repayment of long-term investment credits, and for contributions to social
funds of ICAs and other institutions, with which CAPs are associated. At
least 18% of the net income of CAPs must be allocated to the Development Fund.
The Fund is deposited with BAFI and earns 1.5 percent interest. The present
value of this contribution is estimated at lei 2,253 million (US$125.2 million)
which amounts to about 42% of the total investment costs, O&M and replacement.
3.31       The annual O&M costs for the whole project are estimated at about
lei 187.4 million (US$10.4 million) or an average of lei 1,308 per ha. The
present value of investment, O&M and replacement costs discounted over 40
years at 9% is lei 5,094.3 million (US$283.0 million) of which lei 4,349.6
million (US$241.6 million) will be financed by the State. Operation and
maintenance costs are recovered by IELIF through water charges of three types
levied on all CAPs and IASs using irrigation water. These are:



- 25 -
(a)  a variable charge of lei 18 (US$1.00) per 1,000 m3 levied
on the volume of water used. This would yield an income
of lei 14.1 million p.a. for the Covurlui Project;
(b) a fixed annual charge per hectare on the basis of crops
grown. The estimated recovery from this charge would be
about lei 25.4 million; and
(c) fixed charge per hectare levied on the basis of type of
irrigation method used. The return from this levy would
be lei 19.7 million.
These water charges would yield an annual revenue of about lei 59.2 million
(US$3.3 million) beginning with year 9, at full implementation, of the project.
The present value of this recovery over an assumed project life of 40 years in
constant prices and at a discount rate of 9% is estimated at about lei 394.7
million (US$21.9 million). The resulting cost recovery would amount to about
8% of the total cost.
3.32      The revenues accruing to the State would result in a cost recovery
of about 52% of the total investment costs including O&M and replacement.
In addition, the substantial profits made by the State from the purchase of
tradeable commodities at administered low farmgate prices and subsequent
export at higher world prices, and general linkage benefits to the economy
resulting from incremental project output would contribute further towards the
project's cost recovery and with their inclusion, the total recovery would
exceed 100%.
J. Implementation Schedule
3.33      The project works would be completed in 8 years (1980 to 1987) and
in accordance with the implementation schedule (Chart 1). Irrigation would
commence in 1982, and would cover the entire area by 1987. An estimated
Schedule of Expenditure is given in Annex 5, Table 3 and is summarized below:
Calendar Year      1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
__________--- -------US$ million------------------------
Yearly estimated
expenditure       5.7   48.2   65.9   66.8   53.3   47.2   34.6   29.6    3.3
Cumulative
expenditure       5.7   53.9  119.8  186.6  239.9  287.1  321.7  351.3   354.6
_______----------------ha '000---------------------------
Yearly development
of irrigation      -       -      -    28.2   23.4   23.4   32.1   28.2    6.4
Cumulative
development        -       -      -    28.2   51.6   75.0  107.1  135.3  141.7



- 26 -
K. Procurement
3.34      Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank
loan of US$90.0 million would be procured under the proposed loan. It has
been agreed during negotiations that items costing US$90.0 million including
contingencies (para. 6.01(a)) would be procured following international
advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977." Romanian
manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower. The application of preference has not affected so
far the outcome of bidding on previous irrigation projects, and is not expected
to significantly affect the result of bidding on the proposed project. It is
expected that foreign suppliers would win contracts for about 15% of the con-
struction and maintenance equipment (wheeled dozers, draglines, motor scrapers,
trenching and tile laying machines, concrete pumps, truck cranes, dumpers and
air compressors and their spare parts) estimated to cost about US$13.5 million.
Other items to be procured through international competitive bidding (about
US$76.5 million) are available domestically and, based on experience with
previous Bank-financed irrigation projects, it is expected that the Romanian
manufacturers would be successful in bidding for those items. The remaining
equipment and materials, all domestically produced, would be procured under
Romanian procedures and would not be eligible for disbursements under the
proposed Bank loan. The Bank would not finance construction works under the
project; these would be carried out by the Romanian Construction Trusts, which
are experienced and familiar with local conditions, methods and regulations.
This practice has been acceptable to the Bank for the previous Bank-financed
projects because due to the regulated wages and prices of materials, the
Romanian construction costs are likely to be less than those which might be
bid by international contractors.
L. Disbursements
3.35      The proposed loan of US$90.0 million would be disbursed, net of
taxes, over an estimated 6 year period as follows, although the project
construction is likely to be completed by 1987:
(a)  Equipment and spare parts                100% of foreign expenditures
(US$76.5 million)                        and 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory
(b)  Materials                                100% of foreign expenditures
(US$8.5 million)                         and 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory
(c) Unallocated
(US$5.0 million)



- 27 -
An estimated schedule of disbursements by Bank fiscal year and quarter is
shown in Annex 7, Table 1. Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would
be made against standard documentation.
M. Environment and Health
3.36      The project area is free of endemic diseases like malaria and bil-
harzia. The project would neither adversely affect the environment nor
the public health. Construction of irrigation works which consist of pump
stations, lined canals with fluctuating supplies, piped distribution networks
and storage lake Suhurlui where water levels would be fluctuating widely
during the year, would not promote mosquito breeding or spread of malaria.
Drainage of several areas and training 267 km of stream courses would promote
healthier conditions around such areas.
N. Role of Women
3.37      Galati is located in an area of high rate of economic growth,
where industrialization has made rapid progress.  Agriculture, at the same
time, has expanded and became more complex mainly because of use of new
technologies, increased use of fertilizers, and mechanization.  Since 1965,
gross agriculture production has almost doubled, whereas most of the male
population has been diverted to other sectors, principally to industry, and
women now constitute the majority of the agricultural labor force and play a
crucial role in agricultural production. In 1968, 101,063 people worked
in agriculture in project area, of which 54% were women; this percentage
increased to 65% in 1978. Presently, there are five female mayors, five
female vice-presidents of urban and municipal councils and four female agri-
cultural cooperative presidents. In the IAS and CAP units, 6 women are chief
engineers, 98 heads of farms, over 600 team leaders, 29 chief accountants, and
over 670 technicians or accountants.
3.38      There is an awareness of the importance of women in achieving
agricultural production targets and of the need to train and integrate more
women into positions of greater responsibility. The legal basis for equal
opportunities already exists and the State encourages the participation of
women in problem-solving and decision-making by placing more women in manage-
ment positions. The State provides training and services such as day care
centers to achieve these goals.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
The Borrower
4.01      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) would be the
borrower under the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania. BAFI has
the prime responsibility for financing the development of the agricultural
sector. BAFI already has adequate legal, financial and administrative powers
to discharge its responsibilities effectively. (See para. 2.28)
Implementing Agencies
4.02      The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MAFI).  The overall responsi-
bility for planning, construction, operation and maintenance of all irriga-
tion, drainage and soil erosion control works would rest with MAFI.
4.03      Economic General Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction (DGEIFCA). The responsibility for planning, design and construc-
tion of project works would rest with DGEIFCA, which is headed by a Deputy
Minister, and is organized into the following four directorates:
(a)  Construction and Local Development Directorate.  Construction Trusts
for Land Reclamation Works (TCIF), belonging to this directorate
and their regional branches would undertake project construction.
(b)  Technical, Investment and Cooperation Directorate.  The Institute
of Land Reclamation and Design (ISPIF), which is under this direc-
torate, would be responsible for the planning and design of the proj-
ect. Project construction would be supervised by the Group for
Supervising of Investments (GSI), which is also a part of this
directorate.
(c) Planning and Finance Directorate, and
(d) Supply Directorate
All the above units of DGEIFCA are adequately staffed and have good past expe-
rience in carrying out similar works.
4.04      Romagrimex Foreign Trade State Enterprise for Cooperation, Engineer-
ing, Import and Export for Agriculture and Food Industry; would be responsible
for procurement to be arranged under the project.
4.05      The Ministry of Electrical Energy, through its subordinate enter-
prises and their units, is responsible for construction, operation and mainte-
of power transmission facilities, and for supplying energy to the project area.



- ;9Z. -
B. Operation and Maintenance
4.06      The irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control works, to be
constructed under the project would be operated and maintained by the
Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works (DELIF) which is
headed by a Deputy Minister of MAFI and has the responsibility for operation
and maintenance of all completed irrigation projects. DELIF has 17 opera-
tional units, called enterprises or IELIFs, which are based in districts.
Each IELIF has several sub-units, known as Systems; each System maintains
about 20,000 ha to 25,000 ha of irrigated land. Seven systems would be
established under the IELIF in Galati district to operate and maintain the
works under the project. The new Systems would be adequately staffed by
trained technicians and supervisors. Equipment for operation and maintenance
(Annex 3, Table 2) to be furnished by the Project would be handed over to the
IELIF in Galati district. The power supply works would be maintained by the
Ministry of Energy. The on-farm portable equipment would be maintained by the
farm entities, and the farm machinery would be maintained by the established
Agroindustrial Councils.
4.07      The annual operation and maintenance cost of the project works
is estimated at lei 187.4 million (US$10.4 million). Details are given in
Annex 5, Table 2. Annual consumption of electric energy, all required during
off-peak months of the year, is estimated at an average of 463.3 million kwh,
which at lei 0.23 per kwh, would cost about lei 106.6 million (US$5.9 million).
C. Accounts and Audit
4.08      Audit and Control System.  To support its highly centralized
decision-making process, Romania has an elaborate control and audit system
designed to keep the manager of the economy advised on the progress of, and
deviations from, planned activities. This control system has three major
objectives: (i) to audit accounts to ensure accurate financing status; (ii)
to determine that resources are being used in accordance with national plans;
and (iii) to recommend desirable changes in resource use.
4.09      The system is organized like a pyramid.  At the top is the Court of
Superior Control, while at the bottom are accountants who check and approve
routine transactions at the enterprise level. The numerous organizations per-
form either "Internal Control" or "External Control". These controls can
further be divided into two broad categories: the preliminary control which
covers day-to-day transactions; and the posterior control which resembles
annual audits. Thus an enterprise, during a period of one year, is inspected
by (i) its own chief accounts officer; (ii) the internal controller, who
reports both to the general manager of the Central and Minister concerned;
(iii) controllers from the Ministry of Finance who report to the Ministry of
Finance; and (iv) inspectors from the Court of Superior Control.



- 30 -
4.10      The existing accounting and auditing procedures in Romania are quite
strict and satisfactory. The continuous audit of different organizations in-
volved in project implementation would ensure that project funds, including
those which would be financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan, would be
used properly.
4.11      Project Accounts.  BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project-
related expenditures, including those goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. Project investment funds to be
financed from the State Budget would be transferred quarterly to BAFI by the
Ministry of Finance for disbursements. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that a report on project accounts together with BAFI financial state-
ments, both subject to existing audit procedures by the Ministry of Finance
would be supplied to the Bank within six months of the close of the Romania
fiscal year. (See para. 6.01 (b))
D. Project Monitoring and Completion Report
4.12      Project Monitoring and Key Project Indicators.  BAFI would be
responsible for submitting through periodic reports to the Bank, the informa-
tion necessary to measure systematically project execution against the pro-
posed implementation schedule, and project performance after completion of
construction against project benefits foreseen during appraisal. The reports
would be similar to those currently submitted for on-going projects and would
include data on the progress of construction of all physical facilities under
various project components, development of irrigation, drainage and soil
erosion control areas, progress in the procurement of equipment and materials,
and data on project expenditures. Agricultural data indicating the areas
reclaimed, drained and brought under irrigation, cropping patterns applied,
crop yields and output, and information on the operation and maintenance costs
of irrigation and drainage works would be submitted annually. The details
of format in which the above information would be supplied to the Bank were
discussed during negotiations and assurances were sought on their timely
provision (see para. 6.01(c)).
4.13      Project Completion Report.  Promptly after completion of the project
but not later than June 30, 1988, BAFI would prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report on the execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bank
and BAFI of their respective obligations under the proposed loan agreement,
and the accomplishment of the purpose of the proposed loan.  The detailed
contents of the report were discussed during negotiations and assurances were
sought on its timely preparation during negotiations. (See para. 6.01 (d))



- 31 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Production and Markets
5.01      Production.  In establishing the cropping pattern and intensity in
the project area, many factors have been taken into consideration such as
the supply of irrigation water, availability of land, profitability of crops,
technical requirements of crop rotation, climate and soil fertility. In
Romania, the cropping pattern is also related to domestic needs and the
foreign market. The projected cropping pattern comprises a range of crops
with varying growing seasons which together cover the entire summer period
ensuring an almost continuous use of labor and farm machinery. It can be
concluded that the proposed cropping pattern is expected to yield maximum
benefits within the scope of the available resources and market possibilities.
The projected size of civil works would permit sufficient flexibility to meet
the demand for irrigation water in accordance with the future cropping pat-
terns. Changes in cropped area and production with and without the project
are summarized below:
Cropped Area                    Production
Present +         Future      Future   Future
Future w/out      with        without  with
Crop               Project            Project    Project  Project  Incremental
---------- Tha)(-----0----    --------('00  tons)----------
Wheat              38,993              29,220       92.2      145.0        52.8
Barley              1,910                 -          4.4        -          (4.4)
Maize (grain)      54,378              64,100      183.1      510.0       326.9
Beans               1,026                 -          1.0        -          (1.0)
Sunflower          15,300              14,293       20.7      38.4         17.7
Soybeans              -                 4,721        -         11.8        11.8
Sugarbeet           1,389               2,638       34.7     131.1        96.4
Linseed             1,437                 -          0.7        -          (0.7)
Potatoes            1,372               1,328       12.9       39.0        26.1
Vegetables /2       1,438               2,537       21.0       63.2       42.2
Alfalfa (hay)      14,904              15,173       63.2      165.8       102.6
Vetch (green)       3,974                 171       55.3        2.4       (52.9)
Vetch (hay) /1        -                  (809)       -          4.9         4.9
Maize (silo) /1       -               (26,100)       -        913.5      913.5
Vineyards           8,534               8,534       34.1       68.3        34.2
Orchards /3           519                 519        2.2        3.1         0.9
Total        145,174            143,234
Gross Value Crops (lei Million) /4                 611.6   1,456.8       845.2
Gross Value By-products (lei Million)               16.5       33.2        16.7
Total Gross Value (lei Million)              628.1   1,490.0        861.9
/1   Double crop.
/2   Consists mainly of tomatoes, and also green peppers, eggplants, etc.
75   Consists mainly of peaches and apricots.
74?  At official 1979 domestic farmgate prices.



- 32 -
5.02      Future Production.  With introduction of irrigation, the actual
cultivated area would be reduced by 1,940 ha due to construction of Suhurlui
reservoir and irrigation and drainage canals, but 26,909 ha would be double
cropped with maize and vetch after wheat. Due to irrigation, double cropping
would increase the cropping intensity from 100% to 118.8%. Winter crops which
require only supplementary irrigation would be reduced from 28% to 20%, allow-
ing for a higher percentage of profitable summer crops to take better advan-
tage of irrigation.  Among the latter, the most profitable would be grown on
a larger scale, irrigated soybeans would be introduced, vegetables would be
increased by 76%, and less profitable crops, such as linseed for oil, and
beans would be excluded. Just like the existing cropping pattern, the pro-
posed cropping pattern is also oriented to livestock development. Under the
proposed pattern, production of maize grain would increase from 37% to 44.7%,
alfalfa from 10.2% to 10.6% and maize silage would be introduced over 18.8% of
the cultivated land. At full development in 1990, the gross value of produc-
tion at domestic farmgate prices would be 137% greater than the present
without project production value.
5.03      Markets.  Project output would be consumed first in domestic market
with some exports. The outlook for both markets is good but it is difficult
to determine how much of the project output would be allocated between foreign
and domestic markets, as the allocation depends on the national production and
government policy. It is expected that the country will remain a net exporter
of wheat, maize, sunflower oil and a net importer of soybeans, feed concen-
trates and sugar.  From the standpoint of marketing, the project area is well
situated because of excellent road and railway connections to the main con-
sumer centers and its vicinity to the important inland harbor of Galati, which
is capable of handling sea going ships up to 30,000 tons dead weight.
5.04      Cereals.  With the project, production of wheat would increase from
92,200 tons to 145,000 tons (57%). Output of maize would increase by about
326,900 tons. Romania is a net exporter of maize and wheat. Major tradi-
tional grain importers include the Federal Republic of Germany, the UK,
France, Italy, Austria and USSR. Annual export of maize, the major project
commodity, averaged over 350,000 tons during the 1970's through 1976. Exports
of all cereals increased to 2.0 million tons in 1977. The potential for
expanding the export of cereals to eastern Europe is particularly promising
because the region is expected to be faced with large grain deficits during
the foreseeable future.
5.05      Oilseed.  An area of 14,293 ha of sunflowers and 4,720 of soybeans
would be cropped, representing 13% of the cultivated area. The entire produc-
tion would be processed in the Prutal factory at Galati which has presently a
processing capacity of 125 tons/24 hour for sunflower seed and is installing a
new line for soybeans with a capacity of 600 tons per 24 hour. Romania has
exported in 1977 about 158,000 tons of sunflower oil. Sunflower cake is used
for feed. Soybeans production is relatively new to Romania and imports, so
far, have averaged 100,000 tons per year. The project output would contribute
to self sufficiency in soybean production.  The world market for oilseeds and
their products in general has been very attractive and it is expected that it
would continue to be favorable in the foreseeable future.



- 33 -
5.06      Sugarbeet.  About 1.8% of the cultivated area under the project as
compared to 1.0% at present, would be used for sugarbeet. The proposed incre-
mental sugarbeet production under the project of 96,400 tons would be pro-
cessed in three nearby factories at Sascut-Bacau (10 km); Ianca-Braila (20
km) and Buzau (60 km).  These three factories will have a combined processing
capacity of 960,000 tons by 1985 and no additional facilities are required for
the project area. Per capita consumption of sugar in Romania was about 20 kg
in 1977. Consumption is intended to increase to 28-29 kilograms by 1980.
During five of the last seven years, Romania was a net importer of sugar. The
proposed incremental sugar production would be used to meet domestic consump-
tion needs and would thus substitute imports.
5.07      Vegetables and Fruits.  In Covurlui, the area set aside for vege-
tables (mainly tomatoes, green peppers, and eggplants) consists of 2,537 ha
or about 1.8% of the cropped area. This is 57% more than the area currently
cultivated with similar vegetables. Beans are not a part of the future
cropping pattern and the area under potatoes does not change. The latter crop
is mainly used for local human consumption. Average consumption of vegetables
is expected to increase from 110 kilograms per capita in 1975 to about 125-130
kilograms by 1985. Project output of the vegetable products would supply
growing towns of Galati and Tecuci and provide raw material for existing
canning industry in Tecuci, Zagna Vadeni and Husi with installed capacity of
about 60,000 tons.  Vineyards and orchards take up 6% of the total cropped
area.  By 1980, the average demand for fruits and grapes is expected to
increase by 40% and the incremental supply from the project area can satisfy
only a part of this demand.
B. Prices
5.08      General Description.  As a result of the system of economic manage-
ment in Romania, market forces have little or no influence in determining
domestic prices. Price influences from abroad are regulated through a Price
Equalization Fund. Because of the nature of economic management in Romania,
the pricing system plays a much less important role than it does in market
economies. Prices are fixed by government and rarely vary in response to
changes in demand and supply. They only vary according to quality of products
and in some instance according to the delivery date. Prices may vary by zone
but are common within each zone. Domestic prices reflect the cost of produc-
tion plus a pre-determined "profit" margin.  Prices of all commodities, which
are low in relation to those of comparable products in other countries, when
compared at the official exchange rate, reflect low input prices including
the low cost of labor. Present prices have not changed significantly over a
period of about fifteen years. Some upward revisions occurred during 1977/78
but no increases are foreseen over the period 1981-1985.
5.09      Prices Used for Marketing.  The IASs are required to sell all their
products to the state marketing enterprises or their sub-units. CAPs, how-
ever, make their deliveries based on contracts signed with the marketing
agencies at the beginning of each cropping season, the contracted quantities



- 34 -
have been established after subtracting food and feed needs for human and
livestock consumption, ensuring seed requirements, and setting aside payments
in kind for members and the SMA. Prices of cereals received by the CAPs for
their contract deliveries are higher than those paid to the IASs. Prices of
oilseeds are uniform throughout Romania. Domestic prices of vegetables,
potatoes, fruits, sugarbeet and grapes are fixed by grades and dates of
delivery. They vary between a maximum for early delivery and superior quality
and a minimum for later delivery and poor quality, but cannot exceed or under-
cut these limits.
5.10      Prices Used for Economic Analysis.  The average of official farmgate
prices of project commodities, which are applicable to all producers throughout
Romania and CAP contract prices, are shown in Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2. For
the economic analysis of the project, prices of tradeable inputs and outputs
have been derived from the Bank's forecast of world prices for the period
1979-1980 1/ and for the non-tradeables, average official domestic prices are
used.  Tradeables include cereals, oilseeds, sugarbeet, selected and graded
quality of vegetables and fruits and fertlizers; non-tradeables include
fodders, crop residues, and inputs other than fertilizers. Romania is a
price-taker in the world market and project output of tradeables is assumed to
have no influence on international or domestic prices.
C. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.11      Benefits.  The quantifiable benefits will be a significant increase
in volume and value of production.  The gross value of production, at domestic
prices, will increase by 137 percent. The project will permit more productive
cropping pattern and will result in higher and stable yields on a net area of
143,234 ha. Labor productivity will more than double, increasing from about
lei 8,465 (US$470.2) per agricultural worker to about lei 20,081 (US$1,115.6).
Most of the project output would, directly or indirectly help to earn or save
foreign exchange. There would be some unquantifiable benefits from valley
training which will eliminate sporadic flooding and interruptions of communi-
cations. The project would also have unquantifiable linkage benefits through
its effect on increased and stable supply of raw materials to forward linked
enterprises. The project would generate about 4,000 new jobs during construc-
tion of the project and 1,500 thereafter.
5.12      Beneficiaries.  The project will have a marginal effect on incomes
of the 51,300 active members of CAPs and the 22,900 employees of IASs. The
primary beneficiary will be the State, but the project will help indirectly to
raise real wages and standard of living of the population through its impact
on growth of the economy. Most of the private plots given to CAP members will
also be irrigated under the project, and will substantially add to the income
of these members from this source.
1/   Commodity price forecasts, May 1979.



- 35 -
D. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.13      General.  For purposes of technical and economic evaluation, the
project was divided into two sub-areas, namely (i) Plateau I (97,800 ha)
covering areas irrigated by pumping from the Danube up to about elevation 100
meters ABSL 11, and (ii) Plateau II (49,000 ha), accounting for areas lying
between elevations 100 meters and 260 meters ABSL. The investment costs,
and costs of maintenance and operation, power consumption, replacement, and
agro-technical operations; as well as incremental agricultural production,
were estimated for Plateau I. Similarly, incremental costs, over and above
those established for Plateau I, were estimated for Plateau II, including
incremental benefits. The economic rate of return on investments for all
project components is about 16% based on quantifiable benefits. The rates
of return on separable project components are (a) Plateau I, about 16%; and
(b) Plateau II, about 17%. Costs and benefits have been computed over an
assumed project life of 40 years, based on the following assumptions:
(a) Investment Costs: Investment and operating costs are calcu-
lated based on prevailing 1979 prices. The cost streams
include physical contingencies and exclude (i) price contin-
gencies because all input and output values are expressed in
constant 1979 terms and relative prices are expected to remain
unchanged over the life of the project, (ii) duties, and (iii)
farm machinery because annual production costs already include
mechanization services.
(b) Implementation: Project works were started in 1979 and all areas
will be irrigated and drained by 1987. Project construction on
the Plateau I and II components will begin in 1980 and be com-
pleted in 1987. Land development will follow the following
pattern:
Land Development - ha
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   Total
Plateau 1       28.2   23.4   23.4       -    13.0    6.4    94.4
Plateau II        -      -       -    32.1   15.2       -     47.3
Total           28.2   23.4   23.4   32.1   28.2    6.4   141.7
(c)  Cropping Patterns and Yields:  Without the project, cropping
patterns and yields would remain constant because no significant
yield increase is possible without irrigation, drainage and soil
erosion control. With the project, areas planted with wheat,
sunflower, potatoes, and vetch will be reduced and barley, beans,
and linseed will no longer be cultivated. Areas planted with maize,
I/   Above Baltic Sea Level.



- 36 -
sugar beet, vegetables, and alfalfa will be increased and soybeans
will be added. Maize silage and vetch will be introduced as double
crops. Only the small areas cultivated with orchards and vineyards
will remain the same. Yields of various crops in the project area
are expected to be close to the yields obtained in already completed
irrigation schemes, which figures have been used to assess produc-
tion of crops. Wheat yields of 5 tons/ha have been achieved and
are reasonable. Yield development in the irrigated areas will
take place over four years in increments of 30%, 70%, 90% and 100%.
Phasing according to the implementation schedule outlined in (b)
above has been taken into account in calculating the yield develop-
ment for the various areas.
(d)  Area Currently Irrigated:  About 11,600 ha in the Covurlui Project
area is currently irrigated from over 100 small schemes. Their
water sources consist mainly of existing ponds in the valleys.  With
the exception of Vinatori scheme (area about 4,000 ha) which would
be incorporated in the project, all other schemes (area 7,600 ha)
are of a rudimentary and improvised nature. The cropping area in
these lands varies with the location. The benefits foregone from
these areas are taken into account in the analysis.
(e)  Output Prices:  Price are expressed in 1979 constant terms with
tradeables projected through 1990. Wheat, barley, and maize prices
are valued at export parities derived from Bank price projections
adjusted for internal transportation costs to the border, and for
external freight differentials and handling. Soybean and sugar beet
prices are valued as import substitutes. Bank projections through
1990 have been adjusted for savings in transport, insurance, and for
the differential between internal transport between the project area
and border and between the project area and market. Sunflower price
has been adjusted for extraction of oil and pellets including a 10%
crushing margin. Sunflower oil is priced at an export parity and
pellets at an import parity. Orchards and vegetables are valued as
if 20% and 40% of total production is exported. The export parity
(spot) price is derived from the EMENA Fruit and Vegetable Marketing
Study. Vegetable price is based on a "basket" of vegetables, con-
sisting of tomatoes, eggplant, cabbage, onions and pepper in 1979
constant terms. Orchard and vegetable prices are adjusted for
special handling and packing, refrigerated trucking, and losses.
The assumptions of 20% orchard and 40% vegetables for export is
based on a conservative assessment. All other outputs (fodder,
by-products, grapes, and potatoes) are treated as non-tradeable and
valued at domestic prices. Internal transport costs for bulk items
are estimated at .833 lei/ton km.  Shipping costs are based on the
latest available freight quotations for 1979.
(f) Input Prices: Fertilizer inputs are valued at world market prices
derived from Bank projections. Romania exports nitrogen and phos-
phates and imports potash. Inputs are valued accordingly. Manure
is valued at its nutrient content value, which is assumed to be 0.4
kg N, 1.85 kg P205, and 4.4 kg k20 per ton.



- 37 -
(g) Annual Production Costs: Annual production costs (Annex 9 Table 1),
valued as explained in (f) above, include fixed costs per ha and
variable costs per ton.
(h) Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Costs: Annual operation and
maintenance costs are detailed in Table 5 Annex 2. Sprinkler equip-
ment is replaced every ten years and is valued net of contingencies
and duties.
5.14      Sensitivity and Risk Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis has been used
to determine which variables are most crucial to the success of the project.
The table below shows that the project is sensitive to adverse variation in
benefits, but is not sensitive to other variables. If any one of the follow-
ing variables is changed by percentages indicated below, then the projects
economic rate of return would reduce to 9%.
Switching Values of Critical Variables
Variables                                              Switching Value
Benefits                                                     -31%
Investment costs                                               97%
Production costs                                              120%
Operation and maintenance costs                               658%
Energy costs                                                  510%
Total Cost                                                     45%
On the benefit side, a decrease of about 31% will, other things remaining as
expected, make the net present value negative. Since both ecological and soil
factors are favorable, and the proposed technologies are relatively simple,
even if there are some bad agricultural years, aggregate output will never go
below its crossover value.
5.15      Among individual crops, the project is especially sensitive to maize
yields because maize represents about 52% of total benefits. Each of the
other crops represents less than 10% of the overall benefits. As maize is
the crucial variable, in the composition of benefits, the switching values of
yield and price of maize are:
Appraisal    Switching
Variable                                    Value         Value       % Change
(i)  Yield at Full Development (tons/ha)             8            5.9       -44.6
(ii)  Price lei/ton                              3,030        1,814           -40.1
The crossover maize yield is 5.9 tons/ha as against the appraisal yield esti-
mates of 3.3 for unirrigated and 8.0 tons for irrigated lands.  Average yields
obtained in the irrigated system adjacent to Covurlui area show a higher yield
than the crossover value. The proposed technology for maize production is
well tested, and incremental yields over the life of the project will not be
so low as to cause the project to fail. Nevertheless, to minimize this
risk, the attaining of target yields will be a prime objective for project
management and a major focus of attention for supervision missions. Close



- 38 -
monitoring and evaluation will be an additional safeguard.  A reduction in
the price of maize from lei 3,030 per ton to lei 1,814 per ton is unlikely.
Economic prices for maize are based on projections by the Bank's Commodities
Division which are not expected to vary more than 20%.
5.16      Increases in costs of up to 97% (Investment), 120% (Production),
658% (Operation and Maintenance) and 510% (Energy) are unlikely and unreal-
istic in light of past experience in Romania and therefore, the risks involved
are negligible.
5.17      Thus, there are no unusual project risks.  Project organization
is well structured and implementation problems are expected to be minimal.
Failure to achieve anticipated yield levels at full development, although a
potential risk, is not likely to occur, as production technologies are well
tested, both at the research stations and farm levels.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained on the following:
(a)  procurement of equipment, listed in Annex 3 Table 3 and estimated
to cost US$90.0 million would be arranged following international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines (para.
3.34);
(b)  a report on project accounts and annual financial statements of BAFI
audited by the Ministry of Finance would be submitted to the Bank
annually within six months of the close of the Romanian Fiscal
year (para. 4.11);
(c)  necessary data and information would be furnished to the Bank,
through periodic reports, to measure project implementation and
performance against scheduled targets (para 4.12);
(d)  promptly after project completion, but not later than June 30, 1988,
BAFI would prepare and furnish to the Bank, a project completion
report (para. 4.13); and
(e)  necessary funds would be made available for construction of grain
silos, modernization of oil factory "Prutul" and sugar factory
Ianca-Braila, which are to be financed by BAFI outside the project,
and that these facilities would be completed in time to satisfy the
needs of the project (para. 2.36-2.37).
6.02      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$90.0 million to the Bank of Agriculture and Food Industry,
with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania for a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace.
December 17, 1979



- 39 -
ANNEX I
APPRAISAL OF                                      Table 1
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Climatological Dat/
Temperature             Average    Average Relative         Average            Average
Month               Maximum   Minimum   Average   Rainfall          Humidity/2        Wind Velocity   Sunshine Hours -
------------  C-----------          m                                 m/sec              hr
GALATI
January               0.1        -6.5       -3.1       23.8            86.1                 6.1                 71
February              1.9        -5.4       -1.1       29.8           83.6                  5.9                83
March                 8.5        -0.5        4.1       21.2            76.7                 5.9               138
April                16.2         5.6       10.6       37.8           69.1                  6.1               180
May                  22.2        11.2       16.5       53.2           69.2                  5.3               246
June                 26.1        14.9       20.3       62.6           68.0                  5.1               284
July                 28.9        16.7       22.6       49.1           65.0                 4.0                310
August               28.5        16.1       22.0       40.4           66.0                  4.2               291
September            24.2        12.3       17.6       35.6           71.1                 4.3                226
October              17.1         7.0       11.5       33.6           75.8                 5.3                184
November              9.5         2.3        5.2       35.6           85.1                 5.5                 81
December              2.7        -3.3        0.0       32.1           88.2                  5.5                63
Total Annual                                       454.8                                                  2157
Cropping Season/                                  312.3                                                   1721
TECUCI
January               0.0        -6.9       -3.7       28.2           84.0                  5.2               n.a.
February              2.4        -5.0       -1.5       26.4           83.0                  5.0               n.a.
March                 8.5        -0.8        3.5       21.3            76.0                 4.8               n.a.
April                17.0         4.8       10.6       35.8           69.0                  5.1               n.a.
May                  22.4        10.1       16.1       63.6           69.0                  4.2               n.a.
June                 26.2        13.7       19.9       70.4           68.0                  3.7               n.a.
July                 28.3        15.6       21.9       62.1           67.0                  3.5               n.a.
August               27.9        14.8       21.0       44.6           67.0                  3.4               n.a.
September            23.7        10.6       16.6       4u.6           71.0                 3.7                n.a.
October              16.8         5.4       10.5       36.8            76.0                 3.8               n.a.
November              9.2         1.4        4.7       34.7           83.0                 4.2                n.a.
December              2.8        -3.6       -0.6       32.4           86.0                 4.7                n.a.
Total Annual                                      496.9
Cropping Season-                                   353.9
/1  Based on 39 years from 1938-1977.
7ri 1948-1977.
/3  1955-1978.
/4  Cropping season from April 1 to October 30.



APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUT IRRIGATION REPORT
ROMANITA
Present and Future Cropping Pattern
Present Cropping Pattern                                            Future Cropping Pattern
'1                                         Net Return                 Production                             Net Return
Yield     Price4$   Production   Net Return  Cultivated   per Crop          Yield        Cost     Net Return   Cultivated   pe  Crop
ton/ha     per ton   cost per ha    per ha        ha        lei '000        ton/ha    per ha       per ha            ha        ei'000
Crops
Wheat           2.36     1,28C       2,392         629       38,993        24,526.6          4.96    3,545        2,804         29,220       81,932.9
Barley          2.30     1,025      2,174          184        1,910           351.4           -         -          -               -            -
Maize (grain)   3.37     1,065       2,214       1,375       54,378        74,769.8          7.96    4,918        3,559         64,100      228,131.9   0
Beans           1.00     3,300      3,713          587        1,026           602.3           -         -          -               -            -
Sunflower       1.35     2,030      2,171          570       15,300        8,721.0           2.69    2,956       2,505          14,293      35,803.9
Soybeans         -       3,426         -            -           -             -              2.50    4,010        4,555          4,721      21,504.2
Sugarbeet      24.98       350      6,123        2,620        1,389         3,6A9.2         49.70    9,446        7,949          2,638      20,969.4
Linseed        0o49      4,800       2,084         268        1,437           3 5.1           -         -          -               -            -
Potatoes        9.40       900      8,815         (355)       1,372          (487.1)        29.37   11,167       15,266          1,328      20,273.2
Vegetables     14.60     1,500      14,211       7,689        1,438        11,056.8         24.91   29,314        8,051          2,537       20,425.4
Alfalfa (hay)   4.80       495       2,129         247       14,904         3,681.3         10.93    3,664        1,746         15,173       26,492.1
Vetch (green)  14.50       110       1,609         (14)       3,974           (55.6)        14.50    1,609          (14)           171           (2.4)
Vetch (hay)      -         495         -            -           -             -              6.05    2,o64          930.8          (809)*       753.0
Maize (silo)     -          80         -            -           -             -             35.00    2,511          289        (26,100)*      7,542.9
Vineyards       4.oo     3,900       9,804       5,796        8,534        49,463.1          8.00   21,071       10,129          8,534       86,440.9
Orchards        4.24     2,400       5,441       4,735          519         2,457.5          5.97   10,700        3,628            519        1,882.9
145,174      179,111.4                                             143,234     552,150.3  
* Cultivated ha in parentheses indicate areas double crop.
1  Domestic prices.
September 1979



- 41 -                       ANNEX 3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
List of Farm Machinery
Item and Specification                  Quantity      Estimated      Estimated
Unit Cost      Total Cost
'000 Lei 
Agricultural Tractor 180 HP               270            900           243,000
Cereal Combine Harvester                  116            500            58,000
Fodder Combine Harvester                   90            270            24,300
Total                                                         325,300



- 42 -
ANNEX a
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Estimated   Estimated
Items and Specifications              Unit  Quantity   Unit Cost   Total Cost
A.  Equipment for Irrigation and                         -----lei '000---------
Drainage Canals Maintenance
- Canal cleaning equipment
(pulled by tractors)                       25          495        12,375
- Weed cutting equipment
for canals slopes                          25          495        12,375
- Truck tractors for the
above machines                             25          165         4,125
- Hydraulic truck excava-
vatcrs 0.65 m3, with
canal cleaning bucket                      25          605        15,125
- Hydraulic dragline 0.6-1.0 m3
bucket, 14-18 m reach                      10          880          8,800
- Equipment for tile drains                   3          330            990
Subtotal                                                      53,790
B. Equipment for Operation and
Maintenance of the Canals
Burried Pipes Network and
Pumping Stations
- Wheeled tractors with dozer
blade and excavator bucket
65 hp                                       15         330         4,950
- Mobile crane 8 tons                         20          85.2       1,704
- Mobile cranel2.5 tons'                      20          92.1       1,842
-  Truck Dozer  180 hp                         5        - 550         2,750
-  Motorgrader  180 hp                         3        1,283.3       3,850
Subtotal                                                      15,096
C. Transport
- Engine box car (for trailer)                 2        1,650         3,300
- Trailer 40 tons                              2          385           770
Subtotal                                                       4,070
Total                                                       72,956



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT               Table 3
PAGE 1
ROMANIA
List of Equipment and Materials to be procured
following International Competitive Bidding
Estimated Cost
Equipment                       Unit      Quantity         Unit         Total-
---.lei '000
A. Equipment for Pumping Stations
Pumps and accesories                           L.S.                       300,000
B.  Construction Equipment
Draglines lm  bucket   3           Nos          55            1,265        69,575
Hydraulic excavatois lm  bucket  Nos            50              900        45,000
Wheel loaders 2.5m  bucket         Nos          40            1,056        42,240
Wheel dozers 180 H.P. 3            Nos          18            1,500        27,000
Motorized scrapers 24m3            Nos          15            6,050        90,750
Motorized scrapers llm             Nos          30            3,080        92,400
Tipping trucks 17 tons             Nos         150              638        95,700
Horizontal drilling plants
1,300mm                  3       Nos           8              495         3,960
Concrete truck mixers 5.5m         Nos          60              748        44,880
Stati9nary concrete pumps
60m /hr                 3        Nos           5              990         4,950
Mobile concrete pumps 60m /hr    Nos             4            1,386         5,544
Self-propelled cranes 16 tons    Nos            30            1,650        49,500
Mobile cranes 34-45 tons           Nos           5            4,000        20,000
Electric air compressors
75kg/cm2, 17m3/min               Nos           3              385         1,155
Wireless telephone communica-
tion system                                 L.S.                        10,000
Subtotal                                                            602,654
C.  Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Canal cleaning equipment
(pulled by tractors)             Nos          25            1,000       25,000
Weed cutting equipment             Nos          25            1,000        25,000
Tile drains cleaning equipment   Nos             2              500         1,000
Tractor and 40 tons trailer        Nos           2            2,500         5,000
Wheel Tractor with Dozer Blade
and Excavator Bucket               Nos          15              400         6,000
Mobile Crane (12.5 Ton)            Nos          20              120         2,400
Mobile Crane ( 8 Tons)             Nos          20              100         2,000
Truck Dozer (180 HP)               Nos           5              700         3,500
Motor Grader (180 HP)              Nos           3            1,500         4,500
Subtotal                                                             74,400
1/ Includes Contingencies



- 44 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 3
PAGE 2
Estimated Cost   3/
Equipment                    Unit      Quantity         Unit         Total
D.  Laboratory and Office Equipment
Concrete laboratory equipment                  L.S.                         7,500
Computer facilities                            L.S.                        15,000
Subtotal                                                             22,500
E. Farm Machinery
Agricultural tractors 180 H.P.   Nos          270            1,000       270,000
Cereals combine harvesters         Nos        116              600        69,600
Fodder combine harvesters          Nos         90              450        40,500
Subtotal                                                         380,100
F. Materials
Asbestos cement pipes                          L.S.                       150,000
Total Cost of Equipment and Materials                                  1,529,654
Unallocated                                                               90.000
Total                                                                  1,619,654
(U.S.$ 90.00 Million)
1/ Includes Contingencies.



APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUTI IRRIGATTON PROJECT
ROMANIA
Cropped Area and Estimated Water Requirements
Estimated Net Crop Water Requirements                               Estimated Water Requirements
Area                                                                           Of One    Of One
Ha         Aprl   May    June    July   August   September   October   Hecter    Hectar               /               August   Ar.nual
Crop                            Ha       108      -3                                                              of Crop   Pro,ect ArenL-
-------------------------------------- N /Ha --------------------------------------             --------- Mm3 ----------
Wheat                         28,748   17.0    420    81o        -        -         -         -          400o    1,630            277            -          -        46.8
Maize                         63,509   37.6       -     530      930   1,300    1,110          -           -       3,870        1,455           82.5       70.5      2145.8
Sunflower                     14,138    8.4       -     530      930   1,O0        460        -           -        2,920          245           14.1        6.5       4i.2
Soybeans                       4,7?1    2.9       -     530   1,000   1,300    1,110          -           -        3,940           110           6.1        5.2       18.6
Sugarbeet                      2,60(    1.5       -     530      930   1,300    1,110        500          -        4,370           66            3.4        2.2Q      11.4
Potatoes                       1,2839    O.8f     -     700   1,070   1,' 0        850        -           -        3,980            32           1.7        1.1        5.1
Vegetables                     2,513     1.5      -     760   1,070   1,h60    1,110         220           -       4,620            69           3.7        2.f       11.6
Alfalfa (hay)                 15,00        9      -     810   1,140   1,460    1,117         580          -        5,107           454          21.9       16.7       76.6,
Vetch (green)                     92    0.1       -     510      930   1,4(-0      850       220          -        3,990             4           0.1        0.1        0.4
Grapes                         8,534    5.1       -     310      510      760      660       360          -        2,660           133           6.5        5.6       22.2
Fruit                            519    0.3    500    310        510      840      720       400          -        3,280            10           0.4        0.4        1.7
Subtotal               141,659
Double Crops
Maize silage                26,10C   15.5       -      _       _        840    1,240       670          -        2,750           426          21.       32.4       71.8
Vetch (hay)                    802    0.5       -      -       -        840    1,170       580          -        2,590           13            0.7        0.9        2.1
168,568  100
Net Water Requirement                             73    512      624      967      861       189          68          -         3,294          163.0      145.1      5 553
Gross Water Requirement-                        103    721       879   1,362    1,212        266          96         _          4,639          229.6      204.3      782.0
1  As a percent of the cropped area.
2  Project area is sown with crops in the proportion indicated in Column 3.
/3  Including preseeding requirements.
74  For one  hectar sown with crops indicated in Column
T5  Overaii eff MciencY 71%.



46 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Cost Estimate
Estimated Cost               Estimated Cost         Foreign
Item                             Local    Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange
 ----  Lei Million ----    ------US$ Million -----          %
Irrigation Works
Main pumping stations         306.6        96.9    403.5      17.0    5.4        22.4       24
Pressure pumping stations   128.5         40.6    169.1        7.1    2.3         9.4       24
Power supply                   98.9       98.7    197.6        5.5    5.5        11.0       50
Canal excavation              176.9       65.8    242.7        9.8    3.7        13.5       25
Canal lining                  179.4       36.7    216.1       10.0    2.0        12.0       17
Canal structures              367.2      122.4    489.6       20.4    6.8        27.2       25
Underground network         1,002.6      334.3  1,336.9       55.7   18.6        74.3       25
On-farm equipment             180.6      101.5    282.1       10.1    5.5        15.6       36
Suhurlui pumped storage       325.2      191.0    516.2       18.1   10.6        28.7       37
Subtotal                 2,765.9   1,087.9  3,853.8    153.7   60.4         2-14.1      28
Drainage Works
Surface drains                 30.6        7.3      37.9       1.7    0.4         2.1       19
Tile drains                      8.9       2.6      11.5       0.5    0.1         0.6       23
Subtotal                    39.5        9.9      49.4       2.2    0.5        2.7       20
Miscellaneous Works
Soil erosion control          118.3       20.7    139.0        6.6    1.2         7.8       15
Valley training               381.6       67.4    449.0       21.2    3.7        24.9       15
Facilities for O&M             12.3        2.4      14.7       0.7    0.1         0.8       15
Land levelling                131.9       23.2    155.1        7.3    1.3         8.6       15
Land reclamation               10.2        1.8      12.0       0.6    0.1         0.7       15
Subtotal                   654.3      115.5    769.8       36.4    6.4       42.8       15
Land Compensation                  19.3        -        19.3       1.1     -         1.1       -
Equipment
Operation & maintenance        43.8       29.2      73.0       2.4    1.6         4.0       40
Farm machinery                208.2      117.1    325.3       11.6    6.5        18.1       36
Subtotal                   252.0      146.3    398.3       14.0    8.1       22.1       37
Engineering & Administration   340.6          38.0    378.6      18.9    2.1        21.0       10
Base Cost                      4,071.6   1,397.6    5,469.2  226.3   77.5          303.8       26
Physical Contingencies            279.9       98.5       378.4   15.5    5.5        21.0       26
Price Contingencies               131.1      405.4       536.5    7.3   22.5        29.8       76
Total Contingencies/l             411.0      503.9       914.9   22.8   28.0        50.8       55
-Total                         4,482.6   1,901.5    6,384.1  249.1. 105.5          354.6       29.9
/1  See para. 3.23 for details of physical and price contingencies.



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
ITEM                                             Estimated Annual Cost
(Lei '000)           (US$ '000)
OPERATING PERSONNEL
Main pumping station                     7,707.3                  -
Suhurlui pumped storage                    873.5
Pressure pumping stations                5,984.8
Sub-total                            14,565.6                   809.2
MAINTENANCE OF WORKS
Main pumping station                    14,428.3
Suhurlui pumped storage                 2,329.2
Pressure pumping stations                8,750.7
Irrigation canals and works            18,358.6
Drainage works                           5,038.3
Sub-total                            48,905.1                2,716.9
POWER SUPPLY
Main pumping stations                   40,052.8
Pressure pumping stations               66,499.0
Sub-total                           106,551.8                5,919.6
MISCELLANEOUS
Other costs                              2,313.0
Indirect costs                         15,091.3
Sub-total                            17,404.3                   966.9
Total                               187,426.8                10,412.6



APPFAI2AL OF
COVURWUI IFRSIEaTION FROJECT
2096126
Estieted Sehed6le of E-diture
Estimated Cost         1979              1980              1981               1982               1983             1984                  1985            1986                1907
IlOo                                      Total  Foreign   Total  Foreign    Total  Foreigo    Total  Foreign    Total  ~jjdn    Total  Foreign   Total   Foreign    Tot1  ForeLgn   Total  Foreign    Totsal   Foreign
Irri6ation Woorks
Main poapiog stations                  403.5    96.9   11.5    2.8          93.6      22.5    113.0    27.1    92.0        22.1    72.4       1'.4    21.0    5.0                  -         -        -         -
pressure pueplog stations              169.1    40.6       -       -        26.2      6.3      26.3      6.3    26.2        6.3    26.3        6.3    26.2    6.3         15.0    3.6       15.0     3.6       7.9      1.9
Tower supply                           197.6    98.7    3.8    1.9          43.9      21.9     45.6    22.8    47.1        23.5    19.7        9.9    11.2    5.6         10.3     5.1      11.9    6.0        4.1      2.0
Cans1 scavatiuo                       242.7    65.8    3.1    O.8          36.2       9.0     37.9       9.5    36.3       9.6    37.1        9.3    38.2    9.6         31.6    7.9       20.3    10.1        -        -
Canal lining                           216.1    36.7    2.6    0.4          32.2       5.5     33.8      5.7    34.1        5.8    33.1        5.6    34.0    5.8         28.2     4.8      18.1    3.1         -        -
Canal structures                       489.6   122.4    6.2    1.6          72.9     18.2      76.4    19.1    77.4        19.3    74.9       18.7    76.9   19.2         63.8   16.0       41.1   10.3         -
Umderground oetwork                  1,336.9   334.3   16.8    4.2         199.2      49.8    208.7    52.2   211.3        52.8   204.5       51.1   210.2   52.6        174.2   43.6    112.0   28.0           -
On-farm equipment                      282.1   101.5       -       -         -          -      48.7    17.5    45.0        16.2    45.0       16.2    45.0   16.2         45.0    i6.2      45.0   16.2        0.4      3.0
Snunhlut pumped storage                5L6.2   191.0    3.5    1.3         133.0      49.2    169.3    62.6   184.2        68.2    26.2        9.7                -       -             -             -         -        -
Subtota1                         3,853.8   ,79   47.             ;57.2    182.6    7397   921=              `  7       99T.    539.2    144.2  t7   2           7. 7  192.2            2  9      f772.3               9
Drainage Works
Surifce drains                          37.9      7.3      -       -         7.4       1.4       7.6     1.4    U1.2        2.1      3.3       0.6      1.3    0.3         3.5     0.7       3.6    0.8         -        -
Tile drains                             11.5      2.6      -       -         -          -        -        -        -         -        -         -        -      -          4.0     0.9       7.5     1.7
Subtotal                            79T       7.       -       -         777      9          77      97I     11.2       2.1      3.3       0.6      1.3   70.3           5     7        1.       2.5        - 
Misceellaoous Works
Soil erosion control                   139.0    20.7       -       -        17.5       2.6      17.5      2.6    17.5       2.6    17.5        2.6    11.5      2.t       17.5     2.0      16.0     e.64     16.      2.7
valley training                        449.o    67.4  I                     '77.8     11.7      99.8    15.0    99.9       15.0    90.5       13.5    81.0    12.2         -
Facilities for O&M                      14. 7     2.4      _       -         -          _        2.1     0.4       2.7      0.4      2.7       0.4      1.7    0.3         2.4     o.4       3.1    0.5
Land levelling                         155.1    23.2       -       -         -         -       37.5       5.6    37.5       5.6    37.5        5.6    42.6    6.4          -       -         -        -
laud renlamtion                         12.2      1.8      -       -      .-            -         -       -        -         -       i.8       0.1      1.9    9,3        -1.7    0.3        2.8     0.4       4.8      0.7
Subtotal                             L8   _197         -       -        _I        18.3    156.9     23    773        73    72          952    19977   2118         9329 _            21.9    3.3       252       3 4
I nd Cosensation                           193               1.5               34         -        3.3               2.7        -       1.9        _       2,8     -          2.8     -         0.9      -        -        -
Equipenet
Operation & naintenance                 73.0    29.2                                    -       25.0    10.0    25.0       10.0    23.0        9.2
Farm nchinery                          325.3   117.1       -       -         -          -      50.0    18.0    50.0        18.0    50.0       18.0    50.0   18.0         50.0   18.0       75.3   27.1
Subtotal                           39       19                                             75       5                           7                                                       75.3    27.1          
Engineering & Adainisitratio              378,6     38.0   48.2    4.8         53.9       5.4     57.1      5.7    41.9        4.2    48.8        4.9    42.0    4.2         46.5    4.7       37.6    3.8        2.6      0.3
Ease Cost                               5,469.2  l.397.6   97.2   17.8        797.2    203.5  1,059.6   281.5  i,o44.o    281.7   815.2    199.1   703.5  164.6             496.5  124.8    410.2  114.0         45.d     10.6
Fhysical.Coatingencies                    378.4    98.5    6.0    1.3         56.5      14.9      73.6    19.9    72.7        19.9    55.6       13.7    48.3   11.5         34.6    8.7       27.0     7.7       3.3      0.9
Price Contingescies                       536.5   405.4       -      -         13.0      9.8      52.8    40.3    86.4        66.0    89.0       66,0    97.8   71.9         90.9   68.6       95.5   74.6       11.1      8.2
Total Costiigencies.                      914.9   503.9    6.0    1.3         69.5      24.7    126.4    60.2   159.1         85,9   144.6       79.7   146.1   83.4        125.5   77.3    123.3   82.3         14.4      9.1
Total                                   6.34.1  1.901.5  103.2   19.1         866.7    228.2  1,186.0   341.7 1203.1    367.6   959.8    2788 h    849.   248.0            622.0  202.1    533.5  196.3         60.2     19.7
/   See pars. 3.23 for details of physical and price contingencies.
.p         .5



APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financing Plan
BAFI       Sub-borrowers'
Budgetary Allocations            Credits        Contributions
Explanation                        Total         DIFCA   IELIF  IAS   SMA        IAS     CAP   IAS   SMA    CAP
------------------------------Lei Millicn ----------------------------
1.  Total investment cost                  5,985.8      4,441.5      -    203.5  -        113.7   820.1 65.8   -    341.2
2.  Agricultural machinery                   325.3        -          -      -   302.3       -        -    -    23.0    -
3.  Maintenance equipment                     73.0        -         73.0    -     _         -        -    -      -      -
Grand Total                          6,384.1      4,441.5    73.0  203.5 302.3    113.7   820.1 65.8  23.0  341.2
Remarks:
1.  The new economic mechanism enacted in 1979 makes it obligatory that, the economic enterprises provide their own
economic development fund for the financing of investments.
2.  The size of investments to be financed from BAFI loans will depend on the credit worthiness of the economic
units.
3.  State budget will finance additional investments only when CAP/IAS funds and BAFI loans are insufficient.
4.  IBRD's loan and cofinancing will be included in the State budget allocated to DIFCA.
{D X



-- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT.
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                    Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                         at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
1980/81
September 30, 1980
December  31, 1980                         7.0
March     31, 1981                         9.0
June      30, 1981                        12.0
1981/82
September 30, 1981                        16.0
December  31, 1981                        20.0
March     31, 1982                        25.0
June      30, 1982                        30.0
1982/83
September 30, 1982                         37.0
December  31, 1982                         44.0
March     31, 1983                          51.0
June      30, 1983                          57.0
1983/84
September 30, 1983                         60.0
December  31, 1983                         62.0
March     31, 1984                          67.0
June      30, 1984                          70.0
1984/85
September 30, 1984                         72.0
December  31, 1984                          75.0
March     31, 1985                          78.0
June      30, 1985                         80.0
1985/86
September 30, 1985                         82.0
December  31, 1985                         85.0
March     31, 1986                          88.0
June      30, 1986                         90.0



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Prices Used for Economic Analysis
Output Prices
Unit Price
Domestic                   Economic
------------------lei/ton ---------------
Contract      Average
Crops                       (CAP)      (CAP & IASs)
Wheat                       1,370          1,280           2,910-3,653 /1
Barley                      1,100          1,025           1,974-2,649 /1
Maize                       1,150          1,065           2,152-3,031 /1
Beans                       3,300          3,300                 3,300
Sunflower                   2,030          2,030           6,789-8,737 /1
Soybean                     3,600          3,600           4,460-7,383 /1
Sugarbeet                     350            350             470-  784 /1
Linseed                     4,800          4,800                 4,800
Potatoes                      900            900                   900
Vegetables                  1,500          1,500                 3,655 /2
Alfalfa (Hay)                 500            495                   495
Vetch                         110            110                   110
Maize (silo)                   80             80                    80
Vineyards                   3,900          3,900                 3,900
Orchards                    2,400          2,400                 3,077 /3
/1 Prices shown are for 1979-1990.
/2 Mainly tomatoes (algo includes green peppers, eggplant).
/3 Mainly peaches and apricots.
September 1979



- 52 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
COvuRLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Prices, Used for Economic Analysis
Input   Prices
Input                                                    Unit Price
Unit                Domestic         Border
----------Lei---------
Seed
Wheat                           ton                   1,860           1,860
Barley                                                1,520           1,520
Maize (grain)                                         1 2,733         2,733
Maize (silage)                                        2,520           2,520
Soybean                                               7,414           7,414
Sunflower741744
Beanflower                       ''10,800                            10,800
Beans                                                 5,680           5,680
Linseed"8OO800
Sugarbeet                                             8,000           8,000
Potatoes                                            .28,333          28,333
Alfalfa                                               1,050           1,050
37,800          37,800
Fertilizer              ton active substance
Urea                                                  2,535      6,030-7,596 /1
Super phosphate (granulate)                           3,800     4,629-6,960 /1 /2
Potash (in complex)                                   2,200      2,532-3,215 /1 /2
Manure                                                   10         44-   57 /1
Plant Protection
herbicides
icedin                        ton                   43,888          43,888
Sutan                         kl                    56,750          56,750
Pitezin                        ton                  48,000          48,000
Balan                         kl                    44,000          44,000
Treflan                       kl                    51,000          51,000
Ro Neet                       kl                    50,000          50,000
Venzar                         ton                 170,400         170,400
Aretit                        kl                    37,900          37,900
Pesticides
Lindatox 3                     ton                   4,330           4,330
Lindatox 20                    kl                   24,940          24,940
Betanal                       kl                   121,160         121,160
Heclotox                       ton                   1,730           1,730
Dithane                        ton                  30,200          30,200
Topsin                         ton                 115,000         115,000
Cu-oxychloride                 ton                  25,830          25,830
S04 CU                        ton                   18,250          18,250
Labor                          day                       75              75
il   Prices shown are for 1979-1990.
/2   Border price for phosphate derived from world price of TSP and for potash
from world price of muriate of potash.



APPRAISiL OF
COVURLUI IBRIrATION PJSIECT
Anual Production Costa Bmut on Border Prices of Inputs
(Lai/ha)
Fd C-----t------Fid Cot                --------------------                    --     - -----Vriable Oosts---------------------------------
votat    Total
Present/Future    Yield            .                                                Fertiliar Total                                                      Variable  Variable  Sub-total /2t       Fertilizer       Total
Witbo.t Project  ton/ha  Labor Mhbine,,  TrasMort4tion  tMteriail  fl 1_$ Coat                  Fx Coot  abor MehiLnry  Tranportation  Miscellaneous cost/ton  Cost          Production Cost    Cost A             Cost per ha
Wheat           2.6        23      385          7667                       2          76       1.160     11      278          35               1         325       Obs          2,005           729-91.6         2,734-2,921
Barley          2.6        21      320          6            501           2         70          920     13      288          41               1         343       89t          1,812           674-848          2,486-2,66o
Maime           3.3       158      425          8            423           23        62        1,09"   202        31          47              31         3Li    1,02;.3         2,125           595_748          2,720-2,873
Beans           1.0       128      731         15          1,275           17         42       2.206     19      461          46               1         527       527          2,735           348-438          3,083-3,173
-Sunflower       1.5       115     554           9            419           17         90       1,204      2      252          29              -          283       424.5        1,628           798_982          2 426-2,610
Sugapret       25.0    1,041      989           9          2,126          154        96        4,435     32       -           18              5           55     1,375          5,790           920-1,140       6,710-6,930
*Aineed        0.5        22      447          13           899            1         64       1,46      22      691          60               3          776      388          1,834           580-730          2,414-2,564
Potatoes       10.0       875   1,752         i46          4,769          140         67       7,749     13       12          27              1           53       530          8,279           797-991          9.076-9,270
Vegetables     15.0       990   1,173         .28          2,714          164         84       5.253    662       -           13              99         774    1,610          16,863         1,215-1,500       18,078-18,363
Alfalfa         4.8        29      316         72            770            4         31       1,221     10      120          21               1         152       729.6        1951            573-708          2,524-2,659
Vetch (green)  14.5        11      452          2            399            1         29         64       4       17          17                          38       551          1,445           305-380         .1,750-1,815
Vineyards       4.o    5,150   2,186          273          3,642        3,506         77      j 934    261        -           21              38         320     1,280         16,114         1,050-1,300       17,164-17,414
Orebards        4.2    1,452       965        279          1,245          505         59       43505    Dy1       -           21              40          332    1,394.4        5,899           632-1,452        6,531-7,351
1?ture tub
Project
Wbeat           5,0        23      385          7            667            2        116       1,200      11     278          35               1          325    1,625          2,825         1,202-1,5b0        4,027-4,335
ize             80        158      425          8            423           23        210       1;247    202       31          47              31          311    2,488          3,735         2,097-2,616        5,832-6,351
Sunfloer        2.7       115     554           9            419           17        141       1,33       2      252          29              _          283       764.1        2,019         1,356-1,687        3,375-3,706
Boiteane        2.5        94     683          10            956           14         78      1en       18      498          46               3         565     1 412.5        3,248           687-867          3,935-4,704
Suprbeet       50.0    1,057    1,118          25          2,315          156        206       4,677     32       -           18               5          55     2,750          7,627         2,104-2,618        9 731-10,245
Potatoes       30.0       875    1,752        146          4,769          140        183      7?.u       13       12          27               1          53     1,590          9,455         2,891-3,589       12,346-13,044
Vetabals       25.0    7,630       2,617      305          n,38L        1,450        750      234         01                                              309    7,725         27,858         1,854-2,263       29,712-30,121
nlftis    11.0        29      316          72           770            4          64      1,2%       10      12.0        21               1          152     1,672          2,926        1,927-1,152        4,853-4,o78
Vtch (ba)      6.o        lo      550          2            399            1         29         "I       10     120          21               1         152       912          1,903           305_380          2,208-2,?83
M tsi (silo)    35.0      214      428         - 2           102           31         58         asD      6       15          17              -           38     1,330          2,165           659-821          2,824-2,986
Vineyards       8.0    5,611    2,215         273          4,2113       3,571.       202      16,13 IU       -1               21              38          320    2,560         18,678         2,215-2,720       20,893-21,398
Osebrde         6.o    3,985    2,0.5         529          3,976        1,173        155      U,ftj     57       -            21              40          332    1,992         13,855         2,156-2,653       16,011-16,508
&"noma ftr Ad1iastration.
7fl-total production costs consist of total fixed costs and total variable cost.
j/Usteg Bank pro,lectlozn throuoi 1980.                                                                                                                                                             September, 1979



AP?MIIAL OF
COVUKUI  I1RmATION  PIoJm
PbcDsm1c Cowt  and D.fit S _t...   With .d Withot ProJect
An Psoject CVmmts
1         2                    4                    6                     8                      o         11         12-18           19          20-28           29          30-38          39         40
Year,                           1979   wi i19.co5      1       192       .193       1900    -             !9l1IT9                                      9                           997            2017       200-21          217 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Lel Milli - - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cost
I...s.estnt                  102.2     845.1    1043.9    1027.7    786.4        692.3     473.9       355.3      48.6         -          -              -           -              -
A,s...l P-&-tion             548.4     548.4     548.4      576.9     633.8      709.7     821.6       920.8     999.1     1038.3      1055.1       1058.4        1058.        1058.4         1058)4       1058.4        10i8.4      1058.4
Opertlon *and 14.ntsnss        -         -          _        16.1      29.6       42.9      61.1        77.2      80.9       80.9        B9.9         80.9          80.9           09           80. 9        80. 9        80.          80.3
Ltnergy Co.st                  _                    _        17.0      31.2       45.4      78.9       102.7     106.5      106.5       106.5        106.5         106.5         106.5         106.5        106.5         106.5       106.s
Repl"oe..-t Co-t              ,_         _          _         _                    _         _           _                                                         320.5            _          320.5           _          320.5
Total Costs                  550.6                                             - -1393.9    l                                          _U5- 123 12.25                                         154W.3      I1265.8   h 15656.3        125.8
Beaefits
Anoal  rducti-on             1100.4      1242.6    1264.0   1420.5    1659.8   2007.1    2356.1         2742.6    3016.4      3166.4     3287.9       3300.7        3300.7        3300.7        3300.7       33f0.7        3300.7      1300.7      r
WIthoot Prolset
Costs                        548.4     548.4     548.4      548.4    548.4       548.4     564.9       564.9     564.9      564.9       565.3        565.3         565.3        565.3          565.3        565          565.w        565.3
Beetfit.                   1100.4    1242.6_  1264.0    1312.3    1330.0   1366.0    1371.1          1371.1    1362.3      1362.3      1384.0       1384.0        1380.0       1384.0         1380.0       13864.       1368.0       1386.0
I-nreanta1 Costs               102.2     865.1    1043.9    1089.3      932.6     941.9      870.4       891.1     670.2      660.8       677.2        680.5        1001.0        680.5         lOol         680.5        10Ol         l6pc.,
1c-s,oentea2 Seselftt,           -         -                  108.2     329.8     641.1      985       1371.5    16546,1     1804.1     1903.9        1916.7        1916.7       1916.7         1916.7      1916.7        1916.7       191.-
Net ITncrenetal Be-efits      (102.2)   (845,1)  (1043.9)   (981.1)   (602.8)   (300.8)    114.6        680.4      983.9    1143.3      1226.7        1236.2         915.7       1236.2          915.7      1IP6.2         915.7       1236.2
EFononld  Rat of RBturn 16.4%.



55 -                   ANNEX 11
Appraisal of
Cuvurlui Irrigation Project
ROMANIA
Selected Documents and Data available in
the Project Implementation File
A.    Sector and Subsector Reports and Studies
A.l.  Romania:  The Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist
Planning, 4 Vols., World Vank Report No. 1601-RO, March 31,1978.
A.2.  Romania:  Agricultural Sector Survey.  World Bank Report No. 953a-RO,
October 29, 1976.
B.    Project Related Reports and Studies
B.1.  Romania:  Appraisal of Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Pro-
jects. World Bank 2278a-RO, March 5, 1979.
B.2.  Romania:  Project Preparation Report "Covurlui Irrigation Project" prepared
by General Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural Cons-
truction", April 1979 (2 volumes).
C.    Project Related Reports and Studies
C.I.  Intercooperative Associations and Unified Agroindustrial Councils.
C.2.  Main Soil Characteristics, cropping pattern and its optimization, crop yields
and production.
C.3.  Data on Agricultural Inputs (farm machinery, labor and plant protection).
C.4.  Technical Selected back-up data on civil works equipment and other project
related works.
C.5.  Economic Analysis.



APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMAN IA
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IBRD FISCAL YEAR                 1979    1980        1981    |   1982   |   1983         1984       1985        1986        1987     1988
ROMANIAN FISCAL & CALENDER YEAR     1979        1980        1981       1982        1983       1984        1985        1986        1987
IRRIGATION WORKS
MAIN PUMPING STATIONS
PRESSURE PUMPING STATIONS
POWER SUPPLY                                               -           -           -=__
CANALS AND STRUCTURES
UNDERGROUND NETWORK
ON FARM EQUIPMENT                                          -                       -                      -
SUHURLUI PUMPED STORAGE
DRAINAGE WORKS
SURFACE DRAINS
TILE DRAINS                                                                                               -           -
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS
SOIL EROSION CONTROL                                       -           -           --
VALLEY TRAINING
FACILITIES FOR 0 & M                                       --
LAND LEVELLING                                                                     -          -
LAND RECLAMATION
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT                                     -          -           -
World Bank - 20960



APPRAISAL OF
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
ROMANIA
Organization Chart
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
[Administrative Council]
President
j  Vice-President                                                                                               Vc-rsdn
Credit and Finance      Credit and Finance       ordi tne Aginacu e       SpecdinaltuiesAconin,n                           Administration,           Organizaiton,
of State Agricul-         of Food and          turahe Coopraivel         Spcantdie                Accuditing adLegal Affairs,                        Personnel,
tural Entreprises       Agro-industries         Sua Ceator      e      Exenal Relations                                  External Relations           Training
World Bank -- 20959






I   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRL   1
VASLUI   DISTR I C T                                                                                                               SOCIALIST  REPuBL C OF ROMANIA
(.~J j  \                  jy/                        .         ,                          \'\ ~.-Th sCOVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
)s~%r.'~--~     **  .iAucx                                                                                                    i Pruleut area bnundar5
> _ ~~ t l\t  3-=                                                                                                                                                          Mon pumpingy Stlulnli
'd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rup-ping sa  r
I     __                         G        5 1  \                                               \                                                                  . /5   n mu- Pressuire pumping stat ons
f  j                     /   /         ~~~~~~~~~oss5                                                                                                         (:I  Fnishng psnpang star urs
I  J,    \   ^ /  Cutorrair)                     \                          e/                                         Main canls
I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sypuons
. r"  Cersos             to                                                               i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pi-ai pipo nut-kac
Sl_fu r i i                                                                                      3                        ~~    ~~~ Stretches of -cr sniiring trai.g
; / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C t- irirmsnarnts                               Ba9ga8ii       t         r                                    C --                  Z0'.- Rsunrs
| \i   g  \   _i  careroucriet  dcrunute            t' Dam and rcsrrvssC                                                                                               |
t-~~~~~~~~~~~nrni ),  Brorul302v  St esr                                        Cuirsi      Buirruro    F'                       C -                             Til    e 2lau
fimenl    ;?}   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                             O-lnurn     \     \\6  g IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlSiiIraun drainage
G     ,<  A  L    AI   T    I              cOns,  \titrsa                                                            '  Cr00  erussun
esfl   0  ,  \   .  .5  >  sPrs5, S  Ireu  suor  4  (<H) _Future Irrigation prolets I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r jrus irigte  aew
Lrg.sresi                / TECrCi                                                               Dsc '\ .a
.-C                                                                                                Tu        T             )               t        Sprk er brsg  areas
,       t   -.                s  .....           .         .........run2  . u no. e,* , l<,^V              *,                                          ,      -,Twn
'4syr     D    i  a                                                                  -.---------mgRil ways
~~~~~~~~~~~~0-I                                                 )i    - i5 Sr                 'F5'                                                                     Ilantr:dU(AI pail
TECUCI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iOEE    
vRANCEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
V"~~~~~~~~~~msr,ss,uss iriisi r,
Ri,       00                     u
RP~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~SM-a
EIEJNOAR  Srooa$                  US
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f'.
P STRICT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0c                                                                                                          LC
"F."                                                              RCMANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UOsAIAr
TULCEA    DISTRICT ~      ~      ~       am     BLGRI           B



