Document of                  FL    cOPY n j 
The World Bank                     FI LE  r
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2679-Ro
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAEION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
December 26, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00  = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$o.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 = Us$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1. Be-
ginning in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative
of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI       -             Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP                      Agricultural Production Cooperative
(Cooperative Farm)
ICA        -             Intercooperative Association
IAS        -             State Agricultural Enterprise
(State Farm)
MAFI       -             Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
SMA        -             Station for Agricultural Machinery
(State Mechanization Units)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:         State enterprises and cooperatives
Loan Amount:         US$90.0 million
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 7.95 per-
cent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The loan from BAFI to Agricultural Production Cooperatives
(CAPs) for buried pipelines would be for 25 years includ-
ing 5 years' grace and for on-farm irrigation equipment,
8 years including 3 years' grace. The interest rate
would be 3 percent with penalty rates of up to 5 percent.
Investment loans to State enterprises (IASs) would be for
up to 10 years and carry interest rates of 2 percent
during construction and 4 percent thereafter with penalty
rates of up to 6 percent. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The main objectives of the project are to increase and
stabilize crop production and to raise productivity in a
gross area of 148,400 ha (143,250 ha net) located about
250 km northeast of Bucharest. This would be accomplished
through construction of an irrigation and drainage system
and related facilities. The project works would include
construction of two main pumping stations, 60 repumping
and pressure pumping stations and a storage lake. Distri-
bution networks, soil reclamation and valley training
would also be included. About 114 km of 110 kv and 20 kv
power lines together with related transformer substations
would be constructed to supply energy to the pumping
stations. Equipment for operation and maintenance of
irrigation and drainage works and farm machinery to
intensify agriculture on the area to be irrigated would
be supplied. The project is expected to increase the
gross production value in the project area from a fluc-
tuating annual average of about $35 million equivalent
to a relatively stable annual average of about $83 million.
Yield increases in various crops would range from 40 per-
cent to over 210 percent and cropping intensity would
increase about 19 percent. The project would also more
This document has a rtficted distribution tnd may be usod by recipients only in the perfomance
of their officl duties. Its contents may not otherwis be dilosed without World Bank authorization.__



- ii -
than double labor productivity and is expected to create
about 4,000 new jobs during construction and 1,500 there-
after. It faces no special risks.
Estimated Cost:                                Estimated Cost           Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange
Item                                   --- US$ Million-----            %
Irrigation and Drainage Works             155.9     60.9    216.8           28
Miscellaneous Works                        36.4       6.4     42.8          20
Land Compensation                           1.1        -       1.1           -
Equipment                                  14.0      8.1      22.1          37
Engineering and Administration             18.9       2.1     21.0          10
Physical Contingencies                     15.5      5.5      21.0          26
Price Contingencies                         7.3     22.5      29.8          76
Total Cost                                249.1    105.5    354.6 /_        29.8
Financing Plan:                           Local   Foreign   Total
----US$ Million-----
State Budget and Bank for Agriculture
and Food Industry                        225.3     15.5    240.8 /2
Sub-borrowers                              23.8       -       23.8
IBRD                                         -      90.0      90.0
Total                                     249.1    105.5    354.6
Estimated
Disbursement:             Bank FY       1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual                                   12.0   18.0   27.0   13.0   10.0   10.0
Cumulative                               12.0   30.0   57.0   70.0   80.0   90.0
Rate of Return:     About 16 percent
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2726-RO; dated December 17, 1979
EMENA Projects Department
/1   Total cost includes $1.2 million as taxes and duties.
/2   Includes possible cofinancing of up to $100 million from commercial
lending institutions.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA FOR A COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, with the guarantee
of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$90 million to
help finance a Covurlui Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
Cofinancing of up to US$100 million is being sought, all from commercial
lending institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. As preparation for the produc-
tion of a Country Economic Memorandum, an economic mission visited Romania
during June 1979 to collect information on economic performance in 1978 and
to discuss the 1979 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates the mission's findings. Country social
and economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The level and diversification of industrial production has increased rapidly,
providing the basis for the modernization and expansion of other economic
sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and national income.
With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry, the population has
become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have increased substan-
tially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes but also because
of the provision through the state budget of expanded and improved education,
medical services, housing and social expenditures of other kinds. Further-
more, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed significantly as
the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.        These changes represent the outcome of a development strategy
designed to accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as
possible, with the level and structure of development in the developed coun-
tries. The main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and
increasing rates of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial
base; the development of local natural resources; the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production
and income; the expansion of foreign trade and international economic rela-
tions; and the development of human resources.
1/   This Part I is identical to that contained in the President's Report
for a Danube-Black Sea Canal Project to be considered by the Execu-
tive Directors on the same date as the proposed project.



- 2 -
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles, which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources and obligatory development
planning coordinated by the central party and government authorities. The
national plan, drawn up on a five-year time frame and elaborated each year
in an annual plan, sets out for the economy, by sector and branch and on a
regional basis, specific tasks for economic and social units. It is drawn
up through a combination of central directives and aggregation of individual
enterprise plans, any differences being reconciled through discussions between
the entities involved. Over the past decade, Romania has undertaken measures
to improve the planning and management system, to increase the responsibility
of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to orient the
economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the latest
changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation.  Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumula-
tion 1/ had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP). The
sectoral allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority
of industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented
towards self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been
allocated to industry and, of this, by far the largest part has been directed
to the producer goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the
industrial sector, over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the
producer goods sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1978
industry was the leading sector of the economy, accounting for 58 percent of
national income, and employing approximately 33 percent of the labor force
compared with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, engineering and machine building, comprised 64 percent of gross
industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy has greatly increased the demand
for raw materials and energy. Romania has concentrated on exploiting local
resources of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible
in these items. However, in spite of the rapid growth in production of the
1/   That is, net investment plus change in stocks.



- 3 -
wide range of raw materials found in Romania and recent efforts to conserve
and economize on the use of raw materials and energy, Romania has become a net
importer of many important: items, particularly coal, iron ore and oil. The
rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since 1950, has out-
paced the growth of domestic production. Having started to import oil in
1968, Romania became a net: importer of energy in 1973 and in 1979 is expected
for the first time to import more crude oil than is produced domestically.
In response to those changing circumstances, the Government has recently
published an energy program for the period 1980-2000, proposing the develop-
ment of all energy resources and the restructuring of energy use to reduce
reliance on hydrocarbons. This program, and the reassessment of future
petrochemical development which is taking place within the context of the
preparation of the 1981-85 five-year plan, indicates the substantial impact
upon the Romanian economy that the oil price increases and the curtailment of
oil production in Iran are having. It is not possible to quantify the impact
of the price increases upon Romania's import bill because we have no informa-
tion upon the contract prices; however, the impact was certainly exacerbated
by the curtailment of supplies from Iran (which supplied about 50 percent of
imported oil) and the nee,d for Romania to purchase oil on the spot market in
the short-term while looking for new contracts.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 33 percent of the labor
force in 1978 (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods
and other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced the share of agriculture
in national income to about 15 percent by 1978. Over the past decade, agricul-
tural performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural
development and the increased investment funds made available. However, the
level and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The rapid
growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The estimated average GNP growth of approximately 9 percent per annum
since 1950, calculated on the basis of official national income statistics,
implies a percentage growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum,
with GNP per capita reaching an estimated $1,750 in 1978, using the Bank Atlas
methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage is limited to five and a half to six times the minimum.
Monthly wages were increased by 10.6 percent in 1978 to an average of 2,011
lei. The Government also promotes its income distribution policies through
regional allocation of industrial investment.
12.       The Government aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this



- 4 -
basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices
of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an in-
crease in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the
economy. The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods
and raw materials, reaching $8.64 billion in 1978. Exports have also grown
rapidly, reaching a level of $8.06 billion in 1978, and the share of manufac-
tured goods in total exports has increased to 50 percent, reflecting the
progress of Romania's industrialization. Trade with LDCs and developed market
economies has also been increasing rapidly in response to policies of diver-
sifying sources of raw material supply and as a consequence of exports of more
manufactured goods. In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move
away from trade on a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral
payments, within the framework of the general trade cooperation agreements
signed with almost all of the country's trading partners. These agreements
also cover cooperation in production, technical assistance and economic
relations. In 1977 and 1978 the convertible balance of payments deteriorated,
however, reversing the trend of the previous three years. After a surplus of
$76 million in 1976, the trade balance experienced a deficit of $81 million in
1977 as a result of additional imports made necessary by the earthquake, the
diversion of export goods to the domestic economy for reconstruction and
continued weak demand in the developed countries for some Romanian exports.
In 1978, the deficit increased to $560 million; to a large extent this was the
result of poor agricultural performance, but it also reflected shortfalls in
production in some industrial subsectors, continued weak demand in developed
market economies for some Romanian exports and the need for supplementary
imports of raw materials. With an increased deficit on the invisibles account
of $219 million compared with $192 million in 1977, there was a convertible
current account deficit of $779 million in 1978 compared with $273 million in
1977.
14.       The structure of Romania's trade with the developed market economies
is still characterized by exports of natural resources and imports of capital
goods, although there has been a gradual increase in the share of exports in
the form of manufactured goods. Because of the present low level of reserves,
any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises from shortfalls in
agricultural output or a softening in prices, tends to place the import
program, largely sophisticated machinery and components and raw materials, in
immediate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The current Five-Year Plan covers the period 1976-80.  The high
rates and the pattern of growth planned for this period suggest that the



- 5 -
present decade has been viewed as the decisive period during which Romania
should overcome the major constraints on its transformation from a developing
country into a developed and technologically advanced country. There have
been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year Plan targets
during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets for standards
of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh Conference of
the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other areas of the
Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions were taken to
increase work incentives substantially by allowing workers to participate in
sharing the profits of enterprises (see para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum, approximately the same rate of growth as in the original plan. How-
ever, the revised plan contains a larger number of investment projects, as new
projects were added following a reexamination of existing projects which led
to a reduction in investment costs of about 10 percent on average. This
reexamination, which took place in 1976 and 1977 was part of the general
campaign to increase utilization of existing capacity and to economize on the
consumption of raw materials and intermediate goods. The volume of foreign
trade is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a
much faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in
current prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of
exports so that it exceeds that of imports, so as to pursue its long-term
objective of reducing external debt and allowing for the accumulation of
reserves. While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of
production, it will nevertheless be increased under the revised plan. Real
wages are now to increase by 32.3 percent over the five years compared with
the previous target of 22 percent. As a result, targets for retail trade and
services for the population have been increased.
17.       Although the most recently available figures published by the Gov-
ernment indicate that the economy is expected to fulfill, more or less, the
five-year plan targets, very high rates of growth of the major economic
indicators will be required in 1979 and 1980 to make up for the relatively
disappointing performance in 1977 and 1978. In March 1977, the economy was
dealt a serious blow when a violent earthquake occurred in the east of the
country, causing damage valued at $2 billion and leading to a detrimental
effect upon the balance of payments totalling $630 million during 1977 and
1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets. While these efforts enabled the economy to continue
its growth, 1977 plan targets were only partially fulfilled. National income
increased by 8.6 percent compared to a plan target of 11.3 percent and an
increase in the previous year of 10.5 percent. Economic performance in 1978



also fell below plan, although the economy continued to grow at a relatively
rapid rate. National income increased by 7.6 percent, compared with the
annual plan target of 11-11.5 percent. Gross industrial production increased
by 9.0 percent rather than the planned 10.6 percent, and there are sizable
shortfalls in the production of several major products, particularly oil,
coal, chemicals and food products. Gross agricultural production increased by
only 2.4 percent compared with a plan target of 6.9-16.1 percent growth and
most of the growth was in the livestock subsector. Arable output fell far
below plan targets, partly because of climatic difficulties but also as a
result of managerial weaknesses and shortages of inputs. The shortfalls not
only affected the production of industries using agricultural raw materials
but also resulted in lower exports than planned. Investment, on the other
hand, increased almost as quickly as planned, 16.2 percent compared with a
plan target of 16.8 percent; however, in absolute terms, it did not make up
the shortfall brought about by the earthquake, despite the considerable
physical and human resources introduced into the construction sector. The
transfer of labor from agriculture to the non-agricultural sector increased
faster than planned, and, indeed, the economy, as in previous years, showed
relatively greater ability to create new production than to use existing
resources more efficiently; the targets for increased labor productivity and
reduced material expenditures could not be attained. While production targets
were generally underfulfilled, consumption rose more or less as planned.
Average monthly wages rose by 10.6 percent and real incomes of the.population
by 8.9 percent, one percent more than planned.
19.        The Annual Plan for 1979 signals no significant deviation from the
previous path. The growth rates published in the plan - 8.8 percent for
national income, 11.5 percent for net industrial production (in keeping with
the new economic measures, the 1979 Plan specifies industrial growth in net
rather than gross terms), 5.1-5.6 percent for gross agricultural production,
16.6 percent for foreign trade, 9.1 percent for investment and 7.5 percent
for real incomes - do not, however, fully reflect the high rates of growth
expected by the Government during the current year. Early in 1979, the Gov-
ernment announced that the shortfalls in production from 1978 should be made
up in the last two years of the plan period, so that the economy may attain
its 1980 plan levels. Thus, for the major indicators the real growth rates
must be considerably higher than those included in the annual plan.
20.        In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future, enterprises are also to retain a higher
proportion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural
expenditures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan prep-
aration, be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer
correlation between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more



-7-
direct responsibilities. for the achievement of foreign trade targets. The
measures are still under detailed discussion, with further refinements being
considered, although the major changes in planning, net output targets,
profit-sharing and enterprises' financial responsibilities were introduced
as of January 1, 1979. In early 1979, the Government announced that the
measures for net output and profit-sharing would be extended to cooperative
agriculture.  In a complementary vein, the creation was also announced of
approximately 700 Agro-industrial Councils which will coordinate the develop-
ment of agriculture within a given geographical area and provide a forum for
determining the most efficient use of resources in the sector (see para. 43).
All these measures are designed to make the existing management and planning
system operate more efficiently rather than to cause radical changes. How-
ever, they are a step in the direction that the basic economic report sug-
gested was desirable if the economy was to meet its objectives. Furthermore,
they will set up new pressures between the various levels of the economy which
may lead to more substantial changes in the future.
External Assistance
21.        The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
earnings. In 1978, new commitments of convertible medium and long-term loans
totalled $1,216 million and consisted mainly of supplier and financial credits
with relatively short repayment periods. Gross disbursements of convertible
medium and long-term loans during the year were $1,167 million. This repre-
sented a net inflow of $585 million after accounting for the country's repay-
ment obligations. There was also a net inflow of $456 million on short-term
loans during 1978. After almost a decade of gradually reducing the size of
outstanding short-term debt, the Government was compelled in 1977 to reverse
temporarily its policy of reducing reliance on short-term debt, because of
the additional financing needs generated by the earthquake. This action had
to be continued in 1978 because of the size of the current account deficit,
which could not be covered by medium and long-term sources, despite Romania's
increased involvement in the Eurocurrency market.
22.        As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of November
1978, ten joint venture agreements had been signed and a number of others
announced. In contrast with the earlier ventures, which involved total direct
foreign investments of only $10-15 million, the seventh agreement, signed in
early 1977 with Citroen, involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about $500
million) and will lead to a total capital inflow of aproximately $250 million.
The eighth agreement is for a joint production company with British Aircraft
for the manufacture of commercial aircraft; the ninth is with Data-products
Corporation, USA, for the manufacture of computer software; and the tenth is a
joint shipping company in cooperation with Libya. However, negotiations have



been broken off by Romania and Kuwait for the construction of a petro-chemical
complex which would have cost $1.25 billion and involved a capital inflow of
about $500 million.  Many other joint ventures are at various stages of nego-
tiation.
23.       Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from the U.S. Exim-
bank and trades under Government guaranteed supplier credit schemes, ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first East European
recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving $80 million for the expansion
of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a $100 mil-
lion, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agreement
and also a $420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms. However, it is
in its Eurocurrency borrowings that the Government has made most progress in
improving its access to capital markets and in raising substantial sums at
good and improving terms. During 1977, it negotiated two Eurodollar loans
totalling $125 million. In January 1978, Romania negotiated a further $100
million on the Eurocurrency market and late in the year, a further borrowing
of $300 million. The terms for the latter, an eight-year loan with four-
years' grace, are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and
0.750 percent for the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure
long-term energy supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract with
Occidental Petroleum for the purchase of coal from the U.S.; a banking con-
sortium raised a $53 million loan in April 1978 to finance Romanian participa-
tion in the Island Creek coal mine in West Virginia. In March 1979, Romania
secured a loan of $320 million from a consortium led by Canadian banks to
supplement a $650 million loan by the Export Development Corporation of Canada
for the purchase of heavy-water reactors for the first nuclear power project
in Romania. Finally, Romania has access to non-convertible currency invest-
ment credits from the International Investment Bank, Moscow.
24.       Nonetheless, Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted as shown by the fact that, in 1977-1978,
in spite of the above developments, short-term borrowing has been necessary.
The IBRD remains the major source of long-term development finance, although
Romania is making efforts to improve its access to financial markets. The
Bank's presence on a significant scale, and its effort to associate Bank
financed projects with co-financing through supplier or financial credits,
has a positive influence in this regard and serves to build outside confidence
in the country, thereby improving in the long-term Romania's independent
access to the world's financial markets.
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and



- 9 -
increasingly skilled population.  To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
26.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and internationaL organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic managementt.
27.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards during the next five-year plan period, although the latest figures
published by the Government do indicate considerably slower growth between
1980 and 1985 than originally intended. The draft plan Directives published
in July indicate an annual growth of national income of 6.7-7.4 percent com-
pared with 8.6-9.5 percent in the guidelines for the plan published at the
end of 1977. Targets for industry, investment and standards of living have
been reduced correspondingly. The Government plans to achieve its targets by
emphasizing, first, the utilization of the country's own resources and a large
local investment effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and
natural resources. However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets
and its long term plans for creating a competitive industrial economy, it will
have to attract foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support
its development efforts.
Creditworthiness
28.       As of June 30, 1979, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to $5,958 million. Most of these debts ($5,817 million) were
denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being the
Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Italy. While
the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the volume and growth
of external trade, average maturities are relatively short and convertible
debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of $1,141 and $1,142
million a year in 1979 and 1980 respectively. The convertible medium and
long-term debt service rat:io was 19.4 percent in 1978 and is expected to be
19.9 percent in 1979.
29.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy invoLving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.



- 10 -
Convertible export earnings rose from $830 million in 1971 to $4,072 million
(not counting $387 million in non-factor services) in 1978. The preferential
trade status accorded to Romania by the European Community in June 1973 is
facilitating the expansion of exports, as is the granting of most favored
nation status by the U.S. Since the early 1970s, the Government has restricted
the use of short-term credit from Western suppliers in an effort to improve
the structure of the country's external debt, but in view of the earthquake's
impact upon the balance of payments and the trade performance in 1978, short-
term debt increased again in 1977 and 1978. Assuming a continuation of present
export and debt management policies, we estimate that the debt service ratio
in 1980 will be about 20 percent after which it will remain fairly stable.
The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of both its domestic
growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for continued development
all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank
lending.
30.        With the exception of certain Swedish claims, all pre-war foreign
debts of the country had been settled. The Swedish claims concern public
loans from the prewar period, nationalized Swedish property and other in-
terests, such as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second
World War.  The eleventh meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was
held in Bucharest in October 1976 and further discussions were planned at a
date to be established through diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable
to obtain a consistent picture from the two Governments of the present status
of this matter and has, therefore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities
to clarify their respective positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.        The proposed loan and the proposed loan for the Danube-Black Sea
Canal project ($100 million) would bring total Bank commitments to Romania
to $1,452.8 million for twenty-five loans in agriculture, industry, power
and transport. Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during
1975, but this situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects as of November 30, 1979.
32.        Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending
continues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange
by providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has been assisting the
Government by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The
Bank has helped to attract foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million
cofinancing for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75
million was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1979. Through their
contacts with commercial banks with assistance from the Bank, and subsequent
negotiations with those banks, the Romanian authorities now appear convinced
of the positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial credits, and



- 11 -
have indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for future proj-
ects. Bank lending also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to
introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and
production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary
electric power development. Market aspects and marketing, especially for
export goods, are also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture
which is heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where productivity
levels are still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for projects for horticulture, irrigation, industry, power, and a fourth
livestock project. The Government has also proposed that the Bank consider
lending for an integrated road and rail transport project.
34.       In addition to leniding, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
analysis methodologies in various sectors, including industry and transporta-
tion, for 165 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually
since 1975 in collaboration with an academic institution in Romania. Addi-
tional courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses
are becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected to begin to supple-
ment the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance
from other sources. The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 13 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 4.5 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Agriculture
36.       Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing both convertible foreign exchange earnings and industrial raw
materials which contribute to progress in other sectors, especially in indus-
try. In 1978, agriculture accounted for 15 percent of national income and 33
percent of the labor force (compared with 74 percent in 1950). About 14.9
million hectares, or almost two-thirds of the land area, are used for agricul-
ture. Of this area, 65 percent is arable, 20 percent is under pasture and the
remaining 15 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. More than half of
all agricultural land is in Wallachia, the region composed of the southern
plains in the Danube valley. Approximately 64 percent of all arable land is
used for grain production (mainly maize and wheat), while industrial crops
(mainly sunflower and sugar beet) are the next most important. Vegetables are



- 12 -
also produced for domestic consumption and export, predominantly by private
farmers and individual members of cooperatives, but also often in large-scale
commercial greenhouses operated by State farms and cooperatives. Livestock
accounted for a relatively high 44 percent of agricultural production in 1978.
37.       The major problems of Romanian agriculture are the instability of
its output and low productivity. Growth achieved in agricultural production
has been slower than in other sectors and has been characterized by year-to-
year variations. Investment in agriculture accounted for 12.7 percent of
actual total investment in the 1966-70 plan period and 14.1 percent in the
1971-75 plan period. Investment in agriculture in the 1976-80 plan period
is expected to be 116 billion lei ($6.4 billion), about 12 percent of total
investment and about 50 percent more than during 1971-75 plan period.  In-
cluded in these plans are major programs of irrigation investment to address
the problems faced by agriculture, in particular, the problem of the instab-
ility of production. In addition to investment, the Government has also
taken other measures, including institutional reforms and price incentives,
to stimulate agricultural production. It has also taken a number of other
specific measures to increase agricultural productivity including increases in
the supply and utilization of fertilizers, investments in livestock production
and the promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and
marketing facilities. The Bank has also identified production instability and
low productivity as the two major problems in the Romanian agricultural sector
as stated in the Agricultural Sector Survey (No. 953a-RO) and the recent basic
economic report (No. 1601-RO). Through the process of preparing these docu-
ments and the Bank financed projects, the Bank has maintained a close dialogue
with the Government and contributed to improving the design of agricultural
development projects. The Bank has assisted the Government efforts in the
sector by providing ten loans for agriculture totalling $601.5 million since
1975 when the first Bank loan for agriculture was made to Romania.
The Need for Irrigation Infrastructure
38.       Instability in agricultural production results from vulnerability
to erratic weather conditions and the lack of infrastructure to mitigate their
impact. Excessive precipitation and flooding during planting and harvest
seasons, and inadequate rainfall during summer growing seasons, have resulted
in year to year fluctuations in national output of the order of 10 to 20 per-
cent. Fluctuations of production in particular regions can be even greater.
Only production of vegetables has increased steadily, reflecting the rela-
tively more controlled conditions under which they are produced. The Govern-
ment is well aware of this problem and has placed high priority within the
agricultural sector on solving it. Forty percent of agricultural investment
in the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan was for land reclamation, irrigation and drain-
age; the comparable figure for the 1976-80 Five Year Plan is about 20 percent,
reflecting a relative decline in infrastructure investment and increasing
emphasis on investments to make productive use of irrigation facilities
already established. Since 1965, total irrigated land has been increased
from about 0.2 million hectares to 2.2 million hectares in 1978, and, the
relative reduction in the share of the agricultural budget allocated for irri-
gation notwithstanding, another 700,000 hectares are expected to be brought
under irrigation during the last three years of the 1976-80 plan period. The



- 13 -
Government plans to irrigate about 3.7 million ha by 1985.  Irrigation works
to date have concentrated on large schemes using waters pumped from the Danube.
Five such projects have already been financed by the Bank since 1975; execu-
tion of these projects, which also include drainage, soil erosion control and
farm mechanization components, is proceeding satisfactorily (see Annex II),
and the proposed project would continue Bank support in this subsector. In
this and in the previous irrigation projects, the Romanians have accepted a
number of the Bank's suggestions which improved project design, particularly
in canal alignment, location of pumping stations, the design of canals in
loess soils, the design of drainage works and methods of soil reclamation.
Because of the close understanding on technical and policy matters in this
basic sub-sector attained by continuous dialogue with the Romanian authori-
ties through missions and negotiations, the Bank has become more involved in
recent years in detailed discussions of projects at an early stage in their
preparation which has increased the Bank's influence on project formulation.
Agricultural Productivity
39.       In addition to improving its irrigation infrastructure, Romania is
also taking measures to improve productivity through upgrading the quality of
farm mechanization, increases in the supply and utilization of fertilizers,
and the promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and
marketing outlets for increased farm production. Steps are also being taken
to reduce inequality between State farms and cooperatives in access to farm
inputs. State farms, which own 30 percent and cultivate 14 percent of agri-
cultural land, received about 42 percent of on-farm investment in the 1971-75
Plan period. Productivity on State farms is correspondingly higher than that
of cooperatives, but the Government is now moving toward elimination of the
disparities between the two types of farm organizations in order to stimulate
general improvement in agricultural productivity. The recent announcement by
the Government, establishing Agro-Industrial Councils, is another step towards
eliminating such discrepancies (see para. 43). The development of large-scale
livestock complexes incorporating significant scale economies and the best
managerial staff is contributing to the improvement in productivity.
Sector Organization
40.       State agricultural units and cooperatives account for the major
portion of agricultural production; individual farmers play a much less
significant role, except in the production of a few selected commodities.
The current sector organization is primarily a result of collectivization
and increased government participation from 1949 to 1962, when small-scale,
peasant-oriented agriculture was replaced by large, State-owned or State-
controlled production units. The dominant form of State-owned agricultural
unit is the State enterprise. There are 392 such State farms averaging
about 5,100 hectares and about 680 workers each. These large scale, capital
intensive farms have been considered a pilot sector in Romania and, as such,
have been favored in terms of land allocation, fertilizer distribution and
investments in irrigation and mechanization. About 2.0 million hectares of
agricultural land are cultivated by these farms, which also own substantial
grazing and pasture lands. Workers on the farms are employed on salaries
which are fixed by law but vary according to skill levels. The State farms



- 14 -
are generally well managed by directors (usually agricultural engineers) who
are appointed by the Director General for State Farms of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and are responsible to workers' councils. The Ministry of Agriculture
determines the production plans for individual State farms; it also has a role
in determining the use of their net income, a portion of which is remitted to
the State treasury.
41.       There are about 4,400 agricultural production cooperatives with
about 3.4 million member families and cultivating about 9.1 million hectares.
Workers in cooperatives are entitled to a minimum salary, which is about 20
percent lower than the salaries of their counterparts on State farms. Sala-
ries of cooperators may be supplemented by the cooperator's shares of pro-
fits in excess of plan targets, a bonus programmed to be about 2 percent of
the planned benefits. More than one member of a family frequently works (on
a full- or part-time basis) in the cooperative, and some family members are
employed outside of the cooperatives. Cooperators are also allowed to farm
about 0.15 hectares each in and around their villages for their personal use,
and they are allowed to own livestock. Production on personal plots is always
intensive, and produce is either self-consumed or sold to consumption coopera-
tives to supplement other income of the cooperators. A cooperative is managed
by a General Assembly of cooperators and its elected President; it reports to
the District Director General for Agriculture, the local representative of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Some cooperatives have begun to pool their resources
for large-scale investments in agroindustries and livestock production. These
intercooperative associations (ICAs) are operated by State employees paid from
ICA revenues. Part of the net income from ICA sales is retained for further
ICA development; the balance is divided among member cooperatives in propor-
tion to their contribution to shares in the ICA.
42.        Individual producers number only about 150,000 families and own
about 10 percent of total agricultural land. Their lands are often located
in mountainous regions, and include 19 percent of pasture lands and 21 per-
cent of orchards. Individual producers own 16 percent of all cattle, 14 per-
cent of sheep, and 6 percent of pigs.  The individual farming subsector has
not received strong government support but is significant in production of
potatoes (16 percent of production), meat (13 percent), milk (20 percent),
eggs (14 percent), wool (12 percent) and poultry (56 percent).
43.       The Government has recently announced that integrated organizations
known as Agro-Industrial Councils will be established, each of which will
consist of several State farms (IASs) or cooperative farms (CAPs) and one State
mechanization unit (SMA) which is responsible for supplying agricultural
machinery to these farms when required. There will be about 700 such councils
to cover the whole country, each of which will hold on average about 200,000
ha of agricultural land. The Council will be responsible for the overall
production plan, allocation of inputs, mechanization and marketing. Although
each State and cooperative farm will maintain its budgetary autonomy, decisions
on cropping patterns will be made at the Council level, in which directors of
the member CAPs, IASs and SMAs will be represented. Establishment of the
proposed Councils is currently underway, and it is too early to assess the
effectiveness of such Councils in meeting the intended objectives. However,
agricultural productivity in the cooperative sector is expected to be improved



- 15 -
as a result of forming the proposed Councils by making available to the coop-
erative sector the underutilized resources tied up in the IAS such as technical
expertise, machinery, and generally better management skills.
44.       At the national level, the State institution in the agricultural
sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. It plays a major
role in preparing the Five-Year Plan for the sector and is the supervisory
institution for plan implementation. In each district, the Ministry is
represented by a general directorate, which is responsible for all agricul-
tural activity in the district including both cooperatives and State farms.
Marketing is organized nationally under 13 centrals accountable to the
Ministry and responsible for processing and marketing specified commodities.
Each central obtains produce at the district level and allocates it among
domestic retail, processing, storage and export channels. A foreign trade
company is responsible for the exports of each central.
Agricultural Investment Financing
45.       The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Govern-
ment's specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation
and food processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans
in support of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan.
BAFI was established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all
investment funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector.
Financing in agriculture had previously been done by a department of the
National Bank of Romania., BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal,
execution and supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff
located in Bucharest, in 39 district (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-
branches throughout the country. One of BAFI's more important functions is
that of fiscal agent administering for the account of the national budget
all government investment: in State farms and enterprises. BAFI also receives
interest free funds from the State budget for investment lending to coopera-
tives (and in some cases State farms) and repays the Government as it receives
repayments of the sub-loans. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures
for all investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural
investments for more than lei 10,000,000 ($560,000) are reviewed and approved
by the Ministry of Agriculture and those greater than lei 70,000,000 ($3.9
million) must be approved by the Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides
short-term credit to, and maintains settlement accounts for, all cooperative
and State agricultural enterprises; it also acts as fiscal agent for the Gov-
ernment for collection of State revenues from these enterprises. As the
Government's channel for investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary
source of funds is the State Budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore in-
cludes a provision that the Guarantor shall provide all necessary funds for
the implementation and operation of the project (Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.02). The Guarantor will ensure that BAFI can meet the debt service on the
Bank loan (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.01).



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.        The project is a part of Romania's Plan for bringing about 3.7 mil-
lion ha under irrigation by 1985 and was proposed for Bank financing in July
1977. Following an identification mission in March 1978, a project prepara-
tion report was submitted to the Bank in September 1978. A preparation
mission visited Romania in February 1979 and further data was provided during
May 1979. The project was appraised in June-July 1979. Negotiations were
held in Washington in December 1979. The Romanian delegation was headed by
Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of BAFI and included representatives of BAFI and
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report" Covurlui Irrigation Project" (No. 2726-RO) dated December 17, 1979 is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.        The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize
crop production and also to raise labor productivity in a gross area of
148,400 ha (143,250 ha net) located primarily in the southern prolongation of
the Moldovian Plateau about 250 km northeast of Bucharest (see Map); this
would be accomplished through the construction of irrigation and drainage
systems and related facilities. The projected cropping patterns for the
project areas have been related to domestic needs and foreign markets.
These cropping patterns include a range of crops with varying growing seasons
which together cover the entire summer period ensuring an almost continuous
use of labor and farm implements. The area under major crops would be maize
(45 percent), wheat (20 percent), alfalfa (11 percent), sunflower (10 percent),
soybeans (3 percent), and sugar beet (2 percent) with the remaining area
devoted to vegetables, and orchards and vineyards. Thus, the proposed project
would be in line with the Bank's strategy for stabilizing production and
increasing productivity in the agricultural sector in Romania.
Project Description
48.        The project would provide irrigation and other facilities to an area
of 148,400 ha gross (143,250 ha net). The project works would consist of a
pumping station on the Danube River to lift water into an irrigation canal in
the flood plain; and another pumping station, at Vinatori to further lift the
water into a system of canals with 16 repumping stations on the Covurlui
plateau. A storage dam would be constructed on the Shuhurlui stream to store
off season pumped supplies from the Danube for use during months of peak
requirements. Water would be distributed to 44 pressure pumping stations
through a system of concrete lined canals. These pumping stations would
supply water under pressure to distribution networks consisting of buried
pipes and on-farm sprinkler and furrow equipment. Also included would be
surface drainage works to serve 10,800 ha, tile drainage for an area of 1,100
ha, soil erosion control works for an area of 44,300 ha, valley training on 4
streams in a length of about 270 kms, equipment for operation and maintenance
of irrigation and drainage works, and farm machinery to intensify agriculture
on the area to be irrigated by the project. About 114 km of 110 kv and 20 kv



- 17 -
power lines would be constructed to supply energy to the pumping stations.
Transformer substations supplied from 110 kv would be constructed at the
locations of main irrigation pumping stations. Pressure pumping stations
would be served from 20 kv lines through pole-mounted transformers.
49.       The existing capacities for processing vegetables, fruits and
tomatoes are considered sufficient to absorb the incremental production.
Construction of additional grain silos, a sugar factory and wooden storage
facilities for maize and modernization of a soybean oil factory have been
planned and would be completed during the 1981-85 plan period. These facili-
ties are not included in the project, but assurances have been obtained
that they would be completed in time to satisfy the needs of the project
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(c)).
Project Implementation and Operation
50.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, through its various
departments and trusts, would be responsible for planning, construction and
supervision of the project. Planning and design of all project works would be
carried out by the Institute of Land Reclamation and Design, and construction
by the Construction Trust for Land Reclamation Works. Both organizations are
part of the Ministry's General Economic Directorate for Land Reclamation and
Agricultural Construction. The irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control
works would be operated and maintained by the Ministry's Directorate for
Exploitation of Land ReclaLmation Works. The Ministry of Electrical Energy,
through its subordinate enterprises and their units, would be responsible for
construction, operation and maintenance of power transmission facilities and
for supplying energy to the project area. BAFI would serve as financing
agency for all project works under the arrangements noted in para. 45 above.
All agencies are competent: to carry out the proposed works and have undertaken
previous Bank financed works satisfactorily. A panel of qualified experts in
Romania would review the design of the dam at the storage lake and the asso-
ciated structures and construction of these facilities. After completion of
construction of these facilities, they would be periodically inspected according
to procedures to be estabLished between the Bank and the Romanian authorities
concerned.
Cost Estimates
51.       The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at lei 6,384.1 mil-
lion ($354.6 million). The foreign exchange component is estimated at $105.5
million or 29.8 percent of total cost. The cost estimates are based on unit
rates of work that are prevailing in Romania under the system of regulated
prices of materials and wages. Cost of equipment and spare parts expected to
be procured from foreign suppliers, has been calculated at the international
prices likely to prevail at the end of 1979 and is estimated at $12 million.
Taxes and duties on imported equipment which now average about 10 percent
amount to lei 21.6 million ($1.2 million) and are included in the cost esti-
mate. Because detailed engineering has already been carried out, physical
contingencies have been provided at 7.5 percent of irrigation, drainage and



- 18 -
soil erosion control works and at 5 percent of other minor items. Price
contingencies on foreign costs are compounded annually at 9 percent (1980),
8 percent (1981), 7 percent (1982-85) and 6 percent (1986-87). Due to near
zero inflation in Romania, price contingencies on local costs are compounded
at 1 percent per annum.
Financing
52.        The proposed Bank Loan of $90.0 million, representing about 25
percent of total project cost and about 85 percent of foreign exchange costs
would be made to BAFI for fifteen years including three years grace. The
Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange risk. The State budget
would contribute about lei 3,400.2 million ($188.9 million) or 53 percent of
total project costs through budgetary allocations to the General Economic
Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction, Central for
Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works, State agricultural enterprises (IASs)
and stations for agricultural machinery (SMAs), for which funds would be
channelled through BAFI. BAFI credits of lei 933.8 million ($51.9 million) to
IASs and CAPs would contribute about 15 percent of total costs, with the
remaining nearly 6 percent or lei 430 million ($23.8 million) contributed from
subborrowers' (CAP, IAS, SMA) own resources. The Government has, in principle,
agreed to seek cofinancing of up to $100 million for this proposed project.
Judging by the response of cofinanciers to other Bank-financed projects in
Romania it is expected that offers of cofinancing will be obtained. The
amount and timing of cofinancing will depend on market conditions and amounts
being raised by Romania on other Bank-financed projects. It is likely
that for this project cofinancing will be in the range of US$50-100 million
equivalent.
53.        About 30 percent of the costs for buried pipeline, on-farm sprinkler
and furrow equipment and small secondary open drainage canals serving CAP-owned
lands would come from CAPs' own funds with the remaining 70 percent financed
through BAFI loans. These loans would be recovered in accordance with BAFI's
standard on-lending terms. For on-farm buried pipelines, the loans would be
for 25 years including 5 years grace, and for on-farm irrigation equipment,
8 years including 3 years grace. The interest rate would be 3 percent with
penalty rates going up to 5 percent. Investment loans to IASs' would be for
up to 10 years and carry interest rates of 2 percent during construction and 4
percent thereafter with penalty rates going up to 6 percent. As in earlier
projects, these rates result in a positive spread over BAFI's financial and
administrative costs in providing the loans. As a result of Government
controls on domestic prices, Romania maintains a domestic inflation rate of
around 1 percent per annum, and no significant further increase is expected in
the future. Thus BAFI loans under the project would be made at positive real
interest rates, on the same terms and conditions as are extended to other
borrowers in the agricultural sector.
Audit
54.        BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors



- 19 -
appointed by the Ministry of Finance and to an annual audit by inspectors
from the Court of Superior Control which reports directly to the Council of
Ministers and the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its
transactions are satisfactory and BAFI's audited operating and financing
results would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of BAFI's fiscal year.
Recovery of Costs
55.       In addition to recovery of on farm costs as discussed in para. 53,
the project investment and annual O&M costs would be recovered through both
direct and indirect mechanisms. The direct mechanism consists of water
charges of three types levied on all CAPs and IASs using the irrigation water.
The State also recovers a part of the project costs from IASs and CAPs through
the compulsory portions of income paid into various funds and through the
recovery of BAFI loans, to ensure future investments. The cost of farm
machinery would be recovered by the State through unit rates paid by CAPs
and IASs to SMAs for mechanization services and through contributions to
the Depreciation Fund for machinery. The resulting cost recovery from these
mechanisms would amount to. about 52 percent of investment and O&M costs. In
addition, profits made by the State from the purchase of tradeable commodities
at administered low farmgate prices and subsequent export at higher world
prices and general linkage benefits to the economy resulting from incremental
project output are also indirect cost recoveries. Since the State is the
main beneficiary, the revenues accruing to the State from these various cost
recoveries are very high and could result in a combined direct and indirect
Cost Recovery Index of 100 percent or more.
Markets
56.       Market prospects for internal consumption and export of project
output are assured. It is expected that Romania will remain a net exporter
of grains (wheat, maize) and sunflower oil, and a net importer of soybean,
feed concentrates, and sugar. The incremental production from the implementa-
tion of the project for major crops would be: maize 326.9 thousand tons,
wheat 52.8 thousand tons, alfalfa hay 102.6 thousand tons, and sugar beet
96.4 thousand tons. An estimated 70 percent of maize, the major commodity
under the project, would be used as animal feed, with the remainder used for
human consumption, industrial purposes, and export. Maize and sunflower by-
products would be purchased by paper and housing material factories, used as
combustibles, or turned back into the soil as fertilizer. Annual exports of
maize averaged over 350,000 tons during the 1970's through 1977. Despite
increases in incremental domestic feedgrain requirements, the grain balance
is expected to remain positive, and prospects for continued exports are favor-
able. Areas under alfalfa, and double crops (maize silage and vetch hay)
would also serve the growing feed demand. Most of sunflower production would
be processed into oil, for which demand is increasing, with cake used for
feed. Imports of soybean have averaged 100,000 tons per year, and project
output would contribute to the goal of self-sufficiency in this product. The
incremental output of sugar and vegetables under the project are intended to
contribute to planned increases in domestic per capita consumption, and a
portion of vegetable production could also be exported. Incremental project
output would be handled by the appropriate marketing Centrals and their enter-
prises and collection centers in the project areas.



- 20 -
Procurement Arrangements
57.       Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank Loan
($90.0 million) would be procured following international advertising and
competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977". Romanian manufacturers would
be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, which-
ever is lower. The application of the preference has not affected so far the
outcome of bidding on previous irrigation projects, and is not expected to
significantly affect the result of bidding on the proposed project. It is
expected that foreign suppliers would win contracts estimated to cost about
$13.5 million for some of the construction and maintenance equipment (wheeled
dozers, drag-lines, motor scrapers, trenching and tile laying machines,
concrete pumps, truck cranes, dumpers and air compressors and their spare
parts). Other items to be procured through international competitive bidding
(about $76.5 million) are available domestically and, based on experience with
previous Bank-financed irrigation projects, it is expected that the Romanian
manufacturers would be successful in bidding for most of these items. Cost
estimates are based on the conversion rate of US$l=lei 18. The remaining
equipment and materials, all domestically produced, would be procured under
Romanian procedures and would not be eligible for disbursement under the
proposed Bank loan. The Bank would not be financing construction works under
the project which would be carried out by the Romanian Construction Trusts
which are familiar with local conditions, methods and regulations.
Disbursements
58.       The proposed Bank loan of $90.0 million would be disbursed for (i)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, spare parts and
materials procured through international competitive bidding, and (ii) 100
percent of the ex-factory price of equipment, spare parts and materials manu-
factured locally and procured through international competitive bidding.
International Water Rights
59.       There is no international agreement among the Danube River riparian
states for the use of its water for irrigation but a convention exists for
development of the river for mutual benefits, and for protection of navigation
and water quality. The maximum diversion for the project, in July, would
amount to about 1.2 percent of the minimum river flow in that month. Diver-
sions for the present and future projects in Romania dependent on the Danube
River would not adversely affect the Danube supplies for international naviga-
tion. There is no reason to expect, therefore, that the project would raise
issues on the use of Danube waters, and no agreement of other riparians would
be required. However, as for the previous Bank financed irrigation projects
in Romania, Government has furnished a letter of representation to the Bank
setting forth Romania's treaty obligations on the use of Danube waters and
confirming that the project would present no problem on the use of inter-
national waters.



- 21 -
Environment and Health
60.       The project area is free of endemic diseases such as malaria and
bilharzia. The project would not adversely affect the environment or public
health. Construction of irrigation works, with variable water flows in lined
canals, a storage lake and a piped distribution network would not promote
mosquito breeding and spread of malaria. Drainage of several areas and
training of 267 km of stream courses would promote healthier conditions.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The quantifiable benefits from the proposed project derive mainly
from the increase in the value of production with some unquantifiable benefits
from valley training (i.e. river embarkments) which will eliminate sporadic
flooding and interruption of communications. The project is expected to
increase the gross value of production in the project areas at domestic farm-
gate prices from a fluctuating annual average of about $34.9 million to a
relatively stable annual average of $82.8 million. This would be achieved
through increases in the yields of various crops ranging from 40 percent to
over 210 percent and through an increase in cropping intensity of about 19
percent made possible by irrigation. The project would also more than double
labor productivity, and is expected to create about 4,000 new jobs during
construction and 1,500 thereafter. About 51,000 cooperative workers and about
22,900 state farm employees would participate in the project. Benefits to
these participants would be mainly indirect through increases in real wages
throughout the economy over time, and an improved standard of living and
better public services, and some direct benefits through an increase in the
likelihood of exceeding production targets and making bonus funds available
for distribution among participants. Most of the private plots given to CAP
members will also be irrigated under the project and will substantially add to
the income of these members from this source. Foreign exchange earnings are
expected to accrue to the economy mainly from grain exports, while increased
self-sufficiency in crops like soybean will help to save foreign exchange.
The project would also result in general linkage benefits to the economy by
ensuring increased and stable raw material supplies to processing and market-
ing channels. The overall economic rate of return for the whole project is
estimated to be about 16 percent.
62.       The risk of not. attaining project objectives due to construction
delays, cost overruns, or inadequate supply of inputs or services is consid-
ered low. Experience with other Bank-financed irrigation projects to date
confirms this assumption. The design institutes and construction trusts have
experience with similar successful schemes. Project costs are based on offi-
cially regulated prices which are not expected to change significantly during
the period of project implementation. The supply of adequate agricultural
inputs and services is assured. Farm workers are receptive to new technology
and would have adequate incentives to participate in the project. Projected
yields and their development are based on applied research and experience in
comparable areas and are considered reasonable. Sensitivity analysis using
switching values shows that the project is moderately sensitive to adverse
variations in benefits, but is not sensitive to other variables. A decrease
of 31 percent in benefits will, other things remaining as expected, make the



- 22 -
net present value negative at 9 percent discount rate. Since both ecological
and soil factors are favorable, and the proposed technologies are relatively
simple, even if there were some bad agricultural years aggregate output should
not go below its crossover value.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for Agricul-
ture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.        Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
65.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
December 26, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                             ~~~~ANNEX I
-23-                                        Page 1 of 5 pages
SA8LE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROKANIA                    RE'iRECE GROUPS (ADJUSTEO AqUpAGES
LAND AzA (THOUSAND                                                          - MOST RSCENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HICHER
ACRICULTURIL     149.6                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   flC0m        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GWN PER CAPITA (US)                  180.0       510.0    1750.0          2906.3    1942.6        3075.3
ENERGY CONSUIqTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALEOIT)    1342.0     3013.0    4036.0          2033.2    1646.7       2518.6
POPUrLATION AND Y1TAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MD-YEAR (.MILLIONS)     18.4        20.4      21.6
uRBA  POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 33.7        40.8      44.0            56.3       51.2        72.1
POPvLATION P&WICTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        30.0
YZAR STATONARY POPULATION IS IRACHED             -    2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                       77.0        S5.0      91.0            81.5       28.2        33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0       135.0     144.0           138.8      100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PIRCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         28.2        25.9      26.0            25.6       35.4        33.3
15-64 YRS.                         65.1        65.5      65.0            62.9       56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABO                     6.7         8.6       9.0            10.2        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PELCENT)
TOTAL                              1.2         1.0       0.9             0.9        1.7         2.1
URBAN                              3.8         2.8       2.5             2.6        3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0         20.0      19.0            18.5       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.0         9.0       9.0             9.2        9.2         8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.2         1.3       1.2             1.2        1.8         1.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..        ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          85.6        89.0     140.0           115.7      102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
BEQUIRL'MENTS)                 105.0       118.0     123.0/g         134.2      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          81.0        92.0      96.7Zi          95.4       80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.0        28.0        ..            45.4       31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MoRTALITm RATE      3.0         2.4       1.0             1.3        5.1         2.5
WEALTS
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIMrH (YEARS)    64.0        69.0      70.0            70.0       65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           75.7        49.4      31.0            31.5       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..       69.4        73.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       S5.1        94.6
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL. (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              .        70.1
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       88.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           780.0/f    840.0/i   750.0            661.6     1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      620.07f        ..    590.0            677.1      765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 8ED
TOTAL                            130.0/f    120.0      108.0           180.1      197.6       240.6
URBAN                            5so.o7       50.0      60.0              *-      260.2
RURAL                            620.07f    770.0    730.0                ..    1055.0
ADKISSIONS PER ROSPITAL sED           .         23.0        .             15.3       17.3        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         3.2/h      .               .         4.7
URBAN                               ..         2.8/h      ..              ..        4.4
RURAL                               ..         3.4/h      ..              ..        5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.4/h      ..              ..        1.1
URBAN                               ..         1.3/h      ..              ..        1.2
RURAL                               ..         1.4/h      ..              ..        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        49.0/h      ..              ..       66.0
URBAN                                         86.O7h      ..              ..       85.1
RURAL                               ..        27.07o      ..



24 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROKANSA - SOCIAL INDlCATORS DATA SHEET
REFERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVRAGES
ROMANIA                         - MOST RECENT ESTtMATE)  '
SAME         SAME      NEXT KIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY       TOTAL                  98.0        113.0      109.0            105.7       101.7         107.6
MALE                  101.0        112.0      110.0            107.1       110.0
FEMALE                 95.0        114.0      108.0            104.5        92.8
SECONDARY:    OTAL                   24.0         45.0       62.0             65.9        51.2         39.7
MALE                   27.0         51.0       65.0             70.3        56.4
FEMALE                 22.0         38.0       59X0             62.2        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  54.0            58.0       70.0             20.4         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              25.0         21.0       21.0             26.7        27.1
SECONDARY                            16.0         18.0       19.0                ..       25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                         ..       98.0                 .        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           ..         .             105.5        53.4          68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          109.0        152.0      146.0            233.7       225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0         73.0      120.0            148.0       102.6         117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   147.0        169.0      129.0                          78.5..
CSNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0             9.8        8.7              6.4          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSA0DS)        9600.0      9900.0   10200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     44.9        4 .5        44.6             32.3        24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                64.5         49.0       34.4             25.8        28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   20.5        23.0        32.7             33.1        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL.                                 57.1         56.0       55.9             37.6        33.8          40.1
KALE                                   64.5         63.3       62.8              57.0        51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                 50.1         49.0       49.1             28.0         16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPfENDENCY RATIO                0.7          0.7        0.7               1.0         1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                              47.9        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        .            ..         .               5.0         3.4.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                      .                        15.4        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                               .          ..
RURAL                                                          .                  .          ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                       378.0               ..       550f0
RURAL                                                .      378.0            436.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
tURBAN                                 .                                         .          ..
RURAL                                               ..         ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries asong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noced, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, becween 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Europe;   /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /a  High Income  (over $2500 per capita,
1976);   If  1962;   /S  Av. 1972-74;   /h  1966;   /i  WHO estimate.
Most Receant Estimat of GNP per capica is for 1978.
Auguet, 1979



-25-                                                                   ANNEX'I
fillsm Wr owl" fr-ATM                                                             Page  3T'f 5 pages
Moee .dtl            bd te dta ar  te   free seeress gemrSfLhj judged the  ,et mathcitstie, -d reliable, it eA-i  ala  be mete  thet thq   W net he intemwa-
fl~iayoaap.rblebeoee.of the lack or eteoedrdised defi.1ittess ad cseepte need bW different oemotriea in collectiog the data, lb. date are, inetheiee.,
eeft.1 to de..crib. ordere of manitude, indiofl trade, cod oheamaterie, certain, eaJor differencee betwmeen cwamtriee.
rft.    o               *I fo  each indicator arc pcpultio-welghted geomtric wamem, enloding the entreme melue. of' the indicator and the metpelad
oootiti7i~W6irnhiito lack of data, group averness of all indicators for Cepital  "urla. Oil tporter  end of indicator. of Accee,"  to Water and Iecrete
Maepo..al  Housing, Incom  Did.trib,tion  end Noon7 for other octate  goupe are ppalatico-eeigted gdeatric  -ef  .iitheut m1inni  of the catra  value. end
the met pepalate  ccae.Snetecvrp   fcutlm                          a teidctsdd                         vlaiiyof data end Is met malo, caio    ee b                  e      de
in reaigIeNc   f  n   niao   oen-                          eae e   r                      As        Wationeof                     e wiIcsthe 
a dcater, at a               a cnnou   -an  rerenc 
LAID APEd (thoesend aq.kn.)                                                               Accese to Excrete, ldien  (prcet oExf moeain               totl   rs, sal coral-
-%     Total  erfece area, oeapel  og lend area and inland watere.                     Wter of people(oal   re,7                  l  meedb  eeeadipeie
J&7oltnr.1 -  tost recet  .ti..e of egricultarl. area, need temp-rrily                    perenategee of their reopective peLUltione. Excrte diaposal mw  incisade
or persmeently for crepe, pasteree, maket end kitoh., gardens or to                     the ecuceeti" end dispoeal, with or  ithcut treatiment, of tomman anreeto
lie fallow,                                                                             WAn  sete-eator by water-born  sytatee or the eec of pit privies and e.ilar
ibtallatiep..
SI  PnChrrf&(v) - GNP per eepita  estimatee at curret merket iprie,                     Pr     i 40  rm.inion - Poelatice divided by number of practicing phym1icinm,
tiIi d      ameii  cocvreica mesthod as World lank Atlac (1976-78 beee)                    a7?~              cal& ecbool at enivereity level.
1960, 1970, end 1978 data.                                                              Poulatien per eeing Peson. -Pop,,,atida divided by n.ter of practi.om male
EEYcpogrittOg no CAPITA - Anua  boeneptiea of oosearcial. ...ergy                     sod female grduate miree,prtia  aee,ad aenietent nersee.
ooldlIgnite   potelun  natra  gee and hydro-, n..ca  and g                      Peculationoe  Hospital Bed -total. urban. and coal- Population (tota.1  urban,
theowa  eleotrllty) inkil"U""a of coal etieleot per capita; 1960,                         and  rurL)iided by their reepeotive nader of bepita.l bodeavailable tie
1970, eed 1976 data.                                                                      peblic end private geo"eoI ed epeciliced toctpita1 e,j  rebnbiiitatl   eroter.
Hocpital.eare cetabliebasate permenetly etaffed by ait iceet one tymi.ioia.
POPULAION01 AND VIrAL STATISTICS                                                            Ectaiblitchete providing prieoipa11y oetodi.1 care are cot inclded. Rural
Total feolation.Md-Year j7eiIIiode) - Ac of July 1; 19603, 1970, end       -         hospitale, however  iclude bealtb and medical centore cot permanently etaffed
19,77 data,                                                                             by_a pye,imia  (btby a medical aesietant, cure, midwife, etc.) which offe
Urban P    ltio   (pret of toal  - Ratio~ ofuban to total population;                     Ic-patient ndocedatio  and provide a liadteoi range of medical facilitie..
ditfertdf iel1htioceof9rbanrseac m ay affet com parbility of data                     Admiecio.. pee H-ecita  Bed - Total cober- of adiniemion  to or di-hbarova fro
omeg cotrive; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data.                                               boepitole divided by tie cuber of beds.
Poiolatin Prjootione
Poulation in year 2000 - Cureot popultioc proJerti-e are based on                  HKOUlSIN
1970 totail population,b eg  and coo and their  -artlity and fertility               veeeSloe of tehiebed   een   he bubl d)   total' ra,en   uo 
ratec. Projection p-rntere for oortaility  atro coeprice of three                     A      hbolbod ocoalete of a  rop'of Miovdul  et  ear  licin  quactere cod
leveis  -osein  life copectancy at birthi-tocroig sith ocentryc.                     their main, melo.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be, lnouded In tie
per onp it.i income level, cod fereale life copeotancy ctbilicing ait                 hou-ebld for ettietioul psrpoo...    1-be-dE.
77.5 year.   The parseetere for fertility rate alec lace tbree levole              Av!erge colroper,oncoro                  oalubn   n   ua  - A-orgo cubor
aceunleg decline to fertility according to loom  level and pat                        ofproeprcoca Ici urban  end -rurlocpe   ovcinldeoo
feeilly dacin  porfora  o. Po oh ontry Ic tRee ..,eigcd oo. of thec                   ree..pectivoly.  Doollig.e.oclude   __eper_et etrut_ro  and unoccupied parts.
omn combintion, ofmrtality cod fertility treede for pr-jectioc                      Acoee. to  leotricity (oproent of deeliege) - total, urban. nod rural1   Co-
purpocee                                                                              c    toobin   dollinge cith electricity In licieg q.-trive  as percectoge of
Stntioeory cpulation - I. & ototionary population there ie no grooth                    total, urb_, cod mea  doollinge renproticely.
niece tie birth rate ic equal to tie deatb rote, cod. alsc tie ege
atructur  recin, cocan       fThe. nhioved only after fertility ratee            EPrisATIO
declitn  to tie repico  et lee     -fuIt net repr-&-ti cc rate,  hbon               Adjueted nisruliet Ratice
endh gderation of cone  replrec itnelf eca_tly.  The atatioaas   pepo-                Prissry  hobol - total,  nlea  ed fenal  -Gl..c  total, nle and finale enrol.
lotion ci,ca  ectimated on tie b-om   of tie projected  hiara,eieritica                 meet of allageO  at tie princry levl e  perceetegee of ..eoprtiv- prinery
of tie popultion In tie year 2000, cod the rate of decline of fertility                 ochool-age populatioc;  -crell  icoludec ohildeon aged 6-li penn  but
raetIolrme   od                                                                      adjunted for different lrngthn of primacy educative; foe  -outriec cit
Year ,ttinn   poultion to rea-hed - The year oeotaticoar  peultion                        unierea  educa.tio .o..o.l1ect -W  ced10  ecn   cv  onppi
nice Ia  beecr-eld.                                                                   are belco or above tie offici   ehb..Me
Pouainlcity                                                                       -eoiv   oo      oa,nle and feenle -Compted no alone;  --dnuny
Per eq. An. - Mid-yo-  population per uquaco kilceter (100 hoctaree) of                   oduntoorquire   ot lenet fou  ye". of approed prceocy i-tutr-cso,
'totl araprocidee generalvcaina,or tendr training i-ntru-tin- for pupsle
Per no. An.  gricultural 1cod - Coeptsed -u above for agricultural land                   uualy of 12 to 17 yearn of ago; crependoocccou.recs are g,nerall
only.                                                                                   ecoludod.
Poultlooi~.A do  Wtrutr  (percet) - Ohildree (i-li pece,cokigag                            -ctiocel enrolment (orrect of -ovodery) - VCocaioco-Icoiuc-o id
(1544 peac ), cd retired (65 yearn cod over) an p-erntge  of aid-year                 trobnicl, ieduotria1, or otber progron   hiob operate independrotlyora
puaio;96,1 970, cod 1977 data..                                                     departaonto of accoidacy inetitutiono.
Poultoni Roi  ottpeont -tta  -Anulc..t.at.    ftoalod-                             Ppi-ta-o  rtot   rlat.an 1oodry-foaAeudna  nrledi
year populatiol, for l15040,1970-70, end 1970-77.                                         Pe Iar   -odcecdary lovele dividedby nuntor  of tenohern cc the IIrr-
Bopulatic irocti Ont  (percet) - oribn - Annual growth ratee of urban                       epudig 1o-e.
populati... for 1950-60, 190- 70, no  1970-75.                                          AdlIt literacy rate (percent) - Litcr-teadu1tu  (nile to read nod urite)a
Crude Rirth Rate   or- thouaend) - A ..uaI live bintie per thi.uecod of old-                apercetage of total adult populati.o aged 15 yearn and over.
year poypletion; 1 0, 1970, cod 1977 data.
CrudoeNail Rate W=e thoucnd  - Annual dentin per thoroand of etc-year                 COOJOPKIiO
population;I190, 1970, cod 1977 data                                                  Paegor Cnr" nr' bucdcouain -P  ,,acere   catoo i ..oo  rare.
Or... vep-odectLn note-de A-ge cornie  of d-ugitvrac-         n  cill tercaig-on                           a  eight peec           d-erun   anbulcooc, hacco  cod milit.ry
to ice, cora  reproductive period if sbe epe--ceo          pr--et age-                  -hiloe-.
opecifin fertclit   voie; "cuily five-year n-eroe  ending in 1960,                    medi. Reevr   Per thoused popilatio)-   All typee of eccrofor rodio
1970, acd 1975.                                                                        ibodo-tItogenerl.pblic pee thou-ad of population; oc uoccniv nd
Fanily Pleoing - A-optro, RAnual (thoc-,nd) - A.oc  cu.ber of                             reveive-  icrI.uct iva cd cc yonro  h.. registration  of; r          :tetececino
-c -por  of birti-vci -iiv-vco _de  aupovon of entic...l fa-ily                         offect; datm  for eroo.t years cey not to roopora.. cl     c c I  .0t  vou iete
plning pr-g-a                                                                         biolinted litoening.
FniyPann- ae(eret of  -arini scry) - Perootage Of earned                                TV Receivers (Pee thcuaod copulation) - TVreicn  for beonoonot to goera-1
oceo  of  hidud U-taing age (15-i yeace)  to one birtil-cotro  de-icee                   puii  per, ticuncod population; cooludve uolcceoed TV ebeiecoernIn...ntec-
to nIl crr-ied 00m   in ence nor group.                                                 and in Year nobo  yogii,tration ofTV con -nein offer t.
Rleecppee Ciclno   per tihuecd pultion) - Steno tie overge  iclto
BOOl ANit OtYITION                                                                          of 'dacIy genera  interest coosp.pe"ldofnd 00 d- peecodilll polltlraio
Ino   f Food Peoduotioc Per Capita ' (7-71-120) - Indec of Her onpi to                 ovoted peciaily to recording coneal..  coo." It is r-noidered to to  'dolly"
anuM   poutiono   llfo  rocodiio.   -roucio doclu    -cd and                            of Itapr,tlesfortime-    oek.
feed coOii onralnOar yer inece.Coc""'dtoeo. o ..Proygodlie   hood1 Atteodeo  Per Cnpits nor Bear - laced on tie c-rIc  of tcciets
eg.sgn-eoni-nted of eugar) oh ob are eiII  ace cotsin nutrIents                     sold durrog thc pose, 1orluding adri-cion  to d-eo-ic cinoa  av ..d -bol i
(eg. roffe  and  rE- arc eoluded).  Aggeegate produotcn of cart country               orc
cbooed on national  avrg   rdvrprior oncghte.
Per repute supply of onlrce  (P eret of reguiroenint) - Conpoind fer              LABOR PORCE
enegy oquiil-ntc cf cot food -upplics  -al.bclr 10 oI-ryoe  per -npito             T     -tl Labor Poro  (tioucodo (                 -cnclyative p0-m,,  -nl-lig need
per 'day.  ivial   opie    tpiednetrpooton   eoo    o                                 foee  adonaloe  ttcoldogbveeie   ntudetic, etc. Cefi-ct--o
eote, and clangesceici   Oct oupplii vs  cclode anin   feed,  -eri,                cnaououtosest vuparntl
qutorIinec used in food p-r-sing, andloev  o  isniotion. Require-                   Bn ieror-t) - Penlin1inlor foer-e ae pe-rotage of t,td  lato  frere
vensve  -otictetd by PAC, bccd on physiologi-al ecdc for... cona                 drlIT.,1r...t)- lbeorrein faming, fo-rtey, bunting nod
sonority end hoa1tb con.sid-slg  -sir.ovtal tempe-t-r, tody oogits,                   Tidhing So pe-roetge of tota1lbsto  force
ngrcc  cctch lihcoteituto-,  f popu1ls,co, and nli.g10 pcr-to foe                   indu!Jstry Ip--vt) - Lbto    foev  on 005g, ontvio,anf-rto....g toO
cat   tborrd crci                                                            ei.ct--ty, o5n  adon , -peer-tee of rota1  sbor foeo.
Poe -lts su-pply of p-oteo  (grans per day) - Pr-t-n  -ct-st  C, P-                   Partiolstio  Bate -prvnt(    total ca, and f-enr - Partcoipatonr
-apitn net supply of food pve day.  ct supply of food io unlined cc                   notlity rairs ar  coaputd notote1, cle, sod finale lo.,tbe fo             - asP_r
lb-c  Beqo1rmento for all  -outecr  -etsbl-hnbo     USD011  provide for a              -tnrg- of total, nnlr cod f-cae ppt-nco  of all age-  -epertirely;
_icicos  alruv1      f6i gren  of totni protein, per c.y cod 20 groi  of              t96o, 1970, and 1975 dats.  Tihr ore LIl  ~patibcyat-o  rates reflecting
an Io and poocP' yrto-n, of  hliob  10 croo  should in unima  pestois.              sg-oresru toret of ticpopulotion, and long ti-r t,red.  i fcc -stitecs
These stunmed  crc loc   tinhos o"       f f   r_n  of totol P.rotei  an-r  fr-ncot i-cl r1                     s
77 geans  f aIco  P-cico  no an -rcea   for tIe oneld, prooceod by Pie              Occoconic lopend-nny Ratio  -  Patio of pcpulot-  under it ed e5 and over cc
io thv Third W-1id Food Ou-oy.                                                        tle labor frE_  Is age group of 15-64  ean
or caPita peotis supply fern n-lea and pl-c - P-ot-  supply of food
d--ovd fro  snen   ad puls- So gino pIr a.                                         9CO  DSTiRIBUTIRN
Chid (ages 1-4) Mrtality Rate   r tosai    A-1O s dnchs pe  ctousad                    P`erentago of Private bca(oth so ran  cod "dcc) - Received by roheos
g..ag   cop 1-4, year, to chlodev  ic thi   , age-c00: for moot drr-I               5 percent,Ilicot 20peot,p....eot 20 percont, and porrent 4o P..eret
opingooIrrre  dntn dr-i-d feo. lifc tabirs                                              of ht.ssoboldn.
HEALTH                                                                                   OVERTY TARG0I 100BPS
Life Eoprotancy" soRoth _ycars) - Acreag  sunee of yc-r  of 1rfe                        Estiotrd Atnoluto P.overty' Imcmv Lrl (7$  ercai n  - urban ad  -tea1
enioicg sotiei   90   90   n 977. leon.                                               Abe-lute poverty i-oceirvlIoitiron  leve  belo  ubrh- mh len
IIfun Mortaity Bnte (pre th usand) - Ro..oI dennis of -sfeot  under ocnt-ct--noly adequate dirt PIu  essetial son-food eoloet  c  nt
ycar of agv Per tious-n  lire tirto.                                                    aIffodable.
tr-c  0I defe  ce    erono   :popotanio    -ittonol, urbanb   nod rual-                  eosmated Relatore B-vrt io-  level )US$ per -arita  - uran cod rura -I
uNtbe, ofCePlrttl  urc,adrrabe ecnol   occt                                             Rural rnlati-e povety  -soen 1-1e is on-third of aegrper capita
cuBe sore spply lnoiudn o.nne   -uf-r  onters or sutrentrd but                   porsonal Income of tie country.  rIan terel in derice          ntin ...a. Iod
uncotinacotedP cetee cubR c  tInt fern Protected  orbo-e ,l ep-igs,                     cit' diju etot foe  highceroto  living in ubanb          rno
nod saitary vel,;) as per-rengec of thre-rsportire populatia.-  To                    Etnicntcd Poulnonoro  iolte Poety loroe  Levoel (rvt) -urban cod
aoraaraspuBlic fountoic or otandpet 1ostod nct aebr than                       rua       ero   fpplns(ra   n   Sa)ooae  a -out   or'
coes  ftIsh    oc    I   urloro  rensosble acces  cold  -eply
thor tel~   no-cc   fe o        Irte   f tIe h.,n-hold do sot]laceto sped                                                      E Ir..o.. Land Boroni DaO Pt  c
dco rccro.otr  art 4f tieday  -0 fotnhg tie Pseo_yc  otorcends                                                           loo-cir Analysn and P-ol otioc- Dep-rtceot



- 26 -                                        Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
US$1ln.           S           1961-65           1966-70           1971-75          1975-78
GNP at Market Prices                       36,040          100.0          9.021             7.74             11.3/               9.I
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment           10,905            30.3         11.3              11.2              11.2               11.9
Gross National Saving                     10,126            28.1
Current Account Balance                     -779             2.2
Export of Goods, NFS                        8,639           24.o          9. o'l9          10 lO9'L          23.62/SI          11-.53
Imports of Goods, NFS                      9,174            25.5        10. WV             12 7g/v           22.3 f            15.5I
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
National Income.'                 Labor Force                       N.I. Per Worker
US$ Bln.         S             4.n              %                US $%
Agriculture                                  4.46           15.3          3.36             32.7              1,327              46.8
Industry                                   16.87            57.9          3.41             33.2              4,947            174.6
Constr ctior.                                2.97           10.2          0.92              8.9              3,228            113.9
Other5I                                      4.83           16.6          2.59             25.2              1,865             65.8
Total/Average                       29.13          100.0         10.28            100.0               2,834            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                              300.8           52.4
Total Expenditures                         299.3            52.1
Total Surplus                                 1.5            0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1975          1976         1977              1978
Money Supply                                176.4          201.4        207.5             232.5
Short-Term Bank Credit                      170.2          194.0       194.5              212.8
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                  103.9          104.4        105.0             107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           0.2            0.5          0.5               2.2
iJ: Growth rate of national income                                                                           EMENA CPlD
-  In current prices
3/ Growth rates of exports and imports only.
J System of material production methodclogy.                                                                December 18, 1979
5/ Includes net output of the non-productive sector.



- 27 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1978
(All Currencies)
1971       1977        1978                                  US $ Mln       %
(Millions US $)
Exports of, Goods and NFS               +944        3,983       4,459          Capital goods            2,289       28
Imports of Goods and NFS                -988        4,080       5,018          Consumer goods           1,405       17
Resource Gap (deficit = -)               -44          -97        -559          Foodstuffs                 784       10
Intermediate goods         667        8
Interest Payments                        -4o         -195        -168         Raw materials             2,911       37
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25          +19         -52            Industrial             2,538       32
Balance on Current Account              -109         -273        -779            Agricultural             373        5
Total             8,056     100
Direct Foreign Investment
Net MLT Borrowingi                                                                                                   -
Disbursements                      +312         +928      1,167                  EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1q79)
Amortization                       -190         -561        602
Subtotal                           +122        +367        +565                                        US $ Mln
Export Credits Extended3/(net)             2/        -171        -186
Short-Term Credit (net)                  -20         +156        +441         Total M and LT                5,359
Net Errors and Omission                   -            -           -1            of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -7          +32         +40            currencies                 5,817
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                             635.6     2,622.1    3,346.5
of which Oil and Oil Products    36.6         875.4       n.a.
Exports                             425.5     1,463.0    1,800.2         DEBT SERVICE RATIO               %
of which Oil and Oil Products   143.0         688.1       n.a.
Convertible currencies only 19.4
EXCHANGE RATES
1.  Official Rate
Before August 1971                     6 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973              5.53 lei:US$1
February 1973-March 1978               4.97 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                       4.47 lei:US$l
2.  Tourist Rate
Before August 1971                     18 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973              16 lei:US$l
February 1973-October 1974             14.35 lei:US$l
Since October 1974                     12 lei:US$l
3. Converstion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978                 20 lei:US$1
Since March 1978                       18 lei:US$1
1/ Includes use of IMF credit.                                                                             EMENA CPlD
Included in M and LT Capital.
/ Includes S, M and LT credits extended.                                                                   December 18, 1979



-26-                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (Ad of November 30, 1979
US$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan Number       Year       Borrower                     Purpose                   Bank    TW      IDA  Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                                           150.0                   -
Ln. 1020-RO       1974       Investment Bank              Fertilizer                   6o.o                  5.0
Ln. 1027-RO       1975       Investment Bank              Special Steel                70.0                   .6
Ln. 1063-RO       1975       BAFI aj                      Agricultural Credit          30.0                 3.4
Ln. 1169-RO       1976       BAFI                         Flood Recovery               40.o                 1.9
Ln. 1242-RO       1976       Investment Bank              Hydropower                   50.0                14.3
Ln. 1247-RO       1976       BAFI                         Irrigation                   6o.o                15.6
Ln. 1368-RO       1977       BAFI                         Irrigation                   60.o                29.6
Ln. 1436-RO       1977       Investment Bank              Bearings                     38.0                25.1
Ln. 1447-Ro       1977       Investment Bank              Glass Fiber                  18.3                 2.0
Ln. 1448-RO       1977       Investment Bank              Polyester                    50.0                20.1
Ln. 1479-RO       1978       BAFI                         Agricultural Credit          71.0                45.1
Ln. 1509-RO       1978       BAFI                         Irrigation                   40.5                39.4
Ln. 1536-RO       1978       Investment Bank              Tire                         85.0                77.4
Ln. 1581-RO       1978       Investment Bank              Post Earthquake              6o.o                47.0
Ln. 1634-RO       1979       Investment Bank              Chemicals                    4o.o                33.9
Ln. 1651-RO       1979       Investment Bank              Pipe                         40.0                40.0
Ln. 1652-RO       1979       Investment Bank              Thermal Power                70.0                63.8
Ln. 1669-RO       1979       BAFI                         Livestock                    75.0                67.1
Ln. 1670-RO       1979       BAFI                         Irrigation                   70.0                70.0
Total                                                 1,177.8 c/             601.3
of which has been repaid                                   7.3
Total now outstanding                                 1,170.5
Amount sold                19.8
of which repaid             5.9                           13.9
Total now paid by Bank b/                              1,156.6
Total undisbursed                                                            601.3
a/   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
b/   Excluding exchange adjustments
c/   In addition, a $85 million loan for the Third Livestock Project was approved by the Executive Directors
on October 30, 1979, and was signed on December 17, 1979. Also a $100 million loan for the Danube-Black
Sea Canal Project is to be considered by the Executive Directors on the same date as the proposed project.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1980
The project is piroceeding satisfactorily after initial delays
due to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construc-
tion. Procurement is virtually complete, and construction is nearing comple-
tion. Most plants have been commissioned, and the urea plant is expected to
be the last one to be commtissioned, probably before mid-1980. The final
project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the
Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
More recent delays have been caused by late delivery of Romanian manufactured
equipment. The cold mill was commissioned in July, 1979 and construction on
the bar mill is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules with
commissioning expected in February, 1980. Total project costs are expected to
be essentially equal to appraisal estimates.  The project is now expected to
be completed in 1980.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a fifteen month delay in commissioning
of generating units. Project execution is otherwise according to plan and
satisfactory. Training of future operational staff is in hand. The loan is
now fully disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
Construction of the pre-mix feed mill is satisfactory and final project
procurement has been carried out under contracts tendered internationally.
Disbursements amounted to US$26.6 million as of November 30, 1979 or 89
percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project execution is proceeding well. Equipment procured under
international competitive bidding has been delivered and only small quantities
of spare parts remain to be procured. Delivery of flood warning equipment is
expected to be completed in 1979 and installation will extend into 1980.
Disbursements as of November 30, 1979 totalled $38.1 million or 95 percent of
the loan amount.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation methods will begin early in 1980. Project execution is
currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works for the dam and under-
ground power station are well underway, and 100 percent of the loan amount has
been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project
works is progressing satisfactorily. Out of 11 dairy farms, four farms are
completed and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported heifers (100 percent of
total) valued at over US$8 million have been awarded. Procurement contracts
for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is
near to completion and will be operational by the end of 1979. Work on soil
erosion control and the land levelling is behind schedule. Disbursement as
of November 30, 1979 amounts to $44.4 million or 74 percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded. Some
construction equipment and about 35 percent of pipe has been delivered.



31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Construction of project works is underway, progress is satisfactory, and are
about 40 percent complete. In 1979 about 18,000 ha have been irrigated.
Works on surface and tile drains are behind schedule. Disbursements as of
November 30, 1979 amounted to $30.4 million or 51 percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Contracts on most major packages have now been signed and imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. Project costs are
expected to be close to, or slightly over, appraisal estimates, according to
the initial cost data and overall economic aspects of the project look some-
what more favorable due to the improved market outlook, improved product mix,
and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank
has reviewed the procurement of roving machines and has decided that proce-
dures undertaken by the Borrower were inconsistent with those required under
the Loan Agreement. Therefore the portion of the loan (US$197,080) that would
have otherwise been elig:ible for disbursement has been cancelled. The procure-
ment of equipment for Section II (Spinning) financed by the Bank is nearly
completed. However, start-up of this section is now expected before end of
March, 1980 with about 12 months delay behind appraisal estimate. This is
mainly due to civil consitruction delays because of severe winter conditions
and also delays in imported equipment delivery and erection. Commissioning
and three-shift operation is targeted for June 1980.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily with production still expected to begin
in the second quarter as planned.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania
in a development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the develop-
ment of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection
centers, expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of
slaughtering and processing facilities. Project implementation is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment
procurement under ICB is almost complete. Disbursements as of November 30,
1979 were $25.9 million or 36.5 percent of the loan amount.



-32-                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts were received in November and
December, 1978, and almost all contracts have been awarded. Construction of
project works is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 25 percent of irrigation
works have been completed. Disbursements as of November 30, 1979 were $1.1
million.
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction of the Zalau plant (truck tires) is slightly behind
schedule with expected completion in the first quarter of 1980. The Turnu-
Severin plant (off-the-road tires) has been delayed 17 months mainly as a
result of difficulties in obtaining adequate responses from prospective
suppliers of the main technology and equipment package. The Romanian Govern-
ment has recently begun negotiations with prospective suppliers for the OTR
package.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements have
lagged because the amount of advance contracting has been greatly reduced,
because of the use of terms which extend payments far beyond what was envis-
aged, and because of delays in submitting withdrawal applications. They are
expected to accelerate later this year.
Ln No. 1634    Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January 15,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the final commissioning is expected by end 1981, as
scheduled.
Ln No. 1651    Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of February 26,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of six months procurement and construction are
proceeding satisfactorily, and it is expected that a contract for the main tech-
nology package will be signed very soon.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1652    Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for implementa-
tion of both projects. Orders for the three Bank financed 330 MW thermo-
electric units have been placed.
Ln No. 1669    Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Draft tender
documents for procurement of construction materials were received and review
comments have been communicated to the Borrower for incorporation in the
revised bidding documents. Disbursements as of November 30, 1979 were $7.9
million or 11 percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1670    Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project; US$70
Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Initial preparatory works are proceeding satisfactorily. Draft
bidding documents for procurement of equipment and materials under ICB were
received and review comments have been communicated to the Borrower for
incorporation in the revised bidding documents.



34 -                           ANNEX III
ROMANIA
COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                          21 months (July 1977-May 1979)
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project:        Ministry of Agriculture and
Food Industry
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank,
and date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                         July 1977 and March 1978
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:    June 4, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:            December 11, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                April 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Funds for constructing additional grain silos, a sugar factory and
wooden storage facilities for maize and modernizing a soybean oil factory
would be made available by the Government and would be completed in time to
satisfy the needs of the project (para. 49).



________________                                                                                                                                               IBRD 14577~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD14  9
SEP-EMBR1 979
V A S L U I   D 1 5 T R I C T                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
C~~ -~~  \  \  ~~~~, ~~      ,-                               "~~~~ -~~                                             COVURLUI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proiect oreo boundary
iZsIp M.rn pumping stxt.On
0Spe Rep-mping stations
% IIe                                                                                                                                   ii. I-  Pressure pumping stofion
3n9. No,                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Existing pumPng stotiuns5
/  C,,ri,i~~~~~i~~r,                                 f ~-Mxin  cana
t"Nc3rrbxxxt  4                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sypls-n
Existing cao-is
~~~~~~lCsnrr                           Ix   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Typical pipe n-t-orn
Stretches of r-unrrqoin re  ronng
I            Do     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~         Riners~~~~~~~~~~~D.  ,
S          Coronnesri.                                                                                                                L2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=   rLsauki
3,  N gslertr  G  Inne4   L                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  turnoso                Sri  Onneon  m                                       Loire~~~~~~~~~~d.i,
j~~~ m n ~~M    eter i                     \ . 7 i11c                                                                                                                         r1s1s r11uCro1s5r fC D   e   d ln m - g :
mtui                                                    D                                              T                      urSwi.kiTigBrdognua
SPA~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                              B -~oo/    ~                                                        Fniu,n  -georptsct
/                    ns-..-DsrctbudrisJd   bonais
'I~~~~~~~~R 
'p  sm/u                                                                                    ,u<rs                    .- .-. Internanronol boundor en~~~~~~~~~T.-
t, Os is ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~W-     et
~~~~                                                                    '0      morons         Eltonon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D,tctb doe   (.etb~-as
s~~~Ornbxxss      5373-/-                                                                                                                                          I /da        e
-PI 16                                               K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IILOMFTyRS 3  3  10         3
VRANCEAPE it
DISTR ICT                                                             El 2                                                                                                       000-n.... o ........ .rst,s0oor
W-ooro    -1 .1- Con.6r
or A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-ron~ I
DISTRICT                                                                                                                                      .5fA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.
urn/a  irrigetitsn                         Ten   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~
CEA  DISTRIC~~~~~~/                                           aI



