Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt Ne. 5613
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1018-NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
April 22, 1985
Tbis document has a restricted distributii and may be used by reciints only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its cotents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization j



'GEITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE     : Industrial Development Bank
(Banque nationale pour le developpement &economique)
CLCA     : Local branch of National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse locale de credit agricole)
CMV      : Development Center
(Centre de ruise en valeur)
CNCA     : National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse nationale de credit agricole)
DMV      : Development Department of HARA
(Direction de mise en valeur)
DRA      : Department of Agricultural Research
(Direction de recherche agricole)
EAPD     : World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Divrision
INRA     : National Institute for Agricu4ural Research
(Institut national de recherche agricole)
.MARA    : Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de l'agriculture et de la reforme agraire)
NEDECO   : Netherlands Engineering Consultants
O & M    : Operation and Maintenance
ONE      : National Electricity Office
(Office national de l'electricite)
ONEP     : National Office for Water Supply
(Office national de l'eau potable)
ONT      : National Transport Office
(Office national de transport)
ORDMVA    : Regional Agricultural Development Office of MARA
(Office r6gional de mise en valeur agricoie)
ORMVAG   : Regional Agricultural Development Office of the Gharb
(Office regional de mise en valeur agricole du Gharb)
SODEA    : Farm Development Corporation
SOGETA   : Agricultural Land Management Corporation
SUNACAS  : Sebou Nationa'l Sugarcane Factory Company
(Sucrerie nationale de canne du Sebou)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOH OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVEOPHENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018 - NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE
BASIC DATA SHEETS
HIGHLIGHTS                                                         ii
I.       BACKGROUND 0N PROJECT AREA                                           1
II.      FORW ULATION                                                         1
* Origin                                                            1
e Issues Raised During Preparation and Appraisal                    4
-- Feasibility of Sugarcane Cultivation                           4
_ Land Tenure                                                     5
III   IMPLEMENTATION AND PROJECT FORMULATION                               5
, Design Changes                                                    5
=- Flood Protection Dikes                                         5
- The Amendment to Sebou II                                       6
. Procurement and Construction:  & - Original Sebou II Project    8
The Sugarcane Factory                                          8
-- Study and Treatment of Factory Effluent                        9
-- Study of Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia)                           9
-- Bridge and Roads                                               9
. Procurement and Construction;  B - The Amendment to Sebou II   10
- The National Sugarcane Center
(renamed Sugarcane Technical Center)                          10
-- Agricultural Development Centers
and Milk Collection Centers    -                              11
-- Staff Housing for the Sugarcane Factory                       11
-- Sugarcane Transport Equipment                                 12
IV.      OPERATIONS AND INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE                           12
. The Sugar Factory                                                12
-- Operations                                                    12
-  By-products                                                   13
Financial Results                                               14
-- The Causes of Financial Losses                                14
-- Financial Remedies                                            15
-  Audit                                                         16
ITis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their offici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
. Production, Development, and Transport of Sugarcane             16
-- Production and-Irrigation                                    16
-- Sugarcane Technical Center                                   17
Mechanization of Harvesting, Loading
and Transport of Cane                                        18
Agricultural Development Centers                             19
. Milk Collection Centers                                         19
. Roads and Sebou River Bridge                                    20
V.       ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                               20
VI.      BANK PERFORMANCE                                                  24
VII.     CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED                                   25
ANNEXES
ATTACHEENT: Borrower s Comments
MAPS



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
The Project under review was a modification of the Rharb Sebou
Irrigation Project (Ln. 643-MOR) for US$46.0 million which provided for the
construction of the Idriss I Dam on the Sebou River and the introduction of
irrigated sugarcane cultivation in the Sebou flood plain. Per capita sugar
cons'mption is high in Morocco and sugar is a major import. Sebou II provided
for the construction of a sugarcane factory and other complementary investments
to help develop the sugarcane indsstry. The Loan for Sebou II (Loan 1018-MOR
for USS32.0 million) was signed in June 1974 and closed in Alugust 1983.
An amount of US$6.0 million was cancelled.
This Project Completion Report (PCR) deals with activities financed
under Sebou II, but reference is made to the formulation and implementation
of Sebou I and how those stages led to the proposal and definition of Sebou
II. The findings of the Project Performance Audit Report for the Rharb Sebou
Irrigation Project (Report NO. 3942) contributed significantly to the
analysis of the findings in this present report.
The PCR was prepared by staff of the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Region. No separate audit was carried out for the Project by OED
staff. The PCR is based on two completion re orts prepared by the Regional
Agricultural Development Office of the Gharb±.' (ORMVAG) and the Sebou
National Sugarcane Factory Company (SUNACAS), on field visits to the Project
area, on extensive discussion with staff of the Project and the Ministries of
Agriculture and Equipment, on two reports prepared by consultants to the Bank
on the sugarcane factory and field operations, and on a review of the Sebou I
and II files.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower on January 18, 1985, for
comments. The comments received have been reproduced -in the Attachment.
l/  tRharb"m and "Gharb" are alternative spellings of the Arabic name of the
Sebou flood plain. "Rharb* was used in the Appraisal Report and Loan
Agreement. "Gharb" is normally used in Morocco today and is adopted in
this report except for references to official Bank documents that used
"Rharb".



Knm  or aC Dcce
to_.m lOtsisv
rawCS  eopff         urors
Asic DATA SIMS?
inV PROJECT DATA
Apprarl-l   Actuat or
or Drisiml  EatlCtd    Actual as 2 of
It"m                                          get late     Actual           mat Ea t aite
Total Projecte    (6 CUSS    iolem                       5- F 7 
loae Amout CUSS millie)                                       32.0        26.0              1t
Sunset coaellad (U   miLlion)                                  -           6.0
Soad Approval Data                                          06124/74     D612,14
Wos Agremo  Deta                                               -         06/27174
tiff  tit eao Data                                          1I007174     02/26/75          242
oas Amendment Approval Date                                    -         07/141I0
Woo Amudment  Agronaut Data                                    -         09/25/k
Cmpletin Dote                                                            05191163
Propeotion Coapletod by  obev- Data (I)                        -            96               -
Clemiag Data                                                0613079       1213l1/62        170
Scomic Rate of securn (Sl                                    15           3.7 Ir
Finareial Portuoremae CZ)                                     10         sejativ
loatitutiomal Parformooce                                              oat WafattOLT
Aricalturatl arformoca                                                  at taL.fctora
rlondtrtal Perforeance                                                 ot -lEfatory
lmployeoat Crawtio-
FornaI3t (Cora-yarm per year)                               IB5          227 la          123
raa.rary (Cua-yearal                                      2.000         *A.M
a tUUTlVt DISUSlZKYS
nn75  FY76   FY77   FY78   FY19  FY30   "Al   FY32   FY          F4
Appraisal Stiate (tus   illiou)            18.1   25.3   28.7   30.7   32.0
Actual CUSS millioe)                        0      *.0   14.4   1'.4   15.2   19.5   21.0   23.6   25.7   26.0
Actol am  arcasntase offtimate              CZ    161    So0    472    45U    612    661    741   got    Sit
Data of rinal Diaboroamnt:        03125183
MISSION DATA
Dot.    fo. of    ar-ay.                        Pr-rjct Perforemane       Piesl
Riaaiou       Mouth/Year PoraB.  is Plaid  Spaialiotion 11                  ties   12     oonrt Data
Appraisal               11173      10       150     4   Mc. fat  SOC                               06174
Appr. of And.a_t        12179       1         ]3    am.                                            021n
Sooteal                                   t5113   -  31 m_e_ aka
Soperviainn 1           11174       3        10     ro, AR. I t            2      2     T          01/75
Spria-io   2           06175        4        20      U. lug, An. An        3      3     FT         07/75
2                      1    PT 09175
Supr-ins 3             02/76        2         S     Ran. An                2      2     rP0        03/PS  -
Saperiain  &           06178        2         6     C1gA 4                 2      2      M         07/76
2     2      T         10/75
2     2      T         12176
S-perlinioo 5          02/77        4        12      Ag. lag, Zoo. Cr      2     2       PT        03/77
Supaeviaion 6          08)77        2         2     ams. Ec                2     2      r          09/77
Spreaion 7             06/71        2         5     Aa  rag                2     2       PO        07/76
Supariauo  7  a)      IO17)        1               Eo                                             11176
Super-ieion 5          03)79        2         a     Za. Ag                 2      1      P         04/79
SperiaioU 9            041/0        2         2     Ag, re                 2     2      0          05/80
S-perialion tO          IV1)        2         9     lgas, Eg               1      I      -         12160
Sperviaa-o  11          tO/Si       1         &     8e                     2      I     -          12/81
S-prooica 12           03/62        1         3     rc                     I      I      -         04162
Sopawiatin  13          10/32       1         2     rc                     I      I     -          12/U2
Sub-totel                                  93     -  19 mow-aako
Compltion              05163        3        35     -   7 mao-wka
Groad Total                                 281     -  56 ao- ka (eal od   proar atio-a
OlEi PlaiCT DATA
marrover                           Kiodoa of Morocco
Es-cutiog Aganci--             (a) Reional Agric-uturL Delopoant Office of the CO-rb (ORNC)
(b) 5_6m Nat 1ial Sugarcaae Fctery Cepany (SIlIaS)
lc) Directorate of Road. Ministry of tqui_mnt
Fiacal Tar                         Jaary I to De_c>rr 31
ama1 of Ctrrenc7 (abbraviatiot )   Dirban (D3)
Carr.ocy ExchoangeIata:
At appraisal      (1973) US0I600   -  OR 4.08   -   FT 4."
1974  0S5I1.0    -   M 4.37 -   FP 4.81
1975   11Sl.00   *   OH 4.05 -   Pt 4.29
1976 0t1#.00   -   0 4.42   -   P 4.78
1977  M   o.0e   -   Ml 4.30   -   n 4.91
1978  0S1I.00   -    N 4.17   -       4.52
1979  0551.00   -   0 3.90 -   Pt 4.26
1990  0511.00   -   0  3.94 -        4.23
1981  0511.00   -   ON 5.17   -   F  5.41
1962  0SI0W    -   M 6.02 -   PP 6.57
(Complation yar)  1983  5SI1.00   -   Dl 6.9"    -   nP 3.l5
1914-om  U031.00      3Du 9.00
1974-82 awraa  ISI1.00   -   DR 4.30   -   F 4.687
Fallen ao Projaet: oas
I As - agroemist; EC - ecoommiat; gm -            Faioar; Irr - irrigation mpecialist; Soc
- acioLiot.
12 Status      I - probla_fros; 2 - eadarato probleam; 3 - sajor problmm.
Trnd    : I - imprDiej; 2 - ststionsty; 3   doteriorating.
Problama:  F - financial; M - mnarial; F   political; T - taehbical; 0 - otbar.
1   leeludas 137 fulI-tiLm  sod 1o 0 _eeo_mal (balf-timl eployes of sgar fctory.
li Conatrutia of factory 1a belie.u  te bau  ineolad approuiLt ly tha leel of
'- Porary mapLyman  foromo at appuimal.
/'   S U0CAS augaraa factory only.  bicb roemunta about 392 of Project coat.



- iii -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.       This report reviews progress under the Sebou II Development Project
(Lu. 1018-MNOR for US$32.0 million). The Project was a modification of the
Rharb Sebou Irrigation Project (Ln. 643-MOR for US$46.0 million) which
introduced the cultivation of irrigated sugarcane into the Sebou River flood
plain, sugar being one of the country's major imports. Sebou II's main
components were:
-    a sugarcane factory, which replaced the unviable Sebou I proposal to
install sugarcane processing equipment in an existing sugar beet mill;
-    flood protection works, considered but excluded in Sebou I, and
proposed again after unprecedented floods occurred in 1970; and
--   a program of road construction, transferred and expanded from
Sebou I, and a Sebou River road bridge.
The Project was amended in 1980:
-   to delete the remaining flood protection works after the construction
of the first dike encountered faxner opposition, long delays, and
high cost overruns, and the Government advanced the proposed
construction schedule of the M'jara flood protection dam on the
Sebou's main flood-causing tributary which rendered the remaining
flood prctection works uneconomic; and
--   to add as new components a national sugarcane research and
multiplication center, expansion of the network of agricultural
development centers and milk collection centers, equipment for
sugarcane harvesting, loading and transport, and staff housing for
the sugar factory.
2.       Overall, Sebou rr presents a mixed picture of achievements and
failures. The SUNACAS sugarcane factory was built and started up on schedule
and has made good progress in improving factory operations, largely as a result
of a comprehensive and effective training program. However, the factory has
experienced much lost time for lack of cane, caused by the combination of frost
in 1976, lower-than-projected average sugarcane yields in all years, lagging
efforts to improve the sugarcane harvesting-transport operations, and the
start-up of sugar production at the nearby new SURAC sugarcane factory in
1981. As a result of these factors and an annually fixed sales price set too
low by the Government, SUNACAS lost money in each of its first nine years of
operation, and its financial structure became greatly weakened. Shortfalls in



- iv -
sugar production, caused mainly by inadequate supply of sugarcane, taken
together with sharply reduced world sugar.prices and a poor price outlook, have
resulted in a recalculated ERR of 3.7X. However, if SAR production forecasts
had been fulfilled, the decline in world sugar prices would have reduced the
ERR of 15.8t at appraisal only down to a still satisfactory 10.9X. If,
conversely, the sugar price forecasts of the SAR had held true, then the actual
and projected PCR levels of sugar production would have still resulted in a
marginally viable factory with an ERR of 8.8%.
3.       These results illustrate the vulnerability of investments for the
production of a single internationally traded commodity like sugar subject to
wide price fluctuations and also dependent on the successful introduction of a
sensitive new crop like sugarcane. The double risk involved in precarious
world price projections and new crop development suggests the desirability of
less timid sensitivity tests during appraisal (paras. 5.01-5.12).
4.       In view of the experience discussed above, it would appear prudent to
postpone consideration of envisaged expansion of sugarcane processing capacity
and related plantings in the Gharb until (a) actual processing of cane and
output of sugar at the SUNACAS and SURAC factories can be brought up to or
close to full capacity levels and (b) the authorities concerned have updated
the economic assessment of sugarcane production and processing in light of
such improved technical performance and further development of world sugar
price trends.
5.       Bridge and road construction (except gravel roads) under the Project
was carried out on schedule and close to cost estimates. Procurement of civil
works and equipment under the amendment was insufficiently synchronized and
suffered extensive delays, mainly for budgetary reasons, but also because of
poor management in the case of the SUNACAS staff housing.
6.       Sebou I and II, taken together, provided for the introduction in the
Gharb of commercial sugarcane production and processing on a basis that
represents a substantial technical and managerial achievement. The advances
made in a decade in the Sebou plain compare favorably with the sugarcane
development that numerous other countries have achieved only after
considerably longer periods of time.
7.       The following points are also of interest:
the realistic and flexible approach of the Moroccan authorities and
the Bank in responding to changed circumstances in Sebou I and II and
approving amendments that substantially strengthened the Projects
(paras. 2.01, 3.02-3.04, 7.01-7.02);
-    the risks involved in establishing a new commercial sugarcane
industry, and the important role that the specialized center for
adaptive research and the multiplication of new cane varieties plays
in overcoming these risks (paras. 2.04, 4.14-4.17, 4.21);
the critical role of mechanization in sugarcane harvesting, loading
and transport and the delays of ORMVAG and SUNACAS in procurement of
equipment and initiation of pilot experiments (paras. 3.05(b),
3.18-3.19, 4.18-4.21);



- v -
the important contribution of milk collection centers (despite their
seeming incongruity in a sugarcane development project) to the
stability of small and medium farmer income within and outside
sugarcane cultivation (paras. 3.05(e), 4.22);
the significant contribution made by training to the technical
success of the SUNACAS sugarcane factory, and the correlation of
training and its absence with effective and ineffective aspects of
mechanization of cane harvesting and transport (paras. 4.01, 4.18,
4.20-4.21);
the importance of improved coordination across agency lines of
investment planning, scheduling, budgeting, and financing to ensure
that major indirect costs and indirect benefits are taken into
account in decision-making, notably in regional development schemes
(paras. 4.14-4.16, 7.07);
the loss to Morocco of over US$1 million in foreign exchange under
the loan as a result of long delays in the submission of reimbursement
requests to the Bank in a period of rapid depreciation of the dirham,
additional losses of US$0.5-1.0 million in foreign exchange in
foregone interest earnings on the delayed and lost loan
reimbursements; and some suggested remedies to apply in other
projects (para. 7.06 and Annex 9); and
the recommendation of Sebou I and II for an OED impact study
(para. 7.08).



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-M0R)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. BACKGROUND ON PROJECT AREA
1.01     The Project was designed to complement the investments made in
agricultural production, and more especially in sugarcane, under the Rharb
Sebou Irrigation Project (FY69-Loan 643-MOR, PPAR No. 3942) by the construction
of flood protection dikes along the Sebou River, a sugar cane factory, and an
improved road network linking the cane fields, the factory and the national
highways of the region. The Gharb (or Rharb)" region is an inland flood
plain of about 460,000 ha located some 100 km north-east of Rabat and blessed
with average but fluctuating annual rainfall of about 500 mm, mild winters,
hot dry summers, and alluvial soil, which make it one of Morocco's most
productive agricultural regions. The Gharb is fed by the Sebou River and its
three main tributaries, the Ouerrha, the Beht, and the Inaouene. The latter
two drain the moderate rainfall and moderate gradients and permeable soils of
the Middle Atlas Mountains and are partly controlled by the El Kansara Dam on
the Beht (enlarged by the Side Slimane Irrigation Project (FY65 - Ln. 389-MOR)
and the Idriss I built on the Inaouene under the Rharb Sebou Project. In
contrast, the Ouerrha is fed by the heavier rainfall and torrential streams of
the steep, eroded and impermeable southern slopes of the Rif Mountains and is
completely uncontrolled. The Government's changing plans for construction of
a major flood-control dam on the Ouerrha at the foot of the Rif at M'Jara
played a crucial role in the formulation of the Sebou II Development Project
and in its subsequent amendment as discussed in this report.
II. FORMULATION
Origin
2.01     The Project was a modification of (not a sequel to) the Rharb Sebou
Irrigation Project (Loan 643-MOR, November 13, 1969, and PPAR No. 3942, May 27,
1982). It was presented to the Board as a separate project only after the
Bank's management declined a staff proposal for supplementary financing for the
Rharb Sebou Irrigation Project (hereafter referred to as Sebou I). The Project
was designed to accommodate the Government's and the Bank's reassessment of
the following major assumptions and their related treatment in Sebou I:
(a) That the harvesting of sugar beets (an existing crop) and sugarcane
(to be introduced on a commercial scale under Sebou I) would occur at
different times. On this basis, Sebou I provided for the apparently
lowest cost solution of equipping an existing sugar beet factory with
1/ See footnote in Preface.



-2-
cane receiving and crushing machinery which was to be used in
conjunction with the existing beet sugar extraction line. However,
additional field trials during the first years of Sebou I
implementation showed the need to revise the cane production cycle
for yield and other reasons. This change resulted in overlap of
harvest with sugar beets and necessitated a separate cane factory at
a much higher cost than the modification to the beet factory. (For
further details, see also PPAR 3942 (paras. 4.03-4.04.)
(b) That the increase in road traffic resulting from agricultural
development in the Sebou I Project area would be modest. Road
investments under Sebou I were accordingly limited to the
rehabilitation of tertiary links. The separatq cane factory and a
proposed factory to produce irrigation pipes for the Sebou I Project,
both to be located near the beet factory and the center of the
Project area, precipitated revised traffic projections.  In turn,
recommendations were made for extensive rehabilitation of primary and
secondary roads and the construction of a new Sebou River bridge to
serve the cane factory, in addition to the improvement and
construction of tertiary and feeder roads, all at a substantially
increased total cost. It was agreed to finance under Sebou II all of
these elements, including the tertiary roads originally provided for
under Sebou I. In order to obtain cost reductions to help make
sugarcane cultivation economic, it was also agreed to apply existing
standard traffic criteria (tonnages) for types of road surfacing and
thereby to downgrade many proposed bituminous stretches to gravel and
gravel to earth, the latter notably as feeder roads along the long
axes of sugarcane fields to be built during the installation of the
irrigation network.
Cc) That flooding of the planned irrigation perimeters of the Sebou I
Project area by the Sebou River and its northern tributary, the
Ouerrha, would not be of sufficient frequency or intensity to warrant
construction of flood protection works in view of the elevated
placement of the main Project irrigation structures and given the
planned construction of a large multi-purpose dam upstream on the
Ouerrha at M'jara which would essentially control all except 100-year
floods (94X protection). On the basis of this assessment, Sebou I
excluded flood protection. However, after the occurrence in 1970 of
by far the worst flood ever recorded in the Sebou plain, the
Government hired international consultants to carry out a
comprehensive analysis of the need for flood protection under an
amendment to Sebou I (see President's Memorandum to the Executive
Directors No. R71-119, May 21, 1971). This study took into account
another serious flood in 1971, a climatological forecast of higher
rainfall in the period 1970-1985, and the Government's planned
deferment of the M'jara Dam. The study's recommendations to construct
a system of dikes and escape channels in the Sebou I Project area
were accepted by the Government and the Bank. The need to delete
about 5,000 ha from the irrigation perimeters to create the escape
channels on the left bank of the Sebou led to the Goverment's
proposal to add a perimeter of similar size to the right bank in
compensation, but this idea was rejected for technical reasons and
4iseconomies of small scale.



- 3 -
(d) That the geology and soil structure of the slopes of the Arabat
(Idriss I) Reservoir were adequately stable to support the existing
roads and railway line located in the reservoir zone during the
partial filling of the reservoir under Sebou r. On t:is basis, no
provision was made for protection or relocation of such works.
However, a Sebou I geological study conducted in 1972 demonstrated an
urgent need for relocation of certain roads and protection works for
the railway before the filling of the reservoir reached the
intermediate level required to meet the irrigation needs of Sebou I.
These two components were contemplated for inclusion in Sebou II, but
were ultimately financed from other sources when preparation of
certain Sebou II components and hence appraisal were delayed by one
year.
2.02     The objective of the Sebou II Project at appraisal was thus to permit
and safeguard the achievement of the objectives of Sebou I. The Project, as
appraised, included t.he following components:
(a)  the construction of a new sugarcane factory at Mechra Bel Ksiri with
a capacity of 2,500 tons of sugarcane per day;
(b) the improvement of about 30 km of primary roads and about 60 km of
secondary roads, and the construction of a new road bridge over the
Sebou River at Mechra Bel Ksiri;
(c) the construction of new and the improvement of existing tertiary and
unclassified access roads totaling about 330 km;
(d) the provision of equipment for maintenance of access roads and for a
sugarcane transport study;
(e) studies, final design and construction of earth flood protection
dikes to protect the 35,200 ha being developed for irrigated
agriculture and to confine flood overspill from the Sebou River to
three flood escape channels; construction of any flow regulating
structures necessary in the channels; and the resettiement of
families living in the channels;
(f) the strengthening of roads and railway tracks in the flood escape
channels to prevent damage during floods;
(g) the provision of consultant services to assist in surveys, design and
supervision of construction of the flood protection works; to assist
in the expansion of sugarcane production in the Sebou I area; and to
assist in acceptance trials of the sugarcane factory;
(h) a consultant study of existing industrial pollution of the lower
Sebou River and, if justified by the study, construction of an
effluent treatment plant to treat effluent of both the existing sugar
beet factory and the new sugarcane factory at Mechra Bel Ksiri;
(i) a consultant study of schistosomiasis infestation in the Gharb Plain
and the possibility for its eradication; and



- 4 -
(j)  the provision of fellowships to supplement on-the-job training of
personnel in sugarcane production and processing and extensicz
services.
Issues Raised During Preparation and Appraisal
2.03     The major issues that emerged during preparation and appraisal were
the feasibility of sugarcane cultivation and land tenure.
2.04     Feasibility of Sugarcane Cultivation.  During the course of
preparation of Sebou II in 1972-74, the question of the viability of sugarcane
production in the Gharb, which had been accepted as a calculated risk under
Sebou I, was reopened in the Bank. Irrigation and sugarcane cultivation were
just starting in some of the areas being equipped under Sebou I. Sebou I
provided for the development of over 14,000 ha of sugarcane from a tiny base
of field research and trials which had been developed in the Gharb and in the
Moulouya Valley on the Mediterrean coast since the reintroduction of sugarcane
into Morocco in the early 1960s (it had been cultivated for hundreds of years
before disappearing a few centuries ago). The Sebou I SAR recognized the
uncertainties involved and advocated a major program of experimentation. All
critical questions and risks, such as varieties, disease, frost, adaptability,
acceptance, harvest and transport technology, research, training of personnel,
and pricing and economic justification, were raised during preparation of
Sebou I. A key Bank pre-appraisal mission for Sebou II in 1973 regarded the
need for a separate sugarcane factory, and the consequent delayed start-up of
processing operations, as an opportuaity to gain time for dealing with these
problems. This mission, which essentially confirmed the findings of the
Sebou I appraisal, specifically concluded that "climatically, the Project
area is marginal for sugarcane" and, after an inspection of the existing
sugarcane research station in the area and the one in Moulouya, that the "work
to date forms a poor base on which to establish a cane indtustry,` but
recommended "that a calculated risk be taken in proceeding with the
establishment of a commercial sugarcane industry in the Project area subject
to the Government (a) obtaining the necessary experienced expatriate
assistance ... to intensify and expand all aspects of sugarcane research, and
Ib) provide adequate finance and training of extension staff."
2.05     With the wisdom of hindsight, the following aspects of the risk
appear to have been addressed less conclusively than the norm. First, the
newness of sugarcane cultivation in the Gharb might have suggested more
caution and study than the record shows having taken place regarding sugarcane
harvest periods and the proposed addition of sugarcane equipment to the
sugarbeet factory in Sebou I. Second, following lengthy staff debate within
the Bank on the economic viability of sugarcane cultivation in the Gharb, a
decision was reached to continue to support it under Sebou II despite a number
of umnanswered technical and economic questions (such as yield expectations,
costs of production and transport, possibly better alternative cropping
patterns involving sugar beets, as well as the risks of large-scale
tintroduction of sugarcane in circumstances of inadequate extension, large
numbers of small growers, lack of factory control over cane land, and transport
by an independent authority) and a staff recommendation for further study.
Third, although the need for continuing sugarcane research was repeatedly
emphasized, no provision to institutionalize it was made in Sebou I; Sebou II
furnished initial consultant services to help organize the activity with a



-5-
view to expanding the existing center. This did not occur, and a new center
was subsequently brought to fruition with the support of German bilateral
assistance and an amendment to Sebou II discussed below.
2.06     Land Tenure.  During the first several years of implementation of
Sebou I, the Bank was concerned by what appeared to be slow progress on the
land distribution objectives of the Project which were considered crucial to
its overall success, and in particular, by the apparent direct sale to big
Moroccan landowners of a large share of Project area land owned by foreign
settlers, and envisaged for distribution to subsistence farmers and landless
laborers. The issue was resolved by the Bank's acceptance of the Government's
revised land distribution program which involved several additional years of
implementation to permit selection and training of beneficiaries.  (For
further details, see also PPAR 3942, paras. 4.24-4.27.)
III. IMPLEMENTATION AND PROJECT FORMULATION
Design Changes
3.01     Even before Sebou II was negotiated in 1974, views within the
Government began to diverge regarding the suitability of the flood protection
dikes included in the project. The ultimate deletion of five of the six
dikes, and the further amendment of Sebou II to apply the unused Loan funds to
new components, constitute the main changes in design of the Project (see
para. 3.05).
3.02     Flood Protection Dikes.  The origin of the proposal to construct
dikes and the implications of their construction vs. non-construction for
agricultural development in the Project area are discussed in the Sebou I PCR
(PPAR 3942, paras. 4.11-4.17). The issue whether to implement their
construction or not was complex, but in broad lines it pitted flood control
theory and policy and the protagonist Directorate of Hydraulic Works of the
Ministry of Equipment, on the one hand, against the practical problems of
administration of land inventory and acquisition, procedures of compensation
to farmers, construction and maintenance of works, farmers' fears that any
diversion of floods would increase damages elsewhere and the Regional
Agricultural Development Office of the Gharb (ORMVAG) in opposition, on the
other. Their debate was conducted in the context of continual revision in the
Government's scheduling of the M'jara Dam in response to shifting expectations
regr-'-I availability of budgetary resources and the steadily rising estimate
of the cost of construction of M'jara.
3.03     It had been agreed that ORMVAG would assume responsibility for
construction of the dikes with technical assistance from the Directorate of
Hydraulic Works and international consultants. The first construction
contract was let for sector P-ll, located on the left bank of the Sebou above
the confluence of the Ouerrha and therefore not to be protected by the future
M'jara Dam, but also less at risk for major flooding than the other sectors,
all downstream of the confluence. The P-ll dike system, initially 18 km in
length, was begun in 1975 and after several long interruptions completed only
in 1981, over five years behind schedule. The delays were attributed by
ORMVAG to difficulties in expropriation of land needed for the dikes and for
fill earth (vocal opposition of farmers to giving up farm land, houses,
cemeteries, etc.), which also resulted in changes in the path of the dike and



-6-
its lengthening to 24 km. Excluding technical assistance for designs and land
acquisition, the cost of construction of P-l1 (DH 9.6 million) greatly
exceeded the appraisal estimates of base cost (DH 3.9 million) and tbtal cost
including contingencies (DH 5.3 million) and also the original contract amount
(DH 6.3 million), as a result of longer earth hauls, higher unit compaction
costs, and delays as well as the increased length.1' The Bank gave its
support to the ORMVAG side of the debate after a recalculation by consultants
in 1978 showed that the dikes would be economic (ERR   l0%) only if they had a
useful life of at least 20 years, which would imply construction of M'jara
only after the year 2000, a much later date than any of the various Government
projections. The risk of flood damage in the interim was regarded as lower
than at the time the dikes were proposed since sugarcane would occupy a larger
share and crops more susceptible to flood damage a smaller share of the
flood-prone area. The Government officially notified the Bank in late 1978,
seven months before the Closing Date, of its decision to delete the remaining
dikes and request approval of the new project elements discussed below.
3.04     Evaluation of the wisdom of the decisions to build and then to delete
the dikes is difficult, dependent as the decisions were on such elusive
criteria as: (1) flood risk analysis, (2) very long-term investment planning
in a third-world country subject to the financial buffetings of oil prices,
world recession, and prolonged drought, and (3) the reactions of the affected
farm population. At the time of the completion mission in May 1983, ORMVAG
and the Directorate of Hydraulic Works continued to maintain their views
expressed during the mid-1970s. On balance, the major actors at each stage
seem to have taken rational positions in light of the data available, their
responsibilities, and their institutional interface with the realities of the
situation as they perceived them. What might superficially seem to have been
hasty project planning should more properly be regarded as realistic
flexibility in responding to changing events, even when it meant coming full
circle.
3.05     The Amendment to Sebou II. A major Amendment to Loan 1018-MOR was
approved July 14, 1980, by the Executive Directors.-'  Experience in
implementation of Sebou I and Sebou II in the mid-1970s had demonstrated to
the Moroccan authorities and Bank supervision missions the need for further
complementary investments to assure the success of agricultural development in
the Project area and, in particular, the establishment of sugarcane production
and processing on a sound basis. The definition of these investment needs at
about the same time as funds were to be made available by the decision to
delete the remaining flood protection dikes facilitated the financing of the
new components by the Bank. The additional items covered by the Amendment
were:
(a) A national sugarcane center for applied research, multiplication of
varieties, and technical assistance and training. The emergence of
this proposal from ORMVAG and the preparation of a detailed plan for
its implementation by a consultant to the Bank at the request of
ORMVAG represented the rinal crystallization of a need identified but
not fully articulated by missions at all stages of preparation of
11  The total effective cost of P-ll, including technical assistance costs
incurred for the deleted protection works, was DH 15.9 million, compared
to the P-l1 appraisal base cost estimate of DH 4.6 million.
2/  See President's Memorandum to the Executive Directors No. R80-195,
July 1, 1980.



- 7 -
Sebou I and Sebou II. The proposal provided for the equipping for
irrigation of an 860 ha tract and the construction of a laboratory,
offices and housing. German bilateral assistance provided
complementary equipment, staffing, operational support and training.
(b) Sugarcane transport equipment. Technical questions of sugarcane
supply to the factory (such as hand vs. machine cutting and loading
of sugarcane, in-field vs. roadside loading, rainy vs. dry season
operations, non-stop vs. relay transport to the factory, and trucks
vs. tractor-hauled trailers) were also repeatedly raised as critical
planning issues during Project preparation. On the basis of a
sugarcane transport study carried out by a consultant under Sebou II,
the proposal provided for 13 special tractors and 60 trailers
designed for in-field hand loading, even in wet conditions.
(c) Staff housing for the sugarcane factory. In Sebou I, the original
proposal to add sugarcane receiving and crushing equipment to the
existing sugar beet factory at Mechra Bel Ksiri was made on the
explicit assumption that the small numbers of additional staff needed
could be accommodated in the existing housing of the beet factory.
In the original Sebou It proposal for construction of a separate
sugarcane factory, no staff housing was provided for since the local
rental market was satisfactory. The proposed amendment providing for
construction of 80 lodgings was based on reported factory experience
with excessive staff turnover and recruitment problems in 1977-78 in
the face of a national rental price explosion which adversely affected
the factory because of its relatively lower pay scale, the new high
rents charged for sub-standard local housing, and the comparative
isolation of Mechra Bel Ksiri.
-d) Five agricultural development centers. This proposal represented a
logical expansion of the infrastructure of agricultural extension in
the Project area that was begun even before Sebou I, to meet the
complex needs of introducing irrigation, not only in sugarcane
cultivation, but also in other crops, including cereals, for which
rainfed cultivation was a strong tradition even in equipped perimeters
and during periods of drought. The proposal provided for construction
and equipping of the centers, including the furnishing of sugarcane
harvesters.
(e) Twelve milk collection centers. The importance of a livestock-forage
production strategy as a component of irrigated cropping patterns was
recognized at the outset of Sebou I preparation. Import of purebred
dairy cows and expansion of milk production were encouraged during
the 1970s by changes in price policy. The proposal to add milk
collection centers to Sebou II, although initially resisted in the
Bank as extraneous to the central theme cf sugarcane development, was
ultimately accepted and clearly responded to a critical marketing
bottleneck of a farm product important to the steady flow of income
to a substantial number of small- and medium-scale farmers in the
Gharb.



- 8 -
Procurement and Construction: (A) Original Sebou II Project
3.06     The Sugarcane Factory.  The factory was procured under a turnkey
contract awarded after ICB. There were no major procurement problems,
although bidding was delayed pending a Government decision to drop a
requirement that bidders offer suappliers credit in addition to their normal
bids. Of eight bids received, only three were considered by SUNACAS and the
Bank as adequately responsive. The offer of the bidder awarded the contract
was the most acceptable technically, and also the low bid. The contract was
signed in early 1974 before approval of the Bank's Loan, and retroactive
financing was provided. The contract cost was FF 50.3 million (fixed price)
plus DH 27.2 million (subject to escalation). Taking into account the
prevailing exchange rates,1/ updating the dirham costs from their
mid-1973 base, and imputing foreign exchange components to certain dirham
costs, the appraisal report translated the contract figures into an estimate of
DH 70.8 million (USt17.0 million equivalent) in base costs, the upper end of
the price range of the period, and DR 76.8 million (US$18.8 million equivalent)
including physical and price contingencies on dirham costs. The overall
foreign exchange content was estimated at 80%. Actual final contract costs
were FF 51.2 million (including a FF 0.9 million supplement to cover a delay
in final tests and reception caused by the major frost damage to the sugarcane
crop in 1976), plus DH 32.7 million (after escalation). The actual cost
(equivalent to DH 74.7 million and USt 18.2 million) exceeded the appraisal
base cost estimate by 5.4% and was 2.7% under the estimate including
contingencies.  No significant problems were encountered during construaction
which was completed essentially on schedule in the spring of 1975 in time to
process the planned small initial harvest of sugarcane under the Sebou I
Project.
3.07     Certain technical choices involved in the factory's design merit
observation. First, the specifications made an allowance of only 4.5% for all
causes of lost time (cane availability and the various factory operations) at
full development of cane supply and factory operations in relation to the
targeted capacity of 2,500 tons of cane per day and 450,000 tons per season of
180 days. This high demand for efficiency compares with a sugarcane industry
norm of 10%. In practice, field operations are still not fully organized (see
paras. 4.01-4.02 for actual results). Second, although the capacities of the
factory's components overall are reasonably well balanced, the four mills of
the mill tandem are marginal at 2,500 tons per day capacity. This is because
they are dimensioned to 12.5% fiber content on the cane rather than the
relatively high 16-18% actually encountered, an apparent oversight in design.
To install one or two more mills becomes cramped, but is feasible, and could
raise the existing mill tandem capacity to 3,600 tons per day with effectively
the same efficiency as now. Third, bidders were asked to make proposals for
an attached refinery and a sulfitation process incorporated into the raw sugar
house. SUNACAS opted to install the sulfitation process but discontinued its
use after initial results were found to be lunsatisfactory. The mission was
not able to evaluate this experience, but in view of the satisfactory use of
sulfitation in other developed and third-world countries with a saving of 5-6%
of the sugar refined plus the refinery cost, a reassessmen: of this process by
SUNACAS is recommended.
1/  US$1.00 = FF 4.99 = DH 4.08.



3.08     Study and Treatment of Factory Effluent.  After a considerable delay
occasioned by the preparation and approval of terms of reference for the
proposed study of existing industrial pollution in the lower Sebou River, and
by the transfer of responsibility for the study from SUNACAS to the National
Office for Water Supply (ONEP), the Bank agreed in 1977 to its execution by
ONEP, taking into account that the major share of the work had reportedly
already been done by ONEP, and what remained was essentially a synthesis and
final report. However, the record does not show any subsequent follow-up by
the Moroccan authorities or the Bank, and the completion mission was informed
by SUNACAS that the study was not carried out. No recommendations were made
to the Bank to construct the effluent treatment plant for the two sugar
factories at Mechra Bel Ksiri as tentatively envisaged by the Sebou II
Project, and the Loan funds allocated tor this purpose were ultimately
cancelled.
3.09     In its completion report, SUNACAS presents the findings of pollution
observations made by the company during factory operations in 1982, noting,
for example, a ratio of chemical to biological demand for oxygen in the factory
effluent well above normal expectations. In the absence of Government-approved
pollution control standardE (a draft regulation providing for strict controls
has been under consideration since 1980), SUNACAS is understandably reluctant
to introduce expensive controls that might prove unequal to future criteria,
and therefore proposes for the time being to introduce simple internal
recycling measures and a system of settling ponds which it envisages will
reduce chemical and biological demand for oxygen and matter in suspension by
60-80Z. This seems a reasonable position for SUNACAS to take, but in no way
diminishes the desirability of the establishment of pollution control standards
by the Government.
3.10     Study of Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia).  This study was proposed for
inclusion in Sebou II, not on the basis of evidence of a problem in the Sebou
River or its tributaries, but as a precaution in view of reports of cases of
bilharzia in a coastal zone north of Kenitra outside the Project area. After
some delay on the part of the Ministry of Health, the study of the Gharb plain
was superseded by a proposed national study to be financed by the Arab Fund.
However, the record does not indicate the results of the national study.
3.11     The studies of factory effluent and bilharzia illustrate the lesson
of experience elsewhere that there is a lesser likelihood of successful
implementation and careful monitoring of Project components whose objectives
or whose implementing agencies are peripheral to the Project as a whole. Such
components should not necessarily be avoided, but their achievement or non-
achievement should be regarded as neither decisive gains nor critical losses.
(See PPAR 4236, Doukkala I Irrigation Project, para. 4.14 for a comparable
Moroccan experience with a bilharzia component.)
3.12     Bridge and Roads.  Procurement and construction were carried out in a
normal way without significant problems or delays for the bridge across the
Sebou River and, with one exception (see para. 3.13), for the roads in the
Project area. The roads program was, however, substantially cut back from
appraisal estimates by elimination of the strengthening of roads (and railway
tracks) in the deleted flood escape channels, by reduced reliance on
transloading centers for transport of sugarcane to the factory, and by sharp
reductions in the improvement of secondary roads and in the construction of



- 10 -
gravel roads. The cutback in gravel roads had the effect of substantially
restoring the relative importance of the more expensive bituminous roads which
had been reduced in favor of gravel surfacing during Project preparation
[para. 3.0l(b)1.
3.13     The actual cost of construction per kilometer for primary, secondary
and bituminous roads was extremely close (0-3X) to appraisal estimates,
including physical and price contingencies. This result was attributable
partly to completion of the reduced program sooner than was envisaged, and
partly to the experience of the Directorate of Roads, ORMVAG, and the road
construction industry. In contrast, the actual cost per km of gravel feeder
roads was more than double the appraisal estimate, including contingencies, a
result that reflected in part a delay in contracting by ORMVAG from the first
to the fourth year of the Project. In aggregate, the bridge and reduced road
component cost DR 35.8 million, a 40X reduction from the estimated cost,
including contingencies, at appraisal of DH 60.0 million. The following table
compares the actual road construction program and unit costs with appraisal
estimates.
Construction
Type of Road                        Program _          ----Unit Cost
Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal   Actual
(km)                       (DH/km)
Improvement of Class I                       30         30       (
) 148       153
Improvement of Class II                     64          32       (
Construction/Improvement of Bituminous    100           81         186       187
Construction of Gravel Feeder               226         86          39        85
Total                                 420         229         102       139
Procurement and Construction: (B) The Amendment to Sebou II
3.14     The National Sugarcane Center (renamed Sugarcane Technical Center).
The sugarcane center consists of a 523-ha former French-owned farm taken over
by the Moroccan Government in 1973 and transferred first to SOGETA and then to
ORMVAG in 1975, plus 161 contiguous ha rented from private farmers. The total
tract of 684 ha (reduced from 860 ha initially envisaged) is located in sector
C-2 of the second tranche (post-Sebou I) irrigation program of the Rharb, and
even before the decision was made in late 1977 to create the center, its
equipping for gravity irrigation as part of sector C-2 was well advanced with
the near completion of land consolidation, land leveling, and installation of
an underground and surface drainage network.
3.15     In early 1978, on the basis of detailed plans and bid documents
prepared by international consultants, coordinated procurement was initiated
by ORMVAG to equip the center for sprinkler irrigation, and bids were actually
invited for the supply and installation of underground pipes and hydrants.
However, two factors intervened to undermine the procurement planning and
delay the completion of the center. First, a change in concept made during



- 11 -
the design stage for the center's repumping station to increase its power to
accommodate a possible future shift from conventional to cannon sprinklers and
rolling irrigation equipment resulted in a delay in the bid invitation for
civil works for the station by nearly 18 months to mid-1979. Second, growing
national financial stringency led to a slowdown of budgetary authorizations,
contract approvals, and payments to contractors. As a result of these
factors, contracting for the other civil works and for equipment became poorly
coordinated and greatly stretched out (for example, from six to ten months
between award and contract signing of four contracts for pipes, mobile
irrigation equipment and electro-mechanical equipment, and 20 months between
signing and start of work under the hydrant contract). The first lot of
mobile irrigation equipment (ordered on the original timetable, despite the
delay in the repumping station) was delivered 16 months before the start-up of
the repumping station at the end of 1981. The second lot, which was a small
part of a large contract for the second tranche Rharb program and timed to
that program's needs, arrived 12 months after start-up of the center's pumps.
Contracting for the center's laborat.ry, offices, and lodgings was delayed
until mid-1982. Work was interrupted to readapt the plans for the laboratory
to the equipment envisaged, and construction was still in progress at loan
closing in mid-1983. Cost overruns were not major except for smali diameter
pipes (40%) and hydrants (46X). Despite these problems, the overall quality
of construction and equipment was considered satisfactory. The center started
limited adaptive research operations in April i982, three years after the
target date of April 1979 (initial multiplication of a few new varieties began
earlier in 1980 -- para. 4.17). During this period sugarcane research was
being conducted at the INRA general agricultural research center in the
Project area and in Moulouya, but the lag in the construction of the Sugarcane
Technical Center delayed the development and introduction in the Gharb of
improved sugarcane cultivation techniques and despite the early start of
multiplication probably also slowed the commercial introduction of new
sugarcane varieties.
3.16     A&ricultural Development Centers and Milk Collection Centers.
Contracting and construction of civil works for these centers were carried out
satisfactorily and essentially on schedule between 1976 and 1979. Procurement
of related equipment, however, was not well coordinated with civil works.
Half of the milk cooling tanks were ordered and arrived a year ahead of the
construction of the corresponding centers. More significant, procurement of
the tractors and other general agricultural equipment envisaged for the five
agricultural centers was initiated by ORMVAG only in 1980-81 (and contracts
signed in 1981-82), three to four years after completion in 1977 of the
buildings for the new agricultural centers. In the interim these centers had
to rely on inadequate stocks of worn and only partly serviceable equipment.
3.17     Staff Housing for the Sugarcane Factory.  Probably the least
successful component of the Project, the SUNACAS factory housing was begun in
1978, suffered recurrent delays in funding and contractor activities, was high
cost for the types of materials used, received inadequate supervision from
SUNACAS' contract architect (who served without the benefit of a bureau of
control) as evidenced by construction deficiencies (leaks, settlement)
uncorrected for two or more years, was without water, sewerage and electricity
connections for at least two years after completion of the buildings, and was
still not occupied at the time of the completion mission in May 1983. The
original justification of the component based on staff turnover [para. 3.05(c)]



- 12 -
is put into question not only by the poor management of contracting and the
non-occupancy of the housing, but also by the fact reported to the completion
mission that about 95% of SUNACAS' permanent employees (90% of seasonals) have
been with the company since start-up in 1975.
3.18     Sugarcane Transport Equipment.  Initial decisions to invest in the
mechanization of sugarcane harvesting and transport, a major issue since
Project preparation [para. 3.05(b)], were made only in late 1981, after three
or four studies had been done over the course of Project implementation. The
long delay and the requests for additional studies were linked principally to
two evolving technological factors. First, although opinions differed during
appraisal as to the availability of labor for harvest, hand-cutting was
recommended over mechanical harvesting because it was considered more efficient
even if manpower had to be trucked in from reasonable distances and also
avoided the risk of causing unemployment. With the passage of time, an
increase in more attractive unskilled and semi-skilled employment opportunities
in the Gharb led to a comparative labor shortage for the onerous manual tasks
of cutting cane and especially of loading cane onto trucks. Second, changes
in the sugarcane cultivation cycle introduced to better cope with the risk of
frost were moving up the period of harvesting more into the winter rainy
season.
3.19     On the basis of these considerations as well as the most recent study
and the initial experience of a sugarcane harvesting cooperative with the
operatiorns of a mechanical harvester under Gharb conditions, ORMVAG and
SUNACAS agreed on a balanced program of harvesters, loaders, tractors, and
specialized trailers (see cost table) to launch a pilot experimental effort
(originally envisaged for the mid-70s by the SAR) involving different
combinations of mechanized and hand operations affecting about 10% of the cane
currently produced in the Project area. This program also introduced greater
flexibility into the previous rigid division of labor between ORMVAG
(contracting of cane cutting and in-field loading) and SUNACAS (contracting,
with ONT's assistance, of transport to the factory). After a year's delay for
final government authorization, contracts were signed in late 1982 with an
international supplier and the equipment arrived in the spring of 1983, much
of it, however, too late to be observed in operation by the completion mission
or to contribute significantly to that season's harvest.
IV. OPERATIONS AND INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
The Sugar Factory
4.01     Operations.  From the technical and management points of view, the
SUNACAS sugar factory has made commendable progress in only nine years of
operation (including a year virtually lost to frost in 1976 which necessitated
extending trials through 1977). This achievement is evidenced by the steady
reduction in time lost because of factory operations (factors other than cane
availability) from 27% in 1977 to 4% in 1982 and 3% through April 1983, and by
the increase in cane throughput per crop day from 680 tons in 1975 to
1,550 tons in 1977, and nearly 1,800 tons in 1983 after a decline in 1981-82.
This record was made possible mainly by the high priority given by management
to training (for all functions and levels of personnel; on-the-job, in Moroccan
institutions and factories, and abroad; and short term and long-term, the
latter as a prerequisite to employment in certain positions). SUNACAS now



- 13 -
serves as a training center for other sugar factories. The completion mission
observed the factory personnel to be well organized, disciplined and well
informed about their responsibilities. Maintenance was good. A number of
desirable changes to the original factory equipment had been introduced in
light of experience and other needed changes were envisaged. Another index of
the performance of management and the success of the training programs is the
extremely low turnover rate of staff, both permanent and seasonal (para. 3.17).
In 1982, SUNACAS realigned its factory responsibilities to the common practice
(one shift chief in charge of sugar fabrication and another in charge of all
cane processing and support functions). However, SUNACAS' organizatio;u chart
is vague and out of date, and should be revised to provide a basis for
reviewing permanent personnel (137) and seasonal workers (180) for possible
redundancy.
4.02     SUNACAS is not without operational problems, chief of which has been
an inadequate supply of sugarcane (see paras. 3.18-3.19, 4.14, 4.18-4.20),
which since 1979 has resulted in an average of 15% in time lost (27% in 1982)
over and above time lost in factory operations. As a result, overall
performance, although improved at 2,000-2,100 tons per operational day, and
1,400-1,800 tons per crop day, is still only 55-70% of rated capacity of
2,500 tons per day. Similarly, although reduced sucrose extraction has
attained the guarantee in five of the last six years following trials and the
boiling house recovery and the overall recovery have improved in that period,
th-se two recoveries still remained below guarantee, by 3.4% and 4.4%
respectively, in 1983 through April (compared to 7.9% and 8.5% in 1977). The
quality of the raw sugar observed was acceptable although the grain size was
small and the Pol below the comercially desirable level of 97.5.
4.03     Certain other operational problems should also be noted.  Since
potassiwn salts, reported to be present in the juice, can cause sugar losses
up to four times the weight of the salt, the Sugarcane Technical Center is
seeking to identify their source for possible elimination or control.
Meanwhile, potassium fertilizer doses have been reduced. SUNACAS production
reports are unusually brief. However, they indicate that for the latest three
years sucrose losses on cane were high in two categories: 1.77 percentage
points in molasses and 0.49 percentage points in undetermined losses. Total
sucrose losses, however, have declined from 4.22 percentage points in 1977 to
3.17 percentage points in 1983. Sucrose in cane has averaged 12.76% and in
sugar 8.94% (the latter compared to a rather optimistic 10.5% forecast from
start-up onward at appraisal). At present, trash sampling is done by pulling
an individual cane out of each truck by the end which strips much of the trash
and gives inaccurate readings of impurities. It would be desirable to take
larger and more representative samples by using a mechanical grab to take
25-35 kg of cane off the top of the truck or, preferably, from the feed table.
4.04     By-Products.  Bagasse is burned as the primary boiler fuel, but an
excess of 8-10%, currently incinerated, could be used to generate an estimated
250-300 kw of electricity for the national grid, utilizing unused capacity of
the factory's turbo-generator. This most promising use and other possibilities
should be studied in detail. SUNACAS indicated that ONE had been informed of
the situation. Filter-cake (mud) is spread on fields which appears to be the
only feasible use. Molasses appears to be well used in exports to France and
the U.K., and in local sales for yeast and for cattle fodder, for which its
value may be somewhat diminished by a high ash content.



- 14 -
4.05     Financial Results.  The financial performance of SUNACAS has been
unsatisfactory in two major respects. First, the company sustained losses
every year from 1975, when production began,.through 1981, the last year for
which complete data are available. The losses ranged from DR 1.3 million in
1978 to DR 13.9 million in 1976 and averaged DH 10.0 million annually over the
seven-year period, or 19S of total annual operating costs, including
depreciation. This latter percentage, much higher in earlier years, dipped to
2Z in 1978 and leveled off at about 13.5S in 1980 and 1981. Netted of
depreciation, the losses resulted in a negative cash flow every year, which
cumulated to over minus DR 17 million by the end of 1980.
4.06     The second key weakness was the steady deterioration of SUNACAS'
financial structure between 1975 and 1980. Although this resulted mainly from
the losses on operations, other significant contributing factors were cost
overruns on construction, initial financing of staff housing with short term
debt (less than one year's maturity), and, beginning in 1979, the shift of
long term loans to short term debt in their last year of maturity, as well as
the absence of adequate compensating measures. As a consequence, the ratio of
net equity plus long term debt to fixed assets declined from 91% in 1975 to
31X in 1980, and short term debt rose as a share of liabilities from 23S to
76X. Moreover, as short term debt increased rapidly without commensurate gains
in accounts receivable, SUNACAS' net working capital-, which was positive only
in 1976, became increasingly negative, reaching minus DH 37 million in 1980.
4.07     The Causes of Financial Losses. The reasons for SUNACAS' losses in
1975-81 are mainly threefold. First, the supply of cane was unreliable. As
a result of the 1976 freeze, that year's cane crop was very small and of low
sugar content and the 1977 harvest was also diminished. In 1979-81
interruptions in cane supply, caused mainly by problems of harvesting,
handling, and transport (e.g., inaccessibility of fields to trucks during
rainy weather and reluctance of many workers to cut cane or load trucks during
very hot weather), resulted in substantial amounts of factory lost time (11.5S
on average). Second, lost time because of factory operations (apart from cane
supply) remained high (17.92) through 1981 before major improvement in
efficiency was achieved in 1982-83.
4.08     The third main reason for losses was that the price of sugar was
fixed once each year under Government policy at a level which was designed
to accommodate consumption of a national necessity, but was below realistic
unit-cost expectations for the early years of a new sugar industry, and was
not adjusted during the production season. The following table compares the
total cost (including depreciation) of sugar production per ton with the sales
price per ton and the resulting losses:
Comparison of Sugar Sales Price and Production Cost
1977       1978        1979       1980        1981
Production Cost (DHlt)       2,428      2,092       2,636       2,408      2,616
Sales Prices (DH/t)          1,600      1,785       1,785       1,933      2,355
Loss (DH/t)                    828        307         851         475        261
Loss as S of Cost              34X        15S         32X         20S        10l



- 15 -
The sugar sales prices set by the Government do not appear to have been far
out of line with ideal factory operational conditions. This is suggested by
the fact that the sugar sales price through 1980 increased by about the same
proportion (682) as the delivered cost of cane (65%) when compared with
appraisal base prices. Another confirming indicator is that the percentage
shortfall of the sugar sales price below total production costs (15-34%) was
of the same order of magnitude as the percentage of total lost factory time
(20-30X). However, such a pricing policy will be feasible only several years
from now when cane supply can be improved and stabilized (paras. 4.14-4.21).
4.09     Expressed in current U.S. dollars at the average current exchange
rate, the production costs and the sales price in the four years 1977-1979 and
1981 were, respectively, in the range US$502-676 per ton and US$355-458 per
ton, and were always well above the average international price CIF Casablanca,
which was in the range US$204-400 per ton. In 1980, when the world sugar
price CIF Casablanca rose to its highest level since 1974-75 at US$660 per
ton, SUNACAS' production costs and sales price, at US$612 and US$491 per ton,
respectively, were lower. The ratio of SUNACAS' costs and prices to the
international price CIF Casablanca are shown in the following table:
_ __ _  ___   _        __ n1977       1978      1979  __ 1980      1981
SUNACAS' Costs as X of World Price   253%       2461      278%       931     126%
SUNACAS' Price as Z of World Price   167%       2101      188%       74%     1141
However, given that sugar production is widely subsidized in other countries,
it is interesting to note that in 1981 SUNACAS' production cost (excluding
cost of delivered cane) at US$238/ton was within the range experienced in the
United States that year, which varied from US$176/ton in Florida to US$242/ton
in Texas.
4.10     Financial Remedies.  In theory, the losses of SUNACAS (para. 4.05)
are financed each year by a Government subsidy. This subsidy is determined by
an interninisterial commission which reviews SUNACAS' costs on the basis of
audited accounts that have been approved by the Ministries of Industry and
Finance. The subsidy is paid by the Government's refinancing agency, the
Caisse de Compensation. In practice in the 1970s, however, the payment of
these subsidies was systematically postponed for indefinite periods, and
SUNACAS resorted to short term financing from commercial banks (para. 4.06)
to the extent that payment of bills could not be deferred.
4.11     Beginning in 1979, SUNACAS initiated a series of consultations with
the Government which resulted in agreement on the following remedial actions
for financial restructuring. First, SUNACAS was permitted to postpone
repayments to the Governmect on the subloan under the Bank's loan beginning
with the first repayment of DH 6 million plus interest due the end of 1979.
Second, in 1981 the Government agreed (i) to increase SUNACAS' price of sugar
retroactively for 1979 and 1980 (in principle to equal production costs), and
(ii) to pay SUNACAS a lump sum amount of compensation representing the
differential value of sales. The prices were raised from 1,785 DH/t to



- 16 -
2,320 DH/t for 1979 and from 1,933 DH/t to 2,355 DH/t for 1980, levels that
were still, respectively, 12Z and 2% below costs per ton. The compensation
was made effective the end of 1980 and totaled DH 22.9 million, an amount
sbout DR 1.6 million less than what the revised prices implied. Third, the
Government approved an annual payment to SUNACAS beginning in 1981 of
DH 3.5 million which was conceived as a 10 return on SUNACAS' initial capital
of DH 35 million.
4.12     These changes provided some relief, mostly temporary, to SUNACAS'
financial situation. For example, short term debt as a share of liabilities
improved from 76% to 58% as a result of the retroactive compensation payment.
SUNACAS has also been discussing with the Government possible additional
measures for further financial restructuring. Further restructuring and
appropriate changes in pricing policy are desirable so as to give SUNACAS the
financial stability and means needed to permit the continuation of its
effectively managed and technically successful entry into sugarcane processing.
This will be especially important if cane production is expanded to the level
necessitating the construction of a third sugarcane factory in the Gharb, or
the expansion of SUNACAS and SURAC, alternatives which at the time of the
completion mission SUNACAS was preparing to study (see also para. 5.13).
4.13     Audit.  SUNACAS' accounts are audited annually by Finance Ministry
auditors, and the reports for recent years up through 1981 were satisfactory.
However, the official report for 1982 has not been received by the Bank.
Production, Development, and Transport of Sugarcane
4.14     Production and Irrigation.  During the 1970s actual production and
average yields of sugarcane in the Gharb lagged well behind SAR estimates.
However, by 1981 the area under cane and the area harvested had been expanded
sufficiently beyond SAR projections that production began to exceed SAR
targets despite continuing lower average yields. Nevertheless, the new SURAC
sugarcane factory (3,500 t/day capacity), which started up processing in 1981,
absorbed more than the increment in cane production, exceeded the cane
throughput of SUNACAS in 1982, and helped depress the supplies available to
the latter (see Annex 3 F). At present, the most important immediate and
medium-term problem facing sugarcane cultivation is water. During the years
1980-1983, the supply of irrigation water in the Project area was greatly
reduced by prolonged drought, by poor coordination of water use for power
generation and irrigation under Sebou I (see PPAR 3942, para. 6.06), and also
by the failure, for lack of funding, to complete the railway relocation works
in the Idriss I Reservoir zone before 1979 as envisaged. The deferral of this
relocation resulted in the filling of the reservoir in 1979 only to a level of
203 m rather than the planned and otherwise feasible level of 217 m, thus
losing about 300 million m3 of storage at the beginning of the drought
(equivalent to three years' irrigation of nearly 10,000 ha of sugarcane). As
a result, planned expansions of area planted in sugarcane (and rice) have been
postponed (which avoided disruptive cutbacks which would have ensued), and
sugarcane has been extremely under-irrigated, with one-half of the crop getting
only one-third of the requirement and no cane receiving the 10th through 15th
irrigations prescribed. In 1982 yields averaged only 69 tons/ha (all 12-month
virgin and ratoon cane as a result of a freeze in 1981) compared to the SAR
projections of an average of 100 tons/ha for all types of cane that year.
However, the 69 tons/ha was higher than any previous average yields obtained
in the Gharb for 12-month cane.



- 17 -
4.15     Planning for recovery from the drought should consider both the
supply and the demand for water. The relocation of the railway in the
reservoir zone was still underway in 1983 for completion by the end of 1984
(barring further postponements). On this basis, ORMVAG believed that one good
rainy season in 1984 could restore the Idriss I Reservoir to 203 m and a
second one in 1985 could bring the reservoir to 217 m. In the recovery period,
it will be important for ORMVAG to resist the temptation to expand sugarcane
area too soon. Expansion of the present 10,000 ha of sugarcane should be
deferred (ORMVAG's present plan is an increase to 11,700 ha in 1984) until the
irrigation of existing areas is brought up to norm (12,000 m3/ha). This
change alone would offer the prospect of increasing yields by about 30%,
raising farmer income by a greater proportion in view of fixed costs, and
increasing the cost effectiveness of harvesting-loading-transport operations
as well as the security of cane supply to the two existing cane factories in
the Gharb (see also para. 5.13).
4.16     Based on the expansion of irrigation infrastructure to date and the
experience of production of sugarcane and other irrigated crops in the Gharb
during the drought of the past several years, it would seem advisable to
review the costs and benefits and scheduling of the various remaining projects
envisaged for the management of the Sebou basin water resources, in particular,
those potentially able to add high and early benefits to existing investments.
One such possibility is the proposed diversion canal linking the upper Sebou
River to the Idriss I Reservoir, which would have permitted greater
replenishment during the recent drought and prevented substantial crop losses.
Another is the proposed guard dam on the lower Sebou at Laila Aicha above
Kenitra, which would prevent intrusion of sea water and also impound
300 million m3 of river water and raise the river's low water level by
0.5 to 3.5 m upstream as far as Sector S-9 close to Mechra Bel Ksiri, thereby
facilitating pumping in a large portion of the Project area of the 13 m3/sec
currently flowing unused to the Atlantic in an average summer. It would also
be desirable to make further cost-benefit studies of gravity vs. sprinkler
irrigation for sugarcane production, weighing among other things the higher
initial cost of sprinklers against their better adaptability to efficient use
of water and mechanization of cane harvesting.
4.17     Sugarcane Technical Center.  The most critical long-term problem
corfronting sugarcane production is dependence on only two varieties, CP 44-101
and NCO 310, the latter of which is being dropped for its growing affliction
with mosaic. (The Louisiana sugar industry was almost eliminated in the early
1900s when it depended on one variety which was wiped out by a combination of
ratoon stunting disease and mosaic). In most countries, six to ten varieties
are normally in commercial production in a given region. The varieties
problem, highlighted since the beginning of Sebou I, has long beerl a priority
concern of INRA. In 1980, two years before the delayed start-up of the
sugarcane center, INRA released several new varieties (CP 61-37, L 62-96, and
CP 65-357) on plots totaling 2.6 ha, thus giving the center a partial head
start. The center has since made remarkable progress in nursery production,
and in May 1983 had seventeen varieties growing on 60 ha, including 28 ha in
L 62-96. Commercial introduction of the first new variety should be possible
in late 1984. Since 10 years are needed to develop a new variety, (six for
research at INRA and four for multiplication at the center), the momentum now
at last established should be maintained. Sources of imported seed cane
should be diversified beyond the United States. The center is well laid out
physically, has well trained and experienced staff transferred from ORMVAG,



- 18 -
and benefits from a strong advisory group financed by German bilateral
assistance. The center's budget forecast envisages that revenues from sales
of seed cane will cover the center's operating expenses by 1986. In view of
the great unknowns and enormous risks involved in introducing a new crop, it
is important that the center take nothing for granted in sugarcane cultivation
and organize an ambitious program of experimentation on all aspects. Certain
detailed observations of the completion mission are presented in Annex 4.
4.18     Hechanization of Harvesting, Loading and Transport of Cane.  A
practical and commendable experimental approach has been adopted by ORMVAG and
SUNACAS for the development of a strategy and program for introducing
mechanization into cane handling operations and integrating it flexibly with
hand operations in response to conditions of labor supply. The experiments
underway or envisaged involve recently acquired harvesters, loaders,
transloaders, hydraulic basket loading trucks and trallers (polybennes),
tractors and specialized cane trailers, as well as ordinary 10-ton trucks, all
in multiple combinations with each other and with hand cutting and loading.
Equipment operators are well trained. Preliminary estimates made by ORMVAG
and the Bank indicate a cost of 9.75 DH/ton for harvesting with the latest
nmchines compared to 15 DH/ton for hand cutting. For the different
technological combinations of loading, transloading, and transport to the
factory that are being evaluated, cost estimates range from 20 DH/ton to
44 DR/ton, and as low as 15 DE/ton if a share of tractor-trailer fixed cost is
attributed to uses other than sugarcane transport (see Annex 5). The SURAC
sugar factory has a machine shop that is well equ-pped, well stocked with
spares and whose foreman and mechanics are well trained. Th-! shop can deal
with most types of breakdowns of field equipment (e.g., fabrication of a fully
satisfactory harvester roller) and handles repairs for SUNACAS and ORMVAG. As
a result of the effective training of operators and the work schedule which
exables the latest model harvesters to stay ahead of their loading operations,
there has been more time for maintenance, and the relatively minor breakdowns
that have occurred have been caused mainly by the terrain of the fields, e.g.,
irrigation structures.
4.19     It is too early to pass definitive judgment on the most favorable
mechanization packages. However, note can be taken of certain aspects of
mechanization which should be considered in ongoing experiments, both in
production operations and in trials at the sugarcane center. One important
aspect is the relation of mechanization to land management and cultivation
practices. Some examples: In a gravity-irrigated field, the completion
mission observed mechanical harvesting in short rows of only 50-70 m, where
lack of headlands cost 30-502 of harvester time for turnaround maneuvering.
Insufficient hilling of cane encouraged lodging and impeded ground-level
cutting by older machines, thus losing up to one percentage point of sucrose
output at the factory. Short cane, the result of inadequate irrigation,
harvested with excessive leaf trash, dried for up to six days before burning,
was inevitably experiencing major weight loss and sugar inversion. In a
sprinkler-irrigated field, 250 m rows and the latest model harvester increased
efficiency. but discontinuity of rows in and across small plots necessitated
awkward maneuvers. The introduction of land leveling (approximate rather than
precise) would increase drainage in the rainy season and it would reduce the
denitrification of anmonia fertilizer, the field damage to cane stools, and
the costs of harvester maintenance.



- 19 -
4.20     A second aspect is the need for training of the workforce in the
methods and in the technical implications of mechanization. An important
illustration is provided by the practice of truckers of enlarging the capacity
of their trucks with stakes and ropes to pile cane higher in order to
compensate for the 202 loss of density of cane when it is mechanically rather
than hand loaded. The resultant interference with the mechanical loader's
movements reduces its average output by 65X, from 700 to 250 tons/day. On the
other hand, it would still be desirable, as often recommended during
supervision of the Project, to improve the urganizatio-i and practices of hand
cane-cutting through a training program designed to introduce the machete to
replace the short-handled Moroccan hoe ("sape") and demonstrate its use in a
well-disciplined system with the help of several high-performance professional
cutters invited to Morocco from other countries. A third aspect of
mechanization to consider is its direct cost in relation to assurance of
supply of cane to the factories, and thereby its relation to the lost time
efficiency and cost effectiveness of factory operations. For example,
mechanical loading currently costs more than hand loading (5.8 vs. 5.0 DR/ton
in 1983), but given the unreliability of labor supply for this undesirable
work, adequate cane loader capacity may be a form of insurance premium for
steady cane deliveries.
4.21     Agricultural Development Centers.  The five centers constructed and
equipped by the Project play multiple roles in the development of sugarcane.
In collaboration with the CLCAs they manage the financing extended to farmers
for planting, cultivatiou, and sale of sugarcane to the SUNACAS and SURAC
factories. They provide land preparation services, and they are the principal
channel of technical advice. This latter function will become increasingly
important as the adaptive research performed at the Sugarcane Technical Center
produces new conclusions on varieties, disease control, cultivation techniques,
irrigation, and harvesting. The agricultural development centers, which, on
average, serve about 4,850 ha of arable land (3,940 ha irrigated), with about
190 ha per agent, are, of ccrurse, concerned with all agricultural production.
They have, for example, made a major effort during the drought to demonstrate
the benefits of properly irrigated wheat productioni (over 4 tons/ha on
contracted plots cultivated by farmers under the strict technical guidance
of the centers).
Milk Collection Centers
4.22     Coupled with extension efforts of the agricultural development
centers, one favorable result of the recent drought was to convince farmers in
the Project area to develop previously neglected forage crops and integrate
them and crop residues and by-products (molasses, cane ends, orange pulp) with
their livestock improvement plans. Area planted in forage increased from less
than 5,000 ha to nearly 24,000 ha in 1981-82. This development was paralleled
by a major expansion under the Project of the existing network of cooperative
milk collection centers. The improvement of the feed base and the marketing
infrastructure, as well as milk prices has increased milk surpluses on farm,
and shifted a major share of milk utilization out of peddler channels, where
losses are high, into the organized market (20.6 million liters delivered to
all Gharb collection centers in 1982 compared to 16.0 million liters in 1981;
and an average of 0.9 million liters per center per year). There have also
been many resulting indirect benefits. The Kenitra milk plant, built in 1954,
showed its first profits in 1980, and a new plant has been built by the
cooperative to produce butter, yogurt, and powdered as well as fresh milk.



- 20 -
One collection center built a profitable grocery store in 1982.  The
cooperative collection centers have expanded their roles to purchase forage
seed and by-product animal feed for sale to farmers. In view of their
profitability, the cooperatives envisage introducing charges to farmers of up
to 100% for veterinary services and artificial insemination and buying with
cooperative funds the supplementary milk tanks needed above the initial
equipment financed by ORMVAG.
Roads and Sebou River Bridge
4.23     The Provincial Directorate of Equipment in Kenitra informed the
completion mission that traffic counts made in 1981-82 on the primary and
secondary roads that were improved under the Project and on the new bridge
across the Sebou ranged between 800 and 2,200 vehicles per day (a breakdown
for commercial traffic was not available).  These counts represented increases
of between five and ten times since 1972, and reflected, in large measure, the
increased economic activity linked with the development of irrigation, and in
particular, the transport of sugarcane, sugar beets, and citrus. At the time
of the completion mission, these roads, as well as the gravel roads built and
maintained by ORMVAG, were in satisfactory condition.  However, the bituminous
third-class roads that carry much of the sugarcane traffic (and were
discouraged at appraisal) were generally in a state of repair bad enough to
require substantially reduced speeds and to imply elevated vehicle wear and
risk of accident.  This lack of maintenance and repair was attributed to
budgetary constraints.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01     Background.  The economic evaluation of Sebou II posed conceptual
problems at the time of appraisal and again during consideration of the
proposed amendment. At appraisal, the following calculations were made. The
sugar factory was evaluated separately, with production costs assumed to be
95% local and financial costs taken as economic costs (the cost of cane was
assumed to be the Government purchase price plus transport costs). Savings on
sugar imports were taken as benefits. The basic rate of return was based on
the Bank's projections of international sugar prices,L' adjusted to CIF
Casablanca. These forecasts envisaged an 80% price increase (in constant 1974
US dollars) from 223US$/ton (908 DRHton) in 1973 and 1974 to 400 US$/ton
(1,631 DH/ton) in 1980 and thereafter, which led to an ERR of 15.8%. However,
in view of a 77% increase in the international sugar price in the first
quarter of 1974 to over US$400/ton, the appraisal report regarded the Bank's
projections as too conservative and presented an alternative series that began
at 363 US$/ton (1,481 DR/ton) in 1974 and rose by 55% to US$562/ton
(2,292 DH/ton) in 1980. This projection resulted in an ERR of 28.8%. This
higher ERR was given as the "best estimate" in Annex 12 of the SAR, but only
the ERR of 15.8% was presented in the main report.
5.02     The flood protection works were also evaluated separately, and under
two methods. First, benefits were defined in the conventional way as the
losses which would result from flooding in the absence of protection. The ERR
was 11%. Second, a more complex insurance probability methodology was used,
S/ International or world sugar prices (actual and projected) as used in this
chapter refer to International Sugar Agreement (ISA) daily prices compiled
by the World Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department.



- 21 -
and a relationship computed between probable costs of flood damage and the
cost of a hypothetical protection insurance premium. The main roads and the
Sebou bridge were considered as investments whose principal benefits would
accrue to general traffic outside the Project, and only an estimated first
year return was calculated (10x). The secondary road investments were
considered as necessary to Project transport but no separate rate of return
was calculated. Rather these road costs, and no quantified benefits, were
included in an overall Project ERR including factory and flood protection
works. This ERR came to 15X. Finally, a combined ERR for Sebou I and II was
calculated (8X).
5.03     In the appraisal of the proposed amendment to Sebou II, separate
economic rates of return were calculated for the Sugarcane Technical Center
(56Z), the milk collection centers (13X), the agricultural extension centers
(110X), and the combination of the staff housing and the cane transportation
equipment (20%).
5.04     PCR Approach.  In view of the major changes made in the original
Project and the difficulty of isolating the costs and benefits of the
individual amendment components (para. 5.03) from other complementary actions
taken outside the framework of Sebou II, the completion report has taken the
following two-fold approach to economic evaluation: First, for the sugar
factory an economic rate of return is calculated and certain sensitivity tests
performed. Second, the evaluation of costs and benefits of the other original
and amendment components is made only in qualitative terms, mainly in Chapter
IV, and is not repeated here.
5.05     The SUNACAS Sugarcane Factry.  As calculated at appraisal, the
economic rate of return of the sugarcane factory is recalculated in this
report on the premise that economic benefits are defined as savings on sugar
imports. It is assumed that full development, which at appraisal was
envisaged for 1981, will now be achieved in 1988 after a five-year transition
in which it is believed that cane supply, in particular, but also factory
efficiency can be sufficiently improved to bring production up to the
appraisal standards of 180 working days at full capacity of 2,500 tons/day and
a sugar yield of 10X of cane. While achievement of full development in 1988
is by no means a certainty, it is believed to be a feasible probability in
view of progress underway to increase the Idriss I reservoir capacity, to
introduce new cane varieties, to improve cane cultivation techniques, and to
increase the mechanization of cane harvesting and transport, these
improvements all having to support the SURAC factory as well as the SUNACAS
factory. As at appraisal, financial costs to the factory have been taken as
economic costs (including the cost of cane at the official purchase price,
which was also used in the PCR calculation of the ERR of Sebou I). Taking
account of actual world sugar prices, which since 1977 have been much lower in
constant terms than the basic projection at appraisal, as well as revised
projections that also envisage considerably lower prices until 1990, the
recalculated rate of return is 3.7X. If for the years 1975-1982 one uses the
average unit cost in constant dirhams of sugar actually imported by Morocco,
the rate of return would be 4.5%, mainly because average import costs were
substantially higher than the ISA daily price for sugar imported in 1980 and
1981, which were years of nigh prices.



- 22 -
5.06     Sensitivity Tests.  To place the low recalculated rate of return of
the sugarcane factory in perspective, two types of sensitivity analysis have
been pursued, first, tests concerned with actual performance and projected
future performance and, second, tests intended to evaluate performance in
relation to expectations at appraisal.
5.07     Under the first heading, alternative rates of return have been
computed for the following sets of revised assumptions: (a) that for the five
years 1984-1988 world sugar prices would equal their lowest 5-year average
since 1955 (93 constant US$/ton in 1965-1969); (b) that for 1984-1988 world
sugar prices would equal their highest 5-year average since 1955 (354 constant
US$/ton in 1972-1976); (c) that throughout the life of the project the
economic cost of sugar cane has been and will be 20% higher than the financial
cost (the appraisal report reached this conclusion for base year costs in
Annex 12, Table 8); (d) that the Moroccan dirham has been and will be
overvalued in relation to the US dollar by 20% in the years 1978-1981 and by
101 in the years 1982-1990; and (e) that SUNACAS production of sugar will be
at only 90% of the outputs projected for the transition period 1984-88 and
will level off at 901 of full capacity for the life of the Project. These
revised asumptions give the following rates of return for the sugarcane
factory:
ERR
(a)  Sugar prices 1984-1988 at lowest level         2.4%
(b)  Sugar prices 1984-1988 at highest level        9.8%
(c)  Economic cost of cane up 201                   1.0X
(d) Dirham overvalued 20% 1978-81,
10X 1982-90                                 6.21
(e)  SUNACAS production at 901 of capacity          1.61
These calculations lead to the following observations: (a). World sugar
prices at present and those foreseen for the medium term are extremely low, so
that substitutiorn of the five-year low prices of 1965-1969 for the next five
years lowers the rate of return by less than 1.5 percentage points. (b). On
the other hand, the volatility of world sugar prices is such that substitution
of the five-year high prices of 1972-1976 for the next five years (admittedly
an improbable eventuality) raises the rate of return by six percentage points
to an acceptable level of 9.8%. (c) and (d). These two tests, which make
presumed adjustments for economic pricing of sugarcane and the Moroccan dirham,
result in only minor and mutually offsetting changes in the ERR. (e). This
test indicates an added penalty of two percentage points if cane production,
SURAC competition or other factors act to prevent SUNACAS sugar production
from exceeding 90S of capacity.
5.08     The second group of tests aims to assess the degree to which the low
ERR at Project completion can be attributed (a) to the decline in world sugar
prices and (b) to local factors affecting SUNACAS sugar production and sugar
production costs. This is done by a recomputation of the completion ERR (a)
measuring SAR projections of sugar production and O&M costs against PCR actual



- 23 -
and projected world sugar prices and (b) conversely, measuring PCR actual and
projected sugar production and O&M costs against SAR projections of world
sugar prices.-L The results are as follows:
ERR
(a)  SAR sugar production, PCR sugar prices         10.9%
(b)  PCR sugar production, SAR sugar prices          8.8%
5.09     From the above results one can draw the following conclusions:
First, despite the sharp drop in world sugar prices after the 1974 peak, this
factor alone would not have decisively affected the economic viability of the
SUNACAS factory as appraised (since the SAR price projections started from a
relatively low 1973 base figure). The factory would still have enjoyed a
satisfactory rate of return of 10.9% had sugar production and production costs
proven to be at the levels foreseen in the SAR. On the other hand, the SAR
projected the achievement of full capacity production of sugar in the sixth
year of factory operations. This pace of development would not be surprising
for a factory processing an established crop, but in retrospect seems
optimistic for one dependent on a newly introduced and sensitive culture like
sugarcane.
5.10     Second, if, conversely, the sugar price fnrecasts of the SAR had held
true, then the actual and projected PCR levels of sugar production would have
still resulted in a marginally viable factory with an ERR of 8.8%. Given the
extreme unpredictability and volatility of world sugar prices, the high level
of protection provided in most producing countries which greatly distorts
these prices, and the Moroccan national objective of security in this basic
foodstuff, the ERR calculated on this latter basis merits some attention. It
does not reflect international trading reality. However, it does provide a
useful measure of the performance, in comparison with expectations at
appraisal, of the major factors other than price that affect the factory and
are ultimately in large measure susceptible to Moroccan control, namely, the
management of production, harvesting, and delivery to the factory of sugarcane
and the efficiency of factory operations themselves. Thus, setting aside the
penalty for guessing wrong on international commodity price trends (and for
the misfortune of appraising in 1974 when world sugar prices peaked, in
constant US dollars, at a level 67% higher than in any year from 1955 to the
present), the recalculated rate of return of 8.8%, reduced from 15.8% at
appraisal mainly because of problems of cane supply experienced in the first
nine years of cperations, is on balance a satisfactory performance for a
factory processing a newly introduced crop.
5.11     Nevertheless, the reduction of about 7 percentage points from the ERR
of the SAR, caused by sugarcane supply problems and reflected in the 3.7% ERR
of the PCR as well as in the hybrid ERR of 8.8% just discussed, is a matter
deserving serious consideration. A substantial proportion of this reduction
- an important economic cost to Morocco -- could have possibly been avoided,
as discussed in paragraphs 3.18, 3.19, 4.02, 4.14, and 7.07, if prompter action
had been taken on mechanization of cane harvesting, loading, and transport and
if the financial planning and implementation of railway diversion works in the
l/ Actual PCR capital costs are used in both cases. Differences in sugar
production are much more important than differences in O&M costs.



- 24 -
Idriss I reservoir and the management of Idriss I dam operations had taken
full account of the risks of drought in the Sebou basin and the irrigation
requirements of sugarcane cultivation. Moreover, SUNACAS has reached 70% of
capacity in only one year (1980), so that the envisaged transition to full
capacity production in 1988 still entails risks, and the additional ERR
penalty of two percentage points for reaching only 90Z of capacity has been
indicated in paragraph 5.07.
5.12     World sugar prices FOB Caribbean in the period from 1955 to 1973
fluctuated nearly fivefold between two lows and two highs and averaged only
162 US$/ton in constant 1974 US dollars, 59% less than the basic forecast of
US$400/ton for 1980 made at appraisal. In view of this price instability, the
Bank's smoothly and rapidly rising projections made in 1973/1974 appear in
retrospect to have been unrealistic, perhaps too much influenced by the most
recent rising trend following the 1966 low of 74 USt/ton and by the general
price shock caused by the first oil price crisis. Moreover, the ERR
sensitivity calculation at appraisal based on reducing gross benefits by 25Z
(yielding an ERR of 6.1%) has proved to be insufficient for a factory
producing solely a commodity like sugar and dependent on the successful
introduction of sugarcane cultivation [on the up side the SAR sensitivity
analysis went in effect much further by postulating the higher sugar price
series mentioned in paragraph 5.01 (ERR of 28.8%) plus an additional 25% in
gross benefits (ERR of 37.3%)]. Reductions in benefits corresponding to
historical world sugar price swings as well as to possible shortfalls in
SUNACAS' sugar production would have more fully revealed the economic
vulnerability of sugarcane production and processing in the Gharb as measured
by opportunity cost in traditional international trading terms, and this could
have focused attention more clearly on the costs and benefits of sugar
production as compared with alternative crops (see also para. 2.05).
5.13     One final observation.  In view of the current outlook for world
sugar prices and the experience had with sugarcane production and transport in
the Gharb and with processing in the SUNACAS Sugarcane Factory during the past
decade, it would seem prudent for the Moroccan authorities to be cautious
about possible further expansion of cane processing capacity in the immediate
future, i.e., the envisaged expansion of SUNACAS or SURAC or construction of a
third factory in the Sebou plain. In particular, it would appear desirable to
hold processing capacity and related sugarcane production in the Gharb at the
present aggregate level until (a) the actual processing of cane and output of
sugar at the SUNACAS factory can be brought up to or very close to the
factory's full capacity levels, and (b) SUNACAS, ORMVAG, and the ministries
concerned have updated the economic assessment of sugarcane production and
processing in light of such improved technical performance and further
development of world sugar price trends.
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01     The entire history of Sebou I and II was one of trial and error and
modification. The central feature of Bank performance was a continuing
willingness to make reassessments in light of Project experience, to accept
the demonstrated realities of changed circumstances, and to act flexibly to
respond to the redefined needs of the Project. As explained in para. 2.01,
Sebou II itself was a flexible response to the reassessments made under Sebou I
regarding sugarcane processing, road construction, protection against floods,
and protection of infrastructure in the Idriss I Reservoir zone.



- 25 -
6.02     Within the framework of Sebou II, the second reversal of view on
flood protection naturally was difficult to accept within the Bank. However,
when the practical realities of construction of the P-l1 dike (farmer
oppostion, long delays, and high cost escalation) and the economic realities
(low ERR) implied by the proposed advancement of the construction of M'jara
Dam were made clear, the Bank accepted the deletion of the remaining dikes
from the Project. Perhaps equally difficult to accept was the Government's
proposal to further amend the Project to use the loan funds allocated to flood
protection for new components. The decision in favor of the amendment proved
to be the right one. For it enabled the Project to fill several critical gaps
in the sugar industry structure not adequately covered by Sebou I and the
original Sebou II, namely, the technical center for sugarcane adaptive research
and multiplication, the expansion of the agricultural extension center network
in the sugarcane areas, the introduction on a substantial pilot scale of
mechanization of sugarcane harvesting and loading, and the complementary
expansion of the system of milk collection centers which has helped broaden
and regularize the income base of small and medium farmers both within and
outside sugarcane cultivation.
6.03     However, in view of the discussion in the preceding section, a deeper
question arises concerning the Bank's decision to continue to support the
development of sugarcane production and processing in the Charb during the
appraisal of Sebou II. Granted that 1974 was an extremely difficult time to
make forecasts of commodity prices, which in the event proved much too
optimistic, it is nevertheless true that (i) international prices in the
preceding 18 years (in constant 1974 US dollars) had fluctuated by a factor of
nearly fivefold and averaged 59X less than the Bank's projection for 1980 and
thereafter, (ii) at stake was the launching of an economically high- risk new
crop with a 4-6 year growing cycle, dependent on intensive use of irrigation,
and necessitating a one-crop processing plant, (iii) internal staff reviews at
appraisal had recommended further study of the economic viability of sugarcane
development, and (iv) sensitiviLy analysis was carried out in a rather routine
fashion in spite of the inheient lack of hedges against the double risk of
declines in world sugar prices and slow development of adequate and reliable
supplies of sugarcane.
6.04     The problem of reassessing the flood protection works so soon after
the decision to include them in Sebou IT and in spite of continuing floods in
the late 70s was understandably a major continuing preoccupation of the Bank.
However, this preoccupation had its cost which was a lack of adequate
attention to certain other aspects of the Project, notably the operational,
institutional and financial aspects of the SUNACAS sugar factory once
construction was completed in 1975. There was also a 13-month interval
between missions in the critical period of consideration of the proposed
amendments to Sebou II (see para. 7.05).
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01     The introduction in the Gharb of sugarcane production and processing
on a commercial scale represents a substantial technical and managerial
achievement. The advances made thus far in field and factory in a decade
under Sebou I and II compare favorably with the sugarcane development that
numerous other countries have achieved only after considerably longer periods
of time. The calculated risk in technical terms is beginning to pay off. At



- 26 -
the same time, ongoing efforts to master the three critical constraints --
irrigation water supply, expansion of cane varieties, and reliability of cane
delivery -- must be pursued vigorously with all the support necessary from
agency managements, the budget, 1NRA, the Sugarcane Technical Center and the
agricultural development centers to secure the gains made and establish a
sound basis for future expansion if that proves economically justified.
7.02     The technical and managerial unknowns, uncertainties and risks
involved in introducing a new crop on a commercial scale should not be
underestimated and necessary actions should be taken as early as possible.
These factors were generally not underestimated for the development of
sugarcane under Sebou I and II, but some of the key actions were inexplicably
delayed. For example, the lesson can be drawn that it would be desirable to
establish a specialized technical center for applied researcii on the
development of a new crop at the outset of such a program rather than as an
afterthought in mid-course. Similarly, the unpredictability of cultivation
cycles of a new crop argues for a more empirical base for planning the
investment for industrial processing than was the case for Gharb su-arcane
processing.  The careful horizontal planning of land-use and crop rotations
that is generally carried out in projects, and was in Sebou T, should be
matched by comparable vertical planning through the stages of pr-cessing and
marketing. The experience with mechanization of cane delivery operations
teaches us that, while successive studies over a period of years may be more
refined and better in touch with changing realities, practical experiments
after the first study would probably contribute much more to early problem
resolution and investment strategy -decisions than the subsequent studies, and
in the end, the experiments are necessary in any case.
7.03     The economic risk entailed in introducing a new crop should be
carefully evaluated. This is especially important for a demanding and
inflexible crop like sugarcane (long cropping cycle, intensive irrigation,
heavy dependence on research, necessity to process within 24 hours of harvest,
dependence on a one-crop processing plant), a crop which is also generally in
over-production in the world, is available under long-term international
supply contracts as well as spot trading, and whose international market, price
is highly volatile, but lower than the heavily subsidized cost of production
prevailing in many countries. In particular, sensitivity analyses used during
appraisal should take account of the full range of historical price swings of
the crop or commodity concerned as well as the risks of delay in achieving
full development of production.
7.04     In the span of ten years, the weather environment of Sebou I and II
changed drastically from unprecedented floods to prolonged drought. This
experience is not unknown in many countries and it means that planners (who in
this case predicted a rainier period) cannot foresee or evaluate everything.
However, policy makers, managers, and lenders can be flexible, as they all
were in the case of Sebou I and II, in reacting to suddenly changed
circumstances and in modifying even in the extreme and then remodifying the
projects to meet new needs.
7.05     However, staying with a given project through major transformations
over a long period of time involves risks, which should be guarded against.
One is project fatigue. In the period 1978-81, after a decade of Sebou I and
II, and as new projects captured attention both in the Gharb (at ORMVAG and at
SUNACAS) and in the Bank, a slowdown in activity occurred that was only partly



- 27 -
attributable to the increasing budgetary problems of the Government. For
example, in Washington 18 months elapsed between the proposal by the Moroccan
authorities to the Bank to modify Sebou II and the presentation of the
amendment to the Board of the Bank. The slowdown was visible in Morocco in
the lagging of coordination between ORMVAG and SUNACAS that delayed their
reaching agreement on the types of cane handling equipment to be procured
under the Project.
7.06     Sebou 1i exemplifies the lesson that where an agency or a subordinate
unit has little or no direct stake in the reimbursement of Project exrpenditures
with loan funds, there is substantial risk that submission of reimbursement
requests will be given low priority. Under the amendment to Sebou II, it was
clear that performance in this respect by ORMVAG and SUNACAS had no bearing on
Project execution, on future budgetary allocations or on managerial
evaluations. Within the Ministry of Finance, the division of responsibilities
and reporting prevailing in the early 80s between the Budget Division and the
Treasury Division tended to blur the focus on reimbursement performance even
in that ministry. As a result, records in all three agencies were poorly kept,
and long delays in submission to the Bank of reimbursement requests in a
period of rapid depreciation of the dirham resulted in the loss to Morocco of
over US$L million in foreiga exchange since reimbursements were ultimately
made at much less favorable rates of exchange and the unused loan funds were
eventually cancelled. In addition, Morocco lost a sum of foreign exchange
totaling US$0.5 to 1.0 million in foregone interest earnings on the delayed
and lost reimbursements from the loan. Some speeding up of reimbursement
requests was effected when the Bank's Controller staff and the Ministry of
Finance agreed to drop the prerequisite of certification ("attestation") of
receipt of payment by suppliers and to substitute for this form of evidence a
Finance Ministry payment report. In light of the Sebou II experience,
disbursements and their monitoring under projects in Morocco could be
facilitated (i) if greater use were made by the Ministry of Finance of direct
payment by the Bank to suppliers (Procedure III); (ii) if (under Procedure I)
Project implementing agencies such as ORMVAs were made responsible for direct
submission of reimbursement requests to the Bank (with information copies to
the Ministry of Finance); and (iii) if the Bank's Controller staff and the
Ministry of Finance were to develop appropriate common reporting and recording
tables for contract payments and loan disbursements (see Annex 9).
7.07     Sebou I and II illustrate the need for more effective coordination of
the programming, financing and implementation of public investment. At one
level, this coordination is needed among the different operating units within
any given agency. For example, under the Sebou II amendment several instances
have been observed where, for technical, budgetary and other reasons,
procurement actions for civil works and related equipment were poorly
synchronized. As a result, assets were prematurely created and left idle, and
the start-up of operations was delayed. At another level, better coordination
of public investment is also needed between agencies, and it is needed between
the Government's budgetary and external borrowing processes. Where
co-financing is a factor, there should be an assessment of the risks and
penalties of collapse of the financing plan. For example, the year's delay in
appraisal of Sebou II led to the Government's decision to finance railway
protection works in the reservoir of the Idriss I Dam from other sources
rather than the Bank as originally envisaged. However, funding problems
emerged which ultimately delayed construction of these works. This delay,
together with poor coordination of dam operation for power and irrigation



- 28 -
purposes, caused a major sacrifice of water storage which adversely affected
the sugar production objectives of the Sebou Projects (para. 4.14). Similarly,
in longer range planning of the allocation of scarce financial resources,
there is need for greater attention to inter-agency assessments. This is
particularly desirable for complex regional programs for the development of
natural resources and agricultural production like Sebou (paras. 4.15-4.16).
Such inter-agency assessments would help ensure that economies in one
program's or agency's budget do not generate major costs or losses under
another progrdm. They would also help encourage appropriate consideration of
additional investments in one program or agency that could yield major
benefits on the sunk cost investments in another.
7.08     In view of the long-term nature and the large scale of the overall
plan for the development of sugarcane production and processing in the Gharb,
given the major problems mentioned that are being addressed but are not yet
fully re_.olved, and taking account of the regional water resource contex,.t
involving a complex long-term program of investments, the completion mission
recommends that Sebou I and II be considered by OED for a later impact study.
569E



EINGUSOHO    OiOco                                           ARNEX I A
S8ImOU It DEWHNT  MROJECT                                            Page 1
(Loan 1018-WOE
PROJECT COQPITlION REPORT
Coat Estimates
(in CU millions)
Percent age
Appraisal Estimates                Actual              Foreign
Locml   ForeLga   (Total)    Local   Foreign  (Total)   Exchange
--------------- (DH MLillion) -------------------   --(   --
1.  ORIGINAL PROJECT
Sugar Factory (SUNACAS) /a
Civil Works and Erection                          9.05     6.35      14.40      9.35      7.35    16.70     44/44
Equipment and Material                            4.48    39.50      43.98      5.19    40.59    45.78      90/89
Studies and Final Design                           -       5.91       5.91       -       5.94      5.94   100/100
Management Fee                                    0.18     2.59       2.77      0.17      3.39     3.56     94194
Transport and Insurance                           1.15     1.13       2.28      1.34     1.35      2.69     50150
Subtotal, construction                    13.66    55.48     69.34      16.05    58.62    74.67      30179
Consultants. Studies. Training                    0.29     1.18       1.47      0.29     1.18      1.47     ROM/8
Subtotal                                  14.15    56.66     70.81      16.34    59.80    76.14      80/79
Effluent Treatment Plant                            1.22     1.84       3.06       -         -        -       60
Flood Control (Min. Equip./ORAVAG)
Civil Works, Dykes                               19.70    12.57      32.27                          .      39
(Zone ? - 11)                  (2.29)   (1.46)    (3.75)      5.86      3.74     9.60   (39)/39
Flood Channel Works                 1.18     0.82       2.00                                 41
(Zone P - 11)                   (-)      C-)        (-)
Other Works                          1.96     1.31      3.26                                  40
(Zone P - 11)                  (0.07)   (0.04)    (0.11)       /b        /b       lb
Land Expcopriation                                4.90      -         4.90                                  0
(Zone P - 11)                  (0.30)    C-)       (0.30)     0.30       -       0.30     0
Technical Assistance                              0.94     3.75       4.69      1.28     4.69      5.97     80/79
(Zone P - 11)                  (0.09)   (0.39)    (0.48)
Sub-total                                28.66    18.45      47.13       7.44     8.43    15.87      39153
(Zone P - 11)                  (2.75)   (1.89)    (4.64)                                 (41)
(Zone P - 11 * Tech. Assist.) (3.60)   (5.25)    (8.85)    (7.44)   (8.43)  (15.87)    59/53
(Deleted Flood Control)       (25.08)  (13.20)   (38.28)
Roads and Bridges (Min. Equip./ORIIVAC)
8echre Bel Iairi bridge                           1.35     1.63       2.98      1.51      1.84     3.35     55/55
Primary and Secondary Main Roads                  6.53     6.57      13.10      5.49     5.50    10.99 1_  50/50
Bituminous Tertiary Roads                         6.32     6.32      12.64      6.81     8.32    15.13      55/55
Gravel Feeder Roads                               3.22     3.22       6.44      3.63      3.62     7.25     50/50
Lateral Wbys for Sugsr Transport
to Tranloading Centers                          2.49     1.67      4.16        -        -         -       40
Strengthening of Roads and Railway Tracks
in Flood Escape Channels                       0.90      1.10      2.00        -        -        -        55
Maintenance Equipmant and Study of
Sugarcane Transport                             0.37     0.65      1.02       0.23     0.40      0.63     64/64
Subtotal                                 21.18    21.16      42.34      17.67    19.68    37.35      50/53
Total Basic Costs                        65.23    98.11    163.34                                    60
(Less Deleted Flood Control) (25.08)  (13.20)   (38.28)
(Met Basic Cost)              (40.15)  (84.91)  (125.06)    41.45    87.91   129.36       68/68
Pbric-l Conti                                       7.71    11.59      19.30                                  60
(SL Lsan Deleted Flood Control)  (2.96)   (1.56)    (4.52)                                      34
(Net Physical Contingencies)  (:.75)  (10.03)   (14.78)
Price Contingencies                                15.50    20.85      36.35                                  57
(Less Deleted Flood Control)  (7 .01)   (3.69)   (10.70)                                  34
(Net Price Contingencies)      (8.49)  (I7.lb)   (25.65)
Total Costs, Original Project            88.44   130.55    218.99                  _                 60
(Less Deleted Flood Control) (35.05)  (18.45)   (5:3. 50)
(Net Total Costs)             (53.39) (112.10)  (165.49)    41.45    87.91   129.36       68/68
Ia  Appraisal cost estimtes for sugar factory were derived from actual contract figures (FF50.32 million fixed plus
Dd27.20 million revisable) by escalating dirham costs by 4% from July 1973 basis to January 1974 basis, by
treating certain percentages of dirh_ costs as foreign exchange componentsc  and by appIyint the prevailing
exchange rates of US1*1.00 - PF 4.99 - DR4.08.
/b  Included under Dytes.
Ic  Includes DR 1.5 million for Sebou Bridge access roads.
oate: Figures may not add because of rounding.
0569E/p38



lZlltGDt l MOROCCO                                             SKI I A
SnOU It DWVELOW WT PROJECT                                              Page 2
(Loan 101840R)
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
Coat httistem
(in fDN Nillion.)
Percentage
Aprraisal EEtimates                 Actual               Foreipm
Local   Foreign   (Total       Local   Foreign  (Total)   Exchange
-------------- -  CDH Million) ----- -------------   (Z) --
II.  COMPONENTS ADDED BY AMENDMENT
National Cane Center (ORKVAG)
Civil Works Pumping Station                        0.97      0.42       1.39       0.97     0.41      1.38    30/30
Electro-mechanical Equipment                        1.93     3.59       5.52       1.76      3.26     5.02    65/65
Underground Network                                 7.81     5.89      13.70       8.54      6.45    14.99    43/43
Subsurface Drainage                                 1.43     1.07       2.50       -        -         -        43
Open Drain                                         0.91      0.69       1.60       -        -         -        43
Hydrant                                            0.60      1.00       1.60       0.27     0.50      0.77    65/65
Mobile Sprinkler Equipment                          1.40     2.59       3.99       0.99      1.85     2.84    65/65
Buildings. Office, Laboratory, Lodging.            0.29      0.13       0.42       1.53     0.66      2.19    30/30
Subtotal                                   15.34    15.38      30.77      14.06    13.13    27.19    50/48
12 Milk Collecting Centers/! (ORMVAC)
Buildings                                           1.00     0.43       1.43       0.85      0.37     1.22    30130
18 Refrigeration Tanks                             0.45      0.85       1.30      0.15      0.28      0.43    65/65
Subtotal                                    1.45      1.28      2.73       1.00      0.65      1.65    47/39
5 Agricultural Development Centers (ORbVAC)
Buildings                                          9.05      3.88      12.93       6.87     2.94      9.81    30/30
Standard Agricultural Equipment                    2.62      4.88       7.50       3.17      5.88     9.05    65/65
8 Rice Combine.                                    0.80      1.48       2.28       -        -         -        65
Cane Harveating & Transport Equipment/b             1.75     3.25       5.00       1.31      2.43     3.74    65/65
Subtotal                                   14.22    13.49      27.71      11.35    11.25    22.60    49/50
Housing for Factory Personnel (SUlACAS)
Blousing for 110 men trained staff                 5.79      2.48       8.27       8.12     3.48    11.60    30/30
Cane Transport Equipment (SUIJACAS)
Cane Harvesting & Loading Equipment/S              0.52      0.98       1.50      -         4.48      4.48   65/100
Total Basic Costs                          37.32    33.61      70.93      34.53    32.99    67.52   47/49
Price Contingencies 122                              4.48      4.03       8.51        -        -         -     47
Total Costs, Amendment                     41.80    37.64       79.44     34.53    32.99    67.52   47/49
III. Total Coat of Project As Amended/d                   95.19   149.74    244.93       75.98   120.90   196.88   61/61
/I 13 centers envisaged at appraisal.
lb 8 harvesters envisaged at appraieal; I harvester, I loader. I transloader, 24 trailers actually purchased.
/c 13 tractors and 60 trailers envisaged at appraisal; 3 harvesters, 5 loaders, and I continuous loader ectually
purchased.
/d Cost of original Project less base coat 4 contingencies of the deleted flood control works (all except zone P-Il),
plus the cost o: the components added by amendment.
Note: Figures may not add because of rounding.
0569E



S81101 11 DM3P 1110  oJcr                                           PosD I
PROJECt COfPLfION1 SPORT
Cost gatinstas
(in08mIlos
ApraLial getimeas                  Actual Id          Foraitn
toes!   Foralegn   (otel)   lsocal  Foreign  (Total)   lxehenma
M-------- (U  million) - ------- - - ----)
1.   ORIGINAL PROdlCT
ugiar Factory  SUNACAW/!
Civil Works nd Erection                          1.97     1.56      3.53       2.27     1.30     4.07     44/44
Equipment end Material                           1.10     9.68      10.78      1.20     9.98    11.18      90189
Studiee and Final Deaign                          -        1.45      1.45       -       1.45     1.45   1001100
Managemnt Fee                                    0.04     0.64      0.65       0.05     0.82     0.87    9U/94
Trmoport and Inaurance                           0.28     0.26      0.56       0.33     0.32     0.65      50/50
Subtotal, construction                    3.40    13.60     17.00       3.83    14.39    18.22     80/79
Consultanta.  tudlies Training                   0.07     0.29      0.36       0.07     0.29     0.36     80/80
Subtotal                                  3.47    13.U9     17.36       3.90    14.68    18.56     80/79
Efflubnt Treatmnt Plant                            0.30     0.45      0.75
Flood Control (Kin. tEuip.jOINTVAG)
Civil hDorka;  Dykes                             4.83     3.08      7.91
(Zone P - 11)                  (0.56)   (0.36)    (0.92)      1.34     0.35      2.19   (39)/39
Flood Chbael works                0.29      0.20      0.49                                 41
(Zone P - 11)                  t-)       C-)       C-)
Other Works                        0.48     0.32      0.80                                 40
(Zone P - 11)                  (0.02)   (0.01    (0.03)       /b        /b /f
Lend Expropriation                               1.20      -        1.20                                   0
(Zone P - 11)                  (0.07)    (-)       (0.07)     0.07      -        0.07      0/0
Technical Aeciatance                             0.23     0.92      1.15       0.29     1.10     1.39     80/79
(Zone P - 11)                   (0.02)  (0.10)    (0.12)
Sub-total                                 7.03     4.52     11.55       1.71     1.95     3.66     39/53
(Zone P - 11                  (0.67)   (0.47)    (1.14)                                 (41)
(Zone P - 11 * Tech. Aasiat.)  (0.88)   (1.29)    (2.17)    (1.72)   (1.94)   (3.66)    59/53
(Deleted flood Coutrol)         (6.15)   (3.23)    (9.33)
bade and Iridgeg  (Kin. Equip./O0 WAG)
Machra Sal Xeiri Bridge                          0.33     0.40      0.73       0.35     0.43     0.78      55/55
Primary and Seondary Main Rotd                   1.60     1.6i      3.21       1.25     1.26     2.51 /c  50/50
bituminous Tertiary teads                        1.55     1.55      3.10       1.58     1.94     3.52      55/55
Gravel Feeder Rods                               0.79     0.79      1.58       0.84     0.84     1.68      50/50
Lateral liay  for Suar Transport
to Tranaloading Cemtera                        0.61     0.41      1.02       -         -        -       'st
Strengthening of eloods d Railway Tracks
in nood Recape Channels                        0.22     0.27      0.69       -         -        -       55
Maintenance Squipmant end Study of
Sugarcane Tranaport                            0.09     0.16      0.25       0.05     0.10     0.15 I   6/64
Subtotal                                  5.19     5.19     10.38      4.07      4.57     8.66     50153
Total Basic Coats                        15.99    24.05     40.04                                  8.
(Lees Deleted nood Control)  (6.15)   (3.23)    (9.38)
(Net Beak Cost)                ITUIT  (20.31)  (1U3SY         9.68    21.20    30.88      68769
Pbicl Contigeniea                                  1.89     2.34      4.73
Osie Deleted Flood Control)  (0.73)   (0.38)    (1.11)
(ftt Physical Costingencies)   (116)   (2.46)    (3.62)
Price Coetingencise                                3.80     5.11      8.91
(Less Deleted nood Control)   (1.72)   (0.90)    (2.62)
CNat Priea Contingecies)        t2.0i)  (4.21)    (6.29)
Totel Costs, Original Project            21.68    32.00     53.68                                  60
(Lome Deleted Flood Control)  t(.59)   (4.52)  (T1.11) ll)
(Net Total Costs)             (1151   CYril)   T 0            9.68    21.20    30.88      68/69
Lr  Appraisal cost satiates for sugar factory were derived from actual contract figures (FF50.32 milliona fied plus
D827.20 million revisable) by escalating dirh_ coats by 42 frm July 1973 basis to Jauory 1974 bhais  by
treating certain perentages of dirhe  coats a foreign exchange comeoente. ad by applyina the prevailing
excbngc rates of U15l.00 - FF 4.99 - DM4.08. Factory coampnt figwres ware derived from Tables 2 end 3 of
Annex 3 of Appraisal Report.
/b  Included under Dyk_.
/i  Includoe 3150.34 million for Sabou bridge acces romde.
/d  Actual US dollar coats were obtained from actual and entimted  N ed FF payments ench year converted at the
averoa  anaal excbhn   rates shown kt the beginning of this report.
lote: Figurew my not add becanse of roundinge.
056gz



1U OK OF il OCCI                                           AUICX 1 3
SBw  II DKIDISOIIT PUDJECr                                         Pate 2
(Loan Lolola--wrn
PmoaJcr CO  oT   uzPorna
Cost Eatimtes
(in US$ uillios)
Percentage
Appr i s  Estimates    Actual             Foreign
il    raeiMx        (Total)   Local  Foreign  (Total)  Excange
(USt mill i)                        - 2) -
II. CIB15OE  ADDED BY A,EUDENIT
National Cane Center (ORACG)
CiVil Works Pumping Station                     0.24     0.10      0.34      0.20    0.09      0.29    30/30
Electromachazical Equipment                     0.48     0.90      1.38      0.30     0.57     0.87    65/65
Undergound Network                              1.95     1.47      3.42      2.00     1.51     3.51    43/43
Subsurface Drainage                             0.36     0.27      0.63      -        -        -       43
Open Drains                                     0.23     0.17.    0.40       -        -        -       43
Hydrats                                         0.15     0.26      0.41      0.07     0.12     0.19    65/65
Mobile Sprinkler Equipmet                       0.35     0.65      1.00      0.18    0.32      0.50    65/65
buildinga. Office. Laboratory. Lodgings         0.07     0.03      0.10      0.22    0.09      0.31    30/30
Subtotal                                 3.83     3.85      7.68      2.97     2.70     5.68    50/48
12 Iilk Collecting Centers'-t (ORVW&C)
Buildings                                       0.25     0.11      0.36      0.20    0.09      0.29    30/30
18 Refrigeration Tanks                         0.11      0.21      0.32      0.04     1.06     0.10    65/65
Subtotal                                 0.35     0.32      0.68      0.24     0.15     0.39    47/38
5 Axriculttral Development Centera (ORlVAC)
BuiLdings                                       2.26     0.97      3.23      1.55    0.66      2.21    30/30
Standard Agricultural Equipment                 0.66     1.22      1.88      0.48    0.90      1.38    65/65
8 Rice Cosbint                                  0.20     0.37      0.57      -        -        -       65
Came Harvesting & Trnport Equiptlb              0.44     0.81      1.25      0.19     0.34     0.53    65/65
Subtotal                                 3.56     3.37      6.93      2.22     1.90     4.12   49/46
Houing for Factory Personnel (SUN&CS)
Housing for 110 am trained staff                1.45     0.62      2.07      1.74     0.74     2.48    30/30
Cane Transport Eqipment (SUNACAS)
Cae Harveating & Loading EquipmetL              0.13     0.24      0.37      -        0.75     0.75   651100
Total Basic Costs                        9.33     8.40     17.73      7.17    6.24    13.41   47/47
Price Contiagencies 12Z                           1.13     1.00      2.13       -        -        -    47
Total Coats.  _endment                  10.46     9.40     19.86      7.17    6.24    13.41   47/47
1I. Tetal Cost of Project As Auded'd                  23.55    36.88    60.42      16.85    27.44   .4429   6i/62
Ia  13 centers enviad at appraisal.
/S  8 harvesters envisaged at appraisal; 1 harvester, 1 loader, I trausloader, 24 trailers actually purchased.
Ic  13 tractors and 60 trailers en  *saged at appraisal; 3 harvesters, 5 loadersc and I continuous loder actually
purchased.
Id  Cost of original Project less base cost - contingencies of the deleted flood control works (all except zone P-li).
plus the cost of the components added by amedment.
Mote: Figures my not add because of rounding.
0569E



'TNGO0M OF MORUL....
SEBOU IIt-DEE£LOPEril-ER=lS
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PR~OJECT COMPLEIOIN REPORT
Revis Estimate at Completion gf Rate of RetUrn oQaSUar Production at SUNACAS FactOrY ^
(constant 1974 dirhams) /e
Sonsitivity Analysis #1                  Rasic-Rate of_Peturn
Cost of Praduetion                         On Basis of Prices at Aporaisal    QonQasis _f Prices at ComDletiOn
/d                                         CIF /a      _BQne.1t.ts                 CIF /i   ___       .enefits
Year     Capita.i    o        J4a M   _  rotaQn            Price    0=5.L          Net             LtCiL-  GrEoss/c       Net
------- (OH  0OOO) -------   - (tons) -         (OH/ton)  ---- (OH '000) ----          (OH/ton)  ---- (DH '000)
1974      51,059              51,059                         908                 (51,059)         3,033                 (51.059)
1975       19,849   13,089   32,942        2,854             961       2,591    (30,351)          1,954       8,656    (24,286)
1976        7,386   15,946   23,332        4,224           1,014       4,059    (19,273)          1.213       8,254    (15,078)
1977          674   22,758   23,432       13,095           1,111      13,278    (10,154)            817      15,884      (7,548)
1978                38,192   38,192       27,166           1,164      30,181      (8,011)           668      22,195    (15,997)
1979                37,289   37,289       22,538           1,261     26,234    (11,055)             693      15,055    (22,234)
1980                42,899   42,899       29,669           1,631      37,413      (5,486)         1,777      20,561    (22,338)
19B1                34,414   34,414       24,172           1,631      39,425       5,011          1,274      42,954       8,540
1982                26,000   26,000       17,119           1,631      27,921       1,900            701      21,810      (4,200)
1983                37,200   37,200       27,400           1,631      44,689       7,500            761      19,200    (18,000)
1984                37,300   37,300       29,400           1,631     47,951       10,700            776      22,400    (14,900)
1985                37,500   37,500       33,000           1,631      53,823      16,300            921      25,600    (11,900)
1986                38,500   38,500       37,600           1,631     61,326       22,800          1,006      34,600      (3,900)
1987                39,500   39,500       41,600           1,631     67,850      28,400           1,110      41,800       2,400                          W
1988                40,578   40,578       44,900           1,631      73,232     32,700           1,237      49,500       9,300                           1
1989                40,57R   40,578       44,900           1,631      73,232      32,700          1,404      55,500      15,000
1990                40,578   40,578       44,900           1,631      73,232      32,700          1,624      63,000      22,500
1991-2000           40,578   40,578       44,900           1,631      73,232     32,700           1,624      72,900      32,300
*  Revised Econnmic Rate of Return    8.8% on basis of world sugar prices forecast at appraisal.
- 3.7% on basis of actual and forocast world sugar pricos at completion.
/a  Sourc.   APDraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept)
on FOB-Caribbean basis adJusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
h  Source:  World Bank (EAP Dept) -- actual prices and forecasts on FOR-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/C  Gross benerits defined as savings in imports of raw sugar.
/d  Assumes FF contract expenditures 70X in 1974, 2S% in 1975, 5X in 1976, supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes OH contract expenditures 70X in 1974, 30X In 1975, price revisions in 1976.
Exchange rates DH/FF : 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976, 0.917 in 1977.
/g  IBRO GOP Oeflator for Morocco used.
569E/p42



- 34 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                         ANNEX 2 B
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sensitivity Analysis #2: Revised Estimate at Completion
of Rate of Return on Sugar Production at SUNACAS Factory *
(constant 1974 dirhams)Y'
Cost of Production                       On Basis of Prices at Completion
PCR  td     SAR                 SAR            CIF lb        Benefits
Year     Capital    0 & M    Total   Production         Price    Gross /c      Net
---(DR '000) ------   - (tons) -          (DH/ton)  -    (DH '000) _ 
1974      51,059    1,735   52,794                      3,033                (52,794)
1975      19,849   13,253   33,102       8,400          1,954      25,500     (7,600)
1976       7,386   20,089   27,475      17,700          1,213      34,600      7,100
1977         674   23,712   24,386      22,400            817      27,200      2,800
1978               31,820   31,820      33,400            668      27,300     (4,500)
1979               37,753   37,753      41,300            693      28,400     (9,400)
1980               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,777      31,100     (9,500)
1981               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,274      79,800     39,200
1982               40,578   40,578      44,900            701      '7,200     16,200
1983               40,578   40,578      44,900            761      31,500     (9,100)
1984               40,978   40,78      44,900            776      34,200     (6,400)
1985               40,578   40,978      44,900            921      34,800     (5,800)
19%6               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,006      41,400        800
1987               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,110      45,200      4,600
1988               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,237      49,800      9,300
1989               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,404      55,500     15,000
1990               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,624     63,000      22,500
1991-2000          40,578   40,578      44,900          1,624      72,900     32,300
* Revised Economic = 10.9% on basis of production levels and O&M costs forecast
Rate of Return     at appraisal, and actual capital costs and actual and forecast
world sugar prices at completion.
/a  Source:  Appraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept)
on FOB-Caribbean basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to
Casablanca.
/b  Source:  World Bank (EAP Dept) -  actual prices and forecasts on FOB-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/c  Gross benefits defined as savings on imports of raw sugar.
/d  Assumes FF contract expenditures 70% in 1974, 25% in 1975, 5% in 1976,
supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes DH contract Zxpenditiures 70% in 1974, 30% in 1975, price revisions
in 1976.
Exchange rates DH/FF = 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976,
0.917 in 1977.
/e IBRD GDP Deflator for Morocco used.
569EIp69



- 35 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                        ANNEX 2 C
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sensitivity Analysis #3: Revised Estimate at Completion
of Rate of Return on Sugar Production at SUNACAS Factory *
(constant 1974 dirhams)'-
Cost of Production                        Unit Cost *
PCR  /d     SAR                 SAR          or CIF /b          Benefits
Year     Capital    0 & M    Total   Production         Price       Gross /c     Net
--   (DH '000)         -   (tons) -         (DH/ton)     --  (DH '000)
1974      51,059             51,059                    3,601                   (51,059)
1975      19,849   13,089   32,942        2,854        2,418         10,277    (22,665)
1976       7,286   15,946   23,332        4,224        1,147         10,213    (13,1t9)
1977         674   22,758   23,432       13,095          829         15,020     (8,412)
1978               38,192   38,192      27,166           705         22,521    (15,671)
1979               37,289   37,289       22,538        1,282         15,889    (21,400)
1980               42,899   42,89X      29,669         2,058         38,036     (4,8b6)
1981                34,414   34,414     24,172         1,065         49,746     15,332
1982                26,000   26,000      17,119          701         18,232     (7,887)
1983                37,200   3/,200     27,400           761         19,200    (18,000)
1984                37,300   37,300     29,400           776         22,400    (14,900)
1985                37,500   37,500     33,000           921         25,600    (11,900)
1986                38,500   38,500     37,600         1,006         34,600     (3,900)
1987               39,500   39,500      41,600         1,110         41,800      2,400
1988               40,578   40,578      44,900         1,237         49,800      9,300
1989               40,578   40,578      44,900         1,404         55,500     15,000
1990               40,578   40,578      44,900         1,624         63,000     22,500
1991-2000          40,578   40,578      44,900         1,624         72,900     32,300
Revised Economic = 4.5% on basis of actual average unit cost of sugar imports
Rate of Return      1975-1982, and actual and forecast world sugar prices at
completion for 1982-2000.
/a  Source:  Appraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept)
on FOB-Caribbean basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to
Casablanca.
/b  Source:  World Bank (EAP Dept) -- actual prices and fo,:casts on FOB-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/c Gross benefits defined as savings on imports of raw sugar.
Id Assumes FF contract expenditures 70% in 1974, 25% in 1975, 5% in 1976,
supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes DH contract expenditures 70% in 1974, 30% in 1975, price revisions
in 1976.
Exchange rates DHIFF = 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976,
0.917 in 1977.
fe IBRD GDP Deflator for Morocco used.
569E/p70



- 36 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                       ANNE 2 D
S88OU II DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
(Loan WlO-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sensitivity AnalYsis #4: Revised Estimate at Completion
of Rate of Return on Sugar Production at SUNACAS_Factory *
(constant 1974 dirhams)'
Cost of Production
/d                                      CIF /b*         Benefits
Year     Capital    0 & M    Total   Production         Price    Gross /c      Net
(DH '000)           - (tons) -      (DR/ton)   --  (DH '000)
1974     51,059              51,059                     3,033                (51,059)
1975     19,849    13,089   32,942       2,854          1.954      8,656    (24,286)
1976      7,386    15,946   23,332       4,224          1,213      8,254    (15,078)
1977        674    22,758   23,432      13,095            817     15,884      (7,548)
1978               38,192   38,192      27,166            668     22,195    (15,997)
1979               37,289   37,289      22,538            693     15,055    (22,234)
1980               42,899   42,899      29,669          1,777     20,561    (22,338)
1981               34,414   34,414      24,172          1,274     42,954       8,540
1982               26,000   26,000      17,119            701     21,810      (4,200)
1983               37,200   37,200      27,400            761     19,200    (18,000)
1984               37,300   37,300      29,400            730     22,400    (14,900)
1985               37,500   37,500      33,000            710     24,090    (13,400)
1986               38.500   38,500      37,600            710     26,700    (11,800)
1987               39,500   39,500      41,600            717     29,500    (10,000)
1988               40,578   40,578      44,900            733     32,200      (8,400)
1989               40,578   40,578      44.900          1,404     32,900      (7,700)
1990               40,578   40,578      44,900          1,624     63,000      Z2,500
1991-2000          40,578   40,578      44,900          1,624     72,900      32,300
* Revised Economic =  2.4Z on basis of assumption that world sugar prices in 1984-88
Rate of Return      are at lowest 5-year average since 1955 (93 constant US$/ton
in 1965-69), and on basis of actual and forecast prices at
completion for all other years.
/a  Source:  Appraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept)
on FOB-Caribbean basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to
Casablanca.
lb  Source: World Bank (EAP Dept) -  actual prices and forecasts on FOB-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/c Gross benefits defined as savings on imports of raw sugar.
Id Assumes FF contract expenditures 70S in 1974, 25S in 1975, 51 in 1976,
supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes DE contract expenditures 70S in 1974, 30X in 1975, price revisions
in 1976.
Exchange rates DH/FF = 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976,
0.917 in 1977.
Se  IBRD GDP Deflator for Morocco used.
569E/p71



_ 37 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                         ANNEX 2 E
SEBOU II DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLErION REPORT
Sensitivity Analysis #5: Revised Estimate at Completion
of Rate of Return on Sugar Production at SUNACAS Factory *
(constant 1974 dirhams)'
Cost of Production
/d                                        CIF /b *         Benefits
Year     Capital    0 & N    Total   Production           Price      Gross /c     Net
- (DE '000)            - (tons) -        (DR/ton)   -     (DR '000) -
1974     51,059              51,059                       3,033                 (51,059)
1975     19,849    13,089   32,942        2,854           1,954        8,656    (24,286)
1976      7,386    15,946   23,332        4,224           1,213        8,254    (15,078)
1977        674    22,758   23,432       13,095             817       15,884     (7,548)
1978                38,192   38,192      27,166            -668       22,195    (15,997)
1979                37,289   37,289      22,538             693       15,055    (22,234)
1980                42,899   42,899      29,669           1,777       20,561    (22,338)
1981                34,414   34,414      24,172           1,274       42,954      8,540
1982                26,000   26,000      17,119             701       21,810     (4,200)
1983                37,200   37,200      27,400             761       19,200    (18,000)
1984                37,300   37,300      29,400           2,489       22,400    (14,900)
1985                37,500   37,500      33,000           2,444      82,100      44,600
1986                38,500   38,500      37,600           2,465       91,900     53,400
1987                39,500   39,500      41,600           2,513      102,500     63,000
1988                40,578   40,578      44,900           2,584      112,800     72,300
1989                40,578   40,578      44,900           1,404      116,000     75,400
1990                40,578   40,578      44,900           1,624      63,000      22,500
1991-2000           40,578   40,578      44,900           1,624       72,900     32,300
* Revised Economic = 9.82 on basis of assumption that world sugar prices in 1984-88
Rate of Return        are at highest 5-year average since 1955 (354 constant US$/ton
in 1972-76), and on basis of actual and forecast world sugar
prices at completion for all other yevrs.
/a  Source:  Appraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept)
on FOB-Caribbean basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to
Casablanca.
/b  Source:  World Bank (EAP Dept) -- actual prices and forecasts on FOB-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/c  Gross benefits defined as savings on imports of raw sugar.
/d  Assumes FF contract expenditures 70S in 1974, 25S in 1975, 52 in 1976,
supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes DE contract expenditures 702 in 1974, 30S in 1975, price revisions
in 1976.
Exchange rates DRIFF = 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976,
0.917 in 1977.
/e IBRD GDP Deflator for Morocco used.
569EIp72



- 38 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                         ANNEX 2 F
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sensitivity AnalYsis #6: Revised Estimate at Completion
of Rate of Return on Sugar Production at SUNACAS Factory *
(constant 1974 dirhamzs)"-
Cost of Production                        On Basis of Prices at Completion
/d    +132                                CIF /b         Benefits
Year     Capital    0 & N    Total   Production          Price    Gross Ic      Net
-     (DH '000)           -    (tons) -       (DH/ton)  -    (Dli '000)
1974      51,059             51,059                      3,033                (51,059)
1975      19,849   14,791   34,640        2,854          1,954      8,656    (25,984)
1976       7,386   18,019   25,405        4.224          1,213      8,254    (17,151)
1977         674   25,717   26,391       13,095            417     15,884    (10,506)
1978               43,157   43,157       27,166            668     22,195    (20,962)
1979               42,137   42,137       22,538            693     15,055    (27,082)
1980               48,476   48,476       29,669          1,777     20,561    (21,915)
1981                38,888   38,888      24,172          1,274     42,954       4,066
1982                29,400   29,400      17,119            701     21,810      (7,600)
1983               42,000   42,000       27,400            761     19,200    (22,800)
1984               42,200   42,200       29,400            776     22,400    (19,800)
1985               42,400   42,400       33,000            921     25,600    (16,800)
1986               43,500   43,500       37,600          1,006     34,600      (8,900)
1987                44,600   44,600      41,600          1,110     41,800      (2,800)
1988               45,900   45,900       44,900          1,237     49,800       4,000
1989                45,900   45,900      44,900          1,404     55,500       9,700
1990               45,900   45,900    4",900             1,624     63,000      17,200
1991-2000          45,900   45,900       44,900          1,624     72,900      27,100
* Revised Economic = 1.0  on basis of assumption that economic cost of sugarcane is
Rate of Return      202 above financial cost, that cane is 662 of O&M, and
therefore economic cost of O&M is 13S above financial cost;
and on basis of actual and forecast world sugar prices at
completion.
/a  Source:  Appraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept)
on FOB-Caribbean basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to
Casablanca.
/b  Source:  World Bank (EAP Dept) -  actual prices and forecasts on FOB-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/c Gross benefits defined as savings on imports of raw sugar.
Jd Assumes FF contract expenditures 70S in 1974, 25S in 1975, 5X in 1976,
supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes DE contract expenditures 70S in 1974, 30S in 1975, price revisions
in 1976.
Exchange rates DH/FF = 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976,
0.917 in 1977.
/e IBRD GDP Deflator for Morocco used.
569E/p73



-39-       S
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                         AMNEX 2 C
SEBOU I1 DEVELIOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sensitivity Analysis #7: Revised Estimate at Completion
of Rate of Return on Sugar Production at SUNACAS Factory *
(constant 1974 dirhams)'z
Cost of Production                        On Basis of Prices at Completion
/d                                        CIF /b        Benefits
Year     Capital    0 & M    Total  Production          Price    Gross /c      Net
(DR '000)           - (tons) -        (DR/ton)  -    (DR '000) --
1974      51,059             51,059                     3,033                 (51,059)
1975      19,849   13,089   32,942        2,854         1,954       8,656    (24,286)
1976       7,386   15,946   23,332        4,224          1,213      8,254    (15,078)
1977         674   22,758   23,432       13,095           817      15,884      (7,548)
1978                38,192   38,192      27,166            668     22,195    (15,997)
1979                37,289   37,289      22.538           693      18,800    (18,500)
1980                42,899   42,899      29,669         1,777      25,700    (17,200)
1981                34,414   34,414      24,172         1,274      53,700      19,300
1982                26,000   26,000      17,119            701     24,200      (1,800)
1983                37,200   37,200      27,400            761     21,300    (15,800)
1984                37,300   37,300      29,400            776     24,900    (12,400)
1985                37,500   37.500      33,000            921     28,400      (9,000)
1986                38,500   38,500      37,600         1,006      38,400          (0)
1987                39,500   39,500      41,600         1,110      46,400       7,000
1988                40,578   40,578      44,900         1,237      55,300      14,800
1989                40,578   40,578      44,900         1,404      61,700      21,100
1990                40,578   40,578      44,900         1,624      70,000     29,500
1991-2000           40.578   40,578      44,900         1,624      81,000     40,400
* Revised Economic = 6.2% on basis of assumption that dirham has been and is
Rate of Return      overvalued in relation to the US dollar by 20S in the years
1978-81 and by 101 in the years 1982-90, and that therefore
gross benefits are up, respectively by 25X and 11.1 in those
two periods, and on basis of actual and forecast world sugar
prices at completion.
/a  Source:  Appraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept)
on FOB-Caribbean basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to
Casablanca.
/b  Source:  World Bank (EAP Dept) -  actual prices and forecasts on FOB-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/c Gross benefits defined as savings on imports of raw sugar.
/d Assumes FF contract expenditures 702 in 1974, 25Z in 1975, 5S in 1976,
supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes DR contract expenditures 701 in 1974, 302 in 1975, price revisions
in 1976.
Exchange rates DH/FF = 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976,
0.917 in 1977.
/e IBRD GDP Deflator for Morocco used.
569E/p74



- 40 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                          ANNEX 2 H
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sensitivity Analysis 8: Revised Estimate at Completion of Rate of Return
on Sugar Production at SUNACAS Factory *
(constant 1974 dirhams)/e
Basic Rate of Return
Cost of Production                        On Basis of Prices at Completion
/d                                        CIF /b        Benefits
Year     Capital    0 & H    Total   Production          Price    Gross /c      Net
-  (DH '000)            - (tons) -       (DH/ton)  ---- (DH '000) --
1974      51,059             51,059                      3,033                (51,059)
1975      199,849   13,089   32,942       2,854          1,954      8,656    (24,286)
1976       7,386   15,946   23X332        4,224          1,213      8,254    (15,078)
1977         674   22,758   23,432       13,095            817     15,884      (7,548)
1978               38,192   38,192       27,166            668     22,195    (15,997)
1979               37,289   37,289       22,538            693     15,055    (22,234)
1980               42,899   42,899       29,669          1,777     20,561    (22,338)
1981               34,414   34,414       24,172          1,274     42,954       8,540
1982               26,000   26,000       17,119            701     21,810      (4,200)
1983               37,200   37,200       24,700            761     17,300    (19,900)
1984               37,300   37,300       26,500            776     20,200    (17,100)
1985               37,500   37,500       29,700            921     23,000    (14,500)
L986               38,500   38,500       33,800          1,006     31,100      (7,400)
1987               39,500   39,500       37,400          1,110     37,600      (1,900)
1988               40,578   40,578       40,400          1,237     44,800       4,200
1989               40,578   40,578       40,400          1,404     50,000       9,400
1990               40,578   40,578       40,400          1,624     56,700      16,100
i991-2000          40,578   40,578       40,400          1,624     65,600      25,000
*  Revised Economic Rate of Return    1.6% on basis of actual and forecast world
sugar prices at completion and on assumption
that SUNACAS sugar production reaches only
90% of the levels projected for the basic
rate of return at completion for the years
1983-2000.
/a  Source;  Appraisal Report (Price forecasts of the World Bank (EAP Dept) on FOB-
Caribbean basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/b  Source:  World Bank (FAP Dept) -- actual prices and forecasts on FOB-Caribbean
basis adjusted for estimated shipping costs to Casablanca.
/c  Gross benefits defined as savings on imports of raw sugar.
/d_ Assumes FF contract expenditures 70% in 1974, 25% in 1975, 5Z in 1976,
supplemental protocol in 1977.
Assumes DH contract expenditures 70% in 1974, 30% in 1975, price revisions
in 1976.
Exchange rates DH/FF - 0.909 in 1974, 0.945 in 1975, 0.925 in 1976,
0.917 in 1977.
/e IBRD CDP Deflator for Morocco used.
569E/p75



-41-                               Annex 2 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
World Sugar Prices FOR Caribbean Ports
in Current and Constant Dollars
Manufacturing
Unit Value
Index of Exports
from Developed to
Current    Developing            Constant Dollar Price
Year       Price      Countries      _ _   1981 = 100    1974 u 100
(SIt)        (1981 - 100          (SIt)          ($/t)
Actual
1955         71               26.2              271            159
1956         76               26.8              284            167
1957        114               28.0              407           239
1958         77               29.6              260           153
1959         66               28.1              235           138
1960         69               28.8              240            L41
1961         60               28.9              208            122
1962         61               28.6              213           125
1963        184               28.8              639           376
1964        127               29.4              432           254
1965         44               29.5              149            88
1966         40               31.2              128             75
1967         42               31.7              132             78
1968         42               29.7              141            83
1969         71               29.9              237           139
1970         81               33.1.             245           144
1971         99               35.8              277           163
1972        160               39.3              407           239
1973        208               46.9              443           261
1974        654               58.8            1,112           654
1975        449               66.8              672           395
1976        255               68.0              375           221
1977        179               73.7              243           143
1978        172               86.9              198           116
1979        213               97.0              220           129
L980        632              105.0              602           354
1981        374              100.0              374           220
1982        186               98.0              189          1i1
1983        187               94.9              197           116
Proiected
1984        165               98.0              168            99
1985        220              105.8              208           122
1990        520              156.1              333           196
1995        700              208.9              335           197
Sources:  Internationa1 Sugar Organizatiun and World
Ba.sk (EAP Dept.)



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU SI DMVIIM..ENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
World Suaar Prices
CIF Casablanca
In Current and Constant Oirhams
Average    Current Price   Estimated Ocean Freight  Current Price              GDP Deflator  Constant Dirham Price
Year  Exchan    Rateg FO  Caribbean   Caribbean - Casablanca   CIF Casablanca              1974 = 100       CIF Casablanca
0Oii        I      (03l         LV           tiTi            (pH/II                                   (OH/,T1 OH
ACtual
1973     4.107          208      854         40 *          164          1,018               0.808                 1,260
1974     4.370          654   2,858          40            175         3,033,                1.000                3,033
1975     4.052          449   1,820          38            154          1,974                1.010                1,954
1976     4.419          255   1,127          36            159          1,286                1.060                1,213
1977     4.503          179      806          34           153             959               1.174                  817
1978     4. 67          172      717         32            133             850               1.273                  668
'979      3.899         213      831         3:            117            948                1.367                  693
1980      3.937         632   2,488          41             161        2,649                1.491                1,777
1981     5.172          374   1,934          33 ^          171          2,105                1.652                1,274
1982     6.023          186   1,120          24            '45          1,265                1.804                  701
1983     6.993          187   1,308          22            '54          1,462                1.921                  761
Eriiact.to4
1984     9.000          165   1,485          19 ^          171          1,656               2.133                   776
1985     9.000          220   1,980          20            180          2,160                2.346                  921
1986     9.000          262   2.355          22            195          2.550                2.534                1.006
1987     9.000          311   2,798          24            212          3,010                2.711                1,110
'FaR     9.000          370   3.326          26            229          3,555               2.874                 1,237
989      9.000         438   3,946           28           249          4,195                2.988                1.404
1990     9.000          520   4,680          30            270          4,950                3.048                1,624
1995     9.000          700   6,300           39           351          6,651                3.048                1.624
2000      9.000         700   6,300           39           351          6,651                3.048                1,624
Actual
Sources:    International Sugar Organization
and World Bank (EAP Dept.)
I4



- 43 -
Annex 2 K
KINGDOM OF MOROCOD
SEBOU II DEVELOPfENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Morocco's Sugar Imports
Value CIF    Unit Cost                    Unit Cost Constant
Volume     Current DH   Current DH  GDP Deflator           1974 DH
Year  (OOOT)    (DH Millions)  (DH/T)        197.4 - 100          (DH/T)
1973    278         245           881           0.808              1,090
1974    286         632         2,210           1.000              2,210
1975    267         971         3,637           1.010              3,601
1976    238         610         2,563           1.060              2,418
1977    379         510         1,346           1.174              1,147
1978    289         305         1,055           1.273                829
1979    279         269           964           1.367                705
1980    328         627         1,912           1.491              1,282
1981    310       1,054         3,400           1.652              2,058
1982    270         519         1,922           1.804              1,065
Source; World Ban}.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3 A
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUNACAS
Comparison of Trial Periods
1977            1976        1975
Total tons cane ground                    134,371          62,846      34,509
Number of crop days                            87               62         51
Number of operational days                     61.3
Average tons cane per crop day              1,544             996         677
Average tons cane per operational day       2,191
Fiber Z cane                                   17.88           N           14.8
Pol X canie                                    13.95           0           15.2
Mixed juice purity (Z)                         82.4            T           84.0*
Sucrose extraction (X)                         91.11           A           92.1
Reduced sucrose extraction (Z) **              94.17 (-1.03)   V           93.50  (-1.81)
Guaranteed sucrose extraction                  95.20           A           95.31
I
Boiling house recovery (X) **                  76.55 (-7.92)   L           59.08
Guaranteed boiling house recovery (X)          84.47           A           85.8 *
B
Overall recovery (2) **                        69.75 (-8.54)   L           54.41 (-24.61)
Guaranteed overall recovery (%)                78.29           E           79.02
Sugar produced (tons)                      13,095           4,224       2,854
* Estimate.
** Figures in parenthesis show shortfall compared to guarantee.
569E/p43



- 45 -
ANNE 3 B
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMEINT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUNACAS
Corparison of Guarantees and Operating Results
1983 *    1982       1981       1980      1979       1978
Total Tons Cane            170,490   194,792   296,843   322,619   244,484   293,288
No. Crop Days                   95       140        207        209       159        187
No. Operational Days            80.7       95.0     144.8      155.7     122.3    n.a.
Aver. Tons:
- per Crop Day            1,794      1,391      1,434     1,544      1,538      1,568
- per Operational Day    2,113       2,051      2,049     2,072      1,999       n.a.
Fiber S Cane                    16.29      17.23     17.54      16.93     16.31      19.00
Pol X Cane                      12.68      12.10     10.92      13.12     13.25      13.13
Mixed Juice Purity (1)          82.11     81.53      77.80      84.09     82.39      81.50
Sucrose Extraction (Z)          92.49     92.07      90.37      89.41     94.19      92.91
Reduced Sucrose
Extraction (X)                94.51     94.56      93.41      92.58     95.74      95.68
Guaranteee Sucrose
Extraction (S)                93.99     93.84      93.39      94.17     94.18      94.30
Actual-Guarantee (S)            +0.52     +0.72      +0.02      -1.59     +1.56      +1.38
Boiling House Recovery (X)    81.10       76.03      78.39      75.88     71.08      75.90
Guaranteed Boiling
House Recovery (X)            84.50     83.94      80.30      86.18     84.73      83.92
Actual-Guarantee (S)            -3.40     -7.91      -1.71    -10.30    -13.65       -8.02
Overall Recovery (2)            75.01     70.00      70.84      67.84     66.95      70.52
Guaranteed Overall
Recovery (2) **               79.40     78.74      74.99     81.15      79.80      79.14
Actual-Guarantee (X)            -4.39     -8.74      -4.15    -13.31    -12.85       -8.62
Sugar Produced (tons):
- Total                  16,371    17,119    24,172    29,669    22,538    27,166
- Per Operational Day        203       180        167       191        184       n.a.
- Per Crop Day               172       122        117       142        142        145
* Results through April 30, 1983.
** Tables show overall recovery as product of reduced extraction and boiling house
recovery.
569E/p44



KNGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEfMU II DEVELOPMEN? PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
EROL1CT COMPLETION REPORT
SUNACAs
Comparison of Factory Results
1983        ) 1982      1981        1980        1979        1978        1977        1976       1975
Tons Cane Processed               170,490    194,792    296,843    322,619    244,484    293,288    134,372            62,846      34,509
Tons White Sugar Produced               -           -       1,196       4,896       6,605      11,502           -           -       2,854
Tons Raw Sugar Produced            16.371 i     Z. 119     22.976      24.7731      iU         15.664      13.C9         .22A
Total Tons Sugar Produced          16,371      17,119      24,172      29,669      22,538      27,168      13,095       4,224       2,814
Sugar Yield X Cane as Produced          9.51        8.79        7.74        8.90        8.87        9.25        9.73        6.72        8.27
Number Crop Days                       95 *       140         207         209         159         187          87          62          51
Pol X Cane                             12.68       12.10       10.92       13.12       13.25       13.13       13.95        -          15.20
Fiber % Cane                           16.29       17.23       17.54       16.93       16.31       19.00        -           -          14.80
Extraneous Mat. X Cane                  5.44        6.79        6.03        6.11        -           -           -           --
Imbibition X Cane                      31.73       25.79       29.23       32.66       33.37       38.75       41.10        -          29.20
Mixed Juice Purity                     82.11       81.53       77.80       84.0        82.39       81.50       82.40        -           -
S:'crose Extractions (%)               92.49       92.07       90.37       89.41       94.19       92.91       91.11        -           -
Reduced Sucrose Ext.  M%)              94.51       94.56       93.41       92.58        -           -           -           -          93.50
Boiling House Recovery (X)             81.10       76.03       78,39       75.38       71.08       75.90       76.55        -           -                    0%
Overall Recovery (X)                   75.01       70.00       70.84       67.84       66.95       70.52       69.75        -           -                     I
Sucrose Entering Cane (X)              12.68       12.10      1hl.1        13.12       13.25       13.13       13.95        -          15.20
Sucrose Lost in Bagasse (M)             0.95        0.96        1.07        1.39        0.77        0.93        1.24        -           -
Sucrose Lost in Mud (M)                 0.14        0.08        0.06        0.10        0.07        0.08        0.14        -
Sucrose Lost in Molasses (M)            1.51        2.13        1.67        1.79        2.24        1.96        2.'6        -
Sucrose Lost-Undetermined (X)           Q.57                                LPA  Q,44  oglLIQ _u-                                       -
Total Losses (%)                        3.17        3.63        3.24        4.22        4.38        3.88        4.22        -
Sucrose In Sugar CX)                    9.51        8.47        7.87        8.90        8.87        9.25        9.73        -
* Results through April 30, 1983.
569E/p45
h3
w



KIGQOtLOLRM
SLBOUUSEI 9£LQEMLt4L.2RQ,)CI
(Loafn 1018-MOR)
PR0JECT COMPLETION 8ffPQBI
SUNACA5
Cannarlson of FactoQ_rjJsgtU.  (Cont'd)
1983 ^      1982        1981         1980        1979        1978         1977        1976        1975
Hours Available                       2.280       3,360       4,968        5,016       3,816       4,488        2,088       1,488        1,224
Causes of Lost Time (Hrs:ginl
Lack of Cane                    282:30      932:00       806:40      374:00      413:15         n.a.       45:40      682:00         n.a.
- As % of hours avail.       (12.39%)   (27.74%)   (16.24X)        (7.46S)   C10.83%)         n.a.      (2.19%)                   n.a.
Cane Yard b Hills                 16:50       77:45            -     345:45        86:10        n.a.      146:20                     n.a.
Fabrication                       4:20            0           -       50:45       62:10                   233:53
Boilers                            3:40       16:55            -     179:40       122:55        n.a.            -                    n.a.
Electrical                        0:25            0           -        16:40        8:50        n.a.            -                    n.a.
Lack of Water                         -           0            -       0:40        17:00        n.a.            -                    n.a.
Others                           iiLD         53J 30     685:10      311:15       17.0:15       n.a.      192;i1                     n.a.
Sub-total, Factory          61:15      148:17      685:10       904:45      467:20        n.a.       570:56                    n.a.
- As % of Hours Avail.  (2.69%)    (4.41%)   (13.79%)    (18.04%)    (12.25%)             n.a.     (27.34%)                    n.a.
Total Lost Time                 343:45   1,080:10    1,491:50   1,278:45         880:35                   616:36      682:00       803:15
As % of Hours Avail.          15.08%      32.15%       30.03%      25.49%      23.OR%                   29.53%      45.83%      65.63%
Results through April 30, 1983.
569E/p46                                                                                                                                                       1M
N c



- 48 -                                 AUN  3D
w1 U iwLpwr 3nimr
uDECr rDd R90R
SSM
Corisrisan of Factm 0pmiw Co asts
EbdRe.t                                            A c t u a I
1983       198         1981        1980        1979        1978       1977        1976        1975
L Pruo.mml
SsIsies                            4,100,400  3,332,003  2,556,877 ( 3,726,610 ( 3,637,587 ( 3,011,739   1,568,663                1,013,117
Pe       Pew. O'Tim                1,666,600   1,013,4S6   1,169,689 C           (          C               492,909                 114,013
Prinlm & Graific  ions             2,065,100    806,935  1,021,982       994,889  1,009,012    888,464    430;3E    2,254,065       123,073
Islee. & lEer.                                   978,659     182,054     196,79      175,484    175,852    6'4,556                  363,8Eb
social                             1,476.20    1,083.226    954,741    950,935       913,051    729,2       557,099    481,702            -
Teral                         9,08,300   7,206,285  5,885,343   5,869,228  5,737,134  4,815,877   3,693,607   2,735,767   1.&9,065
2. 3a.ermaL ad Senvices
-ni*raim  mu Sevices                 687,00o    608,188    490,249   1,156,515   1,542,308      647,318    359,406      195,539    104,985
utsi" Sivices (IWF                 2,510,700   1,529,000   1,622,528   1,233,317  2,20,862   1.012,3D6    862,616    494,444    3D7,6D3
3oiprt ed 1 -                      1,000,00    1,776,000   1,454,050  2,69,ZD1   3,762,150   3,503,69D    488,805        15,270      4,329
lubricants ai Pbel                 1700,C00   1,410,000   1,893,400   1,390,600    56,588    763,963    212,017    393,912    164,679
uac                                  570,000    515,000    715,100    625,700        957,286    5W7.682    181,354       46,109    143,777
saw SW                                     -           -           -           -          -   1,360,753     197,636           -    413,400
Cale1es-5 av spre Parts            2,218,000  2,870,000  5,427,191  4,099,922  3,562,152   1,052,817   1,030,285        765,281  2,013,533
P _AJ      a B sut ad Sd7oL                            -           -           -          -           -           -           -          -
otal & S                      S,755,70   8,506,188  11,602,518  11,115,055  12,920,366   8,938,529   3,332,117   1,910,555  3.152,306
3. cost Pel,  M & s                   17,8S6,000  15,714,473  17,487,861  16,984,283  18,657,480 13,756,606   7,025,724  4,646,322  5,W1,371
4   Ct of cm  oqort                   10,849,800   5,5,00D  7,123,482   7,622,447   5,3eo.865  6,075,163  2,987,124   1,662,750    612,190
CAst of CAm                       36,408.9D0  20,166,DO  26,345,143 34,434,687 22,866,399 24,514,676  9,636,020   3,250,097  2,770,733
5. Fa:rty Cots (excl. dq  ec.)        65,102,700 41,465,473  50,956,486 59,041.417 46,884,764 44,364,245  19,668,868   9,559,169  8,386,296
6. Fiaeial Ccats                      12,115,000 11,933,000  12,257.106  12,393,4B4  12,519,695  12,486,417  12,143,106 11,144,542  6,525,998
7. 1ML FCDRW                          77,217,700 53,398,473 63,223,592  71,434,901 59,404,439  56,830,662 31,791,976 20,703,711  14,910,294
- per t  of mtr                               3,119       2,616       2,408       2,636      2,092       2,428       4,901       5,224
8. CIficial ea-btory price
of Upr (per to)                                                2,355       19333        M852       1785        1600        1500   100(1150)1
9. Utit ZC  of C     (per to)
-ffici  m    price                                                95         95          95          8L2         81.2        65       65(59)1
-ctuzal   ere cMsN                                   103.5        88.8       106.7       93.4        83.6        71.7        51.7       80.3
-official truomJrt cot                                            25.2        22.6        21.7       20.7        22.3        25.8        18.0(13)1
-*ctuml wqrne trart cost                              28.7        24.0        23.6       22.0        20.7        22.2        26.5        17.7
If SW etie  in pmndtlis.
I Pecromatively in:reamd to  2,320 in 1981
3'  %rtrametively iocred to (32,355 in 1981



KINGOA OF MOROCCO
SEBOU ZI DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT CfMPLtlI    REPORT
SUNAC5
Comparison of Sulanee Sheets
(OH)
J2L              J198fl        1979       _  1972         1J77           1797          1297
S.   2 nZ
Initial Stock                                     7,'43,&09        10.221,116    9,962,246    2.3S8,352    3,407,320    2,668,822
All Purchases:
- Cane                                           26,345,000        34,435,000   22,846,000   24,615,000    9,636,000    3,260,000    2,770.000
- Transport + Loading of Cane                     7,123,000         7,622,000    5,380.000    6.075.000    2.987.000    1,622,000          622,000
- Other                                           8.06.I16         6.1.156   _.415.290    3 775,054  1.1.0.4L         0    1.246.149    2.726,312
Sub-total, All Purchases                     41.504,516        48,173,156   33,641,290   34.365,054   13,753,430    6.118,149    6,118,312
AUl Salaries                                      5.885,343         5,869,228    5,737,134    4,815,877    3,693,607    2,735,767    1,349,065
fmport and Taxes                                  1,454,0S0         2,609,201    3,762,150    3,503,690         488,805        15,270        4,329
External Services                                 1,622,528         1,233,317    2,20t,862    1,012,306         862,616       494,444      307,603
Transport and Travel                                175,530           867,603    1,176,310        440,160       251,599        96,186        29,913
Administration                                      314,919           253,912       365,998       207,1$5       107,805        99,353        75,072
Finance Charees                                   4,917,589         4,863,053    4,668,167    4,708,190    4,584,854    3,785,429    1,682,025
Depreciation                                      7,349,517         7,530,431    7,AS1,526    7,778,227    7,558,254    7,359,113    4,843,973
TOTAL                                        70,637,601        81,656,017   69,366,685   59,219,014   34,708,290   23,372,533   14,910,292    >
II.   bn
Final Stock                                       8,564,005         7,413,809   10,221,116    9,962,246    2,318,352    3,407,320    2,668,822
Sales (Sugar)                                    50,122,844        60,151,419   43,631,620   45,251,782   19,984,044    6,064,834    4,073,866
Sales (Other)                                     2,360,390         1,903.761    3.718,103    2,699,574         607.590           624            75
Interest                                            135,176           217,046         9,416         4,372             -        47,152       17,591
miscellaneous                                        27... Q          270.200             -         2.700A.-.----------                           -
Sub-total, Receipts                          61,410,095        69,956,234   57,580,255   57,920,682   22,979,986    9,619,930    6.780,658
Profit (Loss) on Operations                      (9,227.506)      (l1.699,783) (11.786,430)  (1.298,332) (11,728,304) (13.852,603)  (8,129,634)
As X of Total Payments                          13.1%            14.3%         17.0$          2.22        33,82         59.3X          54.5X
TOTAL                                       70,637,601         Bi,656,017   69,366,685   59,219,014   34,708,290   23,372,533   14,910,292
III. Cash Flow tLosses - Deareciation1
Cash Flow on Operations                          (1,877,989)       (4,169,352)  (3,934,902)   6,479,895   (4,170,050)  (6,493,490)  (3,285,161)
Cumulative Cash Flow on Operations              (17.451.5491      (15,573,560) (11,404,208)  (7,489,306) 113,949,201)  (9,779,151)  (3,25,661)  ,
Cash Flow after Accountino Adjustments           20,718,000 /a    (4,540,000)  (4,451,000)   6,331,000   (4,900,000)  (6,356,000)  (3,363,000)  tIl
Cumulative Casn Flow
after Accounting Adjustments                    3,439,000 /a   (17,279,000) (02,739,0(A)  (8,288,000) (14,619,000)  (9,719,000)  (3,363,000)
at/  Major improvement In cash flow represents payment to SUNACAS by Goverrnent of OHi 22 5J6,000
for retroactive increase in 1979 and 1980 sugar sales prices.



- 50 -
Amiex 3 F
KIM CK OF MMC.0
SEBO II DEVEWT  ECIOJr
EROJECr t24HflDN lEER)C
Area, Yield and Promction of Sugacame inu the Quab
Area under Cane Area Harvested   Productui          Aveae yield
1Ya     SAR    Actual   SAR    Acl    SAR  Actual SAR  Actual  Actual
ay        GT      1Y               TO (OOrT) (00ar) TTTr UTV-    1T?TE)/WyI4
1973      800    666        -       68        -    7       -   104       104
1974    2,000   1,466       -      124        -    it      -    89       89
1975    3,200  3,064      800      691       87   48    109    69        43
1976    4,400  4,226    1,800    1,558      169   63      94    40       27
1977    5,600  5,066   2,500   2,894        226  142      90    54       49
1978    6,200  6,231   2,900   3,910        274  304      94    77       59
1979    6,900  7,221   3,100   3,280        296  258      95    78       62
1980    7,600  9,638   3,600   3,404        351  342      98    91       56
1981    8,100  10,116   3,800   6,483       373  581/1/3 98    89        57
1982    8,100  9,747   4,300   6,569        428  454/2/3 100    69       69
I/ 0f Wiih 297,000 T delivered to S!l4S,
260,000 T to SUNAC, the rest to seed.
2/ Of hic 188,000 T deliveed to SUS,
266,00 T to SURWC.
3/ Small swts of cae also delivered to both
factones fiuM prom tion in the Laidws regin
na:th of the Qarb.
4I T per ha per 12 mths of ca  grawth.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU Ir DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A Partial List of_Actual, Planned and Suggested Subjects for
Analysis, Applied Res archl Training and Operational Action in Sugarcane
Pruductioti and Delivery in the Gharb
A.       Irrigation
Studies on the gravity and sprinkler system vis-a-vis the savings of
water and the efficiency of mechanical harvesting.
B.       Cost of Production
1.  Should study all production inputs to see where expenses can be
reduced.
2. Labor costs should be reviewed and fully reflected in total
production costs.
C.       Labor
1. Problens exist in the handcutting operation. It is recommended
that teams be selected immediately to be trained in the proper
mdnner of hand cutting.
2. More incentive is needed from ORMVAG concerning a training
program.
3. Concentrate manual loading using the polybenne system.
4. Need to reduce turnover by providing meals (with balanced
nutrition), transportation, close supervision, and possible
higher wages.
D.       Mechanization
1. Recommend synchronization of mechanical operation with sprinkler
system.
2. Make field layouts more efficient for harvesting by landleveling.
3. Re-work irrigation system during the year that ratoon cane is
plowed under.



- 52 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.  Should have organization of small farmers to efficiently
cultivate their crop and align their boundaries for easier
harvesting.
5.  Recounend no more purchases of the combine harvesters.
6.  Recommend soldier-type harvester and mechanical whole stalk
loader.
7.  Utilize pnlybeniie system to the extent of efficient labor
utilizat ioz .,
8.  Mechanization needs evaluation after 1984 crop.
9.  Larger capacity trucks and/or tractor-trailer combinations for
transporting cane.
10.  Day-night loading to prevent congestion.
11.  Should establish a system of headlands.
12.  Recommend a department for sugarcane mechanization separate from
research.
13.  Spare parts should come with harvesters until sufficient stock is
in couitry.
E.       Sugarcane Technical Center
1.  Reconmmaend rapid development of five to seven new sugarcane
varieties.
2.  Recommend getting CP71-321 from INRA immediately for
multiplication.
3.  Continue importing varieties until the economics of the center is
stabilized.
4.  Need quantative measures on irrigation water at the center.
5.  Recommend eventual takeover of secondary research from INRA
(not initial research).
6.  Soil testing program should be done immediately through other
avenues.
a. Acidity and basicity tests.
b. Fertilizer needs.
1/ Ratoon Stunting Disease.



53 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
c. Potash determinations.
d. Placement and dosages.
e. Micronutrient testing.
7. Post assessment of extension workers in actual field supervision.
8. Tests should be instituted on combinations of water and
fertilizer.
9. Monitor diseases very closely.
a.  Replicate varieties with RSD1'-Mosaic, RSD, and Mosaic to
study losses.
10. Study red rot closely.
11. Herbicides.
a.  Effects on various varieties.
b.  Recommend a study of pre- and post-emergence of herbicides.
c.  Study effects on rotation of crops (cane-wbeat-beets, forage).
d.  Herbicide study on broadleaves and grasses individually and
in combination.
e.  Study dinitroanalins for their cost effectiveness.
12. Mechanization studies.
a.  Determine correct height of hilling up.
b.  Study combination of harvesting, loading and transport
equipment.
c.  Test sugarcane on various row widths to determine ease or
difficulty of mechanization.
d.  Study lodging effects of high inputs of n,trogen.
e.  Study subsoiling effects.
f.  Study wide drill planting with wider row openings.
g.  Recommend study on needs of mechanical equipment and Project
far in advance its procurement.
If Ratoon stunting disease.



- 54-                                ANNEX 4
Page 4
13. Monitor weather conditions very closely.
14. Should repeat center's studies on a commercial basis before full
production is realized.
15. Work with university on interpreting data through computers.
16. Perform studies on height of topping for sugarcane. Also, height
of base cutting to determine loss of sugar.
17. Experiment with fresh cane tests, with 2, 4, 6 days and
conibinations to determine:
a. effects
b. weight loss
c. inversion
d. acidity
18. Study farmer's practices in getting sugarcane to the mill --
cutting, topping, number of days, etr.
569E/p49-52



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU I} DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preliminary Cost Estimates1"
for Mechanization of Sugarcane Harvesting and Delivery Operations
A.  CAMECO S-30 Harvester
Annual Opcrating Cost
Items                          DH                US$ Dollars
Depreciation (8 years)3'        86,000                13,230
Interest (62)                   41,500                 6,384
Maintenance                     47,300                  7,277
Fuel and Lubricants             82,000                12,615
Insurance                        5,000                   769
Operator                        18,000                 2,769
Assistant                        2,400                    369
Prepare Headlands (pistes)      10.370                 1,595
Total                     292,570                45,010
Harvester Workload Factors in the Sebou II Project
S-30 CAMECO - Number of ha/day
at 60 tons/ha                   4.16
Total tons/season               30,000
Total tons/day                     250
Days per season                    120
Unit Costs
Items                        DR                US  Dollars
Total cost per season of
S-30 harvester                292,570               45,0LO
Cost/ton with harvester               9.75                  1.50
Cost/hectare                        585                    90
Cost/day                          2,437.50               375
Cost/ton, hand cutting               15                     2.31
11 At exchange rate of US$1.00 = DE 6.50.
2/ Cost of harvester at location = DH 688,000 = US$105,846.



ANNEX 5
-56 -                                Page 2
Return on Investment
US$      Years to
Items                       DH           Dollars    Pay Back
8-year schedule of
depreciation               86,000          13,230
Net saving with
mechanical cutting vs.
hand cutting              157,200          24.230       4.4 *
* Preceding tables give specific cost to calculate
this figure.
B. CAMECO SPI800 Cane Loader
Annual Operating Cost
Items                           DH               US$ Dollars
Depreciation (8 years)1'          54,000                8,308
Interest (6%)                    25,950                 3,992
Maintenance                       29,700                4,569
Fuel and oil                      32,500                5,000
Gleaning - 4 persons
x 4 Mos x 600 DH/Mo              9,600                1,477
Operator 1,500 DH x 12 Mos        18,000                2,769
Insurance                         5,000                   760
Total                      174,750                26,884
1/ Cost of cane loader at location = DH432,000 = US$66,500.



57 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 3
Cane Loader Workload Factors and Unit Costs
Items                          DH                US$ Dollars
Hectares/day at 60 tons/ha
= 4.16 ha
Tons/day = 250
Days/season = 120
Total tons loaded/year
= 30,000
Cost per season                  174,750              26,884
Cost/ton                               5.80                0.89
Cost/ha                              349                  54
Cost/day                           1,452                 233
Cost/ton - manual loading              5                   0.77
C. §yZarcane Transport
At present, sugarcane is transported principally by bobtail trucks
with a capacity of approximately 10 tons. These are not rough terrain
vehicles. They break dowi quite often under the strain of going through rows
of sugar cane with 10 tons. Especially in the period of rai nfall in January
and February, bottlenecks develop at the farm level and prevent the normal
flow of sugarcane to the mill. Cane delivery has been erratic at best: in
1982 as low as 100 tons per day to as high as 2,350 tons/day. On rainy days
the trucks are pulled out of the fields by tractors. Sugarcane needs to be
delivered to the factory at a constant daily rate so that stale cane does not
exist and the factories do not run out of sugarcane to grind.
From figures released by ORMVAG, there is a 33X down-time with trucks
which have to be loaded in the field, whether it be by mechanical or manual
means. There is an average of 2.3 trips to the factory per day per vehicles
when loading is by hand. This figure increases to approximately 5.0 with the
use of the cane loader.
D. Transloading
1. Field Transloading
ORMVAG has proposed that transloading of sugarcane to the mill be one
of the pilot projects to be studied the remainder of this season and next year.
There are at present 7 tractors of 100 hp and 14 trailers with a capacity of
5 tons. The method according to ORMVAG personnel will work this way. One
tractor will be matched with 2 trailers. As one trailer is being hand loaded,
the other trailer will be pulled to the transloader site for transloading of
the cane into trucks destined for the factory. This trailer will be brought
back empty and in turn the loaded one will be hooked to the tractor for
hauling to the transloader.



- 58 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 4
Annual Operating Costs of Hauling Sugarcane to Transloader
Items                           DH                US$ Dollars
Depreciation
- I tractor (8 years)!'         14,375                2,212
- 2 trailers (5 years)           9,480                1,458
Interest (6%)                     18,280                2,812
Maintenance                        8,100                1,246
Fuel and oil                      50,700                7,800
Insurance                            500                   77
Operator                         _ 4L8_O_ 735
Total                       106,235               16,340
1/  Cost of tractor at location - DH 1iL,300 = US$17,100.
Cost of trailer at location = DH  94,841 = US$14,000.
The total annual operating cost of hauling cane by tractor and
trailer to the transloader is DH 106,235. The tractors will each haul for
120 days at a rate of 49 tons/day. This will amount to 5,880 tons/season.
Therefore, the cost per ton of sugarcane for transferring to the transloader
will be 18 DH/ton (US$2.77/ton).
Annual Operating Cost of Transloading Sugarcane to Trucks
Items                          DH                 US$ Dollars
Depreciation
- Transloader (8 years)"        42,124                6,481
Interest (6%)                     20,219                3,111
Maintenance                       23,186                3,567
Fuel and oil                      45,500                7,000
Insurance                          5,000                  769
Operator                           6_000                _ 923
Total                       142,011               21,848
/a Cost of Transloader at location = DH 336,996 = US$ 51,850.
The total annual operating cost of the transloader is DH 142,011.
The transloader will transfer 350 tons/day for 120 days, which will total
42,000 tons/year. The per ton cost vill amount to 3.4 DH/ton ($.52).



ANNEX 5
- 59 -                                 Page 5
The total cost per ton transferring the cane from the field to the
factory under the system of field transloading will be as follows:
Unit Costs of Field Transloading System
Items                       DH/ton            US$ Dollars/ton
Manual loading of trailers        5
Field to transloader site        18
Transloader to truck              3.4
Truck to factory                 18
Total                       44.4                  6.83
2. Transloading at the Factory
This method of delivery involves hauling sugarcane directly from the
field by tractor and trailer to the factory where a transloader will be
utilized to unload the trailers and transfer the cane to the facLory feed
table.
Unit Costs of System of Transloadingat Factory
Items                       DH/ton            US$ Dollars/ton
Manual loading of trailers        5
Field to factory                 18
Transloader to factory            3.4
Total                       26.4                  4.06
3. Comments on Transloading
The preceding data indicate that neither of the methods contemplating
the use of the transloader (26.4-44.4 DH/ton) would be as cost effective as
the combination of manual labor and direct truck hauling from the field to the
factory (23 DH/ton).
The following recommendations would help to alleviate some of the
added cost of the transloading system. The costs of the tractor and trailers
for depreciation, interest, maintenance, and insurance that are charged to
hauling sugarcane should be reduced to 34% of their annual total because of
the multiple use of the equipment in other areas after completion of the
harvest season. This percentage figure represents usage for 120 days out of
the year. The cane loader should also be used in combination with these



- 60-                                ANNEX 5
Page 6
tractors and trailers.  When used with the cane loaders the tractor-trailer
combination can double its efficiency and reduce the transport cost to 9 DR/ton
of sugarcane delivered to the transloader. Calculating the 34% usage for the
season against fixed costs would drop this further to 6.1 DR/ton. The next
item would be to cut the fees paid to the truckers by approximately 35%. Fuel
costs would account for 10% of the cut because the trucks would not be
straining under field conditions. Breakdowns would be reduced by 10%. Shorter
routes and har4 _.urface roads would reduce truck operational costs by 15%.
The average cost of transporting cane by truck from the transloader to the
factory would be reduced from 18 DH/ton to approximately 11.7 DH/ton.
Summarizing these figures gives the following costs.
Revise. Unit Costs of Field Transloading System
Items                           DH/ton       US$ Dollars/ton
Mechanical loading of trailers       5.8
Tractor to transloading site        6.1
Transloader to truck                 3.4
Truck to factory                   11.7
Total                         27.0               4.16
Under the system of transloading at the factory, the following costs
would prevail if the mechanical loader was utilized and only 34% of fixed
costs to the tractor-trailer combination were attributed to cane transport:
Revised Unit Costs of System of Transloading at Factory
Items                           DH/ton       us$ Dollars/ton
Mechanical loading of trailers      5.8
Tractor to transloader              6.1
Transloader to factory              3.4
Total                         15.3               2.36
In view of these cost estimates, it may be desirable to operate the
transloader near the can- field being harvested when the distance to the
factory is greater than ; or 5 kilometers, since operating a tractor on a hard
surface road becomes more costly at this distance with a load of only 10 tons
of sugarcane. The added cost for operation of the transloader closer to the
field would be offset by paying the truck owner less to haul the sugarcane to
the factory at that close a distance.



- 61 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 7
E. Basket Loading and Transporting
(Polybenne System)
A variety of possible combinations exist and these are summarized as
presently planned by SUNACAS.
1. - Manual cutting of sugarcane;
- Manual loading into containers;
- Transporting containers directly from the field to the factory
by trucks and tractors equipped with the polybenne system;
2. - Manual cutting;
- Manual loading into containers;
- Container removed from the field and placed on the headland
(piste) by a tractor equipped with the polybenne system;
- Cont4iner picked up by a truck equipped with the polybenne
system and transported to the factory;
3. - Mechanical cutting;
- Mechanical loading of the containers in the field by t-;e cane
loader;
- Containers transported by tractors directly to the mill using
the polybenne method;
4. - Mechanical cutting;
- Mechanical loading of the containers by the cane loader;
- Container transported from the field to a headland by a tractor
equipped with the polybenne system;
- Container transferred to a truck equipped with the polybenne
system for transporting to the factory;
This polybenne system would be less costly if it were utilized within
5-10 kms of the factory. One truck equipped with the polybenne loader could
handle from 8-10 cotatinres if unloading the sugarcane at the factory occurred
without a bottleneck. A tractor with the polybenne loader could handle
5 containers within a 5 km-radius of the factory.
The approximate workload and costs of the polybenne system are
as follows:
- With 2 crews of 5 people working from 6 am to 12 noon, ten
containers were loaded and transferred to the factory.
- With 2 crews of 5 loading from 12 noon to 6 pm, ten container
trips were made to the factory.



-W-                ~ANNEX 5
Page 8
Therefore, with a sugarcane in the plant year (first year), or
stubble (ratoon) cane of good quality, 20 trips to the factory yielded
150 tons (7.5 tons per container). With a poorer crop where density becomes
a problem, 20 trips yield only 100 tons (5.0 tons per container). Where the
cane has been burnt and loaded mechanically by the cane loader, 30 trips are
normally possible.  Because the loader cannot get the same density as manual
loading, then only 180 tons (6.0 tons per container) are shipped in these
30 trips.
These combinations lead to the following possible costs:
1. Polybenne Trac_or System
Annual Operating Cost of Basket Load_ing and Transport
(Polybenne) System with Tractor
Items                               DH           US$ Dollars
Depreciation:
- tractor-loader (10 years)'        18,000
- contaiiner                         1,000
Interest                               9,120
Maintenance                           10,000
Fuel and oil                          50,700
InsLrance                                500
Operator                               4,800
Total                           94,120           14,480
an/  Cxqt of Polybenne tractor-loader system
at location = DH 180,000 = US$27,700.
(a)  Unit Costs of Basket Loadinjk and Transport
(Polybenne) System with Heavy Cane with Tractor
- Manual cutting                        15 DH/ton
- Manual loading into containers         5 DH/ton
- Transporting 150 tons/day for
120 days = 18,000 tins              5.12 DH/ton
Total                              25.12 DH/ton (delivered to factory)
(b)  Unit Costs of Basket Loading and Transport
(Polybenne) System with Light Cane with Tractor
- Manual cutting                        15 DH/ton
- Manual loading into containers         5 DH/ton
- Transporting 100 tons/day for
120 days = 12,000 tons               7.7 DH/ton
Total                              27.7 DH/ton (delivered to factory)



- 63-                                ANNE( 5
Page 9
(c) Unit Costs of
Polybenne System with Cane Loader with Tractor
- Manual cutting                        15 DH/ton
- Mechanical loading into containers   5.8 DR/ton
- Transporting 180 tons/day for
120 days = 21,600 tons              4.3 DH/ton
Total                              25.1 DH/ton (delivered to factory)
2. Polybenne Truck System
The polybenne system with the loader mounted on the truck cost
approximately DH 340,000 fully equipped, less the containers.
Annual Operating Costs of Polybenne System Mounted on Truck
Items                          DH           US$ Dollars
Depreciation
- truck and loader (10 years)  34,000
- container                      1,000
Interest                        16,320
Maintenance                      7,000
Fuel and oil                    45,700
Insurance                        5,000
Operator                         4,800
Total                     113,820           17,510
Using the above figures for annual operating costs for the Polybenne
truck gives the following unit costs for transportation: heavy cane --
6.32 DH/t, light cane -- 9.48 DH/t, cane loader -- 5.27 DE/t.  When these unit
costs are added to those of cutting and loading in the above combinations of
l.(a), (b), and (c), we arrive at the following figures for total unit costs:
Total Unit Costs
(a)  Heavy Cane                      26.3 DH/ton      US$4.05/t
(b)  Light cane                      29.5 DR/ton      US$4.50/t
(c)  Mechanical Loading              26.1 DH/ton      US$4.00/t
With the present unit cost figures for mechanical harvesting (9.75
DR/t), the total unit cost of the polybenne system is as follows:
With tractors to factory
Total Unit Costs
(a)  Heavy Cane                      19.9 DR/ton      US$3.06it
(b)  Light Cane                      22.4 DH/ton      US$3.45/t
(c)  Mechanical Loading              19.8 DR/ton      US$3.05/t



- 64-                                ANNEX 5
Page 10
With trucks to factory
Total Unit Costs
(a)  Heavy Cane                      21.1 DR/ton      US$3.25/t
(b)  Light Cane                      24.2 DR/ton      US$3.72/t
(c)  Mechanical Loading              20.8 DH/ton      US$3.20/t
In each scenario, as mechanization was increased, the cost of
transporting to the sugar factory declined.
This system also offers ease of manual loading. The containers are
placed at ground level which facilitates the loading as workers have to climb
only a few steps to deposit their sugarcane (in contrast to precarious ladders
at the side of trucks under the traditional loading system). These containers
are also deposited in central areas where the sugarcane is being cut. Forty
steps is the maximum radius needed to load the container.
The main disadvantage is that hydraulics becomes an expensive item in the
maintenance program if it is not serviced regularly. The system was relatively
new and there was already evidence during the visit of the completion mission
that heating and welding were required at a couple of weak points.
569E/p53-6 2



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Irri&ation of Sugarcane
Calculated Amount of Water Required for Sugarcane
No. of
Month             Irrigations      Dosage/ha m3       Water m3
April                 1                 800                800
May                   2                 800              1,600
June                  2                 800              1,600
July                  4                 800              3,200
August                3                 800              2,400
September             2                 800              1,600
October               1                 800                800
Total          15                                  12,000
Actual Amount of Water Utilized in 1982 Sugarcane
No. of               Acreage covered
Irrigations                 (ha)                        X
3                           9,747                      100
4                            ,7940                      81
5                           5,437                       56
6                           3,529                       36
7                             949                      10
8                             776                        8
9                             611                        6
Only 62 of the crop received the ninth irrigation. None of the
acreage received their calculated 15 irrigations.
569Elp63



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated Cost and Return on Sugarcane Production
The following figures are based on estimates for 1983 obtained by the
Completion mission from ORMVAG:
DH/ha
Initial start-up cost
(DH 3,311 spread over 4-year cycle)                        828
Operating cost (assuming 8 irrigations per year)           4,158
Total Average Annual Operating Cost                   4,986
Income from crop:
-  95 tons/ha and 105 DH/ton                               9,975
Return                                                     4,989
However, the average Gharb sugarcane yield in 1982 was 69 tons/ha,
largely as a result of the drought and under-irrigation. In view of the
extremely low levels of the Idriss I and El Kansara Reservoirs, it seems
unlikely that a 37Z increase in average yield to 95 tons/ha is achievable in
one year. A more prudent forecast would be for a lOZ increase to 76 tons/ha.
The following table is on that basis:
Initial start-up cost
(DR 3,311 spread over 4-year cycle)                        828
Operating cost (assuming 8 irrigations per year)           4,158
Total Average Annual Operating Cost                   4,986
Income from crop:
-  76 tons/ha and 105 DH/ton                                7,980
Return                                                      2,994
The return to the farmer can be affected by a number of factors. One
is the number of irrigations. The norm in the Gharb is 15 and during the
drought the median has been below eight. The actual number applied will
influence both operating cost and yields. The farmer's financial position is
also affected by the slowness of the procedures followed by ORMVAG in
verifying sugarcane deliveries to the factories and in approving and actually
making payments to the farmer for his sales.



-67 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 2
Estimated Start-up Costs Per Hectare for Sugarcane Production 1983
(Soil Preparation and Seeding)
Quantity      Unit Cost       Total Cost
Items                      Unit       per ha          (DH)           (DRIha)
Mechanical
Plowing                       ha           1            225               225
Disking                       ha           2            120               240
Furrowing                     ha           1             65                65
Covering                      ha           1             45                45
Sub-total                                                             575
Materials
Fertilizer (NPK)              ql           8             72               576
Cane Seed                     t           12.7          105             1,332
Disinfect Seed                kg           0.62          56.45             35
Disinfect Soil                L            2              8                16
Water (lst irrigation)        m3         800              0.049            39
Sub-total                                                           1.,998
Labor
Transport Fertilizer         days          3             13                39
Clean Seed Stock             days         10             13               130
Disinfect Soil               days          1             13                13
Cutting Seed Stock           days          6             13                78
Transport of Seed            days          6             13                78
First Irrigation             days          2            13                 26
Sub-total                                                             364
Total                                                               2,937
Finance Charges for 15 months at l0Z per year                             374
TOTAL                                                               3,311



- 68-                             ANNEX 7
Page 3
Estimated Operating Costs Per Hectare for Sugarcane Production 1983
(Plant Cane 14 Months Old)
Quantity      Unit Cost       Total Cost
Items                      Unit        per ha          (DH)           (DH/ha)
Fertilizer (N = 33.5X)         ql            300 kg       77.50             232
Irrigation Water               m3          9,600          0.049            470
Sub-total                                                              702
Labor
Furrowing                     days            20          13                260
Distribution
of Fertilizer              days              4         13                  52
Hilling/cultivation           days            15          13                195
Irrigation                   days             20         13                260
Sub-total                                                              767
Other Costs
Deprec iation                                                             1,424
Financial Costs                                                             265
Land Rent                                                                 1,000
Sub-total                                                            2,689
TOTAL                                                                4,158
569E/p64-66



§9 
ANNEX 8
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sugarcane Land Ownership in the Gharb Rtgion, 1983
Average Size
of Sugarcane
Type of Ownership           Area Planted       Number of Planters      Holding
(ha)       (Z)      (no.)       (X)          (ha)
1.  Collectives           3,980.56    40.8       5,147     65.5          0.77
2.  Agrarian Reform       1,731.97    17.7         909     11.6          1.90
3.  Private Sector        3,891.87    40.0       1,757     22.4           2.21
4.  SODEA - SOCETA           45.91     0.5          10      0.1           4.60
5.  Habous/Domaine           96.92 *   1.0          29      0.4          3.34
TOTAL           9,747.23   100.0       7,852    100.0           1.24
* 49.10 ha is in the Centre Technique.
569E/p65



KINGO3M OF MOROCCO
SEBOU  I   OEy.ENIsE    PROJECT
(Loan '018-MOR)
PM JEC COMPLETION REPORF
Main ExaMnles of Morocco's Losses of Foreicn Exchance
Resultina from Delayed Disbursement Reauests
Results                     Results if Reimbursement
Acolication              of Actual Disbursements              Rteiuest5. Had Been PromDt /a        Losses to      Length of
Reimbursable                                                                                   Morocco in       Delay in
Amounts                   Exchange                               Exchange                      Foreign       Submission
No.     Delayed          Date        Rate        Amount         Date        Rate        Amount        Exchange        of Request
(DH 000(p lH/USti   IUs1tQoL)                                    LWQ ItI    IUS1'000)         (USft'ODO       (months)
(1)       (2)            (3)         (4)       (5)=(2)-(4)      (6)         (7)       (8):(2)-(7)   (9)=(8)-(5)   (10)=(3)-(6)
26         3,627       02/05/81      4.33           838       09/02/79      3.77           962             124            17
26         1,053       02/05/81      4.33           243       07/17/R0      3.79           278              35             7
27        2,004        06/01/81      5.45           368       11/15/X0      3.97           505'            137'            6
28         1,051       11/26/81      5.32           198       09/25/79      3.77           279              81            26
28        3,520        11/26/8!      5.32           662       10/25/KO      3.97           887'            225*           13
28           699       1'/26/81      5.32           131       03/31/81      4.75            147             16             a
28A         3,100       01i28/82      5.33           582       10/25/80      3.97            781'           199*           15
28A           332       C./28/82      5.33            62       12/27/80      4.33             77             15            13
28A           119       01/28/82      5.33           154       03/''/81      4.75            172             18            11
29         !,'02       01/28/82      5.33           207       10/Zh/80      3.97           278*             71*           15
33           b37       01/07/83      6.2?           102       0.s/25/80     3.79            '68             66            28
35           502      03/25/83       6.58            76       02/21/82      5.33            94              18            13
35           910      03/25/83       6.58           138       03/31/82      5.91           154              16            12                    1
35         1,.400     03/25/83    L65               213       07/20/82      6.18           227              14             8
Subtotal            20,856                      5.22         3,974                     4.14         5,009           1,035                                 °
Other misc.         1.868                    L5.6            33....518                                               52
Total               22,624                      5.25         4,307                     4.19         5,394           1,087
Loss as X of Potential Reimbursements ((9) - (8)]                                                                     20X
/a *  Prompt reimbursement assumes a two-month interval betweer the latest payment date of a group of payments in an
application and the date the application is received in the Bank, olus one month for processing in the Bant.
Amounts marked with an asterisk represent payments eligible for retroactive reimbursement under the Amendment of
September 25. 1980 of Ln. 1018-MOR. These latter amounts account for nearly 60% of the foreign excnange losses.
Nogt: In addition to the losses in foreign exchange shown in the ta'lles amounting to US$1,087,000 sustained as a result
of delayed disbursement during a period of depreciation of the value of the dirham, Morocco also lost the
interest that could have been earned on the entire potentia' reimbursement during the period of delay. Given a
weighted average delay of 13.7 months and assuming ds interest 'a conservative figure for the period) on the
US$5,39A,000 in potential disbursements, Morocco's additional lobs was US$493,000. The two losses total
US$ ,580.000.  Moreover, there were numerous and lengthy delays in requests for reimbursement under applications
No. 1-25 during the first four years of Project implementation (1975-79).  Although exchange risk losses were                                          i
probably negligible in this period of more stable exchange rate values, Morocco clearly lost substantial                                                4
additional sums in foregone interest earnings.  Spot checks indicate these losses ran to hundreds of thousands of                                      X
US dollars even at an assumed lower interest rate of 6%.  It is not unreasonable to estimate total losses under
the loan at about US$2 million.



- 71 -
ANNEX 10
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1018-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Excerpts from Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR)
Morocco - Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project (Loan 643-MOR)
dated May 17, 1982 (keport No. 3942)
This annex presents excerpts from PPAR No. 3942 that are referred to
in the present Sebou II Project Completion Report. The Sebou II PCR paragraph
references are noted for each excerpt.
Sebou I} PCR paragraph 2.01 (a) refers to
PPAR No. 3942 paragraphs 4.03-4.04
4.03     A major change during implementation was caused by the realization
that the appraisal proposals for providing facilities for processing the
project's sugar cane output were not technically feasible. The appraisal
mission had accepted the recommendations of the Sebou Preparation team that
the optimnm solution for cane processing was to convert an existing sugar
beet factory to a mixed beet/cane factory at relatively low cost by adding
separate crushers and conveyors Sor cane. The idea was attractive because
the beet crushing season is theoretically, for technical reasons, limited
to a period of about four months (normally May-August) and the beet factory
therefore normally remained unused for eight months in the year. Research
results on cane indicated that it would be possible to fit in a two month
cane crushing season before and after beet harvest and thus improve the
overall use of the factory. In practice it was found that a split cane
crushing season such as this would cause great difficulties for the land
preparation, growing and harvesting cycles for cane, particularly if the
beet season was disturbed by late rains in spring or early rains in
autumn. In addition, due to sharp increases in prices of sugar processing
equipment in 1972/3 and a reassessment of equipment needs to convert the
existing factories, including the need to upgrade important existing
facilities such as boilers, clairifiers and filters, the cost of conversion
was reassessed at $13.3 million compared with the appraisal estimate of
$5.1 million. Since this waS not far different from the cost of a
completely new factory, then estimated to be about $17.0 million, the
Government asked the Bank to support the construction of a completely
separate cane factory which would have all the advantages of an independent
operation. In 1974 the Bank financed the newly proposed factory and other
infrastructure under a separate project, the Sebou II Project (Loan
1018-MOR). Under the Sebou II loan a 2,500 ton/day capacity factory was
built near the existing sugar beet factory at Mechra-Bel-Ksiri. The new
factory became operational in June 1975. This factory is now in full use
and a second factory with a capacity of 3,000 ton/day is presently under
construction at Dar Guedarri. This second factory is not financed by the
Bank.



-72 -                          ANNEX  10
Page 2
4.04     An important (and unplanned) advantage of the separate cane
factory turned out to be the improved treatment of frost affected cane that
was possible with the separate factory. Rapid treatment of cane is
important after frost damage to avoid loss in sugar content. With a
combined beet/cane factory, this would not be possible without disrupting
the beet crushing season in the case of a widespread frost because of the
large volume of cane that has to be processed quickly. The added
flexibility of the separate factory has greatly facilitated the
implementation of action programs to save the cane harvest following frosts
which occured in 1976 and 1981.



- 73 -
Sebou II PCR paragraph 2.06 refers to         ANNEX 10
PPAR No. 3942 paragraphs 4.24-4.27            Page 3
Agrarian Retorm
4.24     Prior to the project land ownership in the project area had been
in a period of transition for some years. The general trend was a movement
of foreigners out of the Rharb and an establishment of Moroccan farmers.
One part of the project supported the implementation of the 1966 Agrarian
Reform law and the 1969 Agricultural Investment Code in the communes making
up the project area with two main objectives: (a) to stop land
fragmentation; (b) set up irrigated farms with a minimum of 5 ha, and 8 to
12 ha rainfed farms by distributing lands expropriated from foreigners to
landless farmers or farmers living on collective lands.
4.25     Project objectives have been only partly met so far in the
irrigated areas but in the rainfed part of the project there was no
success. In the irrigated areas land consolidation, which had to be
carried out before any redistribution, was successfully carried out between
1970 and 1974. Subsequently some 6,700 ha were distributed from the common
fund to 1,230 farmers in the project area. In addition 125 small farms
were increased in size to 5 ha each using 400 ha of expropriated lands.
The process continues and in 1981 it is expected to distribute 3,100 ha of
collective lands to 600 beneficiaries. The latest ORMVAG figures on land
ownership/use in the irrigated area are shown in Table 1, which shows that
some 93Z of the farmers on 62X of the project area now farm in units of 5
ha or less. Most of these farmers (602) still farm collective lands. The
process of distribution of these collective lands has so far made only
little headway. The table also shows that in the Rharb Plain generally,
one third of land available for distribution has gone to private farmers,
one third to public agencies and one third remains to be distributed.
4.26     In the rainfed lands the difficulties of restructuring the land
ownership situation in a rainfed area, which have also been experienced in
the o;%going Meknes Project (Credit (555)-MOR), were not overcome. There
was adied uncertainty caused by the major flood risk in this area which
reduced beneficiaries interest in being allotted a farm on this land.
Neither land consolidation nor distribution were achieved in these areas.
The main lessons on the application of the Land Reform in rainfed areas
will be f:om the Meknes Project so this question is not discussed further
here.
4.27     The Agrarian Reform cooperatives set up under the project have
been successful and they are well supported by their members. A director
is appointed by the Government to he'p 3 to 4 Cooperatives and cropping
patterns and agricultural techniques are adopted more quickly than on
private farms.



- 74 -
Sebou II PCR Paragraph 3.02 refers to        A2C 10
PPAR No. 3942 paragraphs 4.11-4.117          Page 4
4.11     Floods.  The history of flooding and damage due to floods is
documented in the ORMVAG completion report. 11 The 1969 floods, right at
the beginning of the project, were the first since the exceptionally high
floods of 1963. Thus during the project preparation period, no floods were
actually observed by the FAO/UNDP preparation team. At appraisal, the
appraisal mission had accepted the recommendations of the FAG preparation
team that no special measures for flood protection could be justified in
the Plain until the construction of the hjara Dam - a large dam on the
Ouerra River which was planned for construction after the Idress Ier Dam,
and which would largely protect the Rharb Plain from flooding. The
preparation team estimated the annual flood damage (in 1968 prices)
expected in the whole Rharb -Plain at DR 3 million. So separate estimates
were made for the project area. However, as mentioned in para 3.02 above
the project area was selected in the first place from those lands where the
risk of flood damage was the least.
4.12     The 1969 floods were observed by the full project management team
and their consultants, and reports of the floods caused great concern in
Morocco and the Bank. Following a special FAO/CP mission in March 1970 to
review the possible implications cf the previous year's floods on the         -
project, a major study by consultants of the flooding problem was set up at
the request of the Government and financed under the project. The initial
reports by these consultants led the Government to requcst the Bank to
include in the Sebou 11 Project (Loan 1018-MOR) a $12 million component to
provide flood dykes to protect the project irrigation areas. This
component was included and construction started in 1974. After the
protection of one perimeter (Pll) had been completed, no other works were
undertaken, mainly because of intense opposition to the protection scheme
among the local farmers.
4.13     The detailed reasons for the decision not to go ahead with dyke
protection scheme will be discussed in the Sebou II completion report
(scheduled for 1982) because that is more of a matter that concerns that
project. The implications on the present project of tne of the flood risk
situation are presently as follows:
(a) the project area is presently subject to risk of flood damage;
the greatest risk is in the lower lying rainfed parts of the
pro,ect area; on one part of the project (Sector Pll), protection
dykes have been built so that the flood risk on this perimeter,
while still existing, is less than the "natural" flood risk;
(b) as a direct consequence of the studies of flood risk by the
consultants, the area equipped for irrigation under the project
was reduced by excluding certain zones on which the flood risk was
considered too high (mainly perimeters S19 and SC). This led to a
net reduction in the area equipped under the project of 2,600 ha;



- 75 -
AMNEX 10
Page 5
(cJ  another direct consequence has been the failure of the rainfed
component of the project; in the first place the damage to land
banking and drainage works being built in the rainfed lands
folloving flooding was found to be so substantial that complete
reconstruction was necessary after major floods. The project
management vas therefore not inclined to continue with these works
in the rainfed lands; Secondly there was concern among local
farmers (which vas generally denied by the consultants studying
the question) that the dyke protection works which were meant to
be ndtertaken around the higher irrigated areas would exacerbate
flooding problems in the lower lying rainfed areas by diverting
water from the highper lands to the lower lands so that they did
not want to risk being involved in any project actions in the
lowlands which could cost them money (they would theorutically
have had to pay charges on land shaping);
(d)  there is now a tendency among farmers to favor erops that are less
affected by floods, particularly in the higher risk parts of the
project area. Irrigation gives farmers this element of choice.
Wheat is a major risk crop, followed by sugarbeet. Sugar cane on
the other hand is tolerant to flooding and for summer irrigated
crops there is no risk because floods always occur in the late
winter/early spring before sunmer crops have been planted.
4.14     Historically, flood damages have been mainly to crops rather than
infrastructure in the Rharb Plain, usually in the approximate proportion
753:252 by value. Actual damages in the whole Bharb Plain in previous
floods were as follows (1971 prices);
Year                                     1963      1969       1970      1971
Total Da'uage (DR million)              43.>       24.0       62.4      19.6
ot whicb 2 Crop Damage                    65        80         65        94
Since the start of construction of the project in 1972, there have been two
major floods in 1977 and 1979 during which the actual damage in the proiect
area has been roughly estimated by ORMVAG as follows (1980 prices):
1977      1979
-DH million-
Agriculture                               8.5      22.0
Infrastructure                            7.0       7-5
Total                                    15.5       29.5



- 76 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6
4.15     It is difficult to draw conclusions with the paucity of data
available and the general uncertainties involved in this sort of
situation. However on the basis of what is available, and discussions with
the project staff, it seems reasonable to state qualitatively that:
(a)  with the project, crop damage from flooding in the irrigated part
of the project area is expected to be significantly less than the
without project situation, because changes in cropping patterns
have sesuIted in less flood prone crops being planted in the
irrigated areas;
(b)  crop damage in the rainfed areas is expected to be marginally wore
with the project because of the slightly increased yields being
obtained in the rainfed areas due to extension work. However, if
the project had gone ahead as planned in the rainfed areas, crop
and infrastructure damage with the project would have been much
greater than without the project;
(c)  damage Lo infrastructure from flooding with the project is
expected to take place, but because of the type of irrigation
network chosen (raised canaletti) the annual damage is not
expected to be a significant proportion of the total value of the
infrastructure on place.
4.16     In support of.(c) above, the total damage in the high flood years
of 1977 and 1979 averaged DU 7.2 million compared vith a present day value
of the irrigation infrastructure of some DE 820 million, so that the damage
in each of these years was equal to less than 1S of the value of this
infrastructure. Since this sort of high flood does not occur every year,
on the basis of recent experience it now seems likely that annual flood
damages are going to average less than 11 of the value of the
infrastructure unless a flood of exceptional volume and frequency occurs.
4.17     The flooding problem is expected to be to a large extent resolv-ed
by the future construction of the Kjara Dam. Since th&q dam is not
included in the present five year plan, its start will probably be delayed
until after 1985. Completion should be in the 1990s period. The flood
risk is therefore expected to remain for the next 10-15 years.



-77 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 7
Sebou II PCR paragraph 4.14 refers to PPAR No. 3942 paragraph 6.06-
6.06     The level of water in the Idriss Dam has been kept well below the
fuil retention level because of the need to realign some 15 km of railroad
and 10 km of road before raising the water to the full operating level.
The relocation investments were delayed under the original project plan
because the storage at the lower level is sufficient for the project. The
relocation works are nov underway separate from the project and are
expected to be completed in 1981. This will allow operation of the
reservoirs at a higher level, giving increased storage and sore pover and
energy production from the dam's bydropower facility, and more flexibility
in operation.  Some harmonization of the interest of ORKVAG and ONE still
needs to be introduced by the Hydraulics Directorate, which is responsible
for operating the Dam, to avoid the reoccurence of operating problems
experienced during the 1980181 winter. Following exceptionally low winter
rainfall the reservoir was drawn down by power generation to such an extent
that insufficient water was available for irrigation in the project area
that was urgently needed to counter the effects of the drought.



- eV -
BORROWER'S COMMENTS                         ATTACHMENT
E-1063/85   April 18, 1985
French (Morocco)
Translated from French                              OED   JCB:law
Kingdom of Morocco
Ministry of Finance
Department of the Budget
Capital Expenditure (Equipement) Division
From: The Minister of Finance                      No:  141820
To:  IBRD                                          Rabat, April 1, 1985
1818 B Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Attention: Mr. Yukinori Watanabe, Director, OED
Subject: Sebou II Project Completion Report (Loan 1018-MOR).
Ref.:     Your letter of January 18, 1985
Gentlemen:
I refer to your above-mentioned letter accompanying the Sebou II
Project Completion Report (Loan 1018-MOR) prepared by your Operations
Evaluation Department.
I have no objections in principle to this document's conclusions. I
would point out that in connection with the aspects of budgeting and financing
mentioned in your report, better coordination has now been introduced,
particularly for the integrated projects, with the establishment, at the
national level, of a National Project Coordination Committee, and, in the
project area, of a Regional Project Coordination Conmnittee. We believe that
these structures will in future improve project mauagement in terms of
harmonizing execution and decision-making timetables.
With respect to the delays in submission of reimbursement requests
to the Bank, the restructuring of the Ministry of Finance in 1979 affected,
among others, the Capital Expenditure Budget Division (Division du Budget
d'Equipement), within which a public project financing service was set up to
coordinate financing and monitor the mobilization of external aid.
This service, which is soon to be computerized, will work in liaison
with the staff concerned to ensure that reimbursement applications are
submitted in good time. In parallel, the procedure of direct payment to
suppliers by the Bank (Procedure III) is now used more frequently than in the
past. It could also be adopted for components with over 70Z Bank financing.
Lastly, to improve monitoring of disbursemeras, a Ministry of
Finance mission, together with the Disbursements Division, prepared
standardized monitoring tables in September 1984 for contract payments and
loan disbursements. This work is just now getting started.
Very truly yours,
For the Minister of Finance
1sl Hassan Lukasch
General Secretary



1iA
-i3I -'      Iq , .i                                                                          * 1, '   a- . I    f  
k <L I
ldit
c'/s                                                                                         . 
O:E mb< 11111/ 
J]~~~~~~
/ N,r 
Zb ~    ~     I~,~--I
~~~jL4~~~~~...... I
........ .



1971 FLOD~ 
-A2/e22 ,        I  9 ;t                        /                                                                                    MOROCCO
DEO IIDVLOPMENT PROJECT
PROJESErDL DEVELOPPEMENT DU SESOUI I
1E970 FLOODING AND PROJECT FLOOD PROTECTION WRK
O a"/-.<Eeij>'l                                                           .......  ... - '" j
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNR LE CRJF oU PRO A                                             JETH
/ G                        W     .          ,{                >    >    /        >     X                                -    2t
o / -S    2&                                                                                                                       .  i_swd.--
,,, 5   2
N~~~~' 



1882 16298 IPCR)
/                                    6*OO*                              MOROCCO                              no,ve°rwomxs'r            IrsrrDls2ogrPcr1M
SEBOU 11 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRO   PROJET DU DEVELOPPEMENT DU SEBOU I1
*-- tol   4                                                                 GHA      GHARB INFRASTRUCTURE AND PROJECT WORKS            I      89c8.S
O, >, ,, MORCOCCO                                                            -/. ,, IN'.FRA.  INFRASTRUCTURE DU GHARS ET WRAVAUX DU PROJET
,,      _____            A dGRI              / *             clG1O .9EOMN eARE= AS._                                                                                                      Ihe
_O-c         ow                                                                  INFparr4S1iviA IeT
I  /                                                                                                                            Sk..8d....d.~~~ SM...d .........
°  "'   ,,,, ........................................................................*...p.   A..                                                   . .f.,..,...i. .h.   _bG, ,M..}
;_ERA                                                                                                                                   CSE. E.A G7s.d..T  <     <t ° a    _ ;e  rr2 AArI
k                                                                         - ==                                           A
/   . 1                               10           2 0          3 0              S A A* I * b                A . ..                fl .   E . 0.              . d_  =d   A A iA_
N. ...........d.A   G~*
I.-TEll~~~~~~-                                                                          .
. . . . . .. . . .  ----                                                               W I T
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                                           r        x                    - -   *d,.AA  .,A.



