i'o~~~'L
FILE COPY                                      TO
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1466-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OP MOROCCO
FOR A SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 10, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It mnay not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit =Moroccan Dirham (DH)
DH 1     =     UV$O.23
US$1           Ili 4.35
Exchange rate fluctuates with weighted
average of major currencies; rate used
in Appraisal Report is US$1 = DH 4.08
(November 1973)
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$32 million to help finance
the Sebou II Development Project. The loan would have a term of 25 years in-
cluding 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Morocco" (No. 329-MOR, dated February 7, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 6, 1974. The report is based on the findings of
an economic mission which visited Morocco in September 1973 and completed its
analytical work in December 1973. The impact on the Moroccan economy of more
recent increases in the prices of crude oil, which Morocco has to import, and
phosphate, which is the country's main export, is assessed in a preliminary
way in para. 11. Country data sheets are attached in Annex I.
Past Developments
3.        The overall performance of the Moroccan economy improved during the
Second Five-Year Plan (1968-72), despite difficult political circumstances in
1971 and 1972. Aided by favorable weather conditions and good crops in 1968,
1971 and 1972, real GDP growth accelerated from an average annual rate of
about 3 percent in 1960-67 (barely above the rate of population growth) to
5.6 percent in 1968-72, thus exceeding the modest Plan target of 4.3 percent,
and permitting real gains in private consumption of about 2 percent a year
per capita. At the same time, the implementation of prudent fiscal and mone-
tary policies contributed to a significant improvement in Morocco's domestic
and external financial situation, despite sh,rtfalls on planned capital in-
flows from official external sources.  Government saving and investment slightly
exceeded the modest Plan targets, while price stability was maintained. Fol-
lowing a decade of recurring deficits, the balance of payments registered size-
able surpluses in 1969-72, mainly because of sharply rising receipts from
merchandise exports, tourism and Moroccan workers in Europe. At the end of
1972, Morocco had accumulated net foreign assets worth $280 million, equiv-
alent to 3.5 months' imports of goods and non-factor services. Performance
in 1973 was affected by poor weather conditions; agricultural output declined,
and GDP increased only by an estimated 1.3 percent. The balance of payments
continued to strengthen however, and by the end of 1973, net foreign assets
amounted to $453 million.



4.        Although the acceleration of GDP growth in 1968-72 was in part
due to generally favorable weather conditions, it appears that the economy
has moved onto a path of more rapid long-term growth. Agriculture, export
industries, tourism and sectors with derivee demand (energy, transportation,
communications and modern services) seem to have acquired a capacity for
sustained growth, in part because of past investment and training. In agri-
culture, expansion of irrigation, increased 'Use of key inputs in rainfed areas
(improved seeds, fertilizers and timely ploughing) and a larger number of
trained extension personnel have caused faster output growth. In the export
sector, the phosphate company (OCP) has regained leadership in the world mar-
ket as a result of internal reorganization and investment carried out during
he Second Plan; the export company (OCE), which has a monopoly over Morocco's
exports of fresh and processed foodstuffs, improved its management and market-
ing, while a broad range of industries, including sub-contracting companies,
built up a strong competitive position and sizeable sales abroad.
5.        These achievements should not detract attention, however, from the
serious difficulties which Morocco still had to overcome at the end of the
Plan period. There was a need to revive private investment, which had stag-
nated in 1971 and 1972 mainly because investors took a wait-and-see attitude
in the light of political developments and the expectation of new incentives
and new regulations regarding the association of Moroccan and foreign capital
in business ventures (Moroccanization laws). There was also a need to raise
private saving which remained at an insufficient level, in part because of
the relatively low returns on domestic financial assets. Finally, the Gov-
ernment had to increase the investment capacity in the public sector by
appropriate changes in staffing and organization.
6.        Difficult social problems also had to be tackled.  Unemployment re-
mained at a high level, averaging 9 percent of the labor force nationwide and
ranging between 12 and 16 percent in large urban centers. The urban popula-
tion in substandard housing was large and rising. Wealth and income differ-
ences between cities and villages, among regions, and between rich and poor
were widening, while about one third of the rural population in the less fer-
tile agricultural areas was experiencing a slow decline in real consumption.
Long-term Development Prospects
7.        Recognizing these problems, the Government began in 1971 to revise
Its development policies, paying increasing attention to social objectives.
Reflecting the changed orientations, the Third Five-Year Plan (1973-77) aims at:
-    sustaining real GDP growth of 7.5 percent a year from 1973
to 1977, mainly through a 10 percent annual rise in exports
and a doubling of investment over the Plan period; and
-    improving the distribution of growth benefits, mainly through
further land distribution to poor farmers and more emphasis
on rainfed farming in agriculture, the association of Moroccan
nationals with foreigners in services and several industrial



sub-sectors, large increases in Government spending on social
services and low-cost housing, a mDre progressive tax system,
and appropriate changes in wages aad the prices oif basic
agricultural commodities.
Depart:ng from past financial orthodoxy, the Plan calls for an expansionary
fiscal policy and a liberal credit policy, accepting the risk of less price
stability. It recognizes that, in spite of faster economic growth, an in-
creased public works program and continued emigration, unemployment may rise
in absolute, and perhaps also in relative, terms because the growth of the
working-age population is accelerating (from 2 percent a year in the 1960's
to 4 percent a year in the 1970's).
8.        In accordance with its export-oriented strategy, the Plan gives
priority to sectors contributing to exports (agriculture, fishing, mining,
food processing, sub-contracting industries, transportation and tourism).
This priority is reflected in the allocation of Government resources to in-
vestment in these sectors, as well as in the new measures taken in August
1973 to encourage industrial exports and private investment. Achievement of
the Plan's export target will depend on further improvements in some export
sectors (fresh and processed foodstuffs, tourism and sub-contracting), and
also on continued external demand. While external demand for phosphate is
expected to remain strong, demand for other Moroccan goods and services may
weaken over the next few years as a result of an economic slowdown in de-
veloped countries following the recent increases in petroleum prices. On
balance, real export growth, which exceeded Plan expectations in 1973, will
probably be somewhat below Plan targets during most of 1974-77.
9.        The Plan proposes significant changes in investment strategy to
increase labor intensity, and improve the situation of less favored groups
of society and less developed areas of the country. Education, health and
housing together receive a significantly higher share (23 percent) of
planned Government investment than during the Second Plan (11 percent).
Among sectors, the main change concerns agriculture. The Plan places less
emphasis on dam construction and favors equipment of existing irrigation
areas, intensification of rainfed cropping, improvement of animal husbandry
and implementation of land reform. New incentives for private investment
are less biased in favor of imported equipment than the previous system and
encourage efficient operations and location in less developed areas.
10.       In changing its investment strategy, Morocco is breaking new ground,
and significant shortfalls on planned investment could well be experienced
in new priority sectors as a result of staffing and organizational constraints,
which can only be relieved progressively. Shortfalls will probably affect
rainfed cropping, livestock production, low-cost housing and tourism infra-
structure. In addition, most of 1973 was lost for the revival of private in-
vestment, since the new incentives were introduced only in August, and the
start of new public investment programs was delayed, since the Plan was issued
only in July. Finally, measures taken in 1973 to complete the recovery of
foreign-owned farms andl to 'Norocanise" business imply management changes



which may temporarily restrain production and investment. For these reasons,
investment may fall short of the Plan's target, and GDP growth may not exceed
7 percent a year in 1974-77. The attainment of the Plan's income distribution
objectives will to some extent be compromisel by the investment shortfalls
affecting programs designed to increase the ,roductive capacity and situation
of less favored groups in rural and urban areas.
Ia.       Financial resources are not expected to be a constraint in the
meciur. term provided increased inflows of official assistance are forthcoming.
The strengthening of the balance of payments since 1969 continued in 1973,
and in 1974 Morocco will benefit from a tripling of the price of phosphate
rock. Increased earnings from this source vill exceed the increase in the
country's petroleum import bill (due to higher prices) by an estimated $300
million in 1974. This net gain may be eroded in later years, since the price
of phosphate is likely to decline due to increased supply by Morocco's compet-
itors, while the prices of imports and import requirements will keep rising.
Nonetheless, until the end of the Plan period, phosphate and other exports,
workers' remittances and capital inflows should provide enough foreign exchange
to meet import requirements and maintain reserves at a sufficient level. On
the domestic side, the phosphate company (OCP) will be able to make large,
additional remittances to the Government, which will help finance the planned
level of public investment. However, the Government will have to proceed with
planned tax measures in order to-make the tax system more responsive to econ-
omic growth and more equitable, and with planned development of the capital
market to facilitate the mobilization of private saving and the financing of
private investment.
12.       The financial situation may become more difficult beyond 1977, if
the predicted trends in exports (with no further gains from phosphate prices)
and import requirements continue. To prepare for this eventuality, Morocco
needs to increase, as planned, the level of external borrowing on favorable
terms from official sources, and this will require improved project prepara-
tion. Preliminary IBRD estimates are that Morocco's disbursed external debt
amounted to about $890 million at the end of 1973, and that public external
debt service represented close to 8 percent of 1973 exports of goods and non-
factor services. Although lorIg-term prospects are for more pressure on the
balance of payments than at present and a rise in the debt service ratio,
Morocco can service substantial additional debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
13.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 19 projects with fi-
nancing totalling $428.0 million (net of cancellations), of which $221 million
was lent since the beginning of 1972. IDA credits, totalling $36.8 million,
have been made available for four projects. IFC investments have amounted
to $2.9 million. Implementation of projects has often been slow to start, but
with time performance .aas usually improved. The water supply project (Loan
850-MOR of July 19, 1972 for $48 million) suffered from initial difficulties



- 5 -
and delays in implementing a number of basic measures aimed at reorganizing
the major agency in the sector. Following substantial efforts by the Govern-
ment, significant progress has been made. Difficulties which arose in the
course of 1973 concerning procurement procedures for a major contract under
this project have been resolved satisfactorily. Project implementation by
the three autonomous financial institutions in agriculture, industry and
tourism to which the Bank lends, has been geaerally satisfactory. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of April 30, 1974, and notes on the execution of on-going IBRD/IDA projects.
14.       The Bank Group's lending strategy is to support the achievement of
the objectives of the third Five-Year Plan through projects which (a) contri-
bute to production and improve the balance of payments, (b) support institu-
tion building and sector development, and (c) attack the problems of poverty
in Morocco. Particularly in agriculture and urbanization and to a lesser ex-
tent in industry, projects are expected to yield substantial benefits in tradi-
tional economic terms and at the same time contribute directly to improving
income distribution. The program includes projects, mostly in agriculture,
which might serve as pilot schemes for repeater projects. Because the pace at
which Bank Group lending can be carried out will continue to depend largely on
the speed at which the Government prepares projects and takes related policy
decisions, special efforts will be made to help prepare projects.
15.       In the agricultural sector, previous projects have helped to develop
large-scale irrigation schemes and agricultural credit. The Bank now stresses
the importance of efficient organization of the sector, land reform and the
development of small farms with emphasis on attacking the problem of rural
poverty. The Government has accelerated land distribution to smallholders
and landless families and is preparing a number of projects aimed at small
farmers, some of them in rainfed areas, for which it is likely to seek Bank
financing.
16.       Education is a critical bottleneck in Morocco's development.  Two
IDA credits have been made to improve technical and vocational training. A
UNESCO project identification mission, in the framework of the Bank UNESCO
cooperative program, visited the country in September 1973 to review the
sector's development and to help formulate future Bank projects.
17.       Industry and tourism development has so far been financed through
the two DFC 's ("Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique" and "Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier"). These DFC's are expected to remain the main channels
for Bank lending in these sectors. However, as Executing Agency for a UNDP
financed study, the Bank is helping to prepare a tourism infrastructure proj-
ect which would alleviate the scarcity of improved land for hotel development.
On May 30, 1974, the Bank approved a loan to Maroc Phosphore, for the develop-
ment of a large phosphoric acid plant. Projects in these sectors help Morocco
to increase its foreign exchange earnings and provide an opportunity for the
Bank to help improve sectoral policies.



- 6 -
18.       A substantial share of Bank lendin; has financed infrastructure
development. The first transportation loan, a $14.6 million Bank/IDA blend,
was for a highway project and included financing of a sector review which
served as a basis for a second loan of $29 million approved in December, 1973,
as well as recommendations on transport policy. The first Bank financing of
public utilities in urban areas was the $48 million Water Supply loan signed
in July 1972. A second loan of $25 million, for a power project, was signed
in October 1973.  Both prcjects aim to improve the organization of public
utilities. The social problems due to rapid urbanization are expected to
be tackled through a site and services project presently being prepared by
the Government, in line with the emphasis on urban housing and infrastructure
in the Third Plan.
19.       A Consultative vroup for Morocco was formed in April, 1967 under the
chairmanship of the Bank. It presently includes Belgium, Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Spain, the U.K., the U.S., IMF, UNDP, OECD/DAC,
the African Development Bank and the European Investment Bank. The last meet-
ing of the Group, on March 28 and 29, 1974, expressed satisfaction with the
improvement in Morocco's economic performance in recent years, and the em-
phasis in the Third Five Year Plan (1973-77) on improving the distribution of
growth benefits.
20.       The gross inflow of official loans and grants to Morocco rose from
$129 million in 1966 to $159 million (of which $18 million in grants) in 1971,
but temporarily fell to $115 million in 1973. Major sources were the U.S.,
Germany, the Bank Group and France. At the end of 1973, the Bank Group's share
in Morocco's external public debt was estimated at 13.4 percent on a disbursement
basis. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 11.2 percent in 1973.
By the end of the 1970's the Bank Group's share in public debt and debt service
are estimated to rise to about 20 percent.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN MOROCCO
21.       Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Morocco.
Some six million ha are presently cultivated, of which about 1/3 million ha
have modern sad efficient irrigation systems. About 70 percent of the popu-
lation is dL*cUv dependent upon agriculture for a livelihood.  The sector
contributes about 30 percent to GDP and accounts for over 50 percent of
merchandise exports.  Poor perfor-manice of the agricultural sector in the
decade after independence contributed to general economic stagnation, while
4s- the years 1967-72 more rapid growth of agriculture -- mainly because previous
large investments in t.ae moderm sector began to oear fruit - was accompanied
by overals expansion.  In 1973, inadequate rainfall seriously affected crop
production and as a result, overall GDP only increased by about 2 percent,
despite rapid expansion in mining and manufacturing.



- 7 -
22.       The Government's intervention in the agricultural sector until
recently concentrated on the expansion of irrigated farming, while rainfed
agriculture received less attention. During the Second Five Year Plan, 29
percent of total Government investment expenditure was devoted to dams and
irrigated farming and 12 percent went to the development of rainfed agricul-
ture and livestock. Moreover, investment in irrigation facilities was con-
centrated on the construction of dams but the construction of irrigation
networks and on-farm development lagged behind. Thus during the Second Plan,
while three dams capable of irrigating 106,000 ha were completed (and three
more, capable of irrigating a further 96,000 ha, were under construction),
main canalisation was provided for only 83,000 ha., and on-farm irrigation
works for 71,000 ha. (excluding private irrigation schemes, which covered
an additional 8,000 ha.).
23.       The Third Five-Year Plan (1973-1977) proposes to remedy these defi-
ciencies. Greater attention is being given to improvement of rainfed agricul-
ture and livestock production, within an expanded overall development program
for agriculture. Within the program for irrigation, the emphasis is upon
completing irrigation systems served by newly constructed dams, to reduce the
lags already mentioned. Only two new dams are to be started during the Plan
period. Greater emphasis is being given to training, improvement of the ex-
tension service, credit to small farmers, research and marketing. Farmgate
prices have recently been sharply increased to encourage the production of
cereals, sugar and edible oil seeds.
24.       In many parts of the country, the small size and fragmentation of
holdings, and complex traditional tenure systems, frequently involving joint
ownership, have been major obstacles to improving agricultural productivity.
To overcome these problems, and to encourage the adoption of modern cultiva-
tion methods, particularly on lands with high production potential, the Gov-
ernment has taken various measures. First, under legislation introduced in
1963, the Government has successfully started a program of land consolidation;
during the Second Five Year Plan, 1968-72, 190,000 ha, mainly in irrigated
perimeters, benefitted. Secondly, the Government has acquired land previously
held by foreigners for distribution to the rural poor, both small farmers and
landless. Two hundred and twenty thousand ha. were acquired between 1963 and
1965, and legislation passed in 1973 provides for the acquisition now under way
of at least a further 326,000 ha. Under a law of 1966 (amended in December
1972) the Government is distributing this land to Moroccan farmers meeting
competence, poverty, age and character criteria, recipients being obliged to
group themselves into production cooperatives. Some 180,000 ha were distri-
buted by the end of 1972, and the Plan target is to distribute a further
395,000 ha by end 1977. Thirdly, the Agricultural Investment Code enacted in
1969 gave powers to the Government to organize agricultural development in
irrigated areas. The code provides for transformation of some collectively
held land into individually held freehold plots, prevents excessive fragmenta-
tion of holdings and obliges farmers to follow a cropping pattern in exchange
for various subsidies. The legislation as a whole has been carefully designed
to ensure that changes in the tenure system, particularly the transfer of
foreign-owned farms to small Moroccan farmers, do not lead to declines in



- 8 -
productivity. Implementation, however, is complex and slow due to the limits
of the Government's administrative capacity. So far the land reform program
has touched only a very small proportion of poor farmers (about 1 percent),
and this proportion will rise to only about 5 percent with the implementation
of the 1973-77 program. Its impact will, nevertheless, be substantial in
irrigated areas, including the Sebou project area, which are being given
priority.
25.       Government activity in the agricultural sector in Morocco is the
primary responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.
The Ministry's activities are concentrated in the Directorate of Agricultural
Development, which operates through prorincial services in rainfed areas, and
largely autonomous regional development offices (ORWJA's) in irrigated areas.
There are also three public institutions with country wide responsibilities
in the sector: The Agricultural Bank (CNCA), the Cereals and Pulses Office
(ONICL) and the Export Trade Company (OCE). Two state-owned companies are
responsible for managing the land acquired by the Government from foreigners;
SODEA, established in 1972 is primarily responsible for managing plantation
while SOGETA, established in 1973, is primarily responsible for managing the
annual crop land acquired from foreign owners in March 1973, prior to its
eventual distribution under the land reform programme.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
26.       The project is located in the Rharb plain, which lies northeast of
Rabat and close to the major centers of consumption in Morocco. The Sebou
river, the largest river in the country, flows through the plain. The excel-
lent agricultural soils on the plain and the large amount of presently un-
utilized water in the Sebou river give the region a high potential for the
development of agriculture through irrigation. The Bank has been associated
with the development of the Rharb plain since 1964, when a loan of $17.5 mil-
lion (389-MOR) was made for the Sidi Slimane Irrigation Project, which involved
the raising of an existing dam, and the improvement and extension of an exist-
ing irrigation network.
27.       At the time the Sidi Slimane Project was being executed, a UNDP/FAO
study was under way, to determine the optimum outline plan for the overall
development of the Sebou basin. This study was completed in 1968, and recom-
mended the development for irrigation of 200,000 ha. on the Rharb plain, and
the construction of storage dams. In November 1969 the Bank made a loan of
$46 million (643-MOR) for the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation project covering the first
phase of development. The project consisted of:
(a) The construc:ion of the Idriss ler dam at Arabat on the
Inaouene river, a tributary of the Sebou.



- 9 -
(b) Land reorganization over the project area of 90,000 gross
ha., and redistribution of former foreign and state owned
land to smallholders and landless families.
(c) Land preparation and the construction of new irrigation and
drainage systems covering 38,300 net ha. and the improvement
of existing irrigation on 5,000 net ha.
(d) The improvement of rainfed agriculture over 26,700 net ha.
(e)  The improvement of roads and crop processing facilities in the
project area.
(f) Engineering and supervision, including geological studies of the
project area; experiments and investigations to determine design
criteria for subsurface drainage; and feasibility studies for
sugarcane cultivation, and
(h) The strengthening and reorganization of the management of
ORMVAG, 1/ the regional agricultural development office.
28.       The proposed Sebou II Development Project arises from events which
could not be foreseen at the time of appraisal of the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation
Project, and from studies financed under the project:
(a) At the time of appraisal of the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project,
the risk of severe flooding was not considered sufficient to
warrant immediate flood protection works. However, in early
1970 a disastrous flood occurred, affecting almost the entire
project area and causing damage estimated at $7.5 million.
The flood risk was reassessed, and the Bank agreed to add to
the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project a study to determine meas-
ures to control flooding. The foreign exchange cost of the
study ($1 million) was covered by reducing the unallocated cat-
egory of the loan. The study showed that in the long-term the
development of further upstream storage together with construc-
tion of a diversion channel would eliminate the risk of serious
flooding but that interim measures were justified to protect
against flooding the area already being developed for irrigation
under the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project. After making allow-
ance for the land required for flood protection works and the
results of a more detailed land survey, the area to be newly
equipped for irrigation was reduced from 38,300 to 35,200 net ha.
1/ Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du Gharb (Rharb).



l 10 -
(b) Experiments carried out under the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project
have confirmed that the project area is well adapted for the
cultivation of sugarcane. However, these experiments also showed
that the sugarcane and beet harvesting periods overlap, so that
it has not been possible to provide sugarcane processing capacity
by adapting the existing sugar beet factory at Mechra-bel-Ksiri,
as had originally been envisaged. A new cane processing factory
is therefore needed. Traffic congestion arising from the overlap
of the harvesting periods also necessitates the strengthening of
the road network in the project area to a greater extent than
envisaged under the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project, and the con-
struction of a new bridge over the Sebou River at Mechra-bel-Ksiri.
In response to the new situation created by these events, and in order to
ensure optimum development of the project area it is proposed to finance
flood control works, a new sugarcane processing factory and the improvements
to the project area road network mnder a Sebou II Development Project. The
project was appraised in November 1973. At negotiations held in Washington
in May, 1974, the Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Abdelaziz Belghiti of
the Prime Minister's office.
Progress with the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project
29.       After a slow start, progress in the physical execution of the
Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project has been good, and initial delays have been
largely recouped. Construction of the Idriss ler dam is complete, and re-
servoir filling is now in progress. Land consolidation is nearly complete
for all the area to be irrigated under the project. Work on land levelling
and on constructing the irrigation and drainage network is proceeding on
schedule. While construction of the irrigation distribution system is
slightly delayed, this will not affect the schedule of new areas to be irri-
gated each season. Five irrigation sectors, totalling 13,240 net ha., are
now operational, practically in line with the rate of development estimated
at appraisal.
30.       The estimated cost of the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project has sub-
stantially increased due to physical contingencies, currency realignments
and higher actual and forecast inflation rates, particularly since 1973, than
envisaged at the time of appraisal in early 1969. The total cost of the proj-
ect, excluding the crop processing facilities and road network (originally
estimated at $10.3 million), which would now be provided under the Sebou II
Development Project, is now estimated to be about $117 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of $86.7 million (in both cases including contingen-
cies but excluding interest during construction). This represents an in-
crease of 34 percent. The increased costs will be met through the realloca-
tion to other items of the $4.6 million included in the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation
Project Loan for sugar processing facilities and the road network, and by an
increase in the Government's contribution.



- 11 -
31.       The Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project envisaged a major improvement in
the structure of land tenure in the project area. The appraisal report for
that projeict suggests that up to about 23,500 ha., (out of a project area of
90,000 ha.) of previously foreign owned or private state annual crop land
would be arailable for distribution to all smallholders and landless families
in the pro:ect area, under the terms of the 1966 Agrarian Reform Law. Progress
with land reform has been slower and the amount of land available for redistri-
bution may be less than the appraisal report envisaged. By the end of 1973,
3,500 ha. had been distributed to smallholders and landless families and a
further 14,500 ha. is available for distribution in the project area; up to
about a further 5,300 ha., whose legal status is presently under dispute might
also eventually be available for distribution. Furthermore, recent data sug-
gest that the number of candidates for land reform benefits is much greater
than estimated at appraisal. In this situation, the Government has decided
that beneficiaries will be selected from amongst the very poorest smallholders
and landless families in the project area. The beneficiaries of land distri-
bution will have holdings of at least 5 ha. when distribution is complete,
which the Government regards as the minimum viable size for irrigated holdings.
The Government has submitted to the Bank a timetable which states that distri-
bution of the remaining 14,500 ha., will be completed by the end of 1978. Any
additional land which becomes available following the resolution of litigation
would be distributed as soon as possible.
32.       A part of the land in the project area which has been taken over
from foreign owners is under tree crop plantations. The Government is present-
ly considering arrangements for the long-term future of these plantations to
ensure that their productivity is maintained while the benefits from their
operations are spread as widely as possible. Until these arrangements are
decided upon, the plantations will not be distributed as smallholdings, and
will remain under the management of SODEA and SOGETA (see para. 25).
33.       Moroccan legislation provides for the recovery from each farmer of
the average operating and maintenance costs and a maximum of 40 percent of the
average capital cost of all irrigation and drainage works, including the share
of the cost of the dam attributable to irrigation development under the project.
Recovery is made through a land betterment levy of DH 1,500 per hectare, and
through a water charge which is presently fixed at a base rate of DH 29 per
thousand cubic meters within the area of responsibility of ORMVAG. For hold-
ings up to 20 ha, the first 5 ha. are exempt from the betterment levy; in ad-
dition, farmers can choose to pay the betterment levy through annual instal-
lments over 20 years, with 3 years grace and at 4 percent interest.  In the
early years of irrigated cultivation the amount of the water charge is increased
linearly, to reach the full base rate by the fifth year of irrigation. The
Government recently carried out a review of these charges as provided for under
Section 5.09(b) of the Loan Agreement for the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project.
No actual data for the operation and maintenance cost for the irrigation net-
work is available, since irrigated cultivation has only just begun. Esti-mat-
ing depreciation and operation and maintenance costs as percentages of capital
costs at current prices, but excluding interest (the method followed in the
Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project Appraisal Report), the review shows that the
present level of the charges is the maximum permitted under legislation.



- 12 -
The Government has agreed that;in the future water charges will also cover
the operation and maintenance cost of the flood protection works (Section 4.06,
draft Loan Agreement). It has also agreed to maintain separate accounts for
operation and maintenance costs and for revenues derived from the betterment
levy and water charges, and that future reviews of water charges would be
based on actual rather than estimated costs (Section 4.05(a), 4.05(b), draft
Loan Agreement).
34.       Cost recovery through the betterment levy and the water charge is
progressive with incomes, since the first 5 ha of holdings up to 20 ha are
exempt from the betterment levy and since cropping patterns which yield high
returns tend to be intensive in water use. Incomes to farmers in the project
area are subject to an Agricultural Income Tax and, for higher income groups,
a Complementary Income Tax, both of which are progressive. It is estimated
that at full development and depending on the cropping pattern, the betterment
levy, the water charge and the two incomes taxes will absorb between 14 and
20 percent of income gross of such charges and taxes for a 5 ha holding, rising
to 42 to 43 percent for a 50 ha holding.
Project Description
35.       The project consists of:
(a) Construction of earth flood protection dikes and ancillary
works to protect the 35,200 ha being developed for irrigated
agriculture under the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project and to
confine flood overspill from the Sebou River to three flood
escape channels; resettlement of families now living in the
channels;
(b) Strengthening of roads and railway tracks in the flood escape
channels to prevent damage during floods;
(c) Surveys, design and supervision of construction of the flood
protection works;
(d) The Construction of a sugarcane factory at Mechra-bel-Ksiri
with a capacity of 2,500 tons of sugarcane per day over a
six-month harvesting season;
(e) A study of existing industrial pollution of the lower Sebou
River and, if justified by such study, construction of an
effluent treatment plant to prevent pollution of the Sebou
River by the wastewater of the new sugarcane factory and the
existing sugar beet factory at Mechra-bel-Ksiri;
(f) Improvement of about 100 km of primary and secondary roads,
bituminous surfacing of about 100 km of tertiary and unclassi-
fied access roads and construction of a new bridge over the
Sebou River at Mechra-bel-Ksiri;



- 13 -
(g) Improvement of about 230 km of tertiary and unclassified access
roads;
(h)  Procurement of equipment for maintenance of the roads improved
under (g) and for a study by the Regional Office of sugarcane
transport;
(i) A study of bilharzia infestation iii the Rharb plain and the
possibility for its eradication;
(j) Training, through a program of fellowships and on-the-job
training, of staff of the Regional Office, of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (Development Service) and
of SUNACAS in sugarcane production and processing and exten-
sion services.
36.       A loan and project summary is given in Annex III.  Appraisal Report
No. 429-MOR dated June 7, 1974 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Execution
37.       Execution of physical construction of the project is the respon-
sibility of three separate government departments. The flood protection works
will be built under the supervision of ORMVAG, assisted by consultants accept-
able to the Bank and with technical assistance from the Hydraulic Directorate
of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications.  Final designs and bidding
documents would be prepared for the Hydraulic Directorate of the Ministry of
Public Works by consultants.  Final designs will be submitted to the Bank for
approval and will avoid any risk to the population living within the sectors,
should flood-water breach or overtop the dykes. On-going studies for the
overall protection of the Rharb plain against floods will continue under the
responsibility of the Hydrauli( Directorate.  The Government has undertaken
that adequate provision will be made in the ORMVAG annual budget for mainten-
ance of the flood protection dykes (Section 4.07, draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Improvement of bituminous surfaced primary and secondary roads will
be executed under the supervision of the Roads Directorate of the Ministry
of Public Works and Communications. These are comparatively minor works,
well within the capacity of the Directorate, which has completed implementa-
tion of a first Bank highway project and is now supervising implementation of
a second. Improvement of tertiary and unclassified roads will be carried out
by ORMVAG, with technical assistance from the Roads Directorate of the Ministry
of Public Works and Communications. Primary and secondary roads will be main-
tained by the Roads Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works, and bituminous
tertiary roads will be maintained by the Kenitra Provincial Authority. Ter-
tiary gravel roads and the roads which remain unclassified following improve-
ment will be maintained by ORMVAG, under the technical supervision of the
Ministry of Public Works in the case of roads with a bituminous surface (Sec-
tion 4.08, draft Loan Agreement). The Government has undertaken to provide
ORMVAG with adequate current funds for the maintenance of the roads which re-
main its responsibility (Section 4.07, draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
39.       The  construction of the sugarcane factory is being supervised by
SUNACAS, a Government owned company, established to own and operate the fac-
tory, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Mines
and Merchant Marine. Morocco has substantial experience in sugar production
from sugar beet and SUNACAS is staffed by a team which is capable of supervising
construction of the factory and operating it, once completed; consultant serv-
.ces will only be provided under the Project to SUNACAS for acceptance of the
factory. The Government has agreed that SUNACAS will appoint a Chief Engineer
and a Chemist, with clearly de.'ined responsibility for operation and maintenance
of the factory and for processing and process control respectively (Section
4.04(c), draft Loan Agreement)).
40.       The timely supply and quantity and quality control of sugarcane to
be delivered to the SUNACAS factory is the overall responsibility of ORMVAG,
through its sugarcane office. In order to assist ORMVAG in this task in the
early stages of the operation of the factory, the project includes consultant
services, particularly a sugarcane specialist who will be responsible for
advising ORMVAG in experiments to be carried out during the first, 1975,
harvest season to determine the best method of transporting cane from the
fields to the factory.
41.       To ensure the effective execution of its sugarcane development
programme, the Government has agreed to reorganize the Agricultural Production
Division of ORMVAG (Section 4.04(b), draft Loan Agreement). The intention is
to provide services on a crop-specific rather than a job-specific basis, (see
organization chart (World Bank 8610) attached to the Appraisal Report). ORMVAG
and the Ministry of Public Works would create separate accounts for the flood
control and roads components of the project, and audit reports for each ac-
count would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (Section 3.05(c), draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Both the first and second Rharb-Sebou Projects involve several
different agencies for their implementation, and the complex nature of both
projects makes coordination between these agencies important. A Project
Coordinating Committee, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture,
was established under the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project. However, the Commit-
tee has met only on rare occasions and lack of effective coordination has im-
peded implementation of the project. The Government agreed that in future the
Project Coordinating Committee should meet at least once every three months,
to approve quarterly progress reports, review past achievements and future
work programs of each of the agencies concerned, and ensure that coordination
between these agencies is maintained (Section 4.10, draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
43.       Cost estimates are shown in Annex III and are summarized below
(excluding import duties and local taxes):



- 15-
Millions of US$
Local    Foreign    Total
Flood Protection                      6.8       3.6       10.4
Roads and Bridges                     5.2       5.2       10.4
Sugar Processing                     3.4       13.6       17.0
Effluent Treatment Plant              0.3       0.5        0.8
Consultants, Studies, etc.            0.3       1.2        1.5
Contingencies                         5.7       7.9       13.6
Total                          21.7       32.0      53.7
44.       The Bank loan will finance the full foreign exchange cost of the
project, amounting to $32.0 million, 60 percent of total project cost. The
Loan will be made to the Government, and that part for financing the foreign
exchange cost of the sugar factory will be onlent by the Government to SUNACAS,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and at an interest rate not
less than that of the proposed Bank loan (Section 3.01(b), draft Loan Agree-
ment). The local costs of the project will be-fully financed by the Govern-
ment. In the case of the flood control and roads works the Government will
provide its share of project costs through normal budgetary allocations. In
the case of the sugar factory, the local cost of the plant as well as all
necessary funds for pre-operation costs, start-up and working capital will be
financed from SUNACAS' authorized share capital of DH 35 million. The Govern-
ment has agreed that SUNACAS' accounts would be audited by an auditor accept-
able to the Bank, and that audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within
five months of the close of each financial year (Section 4.02(a), draft Loan
Agreement).
Markets
45.       Morocco has a high per capita consumption of sugar, at about 25 kg
per year. In 1973 total sugar consumption was about 450,000 tons, of which
200,000 tons were imported. Consumption is expected to increase by about
3 percent per year, to about 550,000 tons by 1980. Domestic sugar production
began only, in 1963 following a steep though temporary increase in the world
residual market price. By the end of the Third Five Year Plan, 1977, Morocco
intends to satisfy two thirds of domestic consumption from domestic production.
The incremental production of sugar from the project (45,000 tons per year by
1980) will be easily absorbed on the domestic market. The Government main-
tains fixed domestic producer prices, in the past considerably higher than
the world residual level. At the present high world residual market price,
domestic production of sugar receives no protection but in financially at-
tractive.
Procurement
46.       Procurement of all goods to be financed from the loan will be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, and
consultants services will be procured under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The Borrower has agreed to group civil works contracts into amounts
of at least $1,000,000 to help attract foreign competition.



- 16 -
47.       Construction of the sugarcane processing factory has already started,
in order to have processing facilities available in time for the first sugar
crop in May 1975. Procurement was carried out in accordance with Bank guide-
lines and the contract for construction of the factory was awarded to the
lowest bidder, Societe Fives-Cail-Babcock of France, on January 22, 1974, for
the equivalent of about $17.0 million. Retroactive financing of up to $2
million is proposed.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements would be made against:
-    80 percent of total expenditures for the sugar factory;
-    60 percent of total expenditures for the effluent plant;
-    40 percent of the total expenditures for civil works for
flood control and resettlement housing;
-    50 percent of the total expenditures for civil works for
roads and the bridge;
-    100 percent of forei,gn exchange costs of equipment for road
maintenance and the sugarcane transport study; and
-    100 percent of foreign exchange costs of consultants' serv-
ices and the overseas training of local staff.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by March 1979 (see Annex III for
expected phasing).
Justification
49.       The benefits from the project consist of protection against flood
damage of 40,000 ha of irrigated agriculture, improvement of surface communica-
tions in the Rharb-Sebou Irrigation project area, and the provision of sugar
processing capacity. On the basis of the weighted average annual cost of
flood damage in the absence of flood protection works, the economic rate of
return to these works is estimated at 11 percent. However, such an estimate
takes no account of the possible occurrence of a more damaging than average
sequence of floods of different magnitudes and the risk of a major flood early
in the life of the project. The economic return to the sugar factory, the
largest component of the project, amounts to 15.8 percent, and remains satis-
factory under a range of adverse conditions. Foreign exchange savings from
substitution for sugar imports will amount to $14 million per year when full
capacity operation is reached in 1980. The overall rate of return to the
project, charging the cost of the access road network to the increase in
sugar production, is estimated to be 15 percent. The combined rate of return
to the first and second Sebou projects is estimated to be 8 percent.



- 17 -
Ecological Aspects
50.       There are several sources of pollution of the Sebou basin river
system, amongst the most important of which are the existing sugar processing
factories at Sidi Kacem, Mechra-bel-Ksiri and Sidi Allal Tazi, and the pulp
mill at Sidi Yahia. The proposed loan includes financing for a study, to be
carried out by the Government with consultant assistance, whose purpose will
be to determine the incidence of pollution and to examine the economic and
technical aspects of their control. It also includes an allocation for the
installation of equipment which would treat the effluent from the proposed
sugarcane factory and the existing sugar beet factory at Mechra-bel-Ksiri,
if this proves necessary.
51.       The proposed loan includes financing for a study of the incidence
of Bilharzia in the Rharb plaia, and of measures for its eradication.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the pro-
posed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Features of the Agreement of special interest are described in
paragraphs 37-42, 44 and 47 of this report.
54.       The making of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the on-
lending to SUNACAS of the portion of the loan allocated to the sugar factory
and for other financial assistance to SUNACAS by the Government, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Agreement (see paragraph 44).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 10, 1974






ANNED I
Page 1 of 3 pages
ODtITRY DATA - IROmOc:
5-691F/  km 2                                          n5  ZLN Biion (mid-) 971)                             30 Per km I
Peir b2f arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Moroc,co              Ntherlands hn.1g2ua  T-U 1.
OW PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) a                                 200/b         230             2,430          390           100
SODB.APIIIC
lUrWth rats (per thouand)                                        47 Ic         50              18.3           28            47
Crude death rate (par thousand)                                 19 7a e        17              8.4             6           21
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)               149            150             12.7            18 /f     160-165 a
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                50             50               74            68           43
Gross reproduction rate /2                                                                      1.3          2.2           3.2
Population growth rate a                                                      2.7              1.3           2.9          2.7
Population growth rate - urban                                                5 .3 /,i                       2.5 /           7
Asg structure (percent)
0-14                                                         44             46/h           27.3            40           44
15-64                                                         52             49 7           62.6            57           53
65 and over                                                    4              57?           10.2             3            3
Denendency ratio /4                                            1.7            2.4 7r           1.0 /k        1.3 /k       1.1 /k
Urban population as percent of total                            29 /1          35 /hL           78 /m         61 /f         6 Az
Family planning:  NKm of acceptors cumulative (thoua.                          67                            979
No. of users (% of sarried women)                            3                             44
W-LODJT
ioesbor force (thousands)                                    3,300          4,000 /h         4,700         4,600        5,800
Percentage employed in agriculture                            Sn             55 79           7.2 /n                      91
Percentage unemployed                                          9              9 7W           1.2             4
INOWS DISTRIBUTION
Percent of nationsa income received by highest 5%                                               22 /
Percent of national income received by highest 2C%                                              49 7
Percent of national incomw received by lowest 20%                                                3 7
Percent of national incoms recsived by lowest 40%                                               14 7
DIS7RIBUTION OF LAiND rP
5 owned by top l(t of owners...
% owned by saliest lS Of owners
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per physician                                     9,700 /d      13,160 /f           820 If     3,170 If    21,570 /o
PoPulation per nursing person                                7,350 7a 1     2,760 7,p          210 7?,    4,170 77      2,980 7? o
Population per hospital bed                                    620 7w8         68O             190 7.f    2,    7rRH      780 7;
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirmernts .5                               91 It          121 Iu        111 /f        69
Per capita protein supply, total (gras per day) Lb                              587?            bS 7          68 7?        43
OfD hich, animal and pulse                                  1.4 7-t                           577?          31 7         23
Death rate 1-4 years /7                                                                        0.8           3.3 7
lWCATION
iJ13Ted /8 primary school enrollment ratio                      49             55 If           102 /f         98           37
Adjusted 7? secondary school enrollment ratio                    5             12 7?            71 7?        50             2
Tears of schooling provided, first and ascond level             12             12               12            12           13
Vocational enrollment as 5 of sec. school enrollment            30              3 /f            46 /f         16            6
Adult literacy rate 5                                           17 /v,w        24 fh  v.w       99 7    y    73             -
HDUSINE
Average No. of persona per room (urban)                        2.1 /z         2.8 /h           .,            1.6 /aa
Percent of occupied units without piped water                   41 7fb         48 7f,ab,ac,ad ,,             51 7a-        20 /ae
Access to electricity (as S of total population)                77 7           68 7F/h ac  a                               3
Percent of tural population connected to electricity            32 7;?
CONSUMPTION
Rdio recivers per 1000 population                              46             60              316 If       103 /f         11
Passenger cars per 1000 population                              12             15              200             3 7?         2 If o
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                           87            132            3,138          823 7?         29  f
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                         0.2            0.2             29.1          1  77         0.1
Notee:  Figures rfer either to the latwet perioda or to               account of environmental teprature, body weights, am
the latest years. Latest periods refer in principle to               distribution by age and sex of national populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-          &   Protein standards (requir_ents) for all eountries as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1976. Only aiguificantly different                 lisbed by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a minimiu
periods or years are footnoted separately,                            allowance of 60 gra  of total protein per day, and 20 grms of
1  The Phr Capita (kP estiaates for years other than 1960            animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be aninal
is at market priees, calculated by the same conversion           protein.  Thee standards are somewhat lovesr than those of 75
toitnique as the 1972 tlhbd Bank Atlas.                          grass of total protein and 23 gras of animal protein as an
/2  Average number of daughters per woman or reproductive             average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Age.                                                              Survey.
Population growth rates are  br th  decdes ending in            ZI  Some studies hove suggested that crude death rates of children
1960 and 197i.                                                   ages 1 through 4 say be used as a first approximation index of
4  Ratio of under 1 and 65 snd over age brackets to                  malnutrition.
thcwe in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 64.          IS  Perentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
A FAo reference standards reprweent physiological me-                 ms defined for each oountry.
quirmsants for normal activity And health, taking
a  Eetinate:         /b  Computed by applying to the 1970 figure the growth ro,te of the GNP//cp. in real terms fro  1960 to
1970; /c UN estlmate; /d 1962; /e Estinute, based on sample survey; /f 1969; /I 1967; /h 1971; 1i Definition
hoirogeneoua with 1960 census;  fi  175-70; /k  Rutio of population under 17  and 65 and over to total labor7orce;
/1  Urbun center, as par enumeration (1960 and 197? nomenclatures being different);  /m  Over 2,000 population;  /n  An a per-
centage of total enploysent;  /o  Tanganyika only; /P  Including midwivea and assstant nurses;  /q  Including midvives
and mater-ity assistants; /r 1968; Is Government only; /t 1964-66; /u 1966-68; /v Read and write; /w Over 5 years
old,  /x  15 years and overf, I   Defit-ition of literacy unknown; /I  UN statistical oflTos eatimate;  /ea  71ban and rural;
/ab Inside,  /a.  Urban only;  /ad  Percent of households;  /ae  1966; 7af  Percent of dwellings with electricity.
R3 February 21, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC DEiMEWOPETl DATA SHET!
(A-oot. In Millon. of LS Dollar.)
Act.al                                 PR-o.ct.d                     1965-         1970-        1974-
1965         1970          1972         1973          1974         1979         1970          1975         1979          1965          1970         1979
NaTIONAL ACCOUNTS                                         3-Veac llyeroie or 190'-1969 Pete.. aad Eogh.oe Rate,                              Averooe Aenoo3Yl Grtwth I 6d h R  - Ar Porgoot of GDY
Gro-. Domestic Product                             2561          3248         3535          3691         3877          5436          4.9           5.0          7.0          101.5        101.0         102.4
GOiOo from Terms of Tr-d. (.1                        -39          -34           -17           45            42         -129         -2.3            .           .             -1.5          -1.1         -2.4
Cewoss IIo.oeoic Income                         2523         3214          3518         3736          3919         5307           5.0          5.4           6.3         100.0         100.0         100.0
loports (including NFS)                             504           772          832           896          973          1673          8.9           6.6         11.4           20.3         24.0          31.5
Erporto (loclodixo 9FSIId neOrt C.o.,tiy)            510          671           767           8           986          1355          5.3           9.8          6.6           20,5         20.9          25.I 5
Ro..rce Cop                                     -14           101           65            -2          -13           318                                                   -S0.          3.1           6.0
Coroimptios OspeedliCrns                           2218          2900         2995          3181         3345          4501          4.8           4.6          6.1           87.9         87.1          84.8
loveotoert Egpendrnoroo (looludlog Stock.)          291           515          588           553          562         1125          12,1           5.4         14.9           11.5         16.0          21.2
Dom-otic S-viOgs                                     305          414           522          578          607           807          6.3          11.3          5.9           12.1         12.9          15.2
a-tio..l S-viogs                                     259          432           570          630          661           852         10.8          12.2          5.2           10.3         13.4          16.0
M0RCOAHDISE TRADE AND NFS                               A...al D.t. at Correot Price..   d loe.saoo  Rates                                                    A. P.r-nt of Tot.l
Exports:
Posphate, fob                                   113           113          144           203          '22           790          0.0         41.0           1.6           21.2         16.2          23.6
Other 110-3d, lob                                323           375          490           699          309         1610           3.0         19.7          14.8           60.5         53.7          49.7
Nog-f-otor Sorcic-g                               98           210          296           369          429          9!5          16.5         10.6          16.4           18.3         30.1          27.7
Total Eroporto                                534          698           930         1271          1560         3305           5.5         23.8          11.0         100.0         100.0        100.0
Import s
Potroleo., cit                                    23            37           55            75          269          644           9.9         52.0          19.1           4.5           4.3          15.S
Other Coodo, cif                                 406           649          712          1038         1233         2829           9.8         16.6          18.0           S0.2         76.0          69.4
Nor-factor Services                               77           168          197           245          291           602         16.9         14.9          15.6           15.3         19.7          14.8
Torl Import-                                 506          854           964         1358          1793         4075          11.0         19.0          17.9         100.0         100.0        100.0
price Idic-s                                                          A-r.ge 1967-69   100
Erport Price Indox                               102            90          128           133          '80          203          -0.8         13.2           1.5
Import Price Indo-                               118           103          110           127          153          204          -2.8          9.5           5.9
Terms of TrAde Indeo                              86            95          109           105          123           100          2.0          3.5          -4.2
Export  Volume loden                              90           116          123           139          151          237           5.2          7.0           9.4
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                        A.-oal Dot, at 1967-69 Price-  aod E.choogo R.tea                               AV-rax. Arogal GroRth REtee  - A. Perre..t of T7t.l
Agrci-lt-ro                                      755           891          980           921          994         1181           3.4          2.9           3.5           29.2         27.4          21.8
Indootry                                         630          807           903          942          '012         1610           5.1          6.5           9.7          24.3          24.9         29.7
Sercices                                        1204          1547         1688          1755         08la         2635           5.1          5.4           7.0          46.5          47.7         48.6
Total                                        2589         3245          3571         3618          3884         5426           4.6          5.0           6.9         100.0         100.0        100.0
CENTRAL  OVERONMENT FINANCE                                        Ar.tAl   ta oR C.roaof Prices                                                               A. P-c...t of GDP
Ccrrror Receipt,                                 374           646          731           979         1365         2346          11.6         18.7          11.4           1A.4         -r.           20.1
Co Errort lopoodi tres                           39D           544          684           910         1032         2000           6.9         16.9          15.0           15.0         16.2          17.8
Bodge.try Forpl-s                            -16            102           67           69           333          266            .            ..            .            0.6           3.1          2.3
Net Ecte.nal Borrowing                           104            69           98            54          100          300          '8.5         12.6          25.0            4.0          2.1           2.6
Investment In-eodit.r-s                          125           226          255           263          395         1080          12.5         16.4          22.3           4.8           6.7           9.3
CURRENI EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                  Acct.l         Es t.                                       $ '11110  lon rret PrIce                                      As Perte.t of Total
(A,   of Tot-l CI rrent Expeodit-rno)              1965       1970        1972       1973                                                               1960.72        1973-77         1968-72      1973-77
DETAIL ON GOVERNMENT INVET8MENT          actual         plannod         actual       pl-ooed
Ed-catiot                                       24.5       28.2       31.1        27.4
Other Sociol Sorvicet                           11.3        9.7         9.2        0.3                     Social Sectors                              525            635            50.7          22.3
Aoticol-tue                                      7.3        7      2    721        f                       Agric-ltore                                 462            798            40.9          28.5
Otht-I EcococIc Ormvtre                          6.5        5.3         4.0        4.5                      Ind-ttry a.d Mining                        141            288            12.5          10.3
Administ-tion aid Soorsity                      30.7       30.9        31.2       28.9                     T-oris,          -                           30             67             2.7           3.4
Othen                                           g9.3       18.7       16.6        24.4                     Trans7port 4 Commnic-tions                  187            247            i6.6         .207 3
TotaL Comment Espesdi cores                 100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                         Total                                   1129          280            100.0          100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1960-       1965-      1970-      1973-                                                                                              273A.7CI3
(Colc,lotId Eroo 5-Year Ap-roged Cat.)             1965       1970        1975       1978                    CErena Sorpl-r                               353            9143           313           326
Average ICOR                                     3.1        2.8         3.2        2.5                      Ionestic Borrowing                         588           1152            52.1          41.1
Import Olasticity                                0.05       1.90       1.76        1.50                        Les-:Capit.l Repay, enot               -126           -279          -11.1          - 9.9
Marginal Dossotic Savings Rate                   0.07       0.16       0.15        0.12                           Total Fi--an ig                     1129           2800           100.0         100.0
Morginal N            -rional Savings Rate      -0.02       0.24        0.18       0.1I
Total Labor Force -alox Added Der Sorker (1967-69 Pr -ceO  and 0:chango  Raeot)
W.kBOR tORCE AND OUTP0 T PbR WORKER                In Millions        7. of TotAl       Crowth Rate 7 p r.   '" 'S Dollars                       Perecot of Average                      Orxsth R0t1 7. .a.
1960    1971      1960    1971            1960-71            1960    1971                     1960            1971                         1960-71
Agriculture                                      -        2.2      -       55.7               .                         4 430                                 50 .3
Industry                                         .        0.6      -       15.L               .                .       1410                    .             165.1
Services                           -       ~~~~     ~ ~~~~~            ~~~1.2  - 30.0  .-               1353                     .158.4                                      ____
Total                                        3.3      4.0    100.0  100.0                 1.8               -       854                    100.0          100.0
not appli able
..  not availoble                                                                                                                                                                        EOENA CP II
-rgh 4, 1974



ANNa I
Page 3 of 3 pages
MOROCCO -  BALANCE OF PAYWErrS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANfCE ABD DEBT PROECTICNS
(A-oots in wiliops  of U.S. doSlra 1        toorrnet price.)
Actoal                   EctiP ted                        Promoted                             Projected    1974-              979-
1969     1970     1971      1972       1973        1974      1975     1976     1977      1978     1979       1989            1979             1989
11384yT BALANCE OF PATMENTS
Eoports ISnolodIng 875>                                ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~667  698  737  930  1271     1960     2044     2226      2539     2883      3305     1122i)          11.0            13.
lecorta (inclodina fPS)                                                  6709      854       858      944       1357        1793    2036    2388        2882    3342    4074         13220          17.8             12.6
Riroorce Balane  (X-M)                                                 -42     -156    -121       -34                    -n 1T    -17 :                                 :73 RF
loterot: etr                                                              -63      -52       -54      -71         -79        -64       -50      -48       -52      -65      -82       -871           5 1             26.5
Direct Ioreereect Ino_m                                                   -23      -25       -25      -28         -36         -37      -38       -40      -43      -47       -52      -13             7 1            10.0
Aorkere Re          ..ttaoces                                              60       e3        90      137         160         168      176      185       196      205       216       35L            5.1             5.0
Cotrent Transfers(net>                                                     29        26       30       24          29          31       33        33                33        33         3           0        0. 0
-aln_coont Corcent __cocc-39                                                   -__4      -77        28        -__S12    _ 265      129               -32 _209  -333        W     -1e272 4  5,3 7
Pri-ste Dicrct Ireetecot                                                   4        19       20       20          14          19       17        19       24       30        35       14.           13.0            14.9
Official Capitl    ore-t                                                   27        20       18        17         14          12       12        12       12        12       12        25           0.0              7.6
Public 84LT Loans
-Diehurne6ents                                                          67      129      141       121        101         192       237      268      298       315      458      456t           19.0            25.5
R-;in.et.st                                                           -36      -35       -49      -49         -67          74      -82       .90      -09     -114     -1385   -1689            12.8             39.0
-Rt Dp sbor-ti                                                      30        04       92        72         34         _74      153      178       198      201       3231    7118           22 .3            2
Other H6LT Loano
-Dlcohoc,nenns                                                          -        -        -         -           -          10        21       22        23       24       25         82          20.1            12.6
SeNai lrnoepts                                                                                                          -       O -        -3       -6       -9       -12       -46             .             18.6
Net lishororenoto                     -         -        -        -           -          ~~~~~~~            ~~~      ~~~      ~~         ~        ~~~          ~~~~~~1.0  21  19  17  15  13 17  5.421
C.pltal Tronsections n-.i.                                                 -1        47       16      -63                      40       19        12        2       -l         5        80
Change in Nt R-servee  (--i-nreaa..                                       -21      -36       -71      -74        -109       -384      -315     -184       -40       76       266      -416
GRANT AND LOAN DCOMITMEN)TS
Oficial GScnt. nod Gra-t-likr Loans                                        27        20       16       17          14
Public MALT Loans
IBRD                                                                    53       25       35        87         49
IDA                                                                      7       -          9       10         -
cther Bltilatral                                                                  3       -         -           -
Goveror=nots                                                            31       87        74       53          49
Sopplioro                                                                3       12         2       -
Financial iostitotloo-                                                   3       25        32        1
Bands                                                                    I       -         _        _           _          _-
Total Public M6LT Lo.-,                                             98       153      151      151          98
Actual cEbt Outotandico or D-ccrber 31. 1972
ACTUAL AMD PROJECTED EXTERNAL DEBT                                        Diehucood Univ  Prrocet
IbED                                                                             85         10.0
IDA                                                                              15          1.8
Ocher Molciloterol                                                                3          0.3
Govtroecoto                                                                     602         70.6
Suppli-ro                                                                        49          5.8
Financial Institutiono                                                           65         727
Bonds                                                                            29          3.4
Public Ichi   e.i                                                                 4          0.4
Total Poblic MALT Debt                                                      852        100.0
S,ot opplicnbi 
-3Nil or negligibl                                                                                                                                                                          EHuNA CP II
F.b-uar 28. 1974






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
A. STATEHENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1974).
Loan or                                                    US $ Million
Credit                                               Amount (less cancellations)
*              N,humber Year.       Borrower         Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
aix loans fully disbursed                            79.1
19   1965   Kingdom of Morocco    Education               11.0       1.6
167   1969   Kingdom of Morocco    Highways                 7.3       ---
642   1969   Kingdom of Morocco    Highways          7.3              6.o
643   1969   Kingdom of Morocco    Irrigation       46.o             29.7
704   1970   CIH                    DFC (Tourism)   8.8               2.7
736   1971   BNDE                   DFC             35.0              4.8
266   1971   Kingdom of Morocco    Education                8.5       8.5
848   1972   CIR                    DFC (Tourism)  15.0              14.6
850   1972   ONEP                   Water oupply   48.0              35.4
338   1972   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             10.0       2.5
861   1972   CNCA                   Agriculture    24.0              24.0
890   1973   BNDE                   DFC             20.0             14.9
936   1973   ONE                    Power           25.0             21.1
* 955   1974   Kingdom of Morocco    Highways         29.0              29.0
Total                                       341.2   36.8      194.8
of which has been repaid                   42.3
Total now outstanding                       298.9   36.
Amount sold                      1.3
of which has been repaid       1.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA *            298.9   36.8
Total undisbursed                           182.2   12.6      194.8
* This loan was declared effective on May 21, 1974.
** Prior to exchange adjustment.
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVEST[ENTS (as of April 30, 1974).
Amount in US $ Million
Year    Obliger            Type of Business          Loan    Equity   Total
1962     BNDE              Development Bank           --       1.5      1.5
1966     CIH               Canning Factory            0.9      0.5     1 .4
Total gross commitments                      0.9       2.0     2.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       0.5      0.6      1.1
Total commitments now held by IFC            0.4       1.4     1.8
Total Undisbursed                            -         -       _



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Cr. No. 79 First Education Project: US$11 million Credit of October 11, 1965;
Closing Date: September 301 1974.
Considerable delays have affected the implementation of the project,
which has been considered a problem project since 1968. However, performance
has improved significantly since September 1972; construction and equipment
of all schools (except industrial equipment in two schools) has been completed,
and all scAiools are in use, project management is now satisfactory, construc-
tion accouuts have been brought up-to-date, local funds have been released
for the project and the Association's procurement procedures for international
bidding for furniture and equipment are being followed. In 1968, as a result
of educational reforms, construction of three agricultural schools was dis-
continued with IDA's approval. The Closing Date has been extended three times
from the original date of June 30, 1971, to allow for rebidding of the indus-
trial equipment and complete disbursements; a further postponement to December
31, 1974 will be necessary to complete procurement.
Cr. No. 266 Second Education Project: US$8.5 million Credit of August 18, 1971;
Closing Date: April 30, 1976.
The project included the expansion and improvement of specific
sections of the secondary, vocational and higher educational systems of the
Borrower, and technical assistance for project administration and school main-
tenance. Subsequently the Association agreed not to finance two Vocational
Training Centers and the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Accordingly, an
estimated amount of about US$1.0 million or 11 percent of the credit, repres-
enting the financing of the above-mentioned project items, has been transferred
to the unallocated category for future reallocation and/or cancellation. The
project unit has made significant effort to catch up with initial delays (about
ten months) in the appointment of consultant architects and in the recruitment
of local personnel and technical assistance experts for the Project Unit.
Implementation has progressed significantly but it is forecast that an exten-
sloan of the Closing Date by about one year will be necessary.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Ln. No. 642. Cr. No. 167 Highway Project: US$14.6 million of November 13. 1969;
Closing Date:  February 28, 1974.
The project suffered from initial delays; however, it was substan-
tially completed physically early in 1974 and within the estimated cost. By
April 1974, $6.0 million was still undisbursed out of the combined credit/loan,
mainly because of cumbersome Government disbursement procedures.  Ways of ex-
pediting payments were discussed by the last supervision mission in July 1973
and at the negotiations for the Second Highways Project. The original closing
date was extended to August 31, 1974.
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November 13, 1969;
Closing Date: November 30, 1978.
After initial management difficulties, the progress in implementing
the project is now satisfactory and on schedule. In 1970, a disastrous flood
occurred causing delays in project implementation while also indicating the need
for additional flood protection work. The distribution to small farmers of
foreign-owned lands to be expropriated proceeded slowly as Government revised
its policy on land reform on a national basis. In March 1973 the Government
decided to nationalize all foreign owned lands and a schedule for land distri-
bution in the project area is now under preparation. Experience gained in the
course of project implementation has shown that the cultivation of sugar cane
and sugar teet in the project area would require the construction of a new
sugar cane factory and reinforcement of the road network.
Ln. No. 704 First Hotel Development Project; US$10.0 million of August 12. 1970;
Closing Date: December 31. 1973.
Disbursements have been lagging behind commitments as construction
of some hotels ran into difficulties in 1971-73. The closing date was extended
to December 31, 1974. About $1.2 million was cancelled out of the amount of
the loan. Projects for 1974 have substantially improved and the Loan is likely
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1974.
Ln. No. 736 Fifth BNDE Project; US$35 million of May 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
The Terminal Date for the submission of projects has been postponed
from June 30, 1973 to December 30, 1973, because of likely cancellations of
present commitments. Due mainly to sluggish investment activity, disbursements
fell behind commitments in 1971 to 1973, but with the return of investors'
confidence, disbursements are expected to pick up the lag shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Commitments have initially been lagging behind expectations as in
the case of Loan No. 704 due to sluggish investment activity, but the loan
should be fully committed by the end of 1974, as against original estimates
of year-end 1973.  With the improved investment climate and with the publica-
tion of the investment code, commitments are already picking up.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project includes a number of institution building measures.
Only when these were substantially implemented was the loan declared effec-
tive on May 2, 1973. After initial difficulties, substantial efforts have
been made by the Government to clarify ONEP's functions, strengthen its fi-
nancial autonomy, and enforce water tariffs applicable to distribution agencies.
Difficulties arose in the course of 1973 concerning procurement procedures for
a major contract which have now been solved satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 861, Cr. No. 338  Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$34.0 million
of October 10, 1972; Closing Date: August 31, 1976.
The project has been progressing satisfactorily and disbu#sements
had reached US$10 million by the end of February 1974 in line with the appraisal
forecast.  Progress under the Loan/Credit is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 890 Sixth BNDE Project; US$24 million of May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The original date of effectiveness which was August 20, 1973 was
extended to September 10, 1973, to allow time for the transmittal of necessary
documents. The loan was declared effective on that date.
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973;
Closing Date:  December_31, 1975.
This loan was made effective on January 23, 1974.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
This loan was made effective on May 21, 1974.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
MOROCCO - SECOND RHARB-SEBOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:             US$32 million in various currencies, all of which would
be for foreign exchange costs.
Terms:              25 years, including 5 years of grace, at 7-1/4 percent
per annum.
Project             The project consists of:
Description:
(a) Construction of earth flood protection dikes and
ancillary works to protect the 35,200 ha being
developed for irrigated agriculture under the Rharb-
Sebou Irrigation Project and to confine flood over-
spill from the Sebou River to three flood escape
channels; resettlement of families now living in the
channels;
(b) Strengthening of roads and railway tracks in the
flood escape channels to prevent damage during
floods;
(c) Surveys, design and supervision of construction of
the flood protection works;
(d) The construction of a sugarcane factory at Mechra
Bel Ksiri with a capacity of 2,500 tons of sugar-
cane per day over a six-month harvesting season;
(e) A study of existing industrial pollution of the lower
Sebou River and, if justified by such study, con-
struction of an effluent treatment plant to prevent
pollution of the Sebou River by the wastewater of
the new sugarcane factory and the existing sugar
beet factory at Mechra Bel Ksiri;
(f) Improvements to about 100 km of primary and secondary
roads, bituminous surfacing of about 100 km of ter-
tiary and unclassified access roads and construction
of a new bridge over the Sebou River at Mechra Bel
Ksiri;
(g) Improvement of about 230 km of tertiary and un-
classified access roads;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
(h)  Procurement of equipment for maintenance of the
roads improved under (g) and for a study by the
Regional Office of sugarcane transport;
(i) A study of Bilharzia infestation in the Rharb plain
and the possibility for its eradication;
(j) Training, through a program of fellowships and on-
the-job training, of staff of the Regional Office,
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Development Service) and of SUNACAS in sugarcane
production and processing and extension services.
Estimated Cost:      The cost of the project is estimated at about US$53.7
million equivalent, and is summarized as follows:
Millions of US$
Local    Foreign    Total
Flood Protection               6.8        3.6       10.4
Roads and bridges              5.2        5.2       10.4
Sugar Processing               3.4       13.6       17.0
Effluent Treatment             0.3        0.5        0.8
Consultants, studies, etc.    0.3         1.2        1.5
Sub-Total                     16.0       24.1       40.1
Physical Contingencies          1.9       2.8        4.7
Price Contingencies            3.8        5.1        8.9
Total Cost                    21.7       32.0       53.7
Financing Plan:      Bank Loan           32.0
Government Funds   21.7
Total               53.7
Estimated
Disbursements:
Millions of US$
FY75     FY76    FY77    FY78       FY79
Annual          18.3      7.0      3.4     2.0       1.3
Cumulative      18.3     25.3    28.7    30.7       32.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Procurement          Construction of the sugar factory was internationally
Arrangements:       tendered in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
The contract was awarded to the lowest bidder, Societe
Fives-Cail-Babcock of France, on January 22, 1974.
Eighty percent of advance payments by SUNACAS, expected
to amount to $2 million by the date of loan signature,
will be financed retroactively by the Bank. Civil works
for flood protection and roads, and the effluent treat-
ment plant will be procured through international com-
petitive bidding, and grou3ed in lots of at least $1
million in order to attract foreign competition in
bidding. Consultants' services will be procured on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Technical            Consultants' services will be provided under the project
Assistance:         for:
-    developing the production and transport of sugarcane;
-    the pollution control study;
-    the schistosomiasis study;
-    further studies, final design and preparation of bid
documents for flood protection works, to be undertaken
for the Ministry of Public Works;
-    assisting the Regional Office in supervision of
construction of flood protection works.
-    other short-term consulting requirements (includ-
ing sugarcane factory acceptance).
Consultants will be required under their terms of reference
to participate to the maximum extent possible within the
limitations imposed by their primary commitments in the
development of programs for the in-service training of
staff and in the training programs themselves.
Fellowships for in-service training of Regional Office,
Agricultural Research Directorate and SUNACAS staff out-
side Morocco, totalling an estimated 42 man-months, will
be provided for. Programs for such fellowships will be
prepared annually by these organizations (Section 3.06),
draft Loan Agreement).
Economic Rate        15 percent.  Combined economic rate of return for first
of Return:          and second Rharb-Sebou Development project is estimated
at 8 percent.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 429-MOR, dated June 7, 1974
EMENA Projects Department






WESI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~           a ~~~~~~~~~ MALAGA,                                                                     IBRDRE JJ5T~e 10682
CZECH    -'1   J4CN                                                                                                          Froer . .J
APt/coashc             ..FRAtNCE _JV ',LW-ARY                                                                                                                 CADI           PA               ->.i
TA    T OGOSAVI~'
Ocean                                TR TA.  GCLvA -     -s                                                                                                                                         \:   \ alTar  Ae d,it e                r   p7e on  ;;5 e d  a:
Ri SPAI                              REECEedrs 
MEAOF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUL
M~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AP  S  CU,S   0  ,.,,  
)on                                                                                                                                                                                                            Abb
AjEk A         I    LETA          ICeho'ao
T                           I                   IARAB                                                _Q*J
//2                                          REP CF
TEAZS/r         /,                                      TanTa
SAHARA,          N 
MACElTON              - -     E~ R -i                                                              i       \'JAN
0   Ce                                                                                                                     or,
MOROCCO                                                                                                                                          L   nTSt                                --iE0RAM
CASARLAr~ '          M    m,/
-       SI e c o ndr y  rN d                                                                        ES                                                                                                             TRJad WA           ~
Turfaya  !  tz  7nl o8.* vu . . .1. .nv .. l.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z 
LTracks,  AS                                                                                             S                                                     -R                                            R E        -ed49  i &     n      R;     o  RC
-R0itroads                                                                                                                                   W       Keir
OCT             400 ninlilITeteS rm1efal lie                                                                           1                                                                                                                                                                   2
10 'EliRR2*Ions above  000 aEetera
---Interfationf1 b'ueoimdiEs                        ~
'1 n-TEJW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tn'STSC
o        so                  tso       200       205                                                                                                       - r        nr
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                     0-0-~~~TETERA  SRoet  ,
0         5D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T B           ISO
AgTO           '                     TTERR
MASSA                             S.ern
Coi,,qy Islands
'FUERT7fe1VENTORA R                                           .
TOT.,f.y
OR El AM7 -                                                                                                                                                                        4 PNIH SAAATISCR T



