Report No. 429a-MOR                                                                 ILE  C                 y
Appraisal of
Sebou Il Development Project
Kingdom of Morocco
une10, 1974                                                                     FILE  COPY
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Documenft of the Intemational Rank for Reconstruction and Developnent
International Development Association
This *eport was prepared for official use only by the Bankl Croup.-lt May not
be published, -quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization The %nk Croup does
not accept responsibility fior the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                             -    Moroccan dirham (DH) 4.08
US$ 1.00                             =    French francs (FF) 4.99
DH  1.00                             =    US$ 0.245
DH  1.00                             =    FF 1.223
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                         0.039 inches  (in.)
1 hectare (ha)                       -    2.47  acres
1 kilometer (km)                     =    0.62  mile
1 square meter (m2)                  =   10.76  square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =   35.31  cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)        35.31  cu secs
1 kilogram (kg)                      =    2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                 =    2,205 pounds
1 bar                                =   14.666 eounds/square inch
1 hectolitre (hl)                    -   26.5   US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE        - Industrial Development Bank
(Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique)
CLCA        - Agricultural Credit Bank
CMV         - Development Center
(Centre de Mise en Valeur)
CNCA        - National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
DMV         - Development Department of MARA
(Direction de Mise en Valeur)
DRA         - Department of Agricultural Research
(Direction de Recherche Agricole)
EAPD        - World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Division
MARA        - Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere d'Agriculture et de Reforme Agraire)
NEDECO      - Netherlands Engineering Consultants
O & M       - Operation and Maintenance
ONT         - National Transport Office
ORMVA       - Regional Agricultural Development Office under DMV
(Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole)
ORMVAG      - Rharb Regional Agricultural Development Office
(Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole de Gharb)
SODEA       - Farm Development Corporation
SOGETA      - Agricultural Land Management Corporation
SUNACAS     - Sebou National Sugarcane Factory Company
(Sucrerie Nationale de Canne du Sebou)
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........... . . .. . i.-i
I.   INTRODUCTION .      . ............... se..** t..
II.   BACKGROUND   .................... ,***..* ......... ...
General es...............................................1
C imate       .     . 0* .   .. . . . .  . . . . . *           2. .  2
Land Use ....,2
Land Ownership and Land Reform         ...................     2
Agriculture in the Economy .... ...................            3
Irrigation in the A3ricultural Sector . ...........            3
Agricultural Inputs and Services .................             4
Previous Bank Projects          ...........................    4
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .................................             5
General ses ..............................   ..0............ se  5
Topography and Soils te* .........................             5
Floods and Surface Drainage ......................             5
Population .... .....................................          6
Land Tenure . . .... ........... .  a . . .......              6
Traditional Agriculture ...................                    7
Agriculture Under Sebou I         ........................     7
Processing ..................................                  8
Markets   ...... ..*..... e. ..     e * e e *  ..........  .....*   .  8
Communications and Transport ......8............               8
Credit *      ..........................................       9
Agricultural Support Services          ....................    9
This report is based on information supplied by the Moroccan Government, in-
cluding studies made by consultants, and on the findings of an appraisal
mission consisting of Messrs. J.C. Collins and T. Husain, and Ms. S. Fukuda
(IBRD) and Dr. P.O. Wiehe and Messrs. J. Dupont, R. Garabiol, J. Megard
and J. Boomkamp (Consultants). Messrs. G. LeMoigne and G. Ludwig (IBRD)
assisted the mission during its initial meetings with Moroccan Government
officials; Mr. M. Carter (IBRD) attended the mission's final meetings.



TABLE OF CONTENTS  (Continued)                                                      Page No.
IV.    THE PROJECT ...............................                                9
Descrîption  .............6.    ....... .......................            9
Project Works and Services              ......................            10
Status of Engineering                                  ......            10
Cost Estimates  ........ *a    .................  * ...a....             11
Financing . ... ......             .  ...         ......... 
Procuremeint   .. ....................................                    12
Disbursements  .................. .                                      12
Accounts and Audit  ..... ............. * ......                         13
V.    ORGANIZATION AN4D MANAGEMENT ......................                       13
Participating Ministries and Agencies  ............                       13
ORMVAG  ..,a................,.........**..***.a                           14
SUNACAS                                  ...,15
The Roads Department of the Ministry of
Public Works  ..........*................*                             16
Proiect Coordination  ............. .. .... ..........                    16
Operation and Maintenance  .......................                        16
Consulting Services and Training  ...... ...........                      17
Safety of the Dam  ........* .........  ..C ........                      18
Recovery of Costs  ..... *... ......... ....            .     ..          18
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND
FARMHERS' INCOME   .* ..a......  *... *.*...o.....                     19
Production  ...............................,.....                         19
Market Prospects  ...... a..          ....................... .           19
Prices  *.. .,........                 C.....................  ......    20
Farmers' Income .          ... . ..** ...................... .            20
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .......................                        20
Objectives of the Project  ........................                      20
Aggregate Economic Return  ......................                         21
Roads .. .      . ..*..     .e e a....   ......*. . .    .                21
St.>g)arcane Factory  ............ ......................                21
Flood Control   *              a    e........... .    0  *.* .....* * * ............  21
Employment  .................................                  .         22
Environmental Impact  ..... *. .O. ..................                    23
VIiI.   AGREEMENTS REAChED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...........                         23



ANNEXES
1.   Country Data
2.   The Need for Flood Control and Long-Term and Interim
Protection Alternatives
3.   Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
4.   Sugarcane Production
5.   Sugarcane Processing
6.   Project Works
7.   Terms of Reference for Consultants
8.   Cost Estimate
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Market Prospects for Sugar
11.   Farm Incomes
12.   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
FIGURES
IBRD 8609   Construction Scliedule
IBRD 8610   Proposed Organiiation Diagram
]IBRD 10900 Map - The Project Area
IBRD 10899 Map - The Flood Protection Works



e



KINGDOM OF MOROZCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMN2ARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has requested a Bank loan
to finance the provision of essential infrastructure and flood protection
works in the area being deveioped fcr irrigation under the Rharb Sebou
Irrigation Project (Loan 643-MOR) (Sebou I).
ii.       The project area is in the fertile Rharb Plain, northeast of Rabat.
The Idriss I Dam built under Sebou 1 will enable some 90,000 ha to be provided
with perennial irrigation, of which 35,200 ha of new irrigated works together
with drainage and associated on farm development works is being installed,
Studies carried out under Sebou I have indicated the need to alter certain
parts of it. Modification of the existing sugar beet factory to acconmodate
sugarcane has proved impractical so that a separate sugarcane processing
factory is needed. The flood hazard Ln the project area has been shown to
be appreciably greater than had been expected and the proposal to delay flood
protection works until future reservoir construction on the Ouerra River could
provide the necessary flood absorbtion capacity can no longer be entertained.
At the same time other changes and cost overruns in the project have absorbed
the funds originally allocated for improvement of processing facilities and
communications in the project area. It is necessary to make full provision
for these as well as for flood protection works under a new project.
iii.      The Sebou Il Development Project would include the following works
and services:
(a) Construction of a new sugarcane factory at Mechra Bel Ksiri;
(b) A consultant study of existing induscrial pollution of the lower
Sebou River and, if justified by the study, construction of a plant
to treat effluent from the new sugarcane factory and the existing
sugar beet factory at Mechra Bel Ksiri;
(c) Improvements to about 100 km of primary and secondary roads,
and about 330 km of tertiary and unclassified access roads
together with construction of a new bridge over the Sebou
River at Mechra Bel Ksiri;
(d) provision of equipment for maintenance of access roads and
for a sugar cane transport study;
(e) Construction of earth flood protection dikes to protect the
35,200 ha being developed for irrigated agriculture and to
confine flood overspill from the Sebou River to three flood
escape channels and the resettlement of families living
in the channels;



(f) Strengthening of roads and railway tracks in the flood escape
channels to prevent damage durîng iloods;
(g) Provision of consultant services to assist in surveys, design
and supervision cf construiction of the flood protection works,
to advise and assist in the expansion of sugarcane production
in the project area and to assist in acceptance trials of the
sugarcane factory;
(h)  A consultant study of schîstosomiasis infestation 7n che
Rharb Plain and the possiîbility for its eradication;
(i) Provision of fellowships to supplement on-the-job training
of personnel.
iv.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$53.7 million, of
which US$32 million is the estimated foreign exchange cost. A Bank loan of
US$32 million is proposed.
v.        A contract for construction of the sugarcane factory (US$17 million)
hlas already been signed following procurement on the basis of international
competitive bidding satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works contracts and pro-
curement of equipment and materials for the other components of the project
would be on the basis of international competition in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
vi.       The new sugarcane factory would be managed by the newly established
National Sebou Sugarcane Factory Company (SUNACAS), a public company respons-
ible to the Department of Industry of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry,
Mines and Merchant Marine.  The Director of SUNACAS was confirmed in his
appointment by the Minister in November 1973 and appears suitably qualified
and experienced and capable of carrying out his responsibilities in relation
to the construction and bringing into operation of the new factory. In view
of Morocco's already established sugar beet processing industry, no difficulty
is anticipated in recruiting sufficient trained and experienced technicians
for the initial staffing of the factory. Consultants would be required to
assist SUINACAS during factory acceptance trials.
vii.      Construction and maintenance of the flood protection works and im-
provement of the tertiary and farm access road network will be the responsibil-
ity of the Rharb Regional Agricultural Development Office (ORMVAG), which has
been responsible for all irrigation, drainage and on farm development works
under Sebou I. Though lack of continuity in management lias been a problem
ini the past, ORNVAG's construction achievement has been satisfactory. With
tihe provision of consultants to assist in areas where local expertise is not
available and/or insuffîcient, the organization would be capable of undertaking
the additional responsibility.



- iii-
viii.     The Roads Department of the Ministry of Publie Works would be
responsible for the improvement and maintenance of primary and secondary
roads. The Department has recently completed a Bank-financed highway proj-
ect and is adequately staffed and equipped to undertake the works required
under the project.
ix.       Government fixed prices, based on sugarcane quality, to be paid to
farmers would provide an adequate incentive to ensure a sufficient supply of
sugarcane for the factory and are not out of line with projected world mar-
ket prices for sugar. Because of the expected continued high prices of sugar
on world markets and the high costs of freight, together with the opportuni-
ties for employment and the potential for foreign exchange savings created
by a sugar industrv, the Moroccan Government's decision to expand sugar pro-
duction aimed at eventual self sufficiency is justified.
x.        The aggregate economic rate of return for the Sebou II Development
Project is 15% and that for the sugarcane factory is 16% calculated on the
basis of the latest projected world price for sugar. No separate economic
analysis for roads improvement was attempted as the project essentially ac-
celerates a roads investment program necessary to meet normal traffic increase.
xi.       The rate of return on the flood protection works was estiate6td  be
11%, using average annual estimates of flood damage made by consultants.  The
rate cf return approach does not, however, provide a really satisfactory
assessment of flood protection due to the uncertaintv in projecting damage
without the project on the basis of the frequency distribution for past flood
observations. An alternative approach was developed in which the expected
flood damage arising during the next 20 years from floods of magnitudes ex-
pected to recur with a 1 in 5 and 1 in 100 year probability (approximately
equivalent to the actual 1965 and 1970 floods, respectively) was estimated.
The combined expected damage from both categories of floods is about twelve
times the cost of protection works and insurance against such damage would
require a yearly premium greater than the cost of protection. Even if the
damage due to small floods alone were over-estimated bv a factor of ten, the
benefits of flood protection over 20 years would still equal the cost of pro-
tection works.
xii.       During negotiations, appropriate assurances were obtained and the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan to finance the foreign exchange
costs of US-A32 million equivalent.  The borrower would be the Governmert of
the Kingdom of Yorocco, and the loan would be repaid in 25 years including
5 years' grace.



.
.



KTNGDOVi OF MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has requested a Bank oan
of US$32 million to help finance essential infrastructure and flood protec-
tion works in the Rharb 1/ Plain now being developed for irrigation under tne
Rharb Sebou Irrigation Project (Sebou I).
1.02      The Rharb Plain includes some of Morocco's most valuable land and
water resources. The Sidi Slimane Project financed by Loan 389-MOR (US$17.5
million) in 1964 and Sebou I financed by Loan 643-MOR (US$46.0 million) in
1969 were the initial steps by the Bank in developing the areats potential
for irrigated agriculture. Sebou I comprised the construction of the Idriss
I Dam storing water for perennial irrigation and the development of some
90,000 ha gross of which about 66% will be irrigated.
1.03      The Sebou Il Development Project would provide for the construction
of a factory to process sugarcane cultivated in the newly irrigated land, im-
prove the road network to facilitate transportation of sugarcane and other
agricultural produce, and provide for the construction of embankments and
flood escape channels to protect the area being developed for irrigation
from the present serious flood hazard.
1.04      This report is based on information provided by the Moroccan
authorities and their consultants and the findtngs of an appraisal mission
in November 1973, consisting of Messrs. J. C. Collins and T. Hlusain and
Ms. S. Fukuda (IBRD); and Dr. P.O. Wiehe and Messrs. J. Dupont, J. Megard,
R. Garablol and J. J. Boomkamp (Consultants).  Messrs. G. Le Moigne and
G. Ludwig (IBRD) assisted the mission during its initial meetings with
Moroccan Government officials, and Mr. M. Carter (IBRD) attended its final
meetings.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      General.  Morocco has a population of about 16 million wîth an
average annual growth of 2.6% during the past decade. Nearly 10 million
people, or 65%, live in rural communities. Of the 506,000 km2 estimated
land area about 35% is used for agriculture, being about equally divided
between crop production and grazing. The remaining 65% comprises mountains,
forests and desert areas. See Annex 1 for details on country data.
*         1/   Both spellings Rharb and Gharb are commonly used.



2,02      Ciimate,  The west and north coastal areas of Morocco have a
Mediterranean type cliuate.  Moist vesterly winds off the Atlantic Ocean
brinx winter rains and cool temperatures which, however, seldom fall below
freezing.  Sea breezes temper the summer heat and occasional thunderstorms
occur though precipitation during summer is relatively unimportant.  Fur-
ther inland the Rif and the Atlas Mountains receive heavy winter rains on
their western slopes whiïch f3rm the catchments of the river systems travers-
ing the coastal Spain. Beyo:nd the mountaïns raïnfali is sparse and  high
sunmmer temperatures prevail, giving rise to arid desert condîtions.
2.03      Land Use.  Of the 7.7 nillion ha of land sui table for cultivation,
about 6.0 million ha are cultîvated (80%), About 0.85 million ha are equipped
for irrigation though 33% of this receives water only in winter or by flood-
ing and only 40% has modern and efficient perennial irrigation.  Grain crops,
particularly wheat and barley, comprise about 75% of the total cropped area.
Citrus fruits form the largest group of agriculturai exports, with vegetables
and wine also being important.  Sheep (12 million) and goats (5 million) and
to a lesser extent cattle (3 million) subsist on generally poor grazing
supplementted by crop residues and stubble.
2.04      Land Ownership and Land Reform.  The traditional land ownership pat-
tern in Morocco is complex. The Koranic principle of equal rights of heirs
to land has led to fragmentation of freeholds and to varîous forms of joint
ownership. In addition, at the time of Independence in 1956, there were
over 900,000 ha of land in foreign hands under three types of title: (i)
private freehold, about 627,000 ha; (ii) official settlements, about 250,000
ha comprising land sold to foreigners (mostly French) by the protectorate
authorities; and (iii) land primarily used for research purposes, about
31,000 ha. After Independence and till 1963, foreign owners sold back size-
able areas of private settlements ta Moroccans; in 1963 such foreign to
lMoroccan transfers were made subject to approval by an Administrative Coin-
mission with the objective of ensuring that the transfers did not exclusively
benefit richer Moroccans. The total land privately transferred to Moroccans,
almost all before 1963, was about 290,000 ha. The foreign held land used
for research purposes was recovered iumnediately following Independence. Of
the remaining foreign held land (about 590,000 ha), about 220,000 ha of off i-
cial settlements were exproprîated in 1963.
2.05      Between Independence and 1973, 180,000 ha of land recovered from
official settlement and the land previously held for research were distributed
to small farmers.  in 1966 the Agrarian Reform Law was passed and specified
the conditions for distribution of land under annual crops. The objective
is to provide the recipîent with a viable family holding capable of producing
an income of at least DE 4,000 (US$980) per year. Plantations however could
not be efficiently operated in smallholdings and the Farm Development Corpo-
ration (SODEA) was established in 1972 to operate these plantations, pending
a decision on their long tern future.  Private foreign settlements were
expropriated in 1973 and some 33'0,000 ha were actually recovered, but since
legal proceedings are still continuing in the case of 40,000 ha, full recovery
will be completed only wlhen these are over. These recovered farms, except some e



- 3 -
plantations which were handed over to SODEA, are presently being managed by
the Agricultural Land Management Cozporation (SOGETA), which was created in
1973 for this purpose. The recovered land under annual crops is to be dis-
tributed under the Agrarian Reform Law of 1972 which has replaced, with minor
changes, the Agrarian Reform Law of 1966.
2.06      In the areas, mainly irrigated, designated under the Agricultural
Investment Code of 1969 as "development zones", provision is made for expro-
priation and reorganization of land within the zones as weil as for the imposi-
tion of approved cropping patterns and cultivation techniques and the provision
of subsidies for production inputs, all in order to maximize the benefits from
irrigation.
2.07      Agriculture in the Economy.  The annual growth of agricultural value
added averaged 5.9% during 1967-72, mainly due to a rapid growth of irrigation,
increased use of fertilizer and other inputs and increased production of high
value crops. The long-term growth trend of agriculture was estimated by the
Bank's Economic Mission (1973) to be about 3% per annum, exceeding the popu-
lation growth rate in rural areas. In 1972, agriculture accounted for about
27% of GDP (at 1960 prices), and employed about 55% of the labor force; about
30% oif agricultural output was exported. The agricultural trade surplus has
equal:Led about 20% of Morocco's merchandise imports.  Morocco's agricultural
exports are very much Europe-directed, with France more than 50%.
2.08      Development of Moroccan agriculture has been the responsibility of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) through its Develop-
mert Department (DMV) and such public organizations as the Cereals Trade
Office and the Trade and Export Office. The main objectives under the Second
Development Plan (1968-72) were the extension of large-scale irrigation, ex-
pansion of credit to large and medium farmers and export promotion. The net
effect: of these policies was growth of GDP at about 5.6% per annum, but a
widening of income differences within rural areas as well as between rural
and urban areas. The latest Bank Economic Mission estimated that "în real
terms average consumption declined slowly for about one-third of the rural
population". Growth benefits, therefore, accrued mainly to medium and large
farmers.
2.09      Irrigation in the Agricultural Sector.  The Second Plan's focus on
developing irrigation capacity resulted in distribution works and on farm de-
velopment lagging behind construction of dams and storage reservoirs. A major
objective of the Third Plan is to hasten equipment of potentially irrigable
areas, to fully utilize the existing storage capacity.
2.10      Under the Second Plan's investment program, 1968-72, DH 2.5 billion
was allocated to agriculture, of which 64% was for irrigation, 6% for rainfed
agriculture and 4% for livestock production, with the remainder ifn a miscel-
laneous category. In the Third Plan, 1973-77, irrigated agriculture will get
only 47%, and rainfed agriculture about 10% of the total investment in agri-
culture.



-4-
2,11  Arc u           Lts and Services. MARA operates primari'y through
its DN7r which is in charge of soîl and crop împrovement, land reform, input
supply, provision of credît ard marketing.  In designated development zones,
the DMV carrîes out îts task through eight Regional Agricultural Development
Offices (ORMVA) which are also responsible for assisting small-scale irriga-
tion and rainfed farming in their regions. Elsewhere DMV operates 22 provîn-
cial services and about 100 eistrict extension services.
2.12       Previous Bank Proi cts.  T'he Bankts first Loan eor a.gr cuiltur, i1
Morocco was LTS$17.5 million for the Sidi SLimane Irrigatïon Project iL- 1:965
(Loan 389-MOR), The project increased the storage capacity of the El. Kansara
reservoir and provided for extension o£ an existiîng îrrigated area served from
the dam,  Though performance under the project was satisfactory as far as cî-
vil -works and agricultural development were concerned, delays arose due to a
series of reorganizations wîthin the agricultural and irrigation services.
By mid-1967 these problems had been overcome and the project was completed
in 1970,
2.13   .  In 1966 a loan of US$10 million for an Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 433-MOR) was made to the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA).
The loa.l helped finance a three year iendîng program for on £arm developmient
and purchase of agriïcultural equipment. Initial progress was disappointing
and the loarn was temporarily suspended in 1968 until a mutually satisfactory
agreement was reached between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance on a reor-
ganization of the local credit agencies involved in the project. The loan
was fully dîsbursed by September 1969,
2s14       A Second Agricultural. Credit ProJect under whiich %NCA will borrow
US$10 million from IDA (Credit 338-MOR- over a three year period and a further
US$24 million from IBRD (Loan 861-MOR' coNweced in. 1972,    e projeet will
help finance farm equilpment for rainfed grain production, on f arm  improvements
for cîtrus and winter vegetable production, iivestock development aild n1arket-
ing facîlities for export produce.  17 he project is progressing satisfactorily.
29 l<.     Sebou It was fftlanted in t7>. 9Q69 (S can 643-MOR).    p e rojett prov'ded
for construcion of the  ldrîiss 1 Dw  to store iirrlgatior water for about 90,000
hsa gross and the constructiïn of ¢ew  38,300 ha) and improvement cf existing
(500C: ha)              w rrgation works for a fiîrt ph.ase deveLopment of 43,300 ha net,
Further stidîes ta more acc:urately ç. cate the irri'gable area and to deter-
mine tie most economic means of providing protection frorn f bood damnage have
-edu*ed the area to be newLv -Ir' _ated to 35,200 ha.  In additioni împrove-
ments were to be undertaken i  ra:nfed agriculture o.l a zurther 26,700 net.
a.   con. t).nuv^ of senîor management has been a prs~astent goùlen and
tà- îi'Jeities have been exper.enced over proecurement an~ iîn enforce ment by
toe project authority of the neti lega-  y estalblished cropping patterns.
Progress with civl waorks has been 4P general satisfactory and the Dam  Las
been completed on schedule.  Larnd consolidation and redistribution ïs bei-g
andertaken throughout the project ar2a egd prov'sioîn has been made for im-
provement of agricu1tural se^-viîce. -rùads and -non proeessin  facelîtîes.
'¶4ajor social benefîts were expected frorn the redistriob t40  of foreîgn and
collectively ovnied lbnd in the project area, but progress wîth redistribution



- 5-
has been slow. Because insufficient land is available for distribution within
the pxroject area, the original plan for all existing Moroccan owner farmers
and landless in the area to operate at least 5 ha holdings will not be attained.
The Moroccan Governnent's future plans for land redistribution in the project
area are shown in para. 3.07 and the land ownership pattern in Annex 3.
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      General.  The project, which would augment agricultural development
under Sebou I, is located in the Rharb Plain about 100 km northeast of Rabat
(see Map IBRD 10900). Under Sebou I in 1969, an area of 70,000 ha net was
selected for development of which about 38,300 ha were to be newly irrigated.
This area lies on the left bank of the Sebou River extending from Sidi-Abdel-
Aziz downstream to Sidi-Allal-Tapi or about 60 km from east to west.
3.02      Topography and Soils.  The Rharb Plain is flat (5-15 m above sea
level) with slightly raised levees along the river (10-25 m above sea level)
resulting from deposition of silt during flooding. The land thus has a very
slight slope away from the Sebou River and on the left bank a seasonally
flooded depression (merja) occurs about 10-15 km from the river, after which
the land slopes very slightly up towards the Wadi Beth which foris the south-
west boundary of the project.
3.03      Thé raised areas adjacent to the river consist of fairly well
drained alluvial soils and there is in most places a gradual transition
to fine textured, poorly drained soils in the merja. Towards the western
boundary of the project, the levee soils form a relatively narrow band on
either side of the river and the transition to poorly drained soils occurs
more rapidly over a distance of about 200 m. In this area local pockets of
salinity have developed but this problem will be corrected following the in-
stallation of subsoil drainage under Sebou I.
3.04      Floods and Surface Drainage.  The lower Sebou River, which traverses
the project area, drains two distinct catchment areas. The Sebou and its tri-
butary, the Inaouene River, form a catchment on the western slopes of the
Middle Altas Mountains where rainfall intensity is moderate and permeable
strata retain moisture, resulting in relatively uniform stream flows and low
flood peaks. The Ouerrha River, a major tributary which joins the Sebou as
they emerge onto the Rharb Plain, has its catchment on the southern slopes of
the Rif Mountains. Here rainfall is more abundant and intense and the eroded
and impermeable hill slopes give rise to rapid runoff and flash flooding.
Although the Ouerrha catchment is much smaller than that of the Sebou/Inaouene,
it is responsible for most of the extreme high river flows into the Rharb
Plain (Annex 2).



6-
3.05      The capacity of the lower Sebou River bed declines from3about 3,200
m3/sec downstream of the Sebcu/Ouerrha confluence to only 1,600 m !sec at
!4aati some 80 kr. further downstream, Ail flows in excess of this lower
figure will overtop the river banks at one or more points. This overspill
occurs mainly on the left bank (80%) at well defined points and the flood
waters flow along natural drainage lînes towards the merja. Here they accu-
mulate and spre.d in a tuniform sheet of water covering more or less of the
project area depending on the total volume of overspill.  The merja is drained
vîa the Wadi Beth back into the Sebou.  Complete draining oi the merja may
take one to two weeks depending on the extent of tne flood.
3.06      Popation.  The population of the Sebou I project area was estimated
to sbe 110,000 in 1973 or about 18,000 familîes, assumîng an average famîly size
of 6. With no urban centers within or near the project area, the population
is dependent on agriculture for its livelihood which in some fam',lies may be
augxented by cash income remitted by members of the family living and working
in the dîstant cities.
3.07      Land Redistribution.  An. area of 3,450 ha has already been distrîbuted
in the Sebou I Project area and a further 14,450 ha remains to be distributed.
Of this 4,760 ha consists of ex-foreign owned farms expropriated under the
decrees of 1971 and 1973 and 9,690 ha consists of state land in the merja much
of which is presently rented out in 10 ha farms for rainfed cropping. Govern-
ment' s program for future redistribution is as follows:
Location                              Area to be Distributed  Year of Completion
(ha)
Irrigation Sector S11                          34C                      1974
Irrigation Sectors S13, S17, S9,
S7, S5, S3                                3,260                       1976
Irr:gatîon Sector P7                         2,625                      1977
Rainfed Area                                 1,160                      1977
Rainfed Area&                                7,065                      1978
14,450
3e08      A further 5,345 ha recovered from foreign owrners under the 1973
ex:rop>-:iorî is presentlv under lïtigation,  When any of thîs la.d becomes
Available fo:llowing settlement of the disputed ownershi p government will take
the necessary steps for its distrIbution as soon as possible.
3.09      In addition to the above there are about 2,150 ha of ex-foreign
owned Dlantations whîich have been recovered.  These are presently managed by
SODEA and SOGETA, the state owned companies. The Governmnent is presently
formulating a long-term  policv for the management of these plantations which
would ensure that their productivîty i8 maintained while spreading the benefîts



le                                           - 7 -
from their operation as widely as possible. Until tnis poli cy is determined,
these lands will not be distributed as smallholdings and will remain under the
management of SODEA and SOGETA.
3.10      Traditional Agriculture.  Before work began on irrigation develop-
ment under Sebou I, rainfed winter wheat was the predominant crop, occupying
nearly 60% of the cultivated area. Sugar beet, the next important winter
crcp, represented only about 4%.  Cotton, rice and sunflower, planted in
spring, together represented another 4%, whîle 6% of the area comprised
privately developed irrigation schemes (5,000 ha) ir. which citrus orchards
predomrinated.  Vegetables for domestic consumption made up the balance of
agricultural production. Livestock production was dependent largely on
seasonal grazing of the low lying areas subject to winter flooding, grazing
of fallow areas, and crop residues.
3.11      Average crop yields were low due to the effects of dry years and to
winter and spring floods which destroyed areas of autumn planted crops and,
if they occurred in March/April, left little time for land preparation and
planting of a replacement crop.  Cultivators of small and often fragmented
farms had inadequate resources and lacked access to credit and other agricul-
tural services. They were restricted to traditional and inefficient cultiva-
tion techniques using animal traction, made little use of fertilizers and
seldom practiced pest and disease control. Many larger farms under Moroccan
ownership used production techniques little more advanced. Some large farms,
and especially those under foreign ownership, were farmed by modern methods
resulting in yields 50 to 100% greater than those obtained by traditional
methods.
3.12      Agriculture under Sebou I.  The cropping patterns proposed under
Sebou I (Annex 11, Table 4) prescribe for the best drained levee soils a crop
rotation comprising four years under sugarcane (plant crop and three ratoons),
with berseem and cotton in the final year. Further study of sugarcane growth
cycles (Annex 4) under local conditions indicates that harvesting every two
years would be optimum for most of the project area, thus extending the crop-
ping cycle to eight years under cane. However, for the area upstream of
Mechra Bel Ksiri, which is subject to occasional freezing temperatures, har-
vesting sugarcane ratoon crops annually is preferable, requiring a five year
cycle under cane if three ratoon crops are taken. Initial plantings of about
800 ha for the 1975 harvesting season have been made, almost entirely in the
zone subject to occasional frost.
3.13      Four or five year arable rotations were recommended for the less
well drained areas.  The crops comprised sugar beet, wheat, cotton and for-
age. For the heaviest soils, subject to both impeded drainage and salinÆty,
a cropping pattern of four years under alternating summer and wînter crops
of rice and berseem with cotton in the fifth year was recommended. For the
areas to remain under rainfed agriculture, an intensified cropping pattern
of wheat, sugar beet, sunflower and berseem was recommended, but at present
a three year rotation of wheat, sugar beet and beans or chickpeas is beîng
practiced.  Expansion of citrus cultivation from the present 4,500 ha to
about 10,800 havwas also provided for.



3.14      Processing.  The main processing facilicies în arnd adjacent to the
project area provide for sugar beet processing, cotton ginning and citrus
?acking. Itwo sugar beet factories, at Mechra Bel Ksiri and Sidi Allal Tazi,
each have a 4,000 ton/day beet capacity and process most of the crop from the
project area, the remainder going to a smaller third factory (3,000 ton/day)
at Sidi Slimane.  Presently, the factories are operating at about 80% capacity.
There is one cotton ginnery at Sidl Kacem with an annual capacity of 7,000
tor. (for about six months operation), but present tnroughput is about 2,600
ton per year. There are six citrus packing plants with a total capacity of
about 50, 000 ton per year.
3.15      Markets,  Agriculturai produce is marketed main'y through public
organizations.  Cereals are purchased by the Cereals Trade Office, cotton by
the Moroccan Trading Company for Agricultural Products, sugar beet by the
sugar factories and fruits and vegetables by the Export Office. Littie
produce is sold through local markets. The Government has fixed the farm
gate prices for sugar beet, sugarcane, cereals, cotton and milk at levels
high enough to encourage domnestic production for import substitution, Other
farm product prices are not fixed, but are subject to surveÏllance. During
1967-72 at the consumer level, food prices rose by 3.2% per annum, cereal
prices by 1.7%, meat prices by 7.5%, and dairy produet prices by 6.7%.
3.16      Communications and Transport.  The transport sector is also closely
regulated by Government. Through the National Transport Office (ONT), Govern-
ment controls the licenses for carrier trucks, determines freight rates.
assigns cargoes to carriers and issues and collects the bills for services
rendered by the carriers. The existing road network comprises main roads,
which are maintained by the Ministry of Public Works; bituminous tertiary
roads, which are maintained by the Provincial Authority; and other roads,
including gravel surfaced tertiary roads and earthroads, wnich are the res-
ponsibility of the Rharb Regional Development Office (ORMVAG).
3.17      The main roads RP6, and R.S. 205, 207, 210 and 211 are in fair to
good condition but require resurfacing. Traffîc counts have been conducted
on RP6 and traffic in 1974 has been estimated at 1,700 vehic'Les per day in-
cluding 630 trucks. No counts have been undertaken on the secondary roads
but traffic in 1974 is expected to be about 500 vehicles per day including
100 trucks. Growth of traffic in the area is expected to be 9% per year, but
this does not make allowance for increased volume of transport for agrîcultural
production from the project, which will result in a heavy additional seasonal
load.
3.18      The internal network of bituminous tertiary roads was completed
in 1967 and is still in good condition except where flood damage remains
unrepaired, but resurfacing will become necessary in the near future. The
tertiary gravel and unclassified dirt roads have received little or no main-
tenance.
e



9
3.19      Credit.  CNCA and a local Agricultural Credit Bank (CLCA) are the
principal credit sources for commercial farmers. Other credit sources are
commercial banks, input suppliers, equipment dealers, and sugar factoriese
The non-institutional market provides a substantial amount of seasonal
credit, but its magnitude is not known.
3.20      Annual interest rates for agricultural loans vary from 4% for CLCA
to 6% seasonal and 6.5% medîum-term for CNCA. Commercial banks charge around
8% for seasonal loans.
3.21      Agricultural Support Services.  The bulk of inputs is supplied
through ORMVAG using credit from CNCA, although private sources of supply are
also available in Kenitra. ORMVAG operates the local development Centers (CMVs),
five of which cover the project area. Machinery is provided on a custom hire
basis with a subsidy of 30%, though present policy is to eventually trans-
fer provision of this service to cooperatives. ORMVAG's mechanical equipment
is old, and down time is high. Orders for new equipment to be purchased under
Sebou I have been placed and delivery is expected by mid 1974. This will en-
able ORMVAG to meet the seasonal demand for machinery services until such time
as alternative sources have been developed.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      Description.  The objectives of the project are to protect the areas
being developed for irrigation under Sebou I fron flooding and to provide for
the processing of sugarcane to be grown in the area. In addition, the road
network would be improved to facilitate transport of sugarcane and other
agricultural produce. The flood protection works and improvement of access
roads would be executed by ORMVAG assisted by consultants and with technical
support from the Hydraulic and Roads Departments of the Ministry of Public
Works supported by flood control consultants. Improvement of bituminous
surfaced primary and secondary roads and construction of a new bridge over
the Sebou River would be executed by the Roads Department of the Ministry of
Public Works. Equipment would be provided for subsequent maintenance of
access roads and for a sugar cane transport study. Construction of the
sugarcane factory (Annex 5) would be executed by the Sebou National Sugarcane
Factory Company (SUNACAS) under the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Mines and
Merchant Marine. Consultants would be provided to assist ORMVAG in improving
sugarcane production in the project area, to guide ORMVAG in setting up a
system for sampling and analysis of farmers' cane, and to advise on sugarcane
transportation. Provision would also made for a study by a consultant of pol-
lution of the Sebou River by industrial effluent and for the subsequent con-
struction of an effluent treatment plant, if required, ta control pollution
from the new sugarcane and neighboring sugar beet factories.
4.02      To assess the feasibility of control measures for schistosomiasis
in the Rharb Plain as an adjunct to future irrigation development works, a
*      study by consultants for ORMVAG of the present situation and possible control
measures has been provided for.



0 -
4.03      Project Works ant Services. These are descrîbed more fully îi
Annexes 6 and 7 and would comprise:
(a)  construction by May 1975 of a new sugarcane factory at
Mechra Bel Ksiri with a capacity of 2,500 ton of sugar-
cane per day over a six month harvesting season;
(b)  improvement of about 30 hz of primary road (RP6> and about
60 km of secondary roads f3S 210,205,211 andt 2907), and the
consstruction of a new road bridge over tne Sebou River at
Mechra Bel Ksiri;
(c)  construction of new and improvement of existing tertiary
and unclassified access roads totalling about 330 km;
(d)  provision of equipment for maintenance of access roads
and for a sugarcane transport study;
(e)  studies, final design and construction of earth flood pro-
tection dikes to protect the 35,200 ha being developed for
irrigated agriculture and to confirne flood overspill from
the Sebou River to three flood escape channels; construction
of any flow regulating structures necessary in the channels;
and the resettlement of familîes living in the channels;
(f)  strengthening of roads and railway tracks în the flood escape
channels to prevent damage during f loods;
(g)  provision of consultant services to assist in surveys, design
and supervision of construction of the flood protection works;
to assist in the expansiorn of sugarcane production in the
Sebou I area; and to assist in acceptance trials of the sugar-
cane factory;
(h>  a consultant study of existîng industrial pollution of the
lower Sebou Rîver and, if justî.fied by the study, construction
of ani eff luent treatment plant to treat effluent of both the
existing sugar beet factcry and the new sugarcane factory at
Mechra Bel Ksirî;
(1)  a consultant study of schistosomiasis infestation in the Rharb
Plain and the possibîiity for its eradication; and
(j>  provision of fsllows&ips to supplemient on-the,job train-ang of
personnel.
4.04      Status of Engïneerïng.  The site for the sugarcane factory has been
selected, adjacent to the existing sugar beet factory at Mechra Bel Ksîri with
which it will share power artd water supply services.  Ground conditions are
typical of the Rlharb P'Laln and experience in construction of the sugar beet
factory indicates that although adequate building foundations are expensive,
there are no problems in their construction.



4.05      A turnkey contract for construction of the sugarcane factory was
signecL on January 22, 1974 between SUNACAS and Societe Fives-Cail-Babcock of
France, with the concurrence of the Bank. The contract calls for the factory
to be operational by May 25, 1975 to enable the 800 ha of cane under cultivation
to be processed during the 1975 harvest season.
4.06      A comprehensive study of the need for road improvements has already
been undertaken in the project area and detailed designs and tender documents
have been completed for 30 km of main roads, 8 km of tertiary roads and for
Mechra Bel Ksiri Bridge.
4.07      Cost Estimates.  The Estimated project cost including price and
physical contingencies is US$53.70 million (DH 219 million), of which the
foreign exchange component is US$32 million. Cost estimates for the sugar-
cane factory are based on a contract price of French francs 50.32 million
and DII 28.26 million totalling about US$17 million. The French franc denomi-
nated price is firm; the dirham price can be revised in accordance with an
agreed indexing formula. The cost estimates for flood control, bridge and
roads are based on unit rates obtained for similar works in Morocco during
1973. Overall contingencies amount to 34% of basic cost including 11.8% for
physical contingencies. Price contingencies are estimated using average in-
flation rates of 11%, 8.5% and 6.5% for 1974, 1975 and 1976-80, respectively.
The samie inflation rates are assumed for domestic and foreign costs.
4.08      Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex 8, Table 1, and sum-
marizeci below (discrepancies are due to rounding):
Percent
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Foreign
--DH Million -----US$ Million                        Exchange
Sugarcane Factory         13.9    55.5       69.3     3,4    13.6    17.0          80
Roads and Bridge          21.2    21.2       42.4     5.2      5.2    10.4         50
Flood Control             27.7    14.7       42.4     6,8      3.6    10.4         35
Effluent Trgatment Plant  1.2       1.8       3.1     0.3      0.5      0.8        62
Consultants, Studies,
Training                  1.2     4.9    - 6.1.    0.3       1.2      1.5        80
Subtotal             65.2    98.1    163.4    16.0    24.1    40.1            60
Physical Contingencies    7.7    11e6        19.3      1.9     2.8      4.7        60
Price Contingencies        15.5    20.8      36.3     3.8      5.1      8,9         57
Total Cost           88.4   130.6    219.0    21.7    32.0    53.7            60
4,09      Financing.  The Bank loan will finance the full foreign exchange cost
of the project, amounting to US$32.0 million, 60X of the total cost. Tne loan
will be made to Government and that part for financing the foreign exchange
cost of the sugarcane factory will be onlent by the Government to SUNACAS.
The local costs of the project will be fully financed by the Government. in



- 12-
the case of the flood control and roads works the Government vi1l provide its
share of the costs through normal budgetary allocations. In the case of the
sugarcane factory, the local cost of the plant and all other necessary funds
hill be financed from SUNACASt authorized share capital of DH 35 million.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the funds provided under the
Bank loan to finance the sugarcane factory would be relent to SUNACAS at an
interest rate not less than the rate of înterest on the Bank loan; and that
Govern3ent would provide as equity, or on otherwise satisfactory terzDS, the
balance required to complete construction of the factory, to cover its pre-o
operational costs and ensure the adequacy of îts working capital.. A specîal
condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that the Government had com-
pleted the financial arrangetients for SUNACAS,
4.10      Procurement.  Civil works, all equipment and related works for the
sugarcane factory were procured internatîonally in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement. Civil works for flood protection, bridge and
roads and all related equipment and equipment for the sugar transport study
would be tendered on the basis of international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement. Grouping of some civil
works items would be necessary to attract foreign bidders. Tender documents
for the flood protection and road works would be prepared by the Hydraulic
and Roads Departments of the Ministry of Publîc Works and Communications res-
pectively. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that for all flood pro-
tection, road and bridge construction civil works:
(a)  plans, specifications and other bidding documents would be
submitted to the Bank for approval prior to the issue of
invitations to bîd; and
(b)  a detailed report on the evaluation of bids, approved in the
case of flood protection contracts by the Hydraulic Department
of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications, and recommen-
dations for award, will be submitted to the Bank for review
prior to award of contracts.
A further assurance was obtained at negotiations that ORMVAG would group civil
works items to be procured as far as practicable in lots of US$1 million equiv-
alent or more.
4.11      Disbursements.  The proposed loan of US$32 million would be disbursed,
net of taxes' over five years as follows:
(a)  80% of total expenditures for the sugarcane factory;
(b)  60% of total expenditures for the effluent plant;
(c)  40% of total expenditures for civil works for flood control
and resettlement;
(d)  50% of total expenditures for civil works for roads and
the bridge;



-13-
(e)  100% of foreign exchange costs of road maintenance and other
equipment; and
(f)  100% of foreign exchange costs of consultant services and the
overseas training of local staff.
4.12      The proposed schedule of disbursements is gîven in Annex 10.  Ex-
penditures on on-going construction of the sugarcane factory would be part of
project cost and would be eligible for retroactive financîng up to US$2 mil-
lion. The financial requirements are:
Calendar Year
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979        Total
US$ million equivalent----------
Source
Local financing             8.60   6.70  3.30   1.40   1.40   0.30        21.70
Bank loan                  12.80   9.90  4.80   2.00   2.00   0.50        32.00
Total                21.40  16.60  8.10   3.40   3.40   0.80         53.70
4.13      Accounts and Audit.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
ORMVAG and the Ministry of Public Works and Communications as appropriate
would create separate accounts for the flood control and roads components of
the project and that audit reports of each account would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each financial year. Further assurances
vere obtained that the accounts of SUNACAS would be audited by an auditor ac-
ceptable to the Bank and that audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within five months of the close of each financial year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Participating Ministries and Agencies.  Responsibility for the
project works would fall within three Government ministries:  MARA, the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications, and the Ministry of Commerce,
Industry, Mines and Merchant Marine. Flood protection works and improvement
of tertiary and unclassified access roads would be executed for KARA by ORMVAG,
which would receive technical assistance from the Hydraulic and Roads Depart-
ments of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications for flood control
works and roads, respectively. The sugarcane factory is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Merchant Marine. Government has
established a corporation, SUNACAS, to undertake construction and operation
.



-14-
of the factory. The primary and secondary roads in the project and the bridge
across the Sebou River would be the responsibility of the Roads Department of
the Ministry of Public Works and Communications and the works would be executed
bv the Rabat District Office,
5.02      ORMVAG.  Agricultural development under Sebou I is the responsibility
of ORMVAG under the supervision of keRM 5s DMV.  ORMVAG 4iS organized into three
divisions: Administration, Construct-Lon, and Agricultural Production. To
provide a better service to farmers in the area, the present Director of
ORMVAG, appointed in late 1973, proposes to reorganize the Agricultural Pro-
duetion Division on a crop specific rather than a job specific basis as shown
in the Proposed Organization Chart. Thls reorganilzatîon would especiaily
facilitate the rapid expansion of sugarcane production, for which specialist
knowledge would be required and for wh±ch an extension personnel training
program would need to be undertaken. (Terms of Reference for Specialist
Consultants are in Annex 7>) Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
a reorganization of OVAGs Agrîcultural Production Division would be under-
taken in a manner to ensure the effective execution of ORMVAG's sugarcane
development program.
5.03      The Sugar Beet and Sugar Cane Office of ORMVAG would be responsible
for the nurseries providing the farmers wîth planting material and for the
inspection and treatment of such material for control of diseases. It would
establish the fertilizer requirements of the crop, provide the necessary
fertîlizers to the farmers and monitor crop nutrition usîng soi  analysis and
foliar diagnostic techniques,  It woui.d provide technical advice to farmers
on uest   dîsease and weed control iLeasures and itself undertake contrai :neas-
ures in cases when disease outbreaks and pest or weed infestations occur
which demand carefully regulated chemïcal controi measures. The Office would
have specific responsibility for planning, î`i coordination with SUNACAS and
the National Transport Office (ONT), the harvesting and transportation to the
factory of farmers  canes.
$.O4      During the fîrst cane harvesting seasori in 1975, the Sugar Beet and
Sugar Cane Office of OMAG wîi11 experiment with alternative means of cane
t ansport:
(a)  direct-. transport of canes from f eLd to factory in 8 ton
lorrq es 1Loaded on access roads located aiong the long aide
of each cane field;
(b)  transport of canes from field to a transloading point by 4 ton
agricultural tractor trazlers an.d from there to the factory
by 20 ton seaî-traLlcrs'.  Load-ng of the agrien L.tural trailers
wil1 be either by hand or alterratively by mechanical cane
loaders from cane wIndrows within the fields.
The decision by OBMVAG on tihe method of canoe transportat i on to be adopted
from 1976 onwared wll depend on the cutcome of thesa exnerimentR.



5.05      Since it is essential that adequate machinery be made available to
undertake land preparation during the next few years, ORMVAG will continue for
the time being to operate this service through the equipment centers at Kenitra
and Sidi Slimane (para 3.21), For sugarcane cultivation in particular it may
prove necessary to undertake specialized mechanical tillage operations for
which eqtuipment would not ordinarily be available in a farmer cooperative;
thus, during the period of expansion of cane cultivation in the Rharb Plain,
ORMVAG would provide such machinery services,
5.06      Flood protection works would also be the respons'bility of ORMVAG's
Construction Division, The Division would recaive technical support from
the Hydraulic Department of the Ministry of Public Works. Under Sebou i a
study was undertaken by consultants to the Hydraulic Department (NEDECO) in
which alternative long term flood control measures were examined and the econ-
omic benefits of interim measures for protection of the project area evaluated.
Consultants to the Hydraulic Department would retain responsîbilïty for final
design and preparation of tender documents. The Hydraulic Department wo-ald
approve ORMVAG's report on the technical evaluation of bids, prior to its
submiss:Lon to the Bank. Continued studies by the consultants for flood pro-
tection elsewhere in the Rharb Plain would remain the responsibility of the
HydrauliLc Department. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
Ministry of Public Works would employ consultants to undertake any further
studies required in connection with the project flood protection works and
assist in final design and preparation of bidding documents. A further assur-
ance was obtained at negotiations that ORMVAG would engage consultants to as-
sist them in field supervision of flood protection works.
5.07      SUNACAS.  The Corporation was formed in 1973 with an authorized
capital of DH 35 million. Its head office is in the Ministry of Commerce,
Industry, Mines, and Merchant Marine. It has broad objectives, including
sugarcane processing and manufacture of sugar. The Corporation is to be
administered by a Director responsible to a Board composed of a minimum of
six and a maximum of fifteen members. Appointment of the Director was con-
firmed by the Minister in Novembhr 1973. The Director of SUNACAS has exten-
sive experience in sugar beet processing and in finance, having been previously
employed by the Industrial Development Bank (BNDE).  He participated in the
preparation of the specifications and tender documents and in' the analysis of
bids for construction of the sugarcane factory. His performance so far indi-
cates his capability to carry out his managerial functions satisfactorily.
As a corporation, SUNACAS also has the capacity to supervise the construction
of the factory.
5.08      The Director îs currently being aided by a Technical Director wno
would be responsible for management of the factory. Provision has been made
for the appointment of an Administrative Director who would be responsible
for accounts, stores and personnel management. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that SIJNACAS would appoint a Chief Engineer and Chemist with
clearly defined responsibility for operation and maintenance of the factory
and for processing and process control, respectively.  Both the Chemist and
Chief Engineer would need to be supported by three Assistants and other per-
sonnel to operate the factory on a three shift basis.



5.09      No difficulty is anticïpated in recruiting the local staff needed
to supervise the construction and operation of the factory. The constructîon
contract requires the contractor to operate the factory during the first two
harvesting seasons (1975 and 1976)9 during which time any necessary on-the-
job training of factory personnel will be provided. As there are already
eight sugar beet processing factories în Morocco and as the sugar manufac-
turing process foliowing extraction is similar !or beet and cane, recruitment
Of trained and experienced Dersonnel should present no problem.
5.10      The Roads  eamen- of the Mînîstry o' Pub.ic Works.  Thîs Depart-
ment is adequately staff$ed and equîpped and has aiready compléted a Bank
financed highway project (Loan/Cred:Lï. 642/167-MOR). The relatively minor
improvement works to be undertaken for c.assified roads în the project area
are well within the Departmentes capabilities in terma of staff and equipment
for surveys, design, supervision of construction by contractors and subsequent
maintenance, as are the design and supervision of construction of the bridge
across the Sebou River.
5.11      Project 9Coordination.  The Minister of Agriculture is responsible
for coordination of the various minîstries and agencies under Sebou i. Re
has established a Project Coordinating Committee for this purpose but it has
met only on rare occasions.  Successful implementation of sugarcane production
and processing under the proposed project will call for very close coordina-
tion between SUNACAS, ONT and ORMVAG at all levels. The role of MARA and the
Coordinating Committee in fostering and maîntaining the necessary close working
relationship between these organizations as well as between themu and the other
participants in the project therefore assumes paramount importance. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Project Coordinating Committee under
the chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture or his deputy would meet not
less than once every three months to approve quarterly progress reports,
review past achievements and the future work program for each of the partici-
pating organizations and make recommendations and take action as necessary
to ensure that coordination between participants is maintained.
5.12      Operation and Maintenance.  OperAtion and maintenance (O&M) of the
flood protection works would be the responsibility of ORMVAG, which would con-
tract out any major maintenance work on the earth dikes. Minor maintenance
of dikes and structures could be undertaken by ORMVAG with equipment now
available for use in maintaining the irrigation, drainage and on farm works
in the project area.
5.13      ORMVAG would also be responsible for O&M of the access roads in the
area. The project would provide for the initial purchase of grading and other
equipment,needed by ORMVAG for maintenance of earth roads. The present standard
of maintenance of unclassified roads in the project area is inadequate and it
is essential that once the improved access road network is constructed it should
not be allowed to deteriorate. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
adequate provision would be made in ORMVAG's annual budget for maintenance of
flood protection dikes and farm access roads constructed or improved under the
pro,ect.                                                                                 e



ID                                          -17-
5.14      Maintenance of primary and secondary roads would be the responsi-
bility of the Roads Department of the Ministry of Public Works and bituminous
tertiary roads would be maintained by the Provincial Authority. Such roads
are presently adequately maintained. Because of anticipated traffic increase,
some presently unclassified roads in the project area would be improved by a
bituminous surface. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the un-
classified roads in the project irea to be reconstructed with a bituminous
surface would, upon completion o.' the works, be maintained by ORMVAG under
the technical supervision of the Ministry of Public Works.
5.15      O&M of the sugarcane factory will be the responsibility of SUNACAS.
Provision has been made under the construction contract for workshop equip-
ment which will be adequate for most maintenance and repair work during and
out of crop. Arrangements have been included in the factory contract for
equipment to handle such specialized repair work as mill roller recasing and
regrooving.
5.16      Corsulting Services and Training.  ORMVAG has very limited exper-
ience in sugarcane cultivation, harvesting and transport. Consequently,
ORMVAG would retain consultants (either as a firm or individually), acceptable
to the Bank, for varying periods up to two years and totalling about four man
years. These specialists would survey the sugarcane pest and disease sit-
uation; assist in determining, during the first harvest, the most suitable
cane transportation system; establish a cane sampling system to enable pay-
ment to farmers on the basis of quality of cane delivered to the factory;
and advise and assist ORMVAG in organizing a sugarcane division to adequately
undertake sugarcane research, extension and in-service training of both staff
and farmers.
5.17      The contractor supplying and erecting the sugarcane factory for
SUNACAS is required to operate the factory for two years following commission-
ing, and to train factory operators. This provision, and the fact that there
are already eight sugar beet factories in operation in Morocco, make it un-
necessary for consultants to oversee construction and train factory operating
staff but consultants would be required by SUNACAS for the sugarcane factory
acceptance.
5.18      The Ministry of Public Works would employ consultants to undertake
any further studies required in the project area on flood protection and
preparation of final design and bidding documents for these works. The
estimated requirement for this is 128 man months. Consultants would also
have to be retained for about four man-years to assist ORMVAG in field super-
vision of construction of flood protection works and staff training.
5.19      The project would provide for a consultant pollution control engineer
(five man months) to assist the Borrower in a study of pollution in the lower
Sebou River.
5.20      As schistosomiasis has been reported in the northern section of the
Rharb Plain outside the project area, provision has been made for a consult-
ant (two man-months) to assist in a study of the present situation and make
recommendations for control measures.



- 18 
5?21       Forty-two man-raonths of overseas fellowships for in-service training
of ORbMAG, MARA and SUNACAS staff have been provîded, wîth particular emphasis
on sugarcane research, processing and extension services, The trainees would
have the opportunity to see how sugarcane and other major crops in the project
are produced, harvested and processed overseas. Short-term graduate training
overseas for speciaLists in particular skills is also included in this program.
Terms of reference for consultants together with estîmated man-month require-
ments for both consultants and fellowships are in Annex 7.
5.22       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that tne Borrower
would retain consultants, acceptable to the Bank, te advise and assist in
implementing the sugarcane and flood protection works and the pollution and
schîstosomiasis studies; and that ORMVAG, the Mînistry of Agriculture and
SLNACAS would prepare annually a fellowship program, which would be submitted
to the Bank for information.
5.23       Sa-ety of the Dam,  Any failure of the Idriss I Dam, constructed
under Sebou I, and of the flood control structures under the proposed project,
mzy result in considerable damage in the Rharb Plain and in the project area
in particular. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower
would carry out, at intervals of not more than f ive years commencing in 1978,
a formal inspection of the Idriss I Dam and its appurtenant structures, includ-
ing the upstream railway protection works, as well as the Sebou River flood
protection dikes, to determine whether there are actual or potential defî-
^iencies in the condition of such structures or in the quality and adequacy
of maintenance or methods of operation of such structures which may endanger
their eaf ety, and shall take any necessary remedîal action and furnish promptly
copies of each inspectïon report to the Bank.
5.24       Recovery of Co Ots.  0f the three components 4n the proposed project,
the sugarcane factory is essentially self-f inancing. A tentative cash flow
of the factorv (Annex 12, Table 4) illustrates the revenue generation capac-
ity of the învestment.  The terms for onlending that part of the Bank loan
for the sugarcane factory used in the tentative cash flow were 7-1//4% interest
wîtl  repayment in 12 years with 2 years  grace.
53,2.25  About 50% of the roa8  investments in the proposed project are in
,aa ïnroads and a brIi-dge, bot'! of wh4ch would serve the region as a whele.  The
reainiug 50% provides for feeder roads and other tertiarSy roads în the project
arbea w,ich wodud benefit area -iirtabîtants,  A part of cest recovery for these
ivestrents would be through road use taxes, as for public roads teroughout
I'ioroccct
5% iIhi  :lDobd ceontroï works  eould 1J public sector  roperty and ma be
taterpreted as an insurance on the part of Govern-ment to provide protection
ofi ts infrastructure investmern2ns . rea social benefits are also diverse and
wouId extend beyond the proJect area,  ..n informal understanding was reached
that th e capital cost base or which future revisions of water charges payable
tb  berieficiaîies of Sebou I would hbe made weuld include the flood protection



investments. The annual maintenance cost for the flood control dîkes would
be small and recovery would be included under the category of water charges.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the water charge being levied
under the Sebou I Project would be adjusted to cover the cost of operation
and maintenance of flood control works.
5.27      The Agricultural Investment Code provides for the recovery fLrom each
farmer of the average operating and maintenance costs and a maximum of 40
percent of the average capital cost of all irrigation and drainage works, in-
cluding a share of the dam. Recovery is made through a land betterment levy
of DH 1,500 per hectare, and through a water charge which is presently fixed
at a base rate of DH 29 per thousand cubîc meters within the area of respons-
ibility of ORMVAG. For holdings up to 20 ha, the first 5 ha. are exempt from
the betterment levy; in addition, farmers can choose to pay the betterment
levy through annual installments over 20 years, with 3 years grace and at 4
percent interest. In the early years of irrigated cultivation the amount of
the water charge is increased linearly, to reach the full base rate by the
fifth year of irrigation.
5.28      The Government recently carried out a review of these charges as
provided for under Section 5.09(b) of the Loan Agreement for Sebou I. No
actual data for the operation and maintenance cost for the irrigation network
is available, since irrigated cultivation has only just begun. Estimating
depreciation and operation and maintenance costs as percentages of capital
costs at current prices, but excluding interest (the method followed in the
Sebou I Appraisal Report), the revi<w shows that the present level of the
charges is the maximum permitted undler existing legislation. The Government
has agreed that in the future water charges will also cover the operation and
maintenance cost of the flood protection works. To facilitate future reviews
of water charges, the Government has also agreed to maintain separate accounts
for operation and maintenance costs and for revenues derived from the better-
ment levy and water charges, and that such reviews would be based on actuai
rather than estimated costs.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS' INCOME
6.01      Production.  The present analysis is based on the assumption that
at full development, 34% of the project area would be under sugarcane with
a potential sugar production of about 66,000 ton. Such an assumption is con-
sistent with sound agronomic practice. The sugarcane factory, provided for
under the project, would produce 44,000 ton of sugar by 1980. This represents
about 10% of present domestic consumption and 8% of projected consumption in
1980, and amounts to an increase of 15% in the sugar production capacity of
Morocco (see Annexes 1 and 10).
6.02      Market Prospects.  Morocco has a high per capita consumption of
sugar - about 25 kg per year.  In 1973, total sugar consumption was about
450,000 ton of which about 200,000 ton were imported. Consumption is expected



- 20 -
e
to increase at 3% per annum to about 550,000 ton by 1980. Domestie productîon
cf sugar was begun in 1963 following a steep though temporary prîce increase
in world narket prices (frori USé2.78 per lb in 1962 to USÎ8.29 per lb in 1963).
By the end of its current five year plan, Morocco intends to satisfy two-thirds
of its demand from domestic production. The incremental sugar production from
the project would be easily absorbed on the domestic market (Annex 10).
6.03      Prices.  importan: agricuitural inputs are supported by the Govern-
ment and ex-farm prices of Zhe main crops are fixed.  The latest support prices
were announced in December 1973 when the price of sugarcane was f ixed at DH
59 (US$15) per ton. The corresponding price for sugar is USe!3/Lb which is
in line with the price of sugar on the world market and is used în this report
for analysis. Sugar prices have been highly volatile since 1970 when they
were at USé3.68/lb. They averaged USÎ4.50/lb in 1971, USe7.27 in 1972, and
USé9.49 in 1973, rising to US19.0 in March 1974. The most rapid increase has
occurred since January 1, 1974, when the International Sugar Agreement expired.
The other main reasons for the currznt high sugar price are lagging production,
a severe drought in Northeast Brazi.: (a major exporter of sugar), the European
Community's decision to halve their sugar exports, and a shift of U.S. acreage
from sugar beet to other crops as a result of relative price changes.
6.04      Farmers' Income.  Farmers' incomes benefit from government subsidies
on agricultural equipment and crop production înputs as well as the subsidy on
irrigation water. Pro forma farm budgets for farmers with 5 ha holdings are
developed in Annex 11 and show the family net cash income before deduction
of taxes to be about DH 8,000 (US$1,960) for sugarcane cultivation. This is
appreciably higher than the estimated incomes generated by the other project
crop rotations under irrigation.
6.05      Farmers with incomes above DH 1,400 pay a progressive Agricultural
Income Tax increasing from 8% on the first taxable DH 4,600 by stages to a
maximum rate of 20% on income in excess of DH 120,000. Larger farmers also
pay a progressive Complementary Income Tax on their incomes in excess of
DH 20,000 net of the Agricultural Income Tax. Tnis tax rate increases from
3% on the first taxable DH 10,000 by 1% steps for brackets of DH 10,000 to
DII 100,000 and then by four further steps to a maximum of 30% on amounts in
excess of DH 1 million, The progressive nature of these taxes together wîth
the betterment levy and water charges in relation to anticipated incomes on
5, 10, 20 and 50 ha holdings under both sugarcane and a four-year arable rota-
tion at full development is shown in Annex 12, Table 11.
VII, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Objectives of the Project.  The proJect would provide infrastruc-
ture, comprising a sugarcane factory and road improvements, which is essential
to achieve the full benefits of Sebou i. It would further provide, for the
area being developed for irrigation as part of that project, protection from
flood damage, the risk of which had not been fully apprecîated at the time of
the 1968 appraisal.                                                                    e



- 21 -
7.02      Aggregate Economic Return.  The aggregate economic return for the
present project, using conventional benefit estimates for flood control, is
15'. The rate of return of the present project combined with Sebou I is about
8% using the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Division's (EAPD) price
forecasts. At full development of Sebou I the savings from the combined proj-
ects on sugar imports alone, would save about US$14 million in foreign exchange
annually. Details are given in Annex 12, Table 9.
7.03      Roads.  About half of the roads investment proposed is for main
roads and a main road bridge. The benefits from this part of the roads prog-
ram are road user savings both for the movement of produce arising from the
Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project, and for trunk traffic, unrelated to that proi-
ect. The first year return to this part of the program counting these latter
benefits only is estimated at 10 percent (Annex 12, Table 10). The remaining
roads to be improved are primarily to facilitate the movement of agricultural
produce in the project area. In the aggregate economic analysis for the pro-
posed project the entire cost of this part of the road network development
has been charged against the benefits arising from sugarcane cultivation;
benefits froin through traffic road user savings and the movexment of other
agricultural produce have been excluded, and accordingly the overall economic
return shown above is a conservative estimate.
7.04      Sugarcane Factory.  The sttgarcane factory is an investment of the
import substitution category, and economic benefits are defined as savings
on sugar imports. At full development, the domestic production cost is esti-
mated at US11/lb ex-factory. The cost of importing sugar was evaluated on
the basis of EAPD's forecast adjusted for freight, insurance and domestic
handling, namely an average USt 13/lb (Annex 12, Tables 1 and 8). The rate
of return is 15.8% (Annex 12, Table 2,) and sensitivity analysis shows the
effects of varying costs and benefits to be:
Rate of Return
Capital cost increased 15%                      11.9
O&M cost increased 25%                          10.0
Gross benefits increased 25%                    22.9
Gross benefits decreased 25%                     6.1
Because the factory would operate on margins fixed by Government, its financial
rate of return, estimated to be 10%, is appreciably less attractive than the
economic rate of return.
7.05      The domestic production of sugar appears to be amply justified on
purely economic grounds and the sugarcane factory would be self-financing as
well as being an economically viable investment.
7.06      Flood Control.  The benefits from flood protection are defîned as
the reduction in the costs which would result from flooding in the absence
of protection.  The extent of the losses incurred depends on the întensity
and timing of the floods, while cumulative damage depends on frequency of



- 22 -
floods. In considering the cost of flooding the average annual expected
value of losses is usually employed, but farmiers in a flood affected area
would be more concerned about the proportion af their vulnerable assets re-
presented by occasional severe flooad losses rather than the average annual
value of all their flood lesses. Wliile Government takes necessary measure to
assist persons affected by national catastrophies, compensation would net
necessarily cover the full lasses ineurred.
7.07       The proposed flood control dikes would prevent damage to the irri-
gated area from floods without any effect on the distribution of the river
flows and the related floods.  Measurements over 38 years (1933-1970) indicate
that a flood has occurred almost every year, and occasionally more than once
a year.  Using the expected annual va lue of damage from all floods as the an-
nual benefit to compute the rate of return on the flood protection investment
ignores the effect of extreme values of damage on the incomes/net worths of
potential beneficiaries and discounts the expected value of damage in computa-
tion, implying that the sequence of floods is irrelevant; the use of the ex-
pected value leads to an artificial understatement of benefits. Bowever, in
order to provide a reference point the rate of return from flood control in-
vestmrents using damage estimates developed by consultants was calculated at
11%.
7.08       In view of the intrinsic dififculty of forecasting a flood sequence,
an alternative method of economic evaluation could be stated as a comparison
between the cost of flood protectîon, consîdered as an insurance premium, and
the expected cost of the avoided flood damage over a 20-year period. The
"Binouial distributiîon" was used for estimating flood occurrences.  The cumu-
lative expected damages from 100 and 5 year floods over 20 years were estimated
at DR 56 and DH 524 million, respectively.
7.09       Since protectîon against 100 year floods would necessarily involve
protection against 5 year floods as well, the total benefits from protecting
against 100 year floods are DH 580 milllion. The benefits are about 12 times
larger than the costs and the flood control measures appear to be overwhelming-
!y viable.  Even if damage from a 5 year flood were only DE 400/ha or 10% of
the estîmate, a value which is almlost certain to be exceeded, the expected
benefît from flood protectien would be DE 52 million, just equal to the c0st,
73tO     iUsing the flood probabiîliies generated, it is estimated that the
anniuaI i:nsurance prerniîn that would be charged to provide a silniar level of
protection would be at least DH 61 miii3on at 10% interest over 20 years, to
*4igh should be added a safet:v loading factor.  This is again greater than
t.he s.   - eost of protection.  Consequently, the flood protection îs consid-
ere(i an economically viable investeient (details in Annex 12).
7.11       Employrnent.  The dIrect employnent effect of this project would be
con.fined to the construction period and is roughly estimated as 2,000 man-
years over the next five years. In addition, the sugarcane factory would
provide permanent employment for 85 anid seasonal (six montbs/year) employment
for 200 people.  Following completion of Sebou I, employment in agricultural                  w
production would be about 17,000 man-years per year   based on the per ha es-
tlmates for employment given in Annex 11, Table 3.



- 23 -
e
7.12      Envirornmental Impact.  The floodl protection works to be implemented
under the project would contribute to reducing the risk of schistosomiasis
transmission within the areas to be protected. The level of schistosomiasis
infestation would also be studied and an assessment made of the possibility
for its control in the Rharb Plain by eliminating the snail host and treating
infected people. Should such control prove practicable, it could form an
integral part of a future irrigation development project for the area.
7.13      Outbreaks of cholera iu the area have been traced to contamination
of wells used for drinking water by Sebou River overspill during floods. The
flood protection works would prevent such contamination in the protected area
and thus further improve health.
7.14      The provision for construction of an effluent treatment plant, if
required, for the new and existing sugar factories at Mechra Bel Ksiri will
eliminate the risk of future pollution of the Sebou River from this source.
The study will further identify other existing sources of pollution and
possibly stimulate further efforts to reduce such contamination of the
River and its tributaries.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The project is technically sound, economically viable and essen-
tial to achieve the full benefits from the irrigation, drainage and on-farm
development works undertaken in Sebou I.
8.02      Major assurances obtained during negotiations were that:
(a) the funds provided under the Bank loan to finance the sugarcane
factory would be reloaned to SUNACAS at an interest rate not
less than the rate of interest on the Bank loan; and that the
Government would provide as equity or on otherwise satisfactory
terms the balance of the required funds to complete construction
of the factory, to cover its pre-operational costs and ensure
the adequacy of its working capital (para 4.09);
(b)  a reorganization of ORMVAG's Agricultural Production Division
would be undertaken in a manner to ensure the effective execu-
tion of ORMVAG's sugarcane development program (para 5.02);
(c) the Borrower would retain consultants, acceptable to the Bank,
to advise and assist in implementing the sugarcane and flood
protection works and the pollution and scbistesomiasis studies;
and ORMVAG, the Ministry of Agriculture and SINACAS wouid
prepare annually a fellowship program which would be submitted
to the Bank for information (para 5.22);
e



- 24 -
(d)  the water charge would be adjusted to cover the operation and                    g
maintenance costs of flood control works and ORMVAG would
maintain separate accounts for operation and maintenance costs
and revenues derived from water charges, the betterment levy
and drainage charges and review these from time to time (paras
5.26 and 5.28).
8.03      A special condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that the
Government will have completed the financial arrangements for SUNACAS.
8.04      With the above assurances, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$32 million for 25 years with 5 years' grace. The Bor-
rower would be the Kingdom of Morocco.
'                                                               -~~~~~



ANNEX I
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Country Data
AREA /1                   POPULATION                       IENSITY
505.940 km               16.2 million (1973)                30 per km
Rate of Growth: 2.9%             186 per km
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1 965-1970) 1                  HEALTH (1965)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000               49-5             Population per physician
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000              16.5                                 12,930
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)149.0 (1962)       Population per hospital bed
660
GNP PER CAPITA in 1973/2    US$ 272
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972 (DH million) 20,320
DH million % of GNP
Exports of Goods, NFS       4,340      21.4
of which, Agriculture    (1,738)       8.6
Imports of Goods, NFS       4,490      22.1
of which, Agriculture       (835)      4.1
Unît         1970          1971         1972
Agriculture Production/3   DH Million      4,300         4,860        4,790
Value Added                 DH Million     3,350         3,880        3,780
Rural Population            DH Thousand    9,790         9,965       10,145
Employment                  DH Thousand    1,945         1,960        1,988
Production Per Capita       DH               435           488          472
Value Added Per Capita      DH               342           389           372
Production Per Worker       DH             2,210         2,480        2,413
Value Added Per Worker      DH             1,722         1,980        1,904
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through   1971              Since February 1973
US$ 1.00 = DR 5.06          US$ 1.00 = 4.19
DH  1.00 = US$ 0.1°8        DH  1.00 = 0.24
Dec. 1971 - Feb. 1973       January 1C  1574
US$ 1.00 = DH 4.66          U.$ 1.00 =DH 4.08
DH  1.00 = US$ 0.21         DH 1.00 = US$ 0.2h5
v  UN data
'The Per Capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same
conversion at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
3 Excluding fishing.
April 18, 1974



e 



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Need for Flood Control and
Long-Term and Interim Protection Alternatives
The Hydrology of the Sebou River
1.        Besides the Lower Sebou Catchment within the Rharb Plain, three
catchment areas contribute to river flows through the project area, namely
the Ouerrha River catchment, the Upper Sebou basin catchment and the Wadîs
Beth and R'Dom catchment. Theîr main characteristîcs are summarized in Table 1.
The Ouerrha River, which joins the Sebou as it emerges into the Rharb Plain,
drains runoff from the impermeable slopes of the Rif mountain chain. Though
this catchment area is smaller than that of the Sebou River, the rapid run-
off which occurs is the main cause of flooding in the Rharb Plain.
2.        Located in the Middle Atlas Mountains, the catchment area of the
Sebou and Inaouene Rivers, upstream from the Sebou/Ouerrha confluence, is
very extensive but it receives less abundant and less violent precipitation
than the Ouerrha and, thus, its low level discharge is more regular and
sustained and its floode are less extreme.
3.        Of the various tributaries which enter the Sebou River downstream
of the Ouerrha confluence, the Wadis Beth and R'dom are the most important.
Their catchment areas have a low runoff coefficient and receive moderate
rainfall. Their floods have been less thoroughly studied although it is known
that they are less severe than those of the Upper Sebou. Table 1 gives the
discharge values for floods of various frequencies for the Ouerrha at M'4ara
the upper Sebou at Azibes Soltane and at their confluence (start of the lower
Sebou). The Ouerrha floods are clearly predominant and, according to the
resulte of a statistical analysis, the maximum flood discharges for any par-
ticular frequency expectation at the confluence are practically no higher
than those of the Ouerrha alone. There are several reasons for this result.
Firstly, floods from the two catchments do not coincide since different rain-
fall systems affect the Rif and middle Atlas mountains. Secondly, the dis-
charges of the Ouerrha and the Sebou were investigated at some distance above
the confluence and the flood flows at these points have already been damped
to a certain extent before they reach the confluence. Finally, the mathema-
tical extrapolation relationships adopted for the separate investigations
are not identical and this can affect the comparison.
4.        The recent exceptional floods (1963 and 1970) show, however, that
although the Sebou flood is less strong than that of the Ouerrha, its effect
at the confluence cannot be neglected.  Furthermore, some consideration muet
be given to the downstream catchments' floods. If by construction of the
M'Jara storage dam the floods of the Ouerrha were stopped, the ten year



AYNEX 2
Page 2
frequency flood of the Sebou could pass without causing any flooding.  Even
slightly higher floods could be contained if the flood damping capacity of
the Idrîss 1 dam îs used so that floods of the Inaouene River do nlot coincide
with those of the other tributaries.3 However, rarer floods would exceed the
capacity of the lower Sebou (1,600 m /sec). Also, floods of the downstream
catchment area (Wadis Beth and R'Dom) would no loiiger appear negligible as
they would no longer flow into an already flooded Rharb Plain.
3lo0dinE of the Rharb,Plain
5.        The Rharb is the alluvîal plain of the Sebou.  It is a flat low
area dominated, upstream in partîcu2ar, by the bed of the Sebou, the banks
of which have been progressîvely raîsed by the deposition of sîit during
flooding. The Rharb Plain extends for 1,500 km2 on the right bank and for
2,200 km2 on the left bank.
6i        In the Rharb Plain, the discharge capacity of the bed of the lower
Sebou decreases from upstream to d rwnstream.  After the Sebou/Ouerrha con-
fluence, the bed can carry 3,200 m /sec until Sidi Aissa 24 km downstream
without overflowing. At Mechra bel Ksiri 70 km downstream of the confluence
the discharge capacîty îs3only 2,000 m3/sec. At Maati 80 km downstream of the
confluence, it is 1,600 m /sec and does not change very much until the sea.
Small floods of up to 2,000 m3/sec only overflow downstream from Mechra bel
Ksiriî  .Average floods from 2,000 to 3,20o m3/sec only overflow below Sidi
Aissal  High floods overflow between the confluence and Sidi Aicha, in the
S19 sector. The width of this overflow area îs sufficient to accommodate
overspill from exceptîonal flood peaks with only a slight increase in water-
level, and remaining flood discharges do not exceed 4,000 m3/sec below Sidi
Aicha .
7,        Eighty percent of the overspill occurs over the lef t bank and twenty
percent over the right bank. The overspill occurs at specific locations which
are eaeily identified from aerial photograps taken after the floods.  The
water flows towards Che lateral depressions (merjas), especîally the one on
the left bank, where it accumulates because the canals and natural drainage
ChannnleT are smll and because the left bank outlet (Wadî Beth) is temporarily
danîned by the  i' levels of the Lover Sebou at Moghrane.  During zhe 1963
eioods,. a large part of the merja on the left bank remained floodec  for five
to e4ght daysr
8    ~    During the double floods of January 1970, a large part of the
r'M1,1Z' rema ned flooded for 12 to 17 days and more than 30 days were required
eto    'etelv drain the lcwest parts.
9Q.       Investigations of flood volumes were based on the 39 floods of the
1933-1971 period, which had been reconstituted in the course of the hydrolo-
gical studies. Volume of overflows was also investigated. Since, when levels
are increased by inundations, the Sebou can dîscharge no more than 2,000 m3/sec
into sea, the volume overflowing in the plain is the volume of the flow in
excess of 2,000 m3/sec. Having deternined the overflow volume of the 39
floods, the overflow volumes for various frequencîes were established by a
stochastie analysis, au follows, wîth comparison to the 1963 and 1970 floods:



ANNEX 2
Page  3
Total Flood Volume    Overflow Volume
----million m3--
Ten year frequency flood                   2,500                    750
Eundred year frequency flood               5,500                 2,400
Thousand year frequency flood              9,000                 4,700
December 1963 flood                        2,635                  1,235
January 1970 flood                         5,974                  2,353
Long-Term Development
10.       The possibilities for long-term flood protection depend on the
considerable potential for the extension of irrigation networks served by
storage dams. These irrigation systems and their reservoirs would be devel-
oped in two phases. The first phase will total 100,000 ha; to completely
develop this area for irrigation, construction of the M'Dez dam and Matmata
tunnel will be necessary to divert winter flows in the Sebou River into the
Idriss I reservoir (100 million m3).
11.       The Second Phase would permit irrigation of a further 108,000 ha,
and would entail either:
(a)  the construction of a large storage dam at M'Jara, on the
Ouerrha; or
(b)  the construction of several smaller storage dams on the
tributaries of the Ouerrha and the Sebou.
The first alternative would be more effective as regards flood absorption
but the second would permit greater flexibility in the rate at which the
irrigation could be developed and would be less costly.
Long-Term Flood Protection
12.       A study of possible long term flood protection of the Rharb Plain
was undertaken by the Hydraulic Department of the Ministry of Public Works,
with assistance from Consultants.  The study recommended possible alternatives:
(a) Absorbing the Ouerrha floods by construction of a large dam
at M'Jara.   The envisaged capacity for the MtJara reservoir
would be as follows:
(i)  500 million m3 to allow for siltîng (over a period
of 100 years);
(iî)  1,100 million m3 reserved for irrigation purposes;
(iii)  500 million m3 reserved for flood absorption.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Without provision For flood absorption, the dam would still
play an important role in flood absorbtion if the correct operat-
ing procedures were followed, and its hydraulic efficiency
in reducing the Rharb flooding would be 73%. If the flood
absorption capacity was included, this efficiency would rise
to 80%. It would never reach 100% efficiency as there will
always remain the possibiîlty of flooding occurring from the
Sebou River and the lower Sebou tributaries.
(b)  Construction of flood escape channels to divert flood waters on
either the left or right bank of the Sebou River, wîth or with-
out the construction of the M'Jara reservoir for storage of ir-
rigation water. These diversion channels would enable succes-
sive protection levels to be attaînedt as follows:
(i)  The first stage would consist of a diversion channel
to be constructed on the left bank of the Rharb Plain.
This channel would divert excess flows and direct them
into the Sebou downstream from the plain, towards
Moghrane. The channel would increase the evacuation
capacity to 3,500 m3/sec (as opposed to the present 1,600
m3/sec for the Lower Sebou). Its hydraulic efficiency
would be 72%. The term "diversion channel" does not
signify an excavated channel but rather a strip of ground
500 to 1,000 meters wlde bordered by dikes. The channel
would not necessarily be uniform and might include areas
for deposition of sediment. Flood water contains 10 to
20 g/l of silt and the flooding whiçh occurred in 1970
deposited an estimated 20 million m3 of sediment in the
plain.
(ii)  The subsequent stages present three alternatives, namely
(a) increasing the discharge capacîty downstream for
Moghrane by providing an additional evacuation channel
directed towards the sea across the coastal sand dunes
(diversion controlled by the Lalla Aîcha dam). The
evacuation capacity of the Sebou River with thiî  sup-
plementary channel, combined with the Stage 1 diversion
channel on the left bank, would increase to 5,000 m3/sec
and the-hydraulic efficiency against flooding would
reach 90%. Flooding of the right bank where only 20%
of the overflow occurs would probably be eliminated.
(b) Construction of a second diversion channel on the
Sebou right bank startîng upstream from the plain (Sidi-
Aissa) and flowing out directly into the sea. As in the
previous alternative, an evacuation capacity of 5,000
m3/sec could be obtaîned vith a hydraulic efficiency of 90%.
e



AhNEX 2
Page  5
(c) Construction of the M'Jara éam for irrîgation
purposes, omitting provisiorn of reserve reservoir
capacity for flood absorption. The hydraulic efficiency
against flooding would be 98%.
Interim Flood Protection
13e       A study o£ the alternatives for interîm flood protection of the
Rharb Plain was undertaken during preparation of Sebou I and indicated that
the most economically valid solution was to delay protection measures until
the development of irrigation required the construction of the M'Jara dam
which would then ensure protection against flading at the same time. Follow-
ing the succession of floods which included the exceptional flood of 1970,
the possibility of earlier construction of protection works was re-examined.
The investigation carrîed out by consultants has not confirmed that cyclical
weather patterns are likely to result in a higher than normal frequency of
floods in the next decade, which would make early construction of protection
works economically advantageous. However, the profitability of immediate
protection appeared to be sufficient for flood protection works to be econo-
mie, providing that irrigation development and associated flood protection
be delayed for certain sectors (irrigation areas SC and S19) which are diffi-
cult to protect under present conditions.
14.       Interim flood protection measures comprise construction of dikes
along the perimeter of sectors equipped for irrigation and provision of chan-
nels between the sections for flood overflow. The various elements of the
scheme comprise:
(a) Irrigation Sector Pll, protected by dikes to form Flood Con-
trol Sector A;
(b) former Irrigation Sector S19, to remain undeveloped as Flood
Channel X;
(c)  Irrigation Sectors S17 and S13, protected by dikes to form
Flood Con rol Sector B;
(d) Part of Irrigation Sector Sll, to remaîn undeveloped as
Flood Channel Y;
(e) Irrigation Sectors S11 (balance), S9 and part of S7, pro-
tected by dikes to form Flood Control Sector C;
(f) part of Irrigation Sector S7, to remain undeveloped as Flood
Channel Z;
(g) Irrigation Sectors S7 (balance), S5, S3 and S1, protected by
fb                dikes to form Flood Control Sectors D and E; and



e                               a



e
ANNEX 2
KINGDOM OF NDROCCO                  Table 1
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hydrological Characteristios of the Catchment Area
Hydrological Characteristics
Catchment Area
Combined   Wadi Bethand
Upper        Upper      Wadi R'Dom
Unit      Ouerrha    Sebou       Catchments   Catchments
Surface Area                     kM2          7,337     16,537       23,943      15,126
Annual Rainfall                  mi           1,007        653                      770
Mean Runoff Coefficient                       0.41       0.21                      0.15
Maximum Flood Discharge          n3/sec
Ten Year Frequency Flood                    5,650      1,950        6,000
Hundred Year Frequency Flood                9,990      3,5oo       10,100
Thousand Year Frequency Flood              14,200      6,000       14,200
Actual Flood Discharge           »3/sec
Dec. 1963 Flood                             7,200      1,600        8,150
Jan. 3, 1970 Flood                          5,000      1,200        6,200
Jan 12, 1970 Flood                          6,850      2,100        8,750
Catchment of Existing Dams       km2
Idriss I on the Inaouene River                         3,680
El Kansera on Wadi Beth                                                         4,536
April 26, 1974
e



e                              a



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
1.        In Morocco, land tenure is characterized on the one hand by the
Koranic principle of equality of right to land and on the other by a diver-
sity of ethnic and tribal traditions. Therefore, there is a multîplicity of
coexisting legal tenure, each wîth different implications under land reform.
2.        There are four basic kinds of tenure:
(a)  Private freehold (Melk).  This is the most prevalent form
of tenure in the Rharb Plain, accounting for about a third
of the total area. Tenure may be by an individual or in
co-ownership ("indivision"t) or by a company. Until March
1973, a special category of Private Freehold by foreigners
("colonization privee") existed, but this land was expropri-
ated by Royal Decree of March 1973 and ij now in the process
of being taken over.
(b)  Tribal Collective land.  This also covers about a thîrd of the
Rharb Plain. The land is held under trusteeship of the
Ministry of the Interior, with rights to use held by tribal
groups ranging in size between 50 and 300 households. Each
family, comprising a married man and his dependents, has equal
right to use of the group land which is redivided periodically
to take account of population changes in the group. Members
of the group do not hold individual rights to sale of land.
These lands have been derived from various sources including
allocation by`the State in return for military service (guich)
and nomadic camp sites. This form of tenure is dtrongly
related to cohesive social units, both economically and
socially self-sufficient, and has developed in an economic and
political environment typified by scarce labor and plentiful
land. This form of tenure has been decreasing with the growing
value of land as a saleable commodity, decreasing social cohe-
sien and isolation of tribal groups.
(c)  State land.  Land held by the State consists of both public
(domaine public de l'Etat) and private (domaine privee de
2. Etat) lands and includes those lands to which the public
in general have access (road reservations, etc.), lands used
for research stations, seed multiplication farms, land rented
by Governnent to individual cultivators and farms managed
ib                  by government companies.  Land expropriated from foreigners
for distribution under land reform becomes State land. Two State



ANNEX 3
Page  2
companies, SODEA (Company for Develoment of Agricultural
Production) and SOGETA (Company for Idministration of Agrî-
cultural Land), are managing expropriated land not yet
distributed. SODEA, established în 1972, is responsible
for land from the 1963 expropriation of official coloniza-
tion, mostly orchards, and SOGETA for private colonization
expropriated in March 1973.
(d) Religious trust land (Habous). There are only about 4,400
ha of religious trust land in the Rharb Plain. It was
officially expropriated in 1969 under the land reform pro-
gram and is thus available for redistribution.
3.        There is.extreme fragmentation of holdings and a complexity of
claims to and uses of land as a result of individual efforts to obtain as
much land as possible. About 25% of the land in the Rharb Plain is rented
and sharecropping under varîous arrangements is common. To retain land with-
in a family, marriage of cousins with appropriate inherîtance rights occurs.
A person may hold part of his land as a member of a collective, part as free-
hold bought or inherited, or part as a shareholder ïn a company either entirely
Moroccan or with foreign participation, each case beîng subject to different
treatment under land reform.
The Land Reform Program
4.        The Agricultural Investment Code of 1969 and the Agrarian Reform
Law of 1966 subsequently revised in 1972, are primarily concerned with revers-
ing the trend of increasing fragmentation and diminution of holdings; conso-
lidating holdings to facilitate agricultural development; encouraging in-
vestment in agriculture; and distributing State land including that expro-
priated from foreign owners.
5.        State land is distributed as a rule to individuals in "viable"
family farm units, capable of being cultivated by a family with a labor input
equivalent to two men and able to provide an adequate family income presently
accepted as being about DH 49000 (US$980) per year. Under the Agrarian
Reform Law, the farmer contracts wîth the State to:
(a) buy the land and pay for it in kind;
(b) farm the entîre holding himself;
(c) join a cooperative and abide by îts rules;
(d) follow a set cropping pattern using accepted cultivation
techniques;
(e) pass on his entire holding to one heir with other children
receiving compensation for the land they would otherwise
have inherited under traditional law;                                          O



ANNEX 3
Page  3
(f) give up all other rights to land; and
(g) share in the cost of agricultural investment to develop the
holding.
The beneficiaries from such land redistribution must be Moroccan nationals,
locally born or resident in the district for a set period of time, be agrî-
culturalists by profession, be of good claracter and have a present income
less than that foreseen as accruing from the new holding.
6.        State land may also be distributed to collectîves, providinc that
they operate as production cooperatives, though iit,le Lancd nas been so
distributed.
7.        The Agricultura. Investment Code applies only to areas decreed as
"Zones of Development" wîthin which the State may intervene to reorganize
land tenure through land consolidation, enlarging of small 'non-viable'
holdings and changing of boundaries to ensure effective use of capital im-
provements such as irrigation facilities and drainage. In these Zones of
Development, division of land into units of less than 5 ha is forbidden and
tenure in collectives is limited to those indivîdual.s who held rights to land
at the date of publication of the leiw (July 25" 1969). TIus further redistri-
bution of tribal land to accommodato newly marrîed members within the collect-
ive is abolished and one heir to thuse individuals presently having rights to
tribal land may in due course inherit such rights.
8. .      Within a decreed Zone of Development, further land transactions are
prohibited until reorganization within the zone has been completed.
9.        The Code defines the degree to which the farmers within a zone of
Development shall participate in the învestment for improvement of agriculture
through a land betterment levy, charges for irrigation water and similar
methods of cost recovery.
grartLan Reform in the Sebou I Projjct Area
10.       Under the Sebou I Project, land reorganization through consolidation
and redistribution Was planned for completion by 1974. Tne present land tenure
situation is shown in Table 1, which, though derived from various sources and
subject to error, is sufficiently accurate to show the overall position. All
the necessary cadastral studies have been completed, and for about 80% of the
project area consolidation has been completed and the irrigation unit boundaries
fixed. The remaîning area will be completed in 1974. Land redi3tribution has
proceeded much more slowly than had been anticipated.  It had been planned to
create a common fund of land comprising foreign owmned, $tate ownied and tribal
lands which was expected to be sufficient, together with freehoids of less
than 5 ha, to enable all familîes owning such small holdings and the landiess
to be provided wïth 5 ha holdings. This redistribution operation was to take
*       place as part of a reorganization of the land to be irrigated into suitably
sized blocks of about 30 ha and to proceed sector bv sector along with the



.i EX 2 
Page  4
construction of the irrigation and drainage works. In the first area to
be developed, comprising Sectors Pll, S19 and S17a, expropriation by decree
of tne foreign owned land held as private freehold was delayed until 1971.
It was also found that in practice :he two operations of consolidation (in
which all owners must have the same value of land as they held previously)
and distribution (which increases the size of holdings) are so legally dis-
tinct that their execution simultaneously was extremely difficult. It was
decided to proceed with consolidation and equipmient of areas for irrigation,
reorganizing land to be expropriated and holdings to be enlarged in units
whicit were multiples of 5 ha, thus facilitating the subsequent redistribution
process.
11.       Tthe 1971 expropriation of 4,200 ha of foreîgn owned land enabled all
holdings of less than 5 ha in Sectors S19, Pll and S17a to be enlarged to at
least 5 ha, some 400 ha of the redistributed land being used for this purpose
and about 2,500,ha being used to create some 350 new holdings for the landless
or families with very little land.  The remaining area comprised plantations
and has been handed over to SODEA.
12.       In 1973 and 1974, about 10,750 ha of land was taken over from
foreigners, some 75% beîng in the area for irrigation. Of the 10,400 ha in
thas area which has been expropriated to date but not yet redistributed,
about 4,050 ha is claimed to be owned, either entirely or in joint ownership,
by Moroccans. A further 2,150 ha comprises plantations and 600 ha consists
of research stations, seed farma and simîlar government use lands, leaving
3,600 ha definitely available for redistributioni. It is planrned to redis-
tribute this land by 1976, and an area of State land now rented to Moroccans
în 10-15 ha lots for raînfed culti.vation and totalling 2,600 ha in 1977.
13.       In thle area to remain under rainfed cultivation, some 3,600 ha have
been expropriated and 2,500 ha remain undistributed of which about half is
subject to disputed ownership. About 7,000 ha of State land rented for rain-
fed cultivation l) 10-15 ha lots will be available for distribution as Moroccan
freehold, though it will be necessary to chtan.ge its title rrom public to pri-
vate State iand prîor te distribution. Total distribution of state and former
foreiîn owned land in t1we proiect arz-a will thnerefore amoint to at least 17,900
14.       The number of famïlies who wouLd have a claim. to land available for
redistribution cannat be estimated precîsely.  There were in 1971 about
10,850 Moroccan families ln tne project area with holdings of less than 5 ha
each and totalling 23,700 ha (Table 2),  It would require 30,000 àa to en-
large tne holdings for each of these familïes to 5 ia. There were 13,750
;aaî1ies with aioldings, from which it would appear that bezween 4,000 and
5,000 families in the area are landless if the assumption is correct that
total population in the area of 110,000 represents about 18,000 famillies.
Aniother survey estimates the number of landless families to be 2,150. The
deflnition of famiriy îs not very precise and may range froan a young married
mnan and his wife to an oid man with several middle aged sons and daughters              e
with tlceir spouses and children wio în fact may farm separate parts of the



ANNEX 3
ge                                                                          Page  5
"fami:Ly" holding. Thus an estimate of some 2,150 landless agricultural workers
ln the area may in large part reflect married and urnmarried adult sons of land-
owners wiO ther.selves have no land but find ftill or seasonal employnent on
tne 'familv' holding. To provide holdings for even 4,000 lan`dless families
would require a further 20,000 ha of land for redistribution, making a total
requirement of 50,000 ha. Even this figure does not take account of the fact
that some holdings would be in the rainfed area extending to 10 or 15 ha
rather tnan 5 ha for irrigation. Overall therefore the amnount of land avail-
able is less tlhan would be required to benefit all sharehiolders and landless
faamiies in the project area.,
15.        Incomes from 5 ha holdings after lard redistribution in the Rharb
Plain have been assessed as ranging from DII 893 to 11,520 (US$219 to 2,824
equivalent), with an average of DH 4,700 (IJS$1,152). holdings whieh have
recently been consolidated arLd brought up to 5 ha tend towards the lowest
incomes while those established several years ago are among the highest.  A
farm cooperative established in 1966 was providing an average income among
its meinbers of DH 9,053 (US$2,219) in 1972 while another only in  its first
years averaged DlH 2,945 (US$722).
June 3, 1974






the Land Tre Situation in the Seboa I Proigt Arma
Tyx or Temlre!                      r                                  Atre. t        lkd  iaed rta l
(ha) 1ç (                                                                           (JJ)
braccan Freehold                              21,700                                   9,300                          31,000            36
Joint  oaroccan/Foreigu Freehold                 600                                   1,900                           2,500             3
Tribal Collective Land                        20,000                                   7,000                          27,000            31
ReUgious Trust (aboaus)                          250                                       _                             250             0
State T.an  (Dines Priveeu
ds Publique)
1963 iroppriation            1,200                                  250                                 1,1450               2
1971 Expropriation            3,400                                 80                                   j, 200              5
1973 lxpropriation            8,200                               2,550                                10,750               12
MerJas                        2,600                               7,000                                  9,600              tt
Other St,ate Lands            2 000                               1 500                                  3 5°°               4
Les8 Distributed nIex .
l»nd refaor                     2.400                               l,lCO                                  35       26         4
15MDOD                        ll,OOO~____                     26 000            3
Total
Availablity o! State Landx for Redistribution
Available for Distribution
t) SOGET  awn r',                 3,600                               1,200                                  4, 800              6
11)  Mcrinr                        2,600                               7,000                                  9,600              i
Legal Status Being Investigated    4,050                               1,300                                  5,350                6
SODEA Managed, Hostly Plantations
Plantations                       2,150                                                                      2,150    )
Research Institutes                 2500                                                                              )           3
COOMAOI                             250                                                                        250    )
Other (including rosd
reservations, etc.)             2,100                                ,53,600
Total                              15,000                               11,000                                26,000               30
/1 Source - ORMVAG
7- TIncluded in Moroccan Freehold.
J'ine 7, 197!h



ANNEX 3
Table 2
MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Size Distribution of Moroccan Owned Holdings in the Sebou I Project AreaL
(1971)
Size of Holdings              Families                     Total Area
(ha                 (No.)%                         (ha)          (
0 -   2              5,250        38.0             6,700          10
2-   5               5,600        41.2            17,000          26
5 -  10              1,700        12.0            11,400          17
10-  20                  700        5.0              9,100         14
20 -  50                400         3.0            10,600          16
50 - 100                  70        0.5             4,400           7
Over 100                  40        0.3              6,900         10
Total               13,750       100.0            66,100         100
/ This table,derived from tax assessment statistics, the only available
source, shows only the distribution of ownership.
June 7, 1974
.



KINGDOM OF MOIROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Family Income of Beneficiaries on Cooperatives Under Land Reform in the Rharb Province
Type of        Size of         Year of         ------------------Annual   Income---------------------
Holding        Holding       Allocation        1967      1968     1969       1970      1971       1972
-------------DH--------------
Irrigated         5             1966           2,0OO     4,610    3,760    4k,1440     5,400      6,660
5             1967               -     6,440    5,520     7,080      7,250      7,170
5             1969               _-                 -        720     1,760      3,080
5             1971               -         -        -          -         -      3,730
Rainfed           8             1966           1,600     8,260    7,390      7,hoo     8,220      9,050
12             1969               -         -        -      3,000     2,870      4,030
16             1971               -         -        -          -         -      3,200
10                -               -         -        -          -         -      2,950
%-v ?0, 1,97b!@|



e



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU Il DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugar Cane Production
Introduction
1.        Experimentation on sugarcane was initiated in 1964 în the Moulouya
area ort the Mediterranean coast and in 1965 in the Sebou and Loukos valleys
in the development and reform program for Moroccan agriculture.
2.        From the first sugarcane trials established in the Basse Moulouya
in 1964, extension plots on farmers' lands were planted in 1967, and nurseries
in 1970. Field trials enabled definite conclusions to be drawn on varieties,
dates of plantirg, crop cycle, yield and sucrose content and to some extent
number of ratoons.  The first sugarcane crop wîll be processed in a mixed
cane-beet factory at Zaio in the spring of 1974" the eventual production
target being 120,000 ton of cane from 2,000 ha of plantations. Sugarcane
fields in Moulouya, both at experîment stations and on earmers' land, are
growing well and the future of commercial sugarcane production in that area
appears promising.
3.        In the project area, experimentation has been concentrated at the
Ministry of Agriculture's, Departmeitt of Agricultural Research (DRA) Station
at Sidi Allal Tazi, but many extension plots and several commercial plantations
have also been established in the area. In 1973, 800 ha - out of a target
figure of 1,000 ha - were planted in the Sectors S13 and S17 (Map 10900).
4.        Planting and production forecasts are given in the Table.  Cane pro-
duction for processing at the new factory to be erected at Mechra Bel Ksiri
should be around 80,000 ton in 1975, gradually încreasing to approximately
430,000 ton in 1982 when the area under cane %ill exceed 8,000 ha. Sugar
production from cane will then amount to approximately 45,000 ton, the
harvest: season extending over the period end April to early October.
5.        Production figures quoted above are based on conservative yield
figures. Experimental plots indicate production of approximately 5.5 ton of
millab.le stalks per hectare per month for ratoons, but it wouJLd be dangerous
to equate these figures with those obtained on farmers' fields, bearing in
mind soîl variations, cultivation standards and such hazards as the occurrence
of frosts and floods.
Crop Cycles and Forecast of Production
*       6.        The optimum crop cycles for sugarcane iîr the Rharb area are deter-
mined by an interaction of the following factors:



ANNEX 4
Page  2                  m
(a) Harvest Period. The harvest period must coincide with
the dry season, extending from mid April to mid October.
Heavy rains in the winter months would cause difficulties
in harvestîng and transport, thereby interfering with
normal cane supply to the factory.
(b) Occurrence of Frosts. Proximîty to the Atlantic Ocean
has a moderating influence on winter temperatures in the
Rharb, uakîng it almost free fram frost. Occasionally,
however, a complex air circulation system causes cold air
from the east to flow through the Taza gap, bringing
freezing temperatures to areas east of a lîne through
Souk el Arba and Mechra Bel Ksiri and in the south extend-
ing westwards from Sidi Slimane almost to the coast at
Kenitra. The affected areas are shown on the following
diagram, in which the area selected for sugarcane cultivation
is shaded.



AN'NEX 4
Page  3
Risk of frost in the project area is largely confined
to the 'cool zone' east of the line Souk el Arba -
Mechra Bel Ksiri - Sidi Slimane. The remainder of the
project area will be referred to as the 'warm zone'. The
original plan was to plant equal areas of cane in both
the cool and warm zones. Following changes in the areas
to be irrigated and provided with flood protection, the
areas of cane cultivation will be 2,500 ha and 5,600 ha
in the cool and warm zones, respectively. In order to
reduce the hazards of frost damage to sugarcane in the
cool zone, 12 month old cane should be harvested.
While this practice is possible for ratoon canes, plant
canes need a longer period - at least 15 months growth
to reach maturity. Further, plant canes have to be
harvested in the spring so that ratoons will benefit
from a full summer season for the following crop.  It is
proposed by ORMVAG that the crop cycle in the cool zone
should be of four years duration with one plant crop 24
months old followed by two 12 month ratoon crops,
though it seems likely the crop cycle could be extended
to include a third ratoon. Harvest would in every case
be undertaken as early as possible in the season. For the
warm zone, where no limitations are imposed by freezing
temperatures, it is planned to pursue an eight year cycle
of a plant crop about 26 months old and three ratoons each
about 24 months old when harvested, between July and Sep-
tember. In the absence of reliable data it has not been
possible to ascertain if the crop cycle could be extended
by taking more ratoon crops in either zone.
(c) Regrowth of Canes After Harvest. A sugarcane crop under
Rharb conditions must have at least one full summer growth
season for acceptable yîelds to be obtained. In the
12 month cycle in the cool zone, therefore, ratoons will
have to be harvested early in the season, in any case not
later than the end of June, go as to ensure economic returns
the following year. The harvesting program will have to be
planned in such a way that areas in the cool zone receive
priority, the operation being completed at the end of June.
The harvest program for areas in the warm zone, on the other
hand, is more flexible, extending to the end of September and
insuring two summer growth periods between successive harvests.
(d) Sucrose Content. Experiment results show the sucrose content
of canes fluctuates according to age of the cane and to
season, as follows:
e



ANNEX 4
Page  4
(î)  12 month old cane may be harvested between December
and June with satisfactory sucrose content (13%);
(ii)  between June and Sepi:ember sucrose content of 12
month old canes may drop to a level as low as 5 or 6%
with consequential deterioration of juice purity; and
(iii)  although there is a lowering of juice quality in the
summer months, sucrose content of canes grown for 18
months or more remains at acceptables levels through-
out the year.
The experiments on the seasonal fluctuation in sucrose content
of canes at Sidi Allal Tazi in the Rharb and at Larache in the
Loukos valley gave the results tabulated below. Figures from
experimental plots at Larache have been included as they afford
confirmatory evidence. They show clearly the importance of
early harvesting for 12 month old cane.
Seasonal Fluctuation in Sucrose Content of Sugarcane Harvested at Different Ages
Sucrose % Cane
12 month old cane            18 month old cane
Date of Harvest         Sidi Allal Tazi  Lsrache    Sidi Allal Tazi        Larache
February                     14.00           --
March                           -            -                -              14.80
April                        15.10          14.60           14.60           15.00
May 
June                         15.40          15.10           15.40
August                        8.30          10.10           14.40           14.70
October                      10.40          10.10           14.20             -
December                     10.60          11.90                           13.40
Source:  Schmidt, B. Rapports 1970-71 and 1971-72 Canne a Sucre; mimeographed.
DRA Station Centrale des Pl.antes Sucrieres.
7.        Taking into account the above factors, the following crop cycles for
sugarcane offer reasonable promîse of econoiîc success:
.



ANNEX 4
Page  5
(a)  Cool Zone                                            Year
(i)  Planting:  Aprîl to ,Tune                         0
(Mi)  Plant crop hanrested 24 months later              2
(iii)  lst ratoons harvested 12 months later             3
(iv)  2nd ratoons harvested 12 months later             4
(v)  Field ploughed out, catch crop Jul-Dec            4
(vi)  Land ready for replanting cane, Apr-May           5
Expected Yields
Plant crop                      100 m ton cane/ha
Ratoons                          70 m ton cane/ha
Production per cycle            240 ton in 4 years
-60 m ton cane/ha/annum
(b)  Warm Zone                                            Year
(i)  Planting:  April to June                          0
(iî)  Plant crop harvested 26 months later              2
(iii)  lst ratoon harvested 26 moiths later              4
(iv)  2nd ratoon harvested 26 months later              6
(v)  3rd ratoon harvested 26 months later              8
(vi)  Field ploughed out, catch crop, Jul-Dec           8
(vii)  Land ready for replanting cane, Apr-May           9
Expected Yields
Plant Crop (26 months)          110 m tonscane/ha
Ratoons (24 months)             110 m ton cane/ha
Production per cycle            440 ton in 8 years
-55 m ton cane/ha/annum
8.        A preliminary forecast of cane production to 1982 prepared by ORMVAG
has been modified in the attached Table, with the object of decreasing the area
planted in the cool zone while increasing that in the warm zone proportionately
to forecast cane and sugar production to meet factory requirements for full
capacity operatîon by 1982.
Sugar Cane Cultivation
9.        Sugarcane cultivation in the project area will be liîited to the
areas of deeper, better drained soils of the river levees.  Salinity is not
at present a limiting factor in these areas. The soils are lighter in tex-
ture than the remainder of the project area but soil conpaction may become
a problem.



Page  6 
10.       The basic unit of irrigation wîthin the Rharb development area is
a rectangular block of 30 ha, usually 600 m long and 50G m wide, divided into
six "fields", 100 mn to 150 m tide.  Such a block norma±ly comprises five farms
of six- ha, each farm havi-ig a plot in each of the six fields.  The fields are
separa.ted by a track 6 m wide bordered by a drainage ditch on one side and on
the other by an irrigation CLa5flt :ed by a syphon from a tertiary irrigation
canal.  Irrigation is provited by syphons along furrows zunning acrosa tae
fields at right angles te the access track.
11,t r    For t he purpose of sugarcane production ît has been proposed that
each field would be cultivated as a unit so that at any given tîme there
would be 5 ha of sugarcane at the same stage of the crop cycle belonging
to flive farmers, wh±le four of the fixe other fïelds in a block will be
occupied by catie at other stages ef. growth and one field will be under
fallow or a catch crop.
12.       Although the layoat adopted may be suitable for other crops, it
presents serious limitations for sugarcane cultîvation.  mle width of the
fîeld (lOn m) îs such that mechanical operations cannot be carried out effi-
ciently along sugarcane rows which should be at least 200 m long for effiieent
mechanical operations   The narrow tracks separating the fields which are
often ini poor condition as a result of seepage from the irrigation channel
will make tractor movements in and out of the fields difficult and especially
înterfere with transport of cane out of the field at harvest,  ORMVAG and
the Mîn<stry Of PubliC Works agreed that early attention would be given to
the deslgn. ef alternative block layouts to facîlitate mechanical operations
asd the reLoval oL carnes atter harvesr
3.       The atracks separain  g thte felds could be graded, providing a
gentle slope so as to elaimnate the drainage dtch, aænd the earth irriga-
tion canal arnd sypkons could be replaced by standard portable pipes w±th ad-
justable autlets everv 121 irm   I, this way there would be no h4ltdrance to
tractors moving ecross the 200 m widt  cf two standard Clelds, thereby im-
provîn.g the effîiciecy Jf  Tcmahanîcal opocrationsQ  R%e use of port."ale pipes
would 1nvolve additicrnal capital esxpendcture w4ich would ,,e partiy offset
by savngs on tfe cost of swypirns and minæntenance of earth canals   Addi-
ticual  labor naeeed f             ti  of  rrigataon p:pes should not increase
cs:t.3 Èo ar, -:Ce <.v-e~xi
>and_Pe aration and >utuaOnrnrations
14.       Agricultural operations provided bv the Deveiopment Centers (CV's)
on a contaactuai basis Lor sugarcane  narters comrprise in-sequence 7oughiug,
usualy to a depth of about 30 cm, lem    e llng and harrowing, ridging and
plantItng    Ridges are 1.50 ri apart. 6     NTIK 5 2:?6:18 ? nZ    dressing cf
800 kg is applîed at the bSttotm of sallow furrows on the top of ridges
before planting.  Se-jen ta eaght tons of cuttings are planted per ha.  The
cutïngs are covered with 3 tao 4 c,L cf sol' arid simultaneously an irr4gation
furrow is opened in the. inter-row.  At hls stage the ridge stands et approxi-
mately 30 ci aboave the base ol. the irrigatlcn furraw,  Frequent a.nd llîght



AN NX 4
Page  7
irrigations are applied in the early stages until germination is completed,
a'ter which normal irrigation cycles are resumed. There follows weeding,
light hoeing and earthing up, to continue building up the ridges. A second
application of 200 kg nitrogenous fertilizer providing 75 units N per ha is
made about three months after planting.
15.       Iminediately following harnest, if the previous crop has not been
burnt, it is important to remove the trash from the cane row and pile it along
the inter-row. Fertilizers are then applied on the cane stools along the row,
followed by simultaneous weeding and earthing-up operations. Irrigations are
effected according to an established schedule until the next harvest.
16.       Because of the occurrence of large areas of heavy soils, the au-
thorities concerned with cane cultivation in the Rharb are fully conscious
of the importance of adequate drainage to insure satisfactory crops, and under
Sebou I tile drains are provided in areas where drainage is inadequate. In
spite of this, a number of cane fields show irregular and patchy growth,
yellow foliage, and stunted canes indicating unsatisfactory drainage. Further
attention should be given to this problem, particularly in view of the long
cycle under which sugarcane will be grown. The possibility of using aerial
or satallite infra-red photography to define areas of defective drainage
should be explored. The schedule of land preparation might have to be modi-
fied to include deep sub-soiling and cross ploughing with heavy duty equip-
ment. Such experiments should be given priority by the agriculturai engineer-
ing section of ORMVAG.
17.       Mechanical cultivation of ratoons - based on the Louisiana system -
utilizing high clearance tractors straddling the cane row is another possibi-
lity which should be studied. It is felt also that drainage would be greatly
improved by this method, which establishes much higher cane ridges than are
used in the present system. The Louisiana system would necessitate a widen-
ing of cane inter-rows to two meters instead of 1.5 m but a double row plant-
ing system would insurè an optimum plant density.
18.       The present system whereby ORMVAG carries out the heavy agricul-
tural operations and charges fixed rates to the farmer appears to be excel-
lent. The mission was informed by the Minister of Agriculture, that future
policy was to divorce ORMVAG from these contractual operations, which will
be carried out by Farmers' Cooperatives. It is suggested that during the
period of expansion of cane cultivation in the Rharb, the present system
should continue as it offers greater safeguards to insure adequate stand-
ards of cultivation.
The Effect of Flooding on Sugarcane
19.       Flooding of fields durîng the winter months is one of the hazards
of cane cultivation in the Rharb. The extent of damage to sugarcane planta-
tions is dependent on depth and duration of flooding, temperature at time of
flooding, silt deposition, rate of flow, and cane varieties.  Most varieties
are tolerant when they are dormant or provided the growing point and top-
most leaves are not submerged.



r qM-à   4
20.       A study or flood p'rOtactien by consnatant ts tQ the °y raulic Depart-
ment of the Minist-r  of  ubl-f Uorks related yi rds'eduction of fuliy developed
sugarcanae to duration of flioodîng; &e followig-ig figaures are q.oted:
Duratio^  cFoidj(aysZ Reduction ir Cane Yield
It must be stressea9,            fiw- ha                 vuatld escape
major injurv                                                 cceur î.E      ratoon
crops harvesteu from  tc.  h        t  cnd SE t'-e-   -ttr he    ceiing autumn
and in whîci  littie grco,r.n hwoa cava taken place '.   t3 -t a fiood season,
On the basîs cf a harvesting season o-2 180 da&-ys, thie area or  such late har-
vested cane would rerrase:½  @  et of he Z           are   .<vest,     te, approxt-
mately 1,000 ha ia b982.
Harnvestin,  Loadin  and Tracs-ort
21.       Harvesting, loading and transport of sintgar'e   hr fse tproject area
have been examined in detail îtî tco studLes  n -- ileth alternataive proposals
have been analyzed.
22.        Burning of cane before harvest reanains a controversial question
and ORMVAG authorities have exp7ressed tnei.r <aea,zs ia this cornecttons  It
is probable, however, that burinrig before harvyst will. have to he adopted
as a routine measure in order to speed à1zp and increase the output of cane
cutters.  Fields have to be  cUt as  sDon as possîbIe at ter burrnng, at J.east
within a period of 48 hours  rïnce neurat  caSnAs tIS htare le t -tan ging show
a rapid decline in recoverable sugarx               crg_c- otzatlIs,  o- burniîng, har-
vest and transport i.s essentral se aso to reuce pssible 1osses
23.       The output of oae con of cut can  oer man aoposed Dy ORsAC is
extremely low in comparison with otaer eugarcane vcucng couzntraes, par-
ticularly as the cane cuttetr wil11 not 'have te load fie canes but stack them
either in the field for machanicai loadlng or at the edge of t'Ie field.  The
output of cane eutters i  tha recently1 constItuted sugar industry of Malawi,
has been 14 tons cane cut par day by orce man ta  1973 ustng the Australian
cane kîife specifically des4gned for cane cutting and an advance on the
knif e now tn use in Morocco   Papent orn an output hasis  ighct improve per-
formance and is common 3ractice easewhere.  CP-Lin4ons differed as to the avail-
ability cf la'oo  for harveet and ZIhe ipzrtant factor iS raceiîvng further
careful consideration.   Iaianical narvesting  hold hae avoided 1if possibole.
Besides being laess              nafictnt  f han haad cuttin.g, tbhis orerationrequiring
heavYy equipmant to bhe movçed taî a large n-ner cf' ralativeiy $aLl fLelds,
vould be dif-ficult to OrganiCa-a  `ioeçver90 eery effort shoUod be made to
mechanize the Ioadîn,g eperation provided the propose-d trials inGldicate it to be
necessary.  Side oadirg trailers  shculd be usead so that tiae stalks line in
the long axis cf the v,hehcle,  Self: lcaders tall; whlW-îc;h fhe canes are bundled        e



LNNEX 4
Page  9
at right angles to the tractor would not be accepted by road authorities be-
cause of the width of the load, The effect of in-field mechanical loading
on cane stools and on soil compaction should be studîed. in the case of
damage to stools, it is probable that an additional tillage operation will
have to be carried out to restructure the ridges after loading.
24.       During the first two or three sugar campaigns, canes would be trans-
ported direct fromr the field to factory in eight ton lorries, ONT being en-
tirely responsible for transport. During thîs period, ORMVAG would undertake
experiments comparing self loading and hand loaded tractor drawn trailers to
transport cane fron fîelds to a transfer station located on a tarmac road
where the cane would be transferred to large (15 ton capacity) vehicles for
transportation to the factory.
25.       Depending on results obtained from these studies, the most economical
method would be selected for adoption after 1977 or 1978 to transport the cane
crop, which should then amount to between 220,000 and 265,000 tons.
26.       Transport responsibilities would be shared between ORMVAG and ONT,
the former for transport from field to transfer station, the latter from
transfer station to factory.
27.       The equipment required to experiment with these two methods (which
is provided for in the cost estimates) would be:
6 tractors (at DH 30,000)
8 trailers (at DR 7,500)
2 self-loading trailers (at DH 12,000)
1 transloader
Sampling of Cane foruality
28.       The proposed method consists of înserting an horizontal auger to
a depth of approximately 1.20 m in the cane load.  Two random samples are
taken per lorry, mixed and analyzed. Ten lorries per field would be sampled
at random. For alternative transportation , a cane sample should be taken
from each 40 tons of cane. The principle of determining the average quality
of canes from samples derived from each field appears to be sound and subject
to less error than sampling from the production of each farmer. Detailed
procedures to identify cane consignments .eill have to be worked out for cane
directed to the factory via a transfer station. This aspect of the problem
should be studied in conjunction with the loading and transfer experiments
previously discussed.
Sugar Cane Varieties
29.       The only varieties under commercial cultivation. in Morocco, both
in the Rharb and Moulouya areas, are CP 44101 and NCo 310 which occupied an
*      area of approximately 600 and 200 ha respectively in the Sebou in 1973.



ALîNE~X 4
Page 1 0
30.       Both varieties produce satisfactory sugar yieIds and ratoon well.
The yields of cane of NCo 310 and OP 44101 as determined trom multiplication
plots are:
NCo 310                          CP 44101
Age at                           Age at
harvest  TCO/a  TC/ha/month   harvest   TC/ha   TC/ha/month
ltt Ratoons      14      67.0        4,8         12        75.7        63
2nd Ratoons      18      97.5        5.3         12        72.8        6,1
15       93.5          .2
1S      106.0        5.9
3rd Ratonns      12      55.0        4.6         12        85o0        7.1
15     78.5        5.3         15        80.9         5.4
31.       NCo 310 is reputed to be more frost resistant than CP 44101 but is
infected with mosaic, at Sidî Allal Tazi and possibly elsewhere, Its multi-
plication should be carried out with the greatest caution and wîth. material
only from areas where no cases of the disease have been observed. All those
concerned vith the agricultural development of the Sebou Valley are fully
conscious of the importance of the varietal problems îu establishing a suc-
cessful cane sugar industry.  A vigorous program of varietal introduction and
fiel expermentation tS necessary wth  & view to releasing for cultivation
a range of productive varleties.
32.       CP 44101 and NCo 310 together with several other varîeties were
introduced from Spain before 1962 (POJ 2725, POJ 2727, CO 290, TU 111l, 1149,
1376 and 2605); the other -,,îarieties were elîmînated because of thler poor
performance or the presence of mosaie.
33.       Fifteen varteties are naw beîng tested in variety trials or in ob-
servatzon plots at Sidi-Al.al-Tazi wh4le fîve are in observation plots fol-
lowing quarantine at the DRA Station at Kenîtra.  The DRA at Sidi-Allal-Tazi
has also establîshed varietal plots derived from heat treated cuttings, so
as to provlde a source .cf  pantîi'g material free from ratoon stunting disease
uhoi.f tht -tIî5aaae ;3cetw in the te:ritory - to estalslih variety trials.
34.       New întroducticns c4 cane varieties shouid be continued On the basis
dopted Uiîtherto of selacting prven.. varieties or those shawing promise for
eamç6erÂa1 cultivation în sib--ropl cal augar areas,  Thus varieties from
LTouisana (L), Florlda (OF,  YL)à, Natai (N, NCo), Northern India (Co), South
Queensland and new South Wales (Q and C.SCRP  named varetlats), Southern
Bra21 (Q), Argeirinaa (sTL")  Formosa (ZF)  should be given preferexce when
introductions are planned.
e



ANNEX 4
Page 14
35.       Concerning the source of planting material, varieties should be
introduced only from experimental stations with adequate phytosanitary pre-
cautions. The USDA Plant Quarantine Station at Beltsville, U.S.A., the East
African Quarantine Station at Muguga, Kenya (EAFFRO), and that of IRAT at
Nogent sur Marne, France, among others offer the best guarantee of freedom
from disease, but may not have stocks of all the desired varieties. What-
ever the source of planting material, a quarantine perîod is împerative.
Present practice is to quarantine sugar cane for six months in the glass-
house at the DRA station in Kenitra and transfer heat treated cuttîngs
therefrom to observation plots outside. Canes în the greenhouses are kept
so as to provide more planting materîal at the conclusion of the observation
period. The quarantine greenhouses ire admirable for citrus and other crops,
but should be modified for sugar cane, particu'arly with regard to the height
of the quarantine roomns
36.       It is suggested that the quarantine, testing and multiplication
procedures could be improved by growing the new introductions for a period
of one year in the glasshouse, under the following schedule:
(a) canes grown for six months in quarantine greenhouses;
(b) canes cut and allowed to ratoon for another period of six
months in the same container. Symptoms of diseases, such
as leaf scald, would probably appear on the regrowth, if
the stool carried latent infection;
(c)  cuttings from (ii), heat treated against ratoon stunting
disease (50°C for two hours in hot water) and grown în new
containers in the glasshouse;
(d)  after six months, cuttings from (iii), if healthy, planted
in observation plots outside, Canes in the original container
should not be used for propagation, but should be kept to sup-
ply planting material, în case cuttings planted outsîde fail
to germinate;
(e) multiplication of varieties from outdoor observation plots,
one of the methods for rapid multiplication of varîeties
being adopted in order to accelerate the multiplication of
newly introduced varieties to establish variety trials.
37.       In addition to testing of new varieties în trials of orthodox de-
sign, preliminary screening of more promising varieties should be undertaken
in observation plots at a number of sites representative of the range of soîl
and climatic conditions în the sugar cane growing areas, Usefùl prellminary
information would thus become avaîlable on the behavior of new varîeties under
different environmental conditions, prior to the establishment of formal trials
to assess the relative economîc performance of new varieties.
e



ANNEX 4
Page 12
Diseases
38.       The sugar cane disease situation has been well reviewed by H. Barat
Scientîfic Adviser to Institut Recherches Agronomie Tropicale in two reports
available at DRA covering vîsits in 1969 and 1970.
(a) Leaf Scald
Suspected cases of leaf scald were observed on CP 52-68,
introduced the previous year and growing at Sidi-Allal-Tazi.
This variety vas subsequently destroyed, and apparently no
further cases of leaf scald vere observed. As this disease
may be present in a latent form, particular care should be
taken to keep new introductions under observation for several
years, A useful method is to cit the canes, and vithhold
vater after regrowth of suckers, when typical leaf symptoms
are usually produced on infected canes.
(b) Mosaîc
The disease was first observed by Rieuf in the Rharb in 1965.
Barat reported mosaîc in 1970 from both the Atlantîc and
Mediterranean areas. Infected plants of NCo 310 were seen
at Keria ben Aoudal, at Ksar el Kebir and at Larache. The
disease was not observed by him at Sidi-Allal-Tazi. In the
reports already referred to, Barat gives a full account of
control measures which should be adopted wlth a view to freeing
the cane areas from mosaic before large-scale plantings are
made. Unfortunately the situation appears to have worsened
since 1970, at least at Sili-Allal-Tazi, where several cases
of mosaic were seen on NCo 310. It is suspected that strain D
of the virus is concerned. Although NCo 310 is reputed to be
tolerant to mosaic li Louisiana, at Sidi-Allal-Tazi severe
stunting of infected stools occurred. Foliage of apparently
normal stalka also showed mosaîc symptoms. The presence of
mosaîc represents a potential threat to the development of the
Rharb cane sugar îndustry, partîcularly in view of the season-
ally cool conditions which prevail in that area.  Serlous and
urgenL etepa must therefore be taken in an attempt to eradicate
the disease. This vill involve very close coordination between
the services of DRA and ORWAG and will also require full coop-
eration with the owners of sugarcane plots.  The followîng field
program i8 suggested in this connection:
(î) training of agricultural technicians attached to the ORMVAG
Development Centera, to recognize infected canes;
(il) determine incidence of the disease throughout the Rharb
area, by systemtnatic ix spectioin of al  f ieIde, priotrty
being given to areas planted with NCo 310;



ANNEX 4
Page 13
(iii)  careful rogueing of infected stools in fields showing
not more than 2% infection. On no account should these
fields be used as a source of planting material;
(iv)  uprooting of fields showing infection greater than 2%.
Repeated inspections will be necessary to ensure that
there is no regrowth of uprooted stools;
(v)  creation of nurseries in areas free from mosaic using
cuttings from fields in which no cases of the disease
have been detected;
(vi)  frequent inspections of nurseries to ensure that ne cases
of mosaic are present; and
(vii) uaintaining nurseries free from grass weeds and ensuring
that maize is not cultivated in the vicinity of nurseries.
Specialized studies should be implemented as part of the mosaic
control program as follows:
(i)  an assessment of the incidence and prevalence of insect
vectors. At least one of them is known to occur in the
£Lharb, namely Rhopalosiphum maidis;
(ii)  presence of mosaic on other hosts, both wild and cultivated;
and
<iii) information from experimental centers on resistance of
varieties at present under test, and those which it is
planned to introduce.
It is thought that the problem of mosaic is of sufficient impor-
tance to justify:
(i)  the visit, at an early date, of a Consultant Plant
Pathologist possessing experience in sugarcane disease
to assess fully the present situation and advise on control
measures and their implementation. Priority would be given
to the Rharb area but the situation would also be assessed
in the Moulouya and Loukos areas. The Consultant would alse
advise on ratoon stunting disease and on quarantine procedures;
(ii)  the visit of an experienced entomologist to coincide with
the plant pathologist's visit to advise on the present sit-
uation regarding possible disease vectors în the cane growing
areas and formulate a detailed program of investigations.
He should also advise on the borer problem, which is refer-
red to below;



ANNEX 4
Page 14
(iii) the appointment of an Moroccan Entomologist for a period
of two years, vith possibility of extension for a further
perîod of two years. The person selected should have had
experience7in the transmis3îon of viru8 diseases; and
(iv) provision of adequate assistance from the DRA and ORMVAG
for field and laboratory investigations.
(c) Ratoon Stuntîng Dîsease
This disease is suspected to occur in Morocco, because of the
large scale introduction 10 to 15 years ago of plantîng material
from Spain where ratoon stuntîng disease is reported to be pre-
valent. No nodal symptoms of the disease, however, have been
seen, although substantial differences in yield have been recorded
between untreated and heat treated canes. On the assumption that
the disease îs present, the DRA has wisely decided to establish
nurseries from heat treated cuttings. This sound practice should
continue but it îs suggested that a modification of the present
method - based on experience in other sugarcane countries - should
be adopted vith a view to producing larger quantities of planting
material at a reduced cost. This method would entail the estab-
lishment of primary nurserîes froa hot water treated cuttinga
which would be subsequently extended to secondary nurseries with-
out heat treatment. Cuttings from the secondary nurseries would
be used to estabiîsh commercial plantings which in turn could also
provide planting material from the first ratoon if no evidence of
disease îs found în the field. This technique would reduce the
quantity of cuttings to be treated very appreciably wîthout any
great risk of reinfection providing reasonable precautions are
taken. Sterilization of knîves is iînperative when preparing
cuttinga at all stages. An endeavor should be made to confirm
the presence of ratoon stunting disease by inoculating the juice
from suspected canes into test varieties which are known to ex-
hibit nodal symptoms.
(d) Other Diseases
A n=mber of diseases of minor importance have been reported
from Morocco including Alternarîa tennuîs, Clados2ornum
gramineum,g  Cni2sorl= vinosum, Mvcosphaerella tulasnï and
Phoma insidiosa. These organisms can only be considered as
saprophytes or facultative parasites. Although the fungus
whlch causes pineapple disease of sugar cane (Ceratotytis
Êaradoxa) is not reported from Morocco, ît is highly probable
that it occurs there in view of its worldwide dispersal. Thîs
pathogen causes a rot of cuttings and is readily controlled
by immersion of the setts in an appropriate fungicide.
e



ANNEX 4
Page 15
39.       Morocco is free from the major sugar cane diseases, namely:  F:Lji
disease (virus), Gummosis (Xanthomonas vasculorum), Leaf scald (X. albilineans),
Chlorotic streak (possibly of viral origin), Smut (Ustilago scitamineae) and
Red rot (Physalospora tucumanensis). Every endeavor should be made to guard
against the introduction of these diseases by means of legislation to forbid
the importation of sugar cane other than by Government, and by appropriate
quarantine measures.
40.       It should be noted that smut has been introduced in several African
territories in recent years (Upper Volta, Ivory Coast). Although the fungus
is killed by thermotherapy (hot water at 54°C for 20 minutes), when present
in cane setts, its eradication is extremely difficult because of spore dis-
persal by wind.
Insect Pests
41.       The major insect pest 3f sugar cane in Morocco is the borer belong-
ing to the genus Sesamia, of which ten species are reported to attack sugar
cane, and many cereals and grasses as well.  The species concerned in Morocco
is S. nonagrioides which occurs in Spain and countrîes bordering the Western
shores of the Mediterranean.
42.       Control of this pest on sugar cane in the Rharb is carried out at
present by insecticidal treatment.  Although this practice may be justified,
it is felt that more information is required on the actual extent of damage
to confirm the beneficial effects of treatment. The advice of a consultant
entomologist should be sought in this respect.
43.       Of the eleven species of vectors known to transmit the mosaic virus
Rhopalosiphum maidis occurs in Morocco.  The study of the incidence of vectors
in relation to mosaic should receive high priority.
44.       The insect fauna associated with sugar cane does not appear to have
been well defined in Morocco and requires study. The terms of reference of
the Consultant Entomologist referred to elsewhere should be widened to advise
on this matter.
Rodents
45.       No information could be obtained on the incidence and damage caused
by rodents in sugar cane fields. In areas where rats represent a problem satis-
factory control is obtained with "waxed biscuits" containing 0.5% of an anti-
coagulant rodenticide. These biscuits are dîstributed on the field at a gen-
eral rate of about 125 per hectare, a basic principle being that ample bait
must be available for unrestricted uptake during a period of about two weeks.
e



ANNEX 4
Page 16
Weeds and Weed Control
46.       The control of weeds ir sugar cane plantations is essential to en-
sure high yields. Annual weeds do not represent a serious problem and can be
easily eradicated by hand, particularlv at the early stages of growth. Paren-
nial weeds on the other hand often represent a challenge, which can only be
met by the use of chemicals, for which the farmer must be assisted wîth tech-
nical advice, as to the product to be used, its concentratior., timing of the
operation and precautions to be taken to avoid damnage to the sugar cane crop.
The most aggressive perennial weeds in the sugar cane area of the Rharb are
Cynodon Dac1onE , Sorghum halepense, Paspalum digîtatumn  Pancum ren  and
Cyperus spIp.
47.       Taclimical informat'iQon on the control of these weeds by chemicals
îs readîly available, both concerning the products themselves and under what
conditions they should be applied.
Traînîng, Research and Extension
48.       Agriculture training in Morocco îs provided at four levels:
(a)  Ingeieu       a.  Studies for the "Ingenieur d'Etat" last six
years from the Baccalaureat Scientifique, at the Institut Agro-
nomique Hlassan Il, Rabat. The diploma conferred is that of
Irngenieur Agronome.
(b)  Ingenieu    A              National schools provide training
for this category: that of Agriculture (Meknes), of Forestry
(Sale), Rural Work (Rabat) and Food Technology (Rabat). The
courses extend for four years, the Baccalaureat Scientifique
being the minimum qualification for admission. The title con-
ferred în the field of agriculture ls Ingenieur Travaux Agricole.
(c)  Ajoint Technique,  Traîning for Adjoint Technique is given at
eight schools: three schools of Agriculture (Rabat, Marakesch,
Berkare), one of horticulture (Meknes), of rural work (Meknes),
of agricultural engineering (Sidi Bouknadel), of animal husbandry
(Kestra), and of forestry (Sale).  Studies last two years, ad-
:iissio.n îs based on an entry examination after the "5eme annee
scientifique", (BEPC). The diploma ls styled "Adjoint Technique
agrIcole" or "horticole", etc., depending on the subject studied.
(d)    t Technioue,  The category:  "Agents Techniques" are trained
at either one of three centers of "formation agricole" at Tiflet,
Chaouia, Satal Boutahiar or at the School of Forestry (Sale) or
the School of Arnimal Husbandry (Kenitra). The courses extend
over a period of two years (for Agriculture) and admIssion is
by an entrance examination for students having completed the
`3eme annee secondaire".



ANNEX 4
Page 17
49.       The training programs should be able to provide the scientific and
technical personnel which will have to be recruited for the agricultural ex-
perimental and extension work needed by the sugar industry of Morocco at large.
The number of trained personnel required for the agricultural aspects of sugar
production in the project would be approximately 40. The most appropriate
center for the training of sugar factory technicians and chemists would be
the Ecole Nationale de TechrLologie Alimentaire at Rabat, and such training
should include work in the sugar factories operating in Morocco as well as
attachment for several months to a sugar research center abroad.  Projected
national requirements and aaticipated output of trained personnel at the
four levels are as follows:
Number needed as
forecast December                 Output
1971          1967 1972  1977  1982  1987
Ingenieur d'Etat                   1250             74  203   495   370  1245
Ingenieur d'Application            2100            172  376   893  1618  2343
Adjoints Techniques                7100           1015 2236  3816  6026  8236
Agents Techniques                 11400           1872 2615  5282  8257 11232
Abstracted from Ministere de l'Agriculture - Preparation du plan 1973-77.
Rapport du sous groupe formation, Avril 1972.
Research and Experimentation
50.       The Director of ORMVAG felt very strongly that the existing research
organization for sugarcane centered on the DRA was unsatisfactory and that
there should be a special division of sugar cane studies in his organization
but specialized disciplines requiring laboratory facilities would remain under
DRA. An alternative scheme is proposed in which the sugar cane center of
ORMVAG would be responsible for three main groups of activities: field ex-
perimentation, training, agricultural engineering and transport. Nurseries
to provide disease free planting material to farmers should also be under
the control of ORMVAG. The success of the scheme would depend on the very
close collaboration of the proposed Sugar Cane Center with specialized serv-
ices of the DRA.
51.       Fundamental problems such as those relating to pathology, entomology
physiology and nutrition should be investigated by the specialized disciplines
of the DRA which should also continue to be responsible for the introduction
and quarantine of new cane varieties. Heat treatment of cuttings should also
remain under the control of the quarantine officer, although the possibillty
of înstalling heat treatment plants at each of the CMV's should be studied.
The ORMVAG sugar cane center should be responsible for variety trials, fer-
tilizer trials, herbicide trials, water requirement and irrigation control,
drainage, planting methods, and on soil compaction and the need for interrow
tillage. The center should also undertake studies on the crop cycle in
relation to cane yield, sucrose content, age and date of harvest and on
harvesting methods, and cane loading and transport.



AM-2'X 4
Page 1 8
52.       Apart from ex'perlimental work, the sugar cane center should also be
responsible for routine operations related to the multiplication of varîeties,
establishment of nurseries:, and should contral the procedures for sampling of
farmers cane delîvered to the factory and its analysis for sucrose content.
53.       The specialized sections of DRA should undertake at an early date
investigations on raosaic clisease as stated prevîously whichn will necessitate
close collaboration between pathologists and entoffio ogiats   Other questions,
in particular ratoon stunting disease, fungicidal treatment of cane setts,
and the economics of ïnsecticidal treatment agaiînst borer are also priority
problens.  Routine foliar and so-l analysis should be organized for nutri-
tional studies and consequent fertilizer programis.  In this connection, the
off icer in charge of laboratory work for leaf analysis should spend at least
three months in a sugar country such as Maurîtîus to study al 1 the aspects
of foliar diagnosis, and its interpretation.
54.       It is suggested that the following man power structure would be
adequate to carry out the experimental program outlined above at least in
the first few years of operation:
(a) one Ingenieur Agronome assisted by a sugarcane specîalist
consultant for the first two years, in charge of the Center;
(b)  three Ingenieurs Agronomes or Ingenieur Travaux Agricoles in
charge of experimentation, training and extension, agricul-
tural engineering and transport;
(c) fifteen Adjoints Techniques, one attached to each CMV two at
each of the three divisions, two responsible for nurseries
and sucrose content of farrners canes during the crop, and
three attached to the speciaMized laboratories of DRA;
(d) twenty Agents Techniques attached to the CMV's.
55.       In addition to the scientifie and technical personnel required above
it is recommended that the 3 short-term consultants, liated în AUnae  7 8hould
be employed as soon as possible, and that subject to the findings and recommen-
dations of the consultant Pathologist and Entomologist an Entomologist and a
Pathologist should be employed for a period of two years to work on insect
and disease problems of the sugarcane, more particularly mosaic.
56.       The practical and economic value of experimental wor.  c-an enly be
fully realized through arn efficient extension service. The structure planned
by ORMVAG whereby the CMV will provide extension services for sugarcane
cultivation appears to be very sound. Each of three Centres (later tc, be
increased to four) will be responsible for an area of 1.500 to 2,000 ha of
sugarcane grouping about 500 farmers. Each centre is headed by 5i "Adjoint
Technique" who is assisted by five agents techniques.
.



ANNEX 4
Page 19
57.       It is suggested that the CMV's should be placed under one Ingeaiîeur
A;gronome or Ingenieur d'Application who will be responsible for training of
staff, coordinating extension work between the centres, establishing liaison
with the specialist services of the DRA and with the Experimentation and the
Agricultural Engineering Sections of the sugar cane centre of ORMVAG. Courses
of lecture, seminars, demonstrations and practical classes will be under his
control, but will involve close collaboration with the specialized services
of the DRA. Field problems encountered by the Adjoint, and Agents Techniques
should be referred to him.
58.       Related to the organization of an extension service is the train-
ing of the officers themselves in matters related to sugar cane agronomy. This
aspect of extension has already been referred to in previous reports on the
Sebou project, but unfortunately a visit by several senior officers of ORMVAG
to different sugar countries planned for 1973 could not be implemented.
59.       A program of visits by all officers of ORMVAG concerned with sugar
cane development should be plannad, in order that annually and for a number
of years a team of ingenieurs and technicians should visit a ntimber of sugar
cane countries. The following grouping of countries is suggested tentatively:
(a) Egypt - Iran - Mauritius - South Africa
(b) India - Queensland - Taiwan
(c) Louisiana - Guiana - West Indies
Such în-service training overseas for staff of ORMVAG, SUNACAS and DRA would
be provided through 40 man months of fellowships.
April 25, 1974






WROCCO
SEBOU Il DEV1DPMENT YRDJECT
Annual Su,arcane Production
Unit            1973       1974       1975        1976        1977       1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
Area Planted                   ha               800      1,200       1,200      1,200       1,200       1,200       1,200       1,200      1,200       1,200
Area Abandoned                 ha                                                             600         500         500         500         700      1,200
Area Under Cane                ha               800      2,000       3,200       4,400      5,600       6,200       6,900       7,600       8,100      8,100
Area Harvested                 ha                                      800       1,800       2,500      2,900       3,l00       3,600       3,800      4,300
X OI Area under Cane           %
Harvested                                                             25          40         144         46          45          50          h7          53
Cane Production                PMGo tons
87        169         226         274         296        351         373         h28
Harvesting Season              days
(2,500 tons/day factory
capacity)                                                             32          65          88         107        116         138         146         168
Sugar Production              '000 tons
@ 9.4 tons cane/ton sugar                                             9.1        17.7        23.7        28.7        31.0       36.7        39.1        44.7
May 20, 1974



e
.



ANEX 5
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Su&arcane Processîng
Genera:L
1.        The characteristics of the factory are those of a conventional
cane sugar factory equipped for producing raw sugar. However, additional
equipment would be provided to permit the production of high-grade planta-
tion white sugar.
Cane Weighing and Unloading
2.        Two cane weighbridges of 40 ton capacity each will însure the
weighing and taring of cane at an average rate of about 240 tons per hour
equivalent to 30 lorry loads of eight tons or 16 semi-trailer units carry-
îng 15 tons each. The unloading system will comprise:
(a) Two lorry tippers of 15 ton capacity for direct feeding of
the milling plant; and
(b) One lorry tipper of the same capacity for stackîng cane to
be crushed at night. Feeding of thîs cane to the mills will
be effected by two overhead travelling cranes each fitted
wîth a grab of 4-ton capacity and servicing a total stack-
ing area of 24 x 70 m in which a stacking height of about
10 m would be possible.
Cane Sampling and Analysîs
3.        Sampling and analysis of cane consignments will be carried out by
a core sampler method, the equîpment for which comprises:
(a)  one 200 mm diameter mobile core sampler;
(b) one laboratory shredder;
(c) two hydraulic presses with a maximum pressure of 250 bars;
(d) one 5-kg balance fitted wlth a printout devîce; and
(e) one automatic saccharimeter.
.     Provision has also been made for determination of extraneous matter in cane
consignments.



ANNM 5
Page  2
Cane Conveying and Preparation
4.        The cane would be tipped from lorries on to a feed table, 6.0 x 1.2 m,
fitted with a 20 RPM cane tumbler.  From the feed table the cane will fall on
to a 29 m long main carrier driven by a variable speed electrie motor, which
elevates it to a 1.60 m wide, rubber belt variable speed conveyor. Two sets
of kniveu are located on the inclined part of the main carrier:  the first
set of 28 knives, the second of 72; both rotatîng at 600 MPM and each driven
by a 300 HP electrLc motor.
Milling
5.        From the rubber belt conveyor the prepared cane will fall into a
"Donnelly" chute or hopper which will feed the first unit of the milling
train consisting of four 0.810 x 1.600 m self-setting mills each îndepend-
ently driven by a single stage steam turbine. The first mill turbine will
develop a maximum 570 HP and the three other units 385 HP. Each mill will
be fitted with a "Donnelly" chute, an underfeed roller, two oleo-pneumatic
accumulators and accessory equipment including imbibition and juîce screen-
ing. Provision has also been made for a 12-ton overhead travelling crane,
a lathe for re-grooving and an oven for re-shelling mill rollers.
Weighing, Heating and Clarification
6.        Mixed juice from the mills will be weighed in a 150-ton/hour auto-
matic scale of the "Servo-Balans" type fitted with a totalizer, a juice sampler
and an automatic pre-liming system. The pre-limed cold juice will be pumped
through a 170 m2 first juice heater fed with vapor bled from the second
effect of the evaporator. The pH of the heated juice will be adjusted by
addition of the required amount of lime, and the juice then pumped to a
second juice heater, of 170 m2 heating surface, fed wîth vapor bled
from the first effect of the evaporator. In this heater the juice tempera-
ture will be raised to about 103'C. The juice will then be allowed to flash
in a flash-tank before flowing into an 8.0 m, 4-tray clarifier.
7.        The clarification station is provided with all the equipiTent re-
quired for milk of lime preparation, addition and pH control, juice sulfita-
tion for plantation white sugar manufacture, plus polyelectrolyte and phos-
phoric acid addition in case of need.
Filtration
8   2     The clarifier muds will be filtered in a rotary vacuum filter of
53 m, the filtration station comprising ail the ancillary equipment re-
quired: cyclone separator for bagacillo, mud mîxing tank, filtrate tank,
recirculation tank, barometrîc condenser and vacuum pump, wash water pump,
filtrate pump, recirculation pump and belt conveyor for cake disposal.
.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Evaporation
9.        Clarified juice will flow into a receiving tank and then be pumped
through a 170 m2 juice heater fed with exhaust steam. The juice heating
arrangement is such that the clarified juice heater may be used either as
primary or secondary heater should one of these have to be cleaned while
crushing.
10.       From the clarified juice heater the juice will flow into a multiple
effect evaporator made up of a 990 m2 first effect plus four identical units
of 660 m2 each. It is not intended, however, that the evaporator should
function as a quintuple effect, the fifth unit being linked in parallel wîth
the third and fourth effects, and thus allowiîig for cleaning of either wîthout
closing down. All the tubes are of stainless steel, grade F. 17, 38 mm ex-
ternal diameter.  The evaporator is fitted with five juice level regulators
and an indicator/controller for syrup density. Ancillary equipment includes
condensate flash, drainage and pumping, syrup pumping, caustic soda washing
equipment, ten mechanical rotary cleaners and an alarm system on the conden-
sate pumped to the boiler station.
Crystallization
l1.       The main items of equipment for the crystallization station are:
(a)  Three storage tanks for syrup, A molasses and B molasses,
each made up of three compartments of 150 hl each.
(b) Three calandria vacuum pans for A and B strikes having the
following characteristics:
Capacity                             400 hl
Heating surface                      240 m2
Footing volume                       131 hl
(c)  One calandria vacuum pan similar to the above, but fitted
with mechanical circulation, for boîling C massecuite.
(d) Two magma crystallizers, open type, capacity 165 hl each,
for A and B strikes.
(e) One magma crystallizer, closed type and under vacuum, capac-
ity 235 hl, for C strikes.
(f) Two A massecuite and three B massecuite crystallïzers, air-
cooled, capacity 410 hl each.
(g)  Four C massecuite crystallizers, water-cooled, capacity
410 hl each.
(h)  Three pumps for A, B and C massecuites.



ANN'EX 5
Page 4
12.       The crystallization station will also be equipped for producing
plantation white sugar by remelting A-sugar, sulfiting and boillng the re-
melt. The equipment includes:
(a)  A 25 a.3 per hour remelter.
(b) A sulfiting tank, 40 1i.
(c) A sulfited remelt receiving tank, 10 m.3
(d) A 25 m. /hour centrifugal pump.
(e) A 3-compartment receiving tank, total capacity 450 hl.
(f)  Two vacuum pans of 250 hl capacity and 175 m.  heating
surface each.
(g) One 410 hl water-cooled crystallizer.
(h) One massecuite rota pump of 18 .m3 per hour.
CentrifuRals
13.       The centrifugal station will include a battery of three automatic
"Compact" 5 in. x 42 in. machines for the curing of A massecuite, four FC 1000
continucus centrîfugals for B and C massecuites and a fifth continuous PC
1000 machine for double curing of the C-sugar. All these machines will be
fully equipped with the ancillary equipment required including feed troughs,
control equipment and various accessories. In addition, the centrifugal
station will comprise:
(a)  Five molasses storage tanks, and five molasses pumps.
(b) One magma seed mixer for B sugar.
(c) One magma seed mixer for C sugar after lst curing.
(d) One magma seed mixer for C sugar after 2nd curing.
(e) Three magma pumps.
(f)  One centrifugal pump for remelt.
(g) One magma conveyor.
(h)  One molasses scale, "Servo Balans" type, 6 ton/hour.
(1) One molasses receiving tank.
(j)  One molasses pump, 4 M.3/hour.
(k) One molasses cooling unit.



ANNEX 5
Page  5
Raw Sugar Conveying and Drying
14.       The A sugar from the centrifugals will discharge into a shaker
conveyor and thence on to a rubber belt elevator conveyor of 15-ton/hour
capacity feeding a sugar drier fitted with both heating and cooling elements.
A vertical elevator will convey the dried sugar to a 15-ton/hour scale of the
"Servo Balans" type. The weighed sugar will finally be taken by an elevator
to a 68 m. long rubber belt conveyor for bulk storage.
15.       Provision is made for screening, bagging, conveying and stacking
plantation white sugar in 50 kg bags.
Condensation and Refrigeration
16.       Two barometric condensers will be provided - one of 2.025 m. diam.
for the evaporator and the C massecuite pan, the other of 2.40 m. for the A,
B and remelt pans - and two 4,000 m.3 per hour vacuum pumps.  Injection    3
water will be pumped to the condensers by two centrifugal pumps of 1,250 m.
per hour capacity. Two similar units, plus a spare, will be available
for pumping water from the condensers to the refrigeration system which has
a capacity of 2,300 m.3 per hour.
Steam Production
17.       The boiler station will include the following main equipment:
(a)  A water softening plant of 25 m.3 per hour.
(b) A 25 m.3 per hour pump to take the soft water to a storage
tank of 250 m.3 capacity.
(c)  Two boiler feed turbo-pumps and one spare moto-pump.
(d) One boiler feed tank, 40 m.3 capacity.
(e)  One bagasse conveyor 1.2 m wide by 56 m long to convey the
bagasse from the mills to the boiler plant.
(f) Three tanks for storage of heavy and light fuel oil, with
the necessary pumping system.
(g)  A 0.5 m wide by 20 m long bagasse conveyor for conveying
excess baggase to a 10 m diameter bagasse incinerator.
(h)  Two 37 ton/hour steam boilers having the following charac-
teristics:
Steam chest pressure                      26 bars
Steam temperature after superheater       3300C
Each boiler will be equipped with pneumatic spreader stokers
and tipping ash grates and burn bagasse and/or fuel oil. When



ANNEX 5
Page  6
burning only fuel oil, however, capacity is limited to
40% of total.
(i) One economizer or feed wate:r heater.
Electricity Generation
18,       Electricity will be generated in a 3,500 KVA turbo-alternator
having the following characteristics:
Stean pressure                       20-25 bars
Steam temperature                    330°C
Back pressure                        1.7 bars
Speed reduction                      9000:1500 RPM
Raw Sugar Storage
19.       Raw sugar will be stored in bulk in a silo 35 m wide by 98 m long
havîng a capacity of 20,000 tons. The silo will be equipped for sugar de-
livery at the rate of 70 tons per hour.
Molasses Storage
20.       Molasses will be stored in a 6,500 m.  storage tank equipped
for steam heating of the molasses and with a 17 m.3 per hour delivery
pump.
Laboratory
21.       A laboratory, 18 x 8 m, will be provided, fully equipped with all
the instruments required for carrying out process chemical control.
April 25, 1974



ANNEXm 6
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Works
General
1.        The project is located in the Rharb Plain about 100 km northeast
of Rabat and is a follow-up to the Sebou I Irrigation Project which included
development of 38,300 ha of new irrigation, rehabilitation of 5,000 ha of
existing irrigated land and improvement to 26,700 ha of rainfed agriculture
in an area of 90,000 ha gross located on the left bank of the Sebou river.
2.        The project would provide flood protection forr the area being de-
veloped for irrigation under the previous project, construction of a sugar-
cane factory to process the sugarcane now being planted in the area together
with a plant to treat effluent from both the new sugarcane and existing sugar
beet factories at Mechra Bel Ksiri and improvements to the project area road
network, and construction of a bridge over the Sebou river to facilitate
transportation of sugarcane and other crops.
Flood Protection Works
3.        Flood protection works to be provided by the project would comprise
construction of dikes around the irrigation sectors and works in the flood
channels Y and Z (see Map 10899) to adapt and reinforce the infrastructure
which would be submerged during floods (roads, railway line and transverse
drainage canal). In addition, minor modifications would be undertaken to
adapt existing structures in irrigation sectors to the flood protection
system and new housing would be constructed for families to be moved out of
the flood escape channels.
(a) Dikes: For the most part, dikes would be quite small,
from 1 to 2 meters high adjacent to the Sebou river, wîth
a free-board of 0.70 meter and a crown width of 1.5 meter.
They would be made of locally excavated earth and would
be protected where necessary by earth-groynes agaînst
erosion by flood-water. In designing the dikes it will be
necessary to ensure that in the event of their being breached,
the depth of water retained within the previously protected
area would not be so great as to preclude the residents
walking to safety. Dike lengths and volumes in each flood
protection sector would be as follows:



A  WEX 6
- agee 2
Flood
Protection          Dikes                 Eart2n Groynea
Sector      Lengths  VL ms: ni  Zsh Volumes   Toti Volume
(km)                                     0 6-(t   '  !   (million mS>
A           18       0.2350                                       c,250
B           25        Q4 -?                          02a          0.425
45                                       5. 07        0.490
DE           85       0. CeJ t 0                       o           0.730
F 35                   3                °    0.350
TOTAL       208      2 letù                             4$0        2.245
(b)  Flood-Channe'l O,     tha   Yod-crSL        and 1, the planned
înfrastructure  oiluk be pro:'ec'L  ariâïnst exceptional f looda,
the overf low dîscha-gae of ai   Licu6Ld De Sch w33  MI/Sec i n Y
Channel and 700 a ,msec în Z chL iûaîh  infrastructure
works crossing the channels aYe99  a ' .'xan drainage canal, road
R.S 220 and tne Tan giers-Fae  srngla track raillwvay lne îa
Channel Y and î-n Channel 2  s naima5n  raa-age ccr±-ia:L and road
R.S 220.  The necessasry works aSJ-LC cj  ist oaf
M1)  diversion totmrs the Sesou  Ji ehe draRna-e canal
crossing Y and Z channels2   so as to prevant the
canal from being          by'he Sf   Lt suspended în
overflots. A fiap-ga'ùe S$ nlucecure in the Sebou dike
would prévuent the Seboau wster frain f lowirg back
into the canals cdaurng floo     The dîvLrsion
lengths woul-d  a 300 -a 'id 3000 r    nespecftvealy
for channels Y and Z$  `îb3 draîing tn n'als have
a depth of 3 maters, a   cas s   ectro-s  oi f n 15 m2 an
a discharge ai about 3 n3zn.c:
(if)  constructorn$ $a- i a ri2.sc bata- 440  meters long vith
12 meter spanrs between  lenrst
(iii)  modification of roada ta permit submersion either by
reconstructfng the road at  rmard leavel or by protect-
ing the doiwstream slope of the existîng road embank-
ment 1tibIah  oui:.d ser'-ve, îf nessssw    to controi the
flowi rrnto the channel sud to grevnt silt deposition
on  hea road.  At p£rsent roada arr bui t on embankments
of about 0.5 n cr 7 I   in he±gt, u.-c 5Would be destroyed
by ova:iZw
(iv)  protectIr t  %he dikezs agdacent ta thr  channels from
erosaorn by te  f load f''- ÈsaaS 9s Lc
(v)  lave llng ai f o  chaenrne'3 istakea  insofar as requ±red
to sump ar th for &tksz canstrcton,



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(c)  Other Flood Protection Works:  Other flood protection works
vould include:
(i)  flap-gates to prevent backup of flood water into
the drainage systems of protected sector8;
(il)  extension of dikes to encltse pumping stations and
in Sector A, to the Sidi Aldel Aziz bridge and to
the gate structure supplying the R'Dom canal with
Sebou water;
(iii) in Sector F, local works on Wadi R'Dom; and
(iv) construction of houses for the 130 families which
will be displaced from flood channels Y and Z.
Areas of land expropriated for embankments and in flood channels Y and Z would
be as follows:
Sector        Embankment           Channel Y         Channel Z         Total
(Ha)              (Ha)              (Ha)             (Ha)
A                40                                                    40
B                50                350                                400
C                90                                   650             740
D&E              170                                                   170
F                70                                                    70
100                                                   100
Total             520                350                650           1,520
4.        Sugarcane Factory:  The sugarcane factory to be provided under the
project would be constructed at Mechra Bel Ksiri. The site selected ls on
the north aide of the Mechra Bel KRiri - Sidi Allal Tazi road, itmmediately
west of the existing Sugar Beet Factory. The existing electric power and
water supply services for the Sugar Beet factory would also serve the new
factory.
5.        The factory which has been described in Annex 5 would employ a mill
train for juice extraction in preference to diffusion. The detailed techni-
cal specifications for the factory and amendments thereto annexed to the con-
struction contract have been examined and are satisfactory. Provision has
been made by a modification to the original specifications to include refin-
ing equipment to produce white sugar of 99.7% purity.
6.        Road Improvements:  Main roads vill require strengthening and in
*      some cases videning to facilitate transport of sugarcane as well as to ac-
le     coimmodate the anticipated increase in other local traffic which would in
any case necessitate improvements to mont main roads durîng the next decade.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
A study of future traffie has been made by the Ministry of Public Works Roads
Laboratory and the improvements requiired for each road have been based on the
projected future traffic volumes. The main roads to be improved are:
Road              Road
Class             No.          km          Composition of Traffic (%) /a
li&ht    Medium    Heavy
Class 1 Road      RP 6        30.0           65        25       10 /b
Class 2 Roads    RS 105       16.0           70        20       10 /b
207      4.5
210     30.0
211     13.5
94.0
/a   Light - cars, light vans; Medîum = Small trucks upto 5.5 tons;
Heavy - Trucks 10 tons average load.
/b   Expected savings due to project are DH 0.06, 0.16 and 0.30 per
vehicle per kilometer for light, medium and heavy traffic
respectively; maintenance cast savings for Class 1 and Class 2
roads are estimated at DH 8,000 and DH 3,000 per km per year.
The existing bridge over the Sebou River at Mechra Bel Ksiri which carrîes
both the Tangier - Fez railway lîne and the RP6 main road is already over-
loaded by traffic during the sugar beet harvesting season. A new bridge
will be constructed to relieve the congestion and provide for the future
sugarcane traffic. It will be located adjacent to the sugar factorîes so
that traffic to and from them will not have to pass through the town.
Tender documents for this bridge have already been prepared.
7.        An internal network of bituminous tertiary, and gravel and earth
surfaced unclassifîed access roads has been designed. Bituminous surface
has been specified for all roads which are expected to carry traffic in ex-
cess of 2O,000 tons/year. Roads carrying between 6,000 and 20,000 tons/year
and all access roads in the areas to be used for rice cultivation will have
a gravel surface. Outside the rice growing area roads carrying less than
6,000 tons/year will have an earth surface and would be constructed during
the instaLlation of the irrigation and drainage systems and land levelling.
Tlhe lengths of tertiary and unclassified roads requiring improvement are:
Bituminous surfaced roads       100 km
Gravel surfaced roads           226 km



ANNEX 6
Page  5
In selecting the sites for sugarcane transfer centers, the need to use main
roads for transport of cane to the centers by tractors and trailers should
be avoided as far as possible. Where this cannot be avoided, it is proposed
to construct tractor routes alongside the main roads. Provision for this has
been included in the cost estimates.
8.        Standards for construction and improvement of the various classes
of road have been established by the Roads Department of the Ministry of Public
Works and are satisfactory.
April 25, 1974



e
e



..u\r,ïEX 7
*                                                     P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~age 1
KINGD01I OF MOROCCO
SEBOU Il DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        Consultant Plant Pathologist
The Consultant Plant Pathologist should have at least five years
practical experience in sugarcane diseases and should speak and understand
French. He would undertake the following studies over a period of about four
months:
(a) survey sugarcane cultivation throughout Morocco to determine
the incidence of mosaic dîsease, îts dîstribution9 spread,
severity and varietal reactions. The order of priority should
be the Rharb, Moulouya, Larache, and other areas where sugar-
cane occurs;
(b) investigate the presence of mosaîc on other hosts and with
the assistance of research centers overseas determîne the
st:rain(s) of mosaic existing in Morocco;
(c) While engaged on the mosaic disease survey, determine the
presence of other sugarcane diseases in Morocco, in partic-
ular leaf scald and ratoon stunting;
(d)  formulate recomendatîons for the control of the disease and
determine the necessity or otherwise of recommending the ap-
pointment of a Moroccan plant pathologist for a longer period
to ensure that control measures are efficiently carried out;
(e) review the present cane quarantine procedure and advise on
any necessary changes;
(f) he will advise on the procedure of heat treatment of cuttings
and make recommendations on the establîshment of nurserîes;
and
(g) assist in the în-service training of local staff by a series
of lectures and direct seminars on sugarcane dîseases and
their control for extension officers of the different regional
development offices.
2.        Consultant Entomologïst
The consultant Entomologist should have at least five years prac-
tical experience in sugarcane inseet peste.  He should speak and understand
French. He would undertake the following studies over a period of about four
muon ths;



Page 2
(a)  survey sugarcane plantations of Morocco to determine the
presence of vectors of mosalc disease, their abundance and
the range of species concerned.  The order of priority should
be the Rharb, Moulouya, Larache, and other areas where sugar-
cane occurs;
(b)  assist the Plant Pathologist in formulating control mieasures
in as far as the role of insects in the spread of mosaic is
concerned;
(c)  study the Sesamia problem with particular reference to the
efficacy of the insecticidal treatment practiced at present;
(d)  obtain as much information as possible on the incidence and
economic status of other sugarcane pests - încluding rodents -
occurring in Morocco;
(e)  determine the need to appoint a Moroccan Entomologist for an
extended period to undertake more detailed studies; and
(f)  assist in the in-service training of local staff by a series
of lectures and direct seminars on sugarcane pests and their
control for extension offîcers of the different regional
development offices.
3.        Consultant Agronomist
The Consultant Agronomist, who would be appointed for four months,
should have at least ten years experience in sugarcane fîeLd experimentation.
He should be fluent in the French language. Hls responsibilities wouiLd be to:
(a)  formulate recommendations for the organization of a s&ugrcane
center, within the structure of ORMVAG, and the number and qual-
ifications of personnel required. The Center will be respon-
sible for field experimentation, extension, coordination of
mechanized field operatîons includîng harvest and transport
of cane to the factory. In conjunction wîth the factory, the
Center will be responsible for determining the sucrose content
and quality of farmers' canes;
(b)  specify the channels of commnication between the sugarcane
center and the specialized services of the DRA, indicating
the extent of laboratory assistance required for gugarcane
investigations;
(c)  draw up a program of lectures and seminars on sugarcane for
the training of extension offices; and
(d)  advise on modifications to the existing field layout and estab-
lish a schedule of experimentation on alternative methods of
cultîvation including the "Louisiana system".



WNNEX 7
Page 3
4.        Sugarcane Speciali-t
The Sugarcane Consultant, who would be appointed for two years,
should posses extensive knowledge and wide experience of sugarcane problems
in different fields of agronomy, physiology, chemistry, pathology, entomology,
or plant breeding. He should be fluent in the French language. He would
advise and assist the Chief Agronomist of the Sugarcane Center as necessary
and will initîally pay epecial attention to:
(a) the organizatioen of the Center and its proper functioning;
(b) establishing a program of experimentation which should in-
clude as a priority alternative layouts of fields and improved
drainage;
(c) coordination wîth the DRA for laboratory investigations
related to sugarcane agriculture; and
(d) establîshment of a in-service traîning program for extension
officers.
5.        Consultant Sugarcane Technologist
The Consultant Sugarcane Technologist, who would be appointed for
six months, should have consîderable experience in the sampling and analysis
of sugarcane for the purpose of determining cane quality as a basis for pay-
ment of cane growers. He would advise and assist ORMVAG in:
(a)  establishment of a sampling system for farmers cane delivered
to the factory as a basîs for determination of the quality of
cane from a farmer or group of farmers.  Special consideration
will be given to the problem of identifying cane from such an
individual or group where the transport system involves trans-
ferring cane from small field trailers to large semi trailers
for road haulage;
(b)  establishment of a laboratory facillty to undertake the testing
of cane samples, checking of the analysis procedures used and
correlation of resulte with actual factory extraction perform-
ance; and
(c)  training of technicians in the necessary sampling procedures
and analysis techniques.
6.        Pollution Control Engineer
A consultant would be employed for five month to review the pollu-
tion of the Sebou river downstream of the Idriss I dam and make recommenda-
tions for an effluent treatment plant, to control pollution from the existing



ANNEX 7
Page 4
sugar beet factory and new sugarcane factory at Mechra Bel Ksiri and the re-
quirements for control of such other sources of pollution as exist.
7.        Consultants Services for Flood Protection Works
Provision has been made for further studies that may be required,
final design and bid document preparation, requîring an estimated 128 man
months of consultant time for flood protection works, to be carried out by
consultants for the Ministry of Public Works.
8.        The invitation to bid, evaluatîon of bids and award of contract for
flood protection works is to be undertaken by ORMVAG with technical assistance
from the Hydraulic Department of the Ministry of Public Works.  Provision has
been made for consultants to assist ORMVAG in the subsequent field supervision
of construction and to provide other technical assistance to ORMVAG and train-
ing for project staff. The requirement is estimated at 4 man years.
9.        Schistosomiasis Study
An experienced consultant would be required to undertake a survey
of the Rharb plain, over a period of two months, to determine the incidence
of schistosomiasis and, if present, to make recommendations for its control
with particular reference to the project area.
10.       The man month requirements of consultant services and fellowships
for Moroccan staff is estimated as follows:
Han Months
Sugarcane Plant Pathologist                          4
Sugarcane Entomologist                               4
Sugarcane Agronomist                                 4
Sugarcane Specialist                                24
Sugarcane Technologist                               6
Pollution Control Engineer                           5
Consultants to Ministry of Public Works for
flood protection studies, final design and
preparation of bid documents                      128
Consultants to ORMVAG for Supervision
of Construction of flood protection works          48
Consultant for Schistosomiasis Study                 2
Other Short-term Consultants (including
consultants for sugar factory acceptance)           5
Total Consultants                            230
Overseas Fellowships for In-service
Training of ORMVAG, MARA (DRA) and
SUNACAS staff                                      42
e
May 23, 1974



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                           ANNEX 8
Table 1
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates   /1
Local   Foreign  Total           Local  Foreign  Total   Percentage
Foreign
Sugar Factory                           -------DH Million -- -           ------US$ Million-----   Exchange
Civil Works and Erection               2.89      11.51    14.40         0.71    2.82      3.53      80
Effluent Treatment Plant               1.22       1.84     3.06         0.30    0.45      0.75      60
Equipnient and Material                8.77      35.21    43.98         2.15    8.63    10.78       80
Studies and Final Design               1.18       4.73     5.91         0.29    1.16      1.45      80
Management Fee                         0.57       2.20     2.77         0.14    0.54       0.68     80
Transport and Insurance                0.45       1.83     2.28-        0.11    0.45       0.56     80
Consultants, Studies,
Training                             0.29       1.18     1.47         0.07    0.29      0.36      80
Sub-total                       15.37     58.50    73.87          3.77   14.34    18.11       79
£lood Control
Civil Works:  Dykes                   19.70      12.57    32.27         4.83    3.08       7.91     39
Flood Channel
Works                   1.18       0.82      2.00        0.29    0.20       0.49     41
Other Works             1.96       1.31      3.26        0.48    0.32       0.80     40
Land Expropriation                     4.90       0.00     4.90         1.20    0.00       1.20      0
Technical Assistance                   0.94       3.75     4.69         0.23    0.92       1.15     80
Sub-total                       28.68     18.45    47.13          7.03    4.52    11.55       39
Roads and Bridge
Mechra Bel Ksiri Bridge                1.35       1.63     2.98         0.33    0.40       0.73     55
Primary and Secondary
Main Roads                           6.53       6.57    13.10         1.60    1.61       3.21     50
Bituminous Tertiary Roads              6.32       6.32    12.64         1.55    1.55       3.10     55
Gravel Feeder Roads                    3.22       3.22      6.44        0.79    0.79       1.58     50
Lateral Ways for Sugar
Transport to Trans-
loading Centers                      2.49       1.67     4.16         0.61    0.41      1.02      40
Strengthening of Roads
in Flood Escape Channels             0.90       1.10     2.00         0.22    0.27      0.49      55
Maintenance Equipment                  0.37       0.65      1.02         0.09    0.16      0.25      64
Sub-total                       21.18     21.16    42.34          5.19    5.19    10.38       50
Total Basic Cost                65.23     98.11   163.34         15.99   24.05    40.04       60
Physical Contingencies                   7.71      11.59    19.30          1.89    2.84      4.73      60
Price Contingencies                     15.50      20.85    36.35          3.80    5.11      8.91      57
Total Costs                     88.44    130.55   218.99         21.68   32.00    53.68       60
/1 Details in Tables 3, 4 and 5 which also give the annual expenditure rates.
. il 25, 1974



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates By Year
Percent
Foreign
1974      1975        1976       1977      1978      Total      Foreign      Local    Exchange
A.    Base Cost                                                                     DH million --------------------------------------
Sugar Factory Li                     54.60      14.74          -         -          -      69.34     55.48/8      13.86       80
Roads and Bridge /2                  10.67      10.48      6.74       5.59       8.86     42.34      21.16        21.18       50
Flood Control /3                      1.30      23.16     12.93       3.45       1.60     42.44      14.70        27.74       35
Effluent Treatment Plant /4              -          -      3.06          -          -      3.06       1.84          1.22      60
Consultants, Studies L                3.68       1.93      0.40       0.10       0.05       6.16      4.93          1.23      80
Sub-total                     70.25      50.31      23.13       9.14     10.51    163.34       98.11        65.23       60
B.    Physical Contingencies (11.8%) .           8.29      5.94       2.73       1.08      1.26      19.30      11.59         7.71       60
Sub-total                     78.54      56.25      25.86      10.22     11.77    182.64    109.70          72.94
C.    Price Contingencies  /7                   8.64      11.30       7.32       3.74      5.35      36.35      20.85        15.50       57
Total Cost                     87.18     67.55      33.18      13.96      17.12    218.99    130.55         88.44
/l  Assuming US$ 1 = FF 4.99 = DH 4.08
2 Excluding the roads in the Reservoir area.
A Excluding Technical Assistance which is included in the Consultant category.
j Sugar factory effluent treatment plant: includes effluent from the new sugarcane and the existing sugar beet factory.
/5  Includes 15 man years of consultant services for the flood control component of this project and one plant pathologist, one
entomologist, one agronomist, each for 4 months; one pollution control engineer for 1 month; one sugarcane specialist for 2
years; one sugarcane technologist for six months; one specialist for Bilharzia control study for four months; together with
40 man months for training fellowships.
6 Average contingency rate.
7 Using the average rate of 11% in 1974, 8.5% in 1975 and 6.5% during 1976-78.
8 Includes 100% of cost expressed in French francs; plus 60% of material and equipment, 30% of civil works, 70% of factory
erection, and 50% of miscellaneous cost.
April 26, 1974                                                                                                                                    m X
*e 



*                                                                                                                           e
MOROCCO
SEBOU Il DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimates - Sugar Factory
1i97l                               1975                           Total
Capital Cost                                                                             Millon----------------------------      Million  ------------------
Firm Cost Denominated in FF
Equipment & material                           32.09                                8.02                           40.11
Management *fee                                 0.59                                2.36                            2.95
Studies & final design                          6.53                                0.73                            7.26
Sub-total                       39.21                               11.11                           50.32
2 ~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~DH Million ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Estimated Cost in Dirham2
Equipment & material                            8.96                                2.24                           11.20
Civil %brks & erection                         11.52                                2.88                           14.40
Management fee                                  -                                   0.35                            0.35
Transportation & insurance                       2.08                               0.23                            2.31
Sub-total                       22.56                                5.70                           28.26
Total/Cost    (DH million)                54.                                 14.74                           69.3-            ta
Total/Cost (US$ million)                   13.38                               3.62                           17.01
1  FF = French franc; total french franc cost is not revisable.
/2  Cost is denominated in Moroccan eurrency and is revisable in terms of a complex indexing formula included in the contract
Contract prices were expressed at July 1973 prices.  These have been raised by 4% to express them  in January 1974 prices
April 26, 1974



MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flood Control Cost Estimates
A       B          C         D + E         F                                 Total
CIVIL WORKS                     --------------------------- (DH million) -------------------------------------------
Flood   annel Works                     -     1.50       0.50             -         -                                2.00
Dykes        i                       3.75     6.37       7.35        10.95       5.25                                33.67
Other Works L                        0.11     0.23       0.30         0.20       1.00                                 1.84
LAND EXPROPRIATION4                   0.30     1.10       1.90         1.30       0.30                                 4.90
Sub-total                         0.483    9.200    10.050         12.450      6.550                              42.41
Technical Assistance                           1.012      1.018        1.394      0.781                                4.69
Total - A                            4.643   10.212    11.068         13.844      7.331                              47.10
L   For the flood channels the actual and planned infrastructure would be protected against
2  exceptional floods.  The main works are a main dra½nage canal and one large railway track.
Dykes would be from 1 to 2 meters on the Sebou side and 1.5 meters on the Merja side.  They
would be made of locally available c]ay earth and would be designed with a free board of
0.7 meters and a crown width of 1.5 meters only.  Total length would be about 260 km (Sec
L3  These would include flap getes to provide for drainage from protected sectors, junction of dykes,
and pumping stations.  Also includes houses    of displaced people  from the flood channels    about
130 houses valued at DH 1000/house.
L4  Land would be needed for eor.ba.nkments (5M0 ha) ad i`'l,ood channels (1000 ha).  Av erage price per ha
is about DH 3550/ha rangitig from DH 5000/ha for "ihcss" land to Dl 2500/ha for "Tir" land.                                             Co
L5  Consists of design, ternder documents and construction supervision estimated at about 12.5% of cast of
civil works (DH 44.53 million), 80% of which is in foreign exchange. Total man-months required
is estimated at 8.25.
M.arch 11, 1974
*                                                                                                                        e



MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugar Factory - O and M Costs at 1974 prices
1974         1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980
Sugar cane production (1000 tons)                            80           169            214          319           394           428
Factory Costs                                -----    H million --- - ---- -----------                                 --------------
Purchase of sugar cane                         -         5,760         12,170        15,410        22,970        28,370        30,810
Chemicals, fuel, lubriecants                   -         0,128          0,172         0,195         0,247         0,285         0,300
Spare parts, gasoline                          -          1,212         1,225         1,232         1,248         1,259         1,264
Wages and salaries                           1,700        1,750         1,800         1,875         1,950         2.050         2,100
Other transport costs                        0,010        0,010         0,010         0,010         0,010         0,010         0,010
Miscellaneous adiinistrative costs           0,025        0,030          0,032         0,034        0,036         0,038         0,040
Interest on working capitalL2                  -          0,027         0,046          0,056        0,079         0,096         0,101
Depreciation3                                  -          4,000         4,000         4,000         4,000         4,000         4,000
Physical Contingencies                         -          0,180          0,310         0,375        0,530         0,640         0,690
Sub-total                                                                   070        374b          39,315
Price contingencies            -          0,156          0,334         0,525        0,750         1,005         1,263
Total Cost with Contingencies           1,735                     20,099        23,712        3077
/1     Price of JU 7,/m ton for sugar cane including transport cost.
72-    Working capital requirement assumed to be 10%, of annual costs at interest of 6% percent per annum.
7_     Over 15 years on equipment and buildings.
Mlay 30, 1974                                                                                                            D N
vt CO



MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimates of Roads in Project Area
1973          1974           1975           1976          1977        1978      Total
Irrigation Related Roads                       --------------------------------------------DH million------------------- ---------
Mechra Bel KI.Ari Bridge                                     0.750         2.100          1.500                                3.000
Main Roads                                       -           3.800          2.250         2.000         3.450       1.250    13.100
Bituminous Tertiary Roads                        -           3.530         1.050          1.350         0.435       6.29      12.655
Feeder Roads (Gravel)                            -           2.530          2.050         0.800         0.300       0.75       6.430
Maintenance Equipment                            -             -           1.000            -            -            -        1.000
Sub-total                                        -           9.610          8.450         5.650         4.185       8.29      36.185
Flood Protection Relate.dRoads                   -            -            1.500           -            0.320       0.200Z    2.020
9.610         9.950          5.650         4.505       8.49      38.205
LateraLl Ways on Side of'                        -1.050                    0.525          1.087         1.088       0.395      4 14r5
Main Roads L_
Total                                                   10.660         10.475          6.737         5.593       8.885    42.350
L.1  Road construction and improvement related to protection of the project area from floods
/2  From access roads to transloading stations.                                                                                                                1



ANNEX 9
KTNGT)OM OF MOROCCO
SEBOIT TT DEVELOPM{ENT PROJECT
Est½nated Sr±ed-ule of Disniirsemen+.s
IBRI) Fiscal Year and Quarter           Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
(us$ 0ooo)
Sertember 30, 1974                                   4,800
December 31, 1974                                   12,700
March 31, 1975                                      15,300
June 30, 1975                                       18,300
September 30, 1975                                  21,700
December 31, 19Q7                                   22,600
March 31, 1976                                      2h, 200
June 30, 1976                                       25,300
September 30, 1976                                  ?6,900
Decemher 31, 1976                                   r, 500
March 31, 1976                                      28,100
June 30, 1977                                       2
September 30, 1977                                  29,100
December 31, J977                                   29,500
March 31, 1978                                      30200
June 30, 1978                                       30,700
September 30, 1978                                  31,200
December 31., 1978                                  31, 50
March 31, 1979                                      32,0O
May 20, 1974



e
e



Md'NEX 10
Page 1
MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Prospects for Sugar
Backg round
1.        Morocco's per capita consumption of sugar, at 25 kg per annum, is
one of the highest among developing countries. In 1973, total consumption
of sugar in Morocco was about 450,000 tons of which about 200,000 tons was
imported - mainly from Cuba, Brazil and Poland.  It is estimated that sugar
consuinption would increase at about 3% per annum and is expected to reach
550,000 tons by 1980. Morocco's current five year plan aim to provide two
thirds of domestic consumption from doinestic production. The policy was
introduced in 1963 and self sufficiency is the ultimate objective.
2.        There are eight sugar beet processing factories in Morocco, the
first one started production in 1963.  The total sugar producing capacity
of these factories is 300,000 ton/year, and 247,000 ton of raw sugar was
produced in 1972. In 1973, production fell to 220,000 due to reduction in
sugar beet supplv. Table 1 gives the growth pattern of sugar producing
capaciLty in Morocco.
3.        Morocco's initial drive for self sufficiencv in sugar was in re-
sponse to the steep rise in sugar price in 1963. The world price 1/ of raw
sugar increased from USJ2.78/lb in 1962 to US!8.29/lb in 1963; subsequently
declining to US,5.77/lb in 1964 and to USé1.81/lb by 1966.  Since then prices
have been rising continually and in March 1974 were at the exceptionally high
level of USé19/lb. Between January and March 1974, the price of sugar in-
creased by 77% - a proportional increase which was exceeded only by petro-
leum. The price spiral is mainly due to lagging production. World consump-
tion of sugar has increased by about 20 million tons since 1964, while pro-
duction increased by only 10 million tons.  World sugar stocks have declined
by 25% since 1970 to about 15 million tons, and presently are about 20% of
consumption.  This is a decline fron 30% of consumption in 1970.  Table 2
gives four tine series for sugar prices for the period 1960-1973. Table 3
gives, for 1965-1973, the world production, consumption and stocks of sugar.
Meditmu-Term Implications
4.        The present high price of sugar and the expectatîon that it will
not fall much in the medium run would lead to significant emphasîs on in-
creasing production. Brazil is planning on enlarging exports, while Indîa's
.       1/   The "world price" applies to trade on the so-called "free market" which
until December 31, 1973 was regulated by the International Sugar Agree-
ment.



N, tx  0
Page 2
proposed f ive vear plan envisages tapping the resources of the small cane
producers to eventually achieve self sufficiency. There were four major
causes of the Dresent and, probably, continuîng tight supply situation:
(a)  the severe draught conditions in Northeast Brazil and some
other Latin Anerican countries, which occurred in 1973;
(b)  the EEC revis on oe îts estîmated sugar exports to one haEf
the origLnal estimate of approximately 800 9000 tons;
(c)  the US farmers' shift from sugar beet to other crops leadïng
to a drop in the output of sugar produced f rom sugar beet,
as a result the ITS is exreected to significantlv increase its
împort demand for sugar, particularly since its cane sugar
production is not likely to fill the gap due to the shortfalls
froTn beet sugar; and
(d)  the International Sugar Agreement expired in December 1973.  This
Agreemnent had provided price and quota regulation systems, and
the exnorting countries were receiving a fixed price under the
Agreement (the supply commitment price).  The removal of this
restriction following âxpiration of the Agreement has partly
contributed to the soaring of sugar prices.
5.        One imrortant factor which will dominate the long run sugar situa-
tion is the energv crisis, with its impact on transportation costs.  Until
early 1973, cost of sugar transportation was a small part of total cost
usually ranging between 15 and 25 dollars per ton for the most important
routes.  Howeverî in the past six months freight rates have increased to
thrice their former levels.  These very large increases have been maîntained
through all sections of the market, from short sea trades to large bulk
carriers and time charter. An indication of the phenomenal increase in
rates is provided by the nominal CarIbbean/UK freight rate, which commenc-
ing at US$15 has risen constantly throughout 1973, partîcularly during the
last six months, to the current level of US$45 per ton.  Given below is a
representative cross sugar section of sea freïght rates paid during 1973.
H1gh       Low
Britîsh Honduras-US Atlantic/Gulf          $14.50    $ 7.25
Philrppines - JS Atlantic/Gulf             $25.00    S14.00
Peru - UIS Atlantic/Gulf                   $17.00    $ 9.25
Durban - Japan                            3512.00    Î 6.50
Durban - Porkalla                          M12.50    3n 9.00
Brazil - Casablanca                        $40.00    $17. 0
Brazil - Japan                             $59.50    $20.00
Brazil - Arabïan Gulf                      S55.00    $18.50
Poland - East Africa                       51.50    $32.00
Dunkirk - Basra                            $63.00    $24.50                        l
Dunkirk - Red Sea                          $60.00    $18.00
Australla - Japan                         E17.00 n    h 5.25



ANNEX 10
Page 3
It is alnost certain that the current firt[ conditions will prevail and the
rates will not fall.  The main implication of the rise in freight rates is
the provision of an economic basis for expanding domestic sugar production
bv rtst countries who have the ulightest comparative advantage.
6..       Morocco has made a significant start in domestic sugar production
dur!ne the past decade and given sugarcane yields in the neighborhood of 100
tons/ha the hasis to expand domestic sugar production through development
of sugarcane farming exists.  The domestic market is large - about 550,000
tons by 1980 - and consequentlv could easily absorb the expected 45,000 ton
incremental production from the project.
April. 25, 1974
.



e
l~



MOROCCO
SEBOIJ 1l DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugar Beet  1rcsjîCpctyadA1~1Ane  Production i, Mlorocco
Raw Suger Froduction (in ton$)
S.gar Fa,tory                         Sugar                   1 9 6 3        1 9 6 4       i 9 6 5       I 9 6 6       i 9 6 7    i 9 6 8         1 9 6 9         1 9 7 O       1 9 7 I       1 9 7 2      1 9 7 3       1973 Average factory
Producing t.ap-ity                                                                                                                                                                           Utilization
SUNAB                            30,000                       5,000          19.600        21,700        31.500        10,100       28,200        24.000         25,700         32,400        30,500       22,000                737,
SUTO,                            40,000                                                                  46,0100       28,500.      26,500        33,100         28.900         27.000        32,000       29,000                737.
SUNAG MB81                       42,000                                                                                             30,300        20,900          17,900        37,300        37.200
45,000                537,.
SUNAG SAT                        42,000                                                                                             10,300           -            19,300        34,200        30,100
SUBM                             40,000                                                                                                           22,300          41,200        31,500        37,300       36,000                907,
DOUKALA                          30,000                                                                                                                           17,300        31,500        31,600       29,000                 961/.
SUNAT                            45,000                                                                                                                                         28,700        37,600       42,500                 947,
SUCRAFOR                         30,000                                                                                                                                                       10,900        15,000                507,
Total producé.d                                   5,000          19,600        21,700         47,500        38,600       95,500       108,300        150,300       222,600        247,200    218,500
Total Capacity                                   30,000          30,000        30,000         70,000        70,000      -54,000       194,000        224,000        269,000      299.000       299.000                                     e
Capacity ntilized 7,                             167,            637,           72%           687,          557,         627,          567,           67%            837,.         8 27,         7 37,
A9ril 18, 1974



ANNEX 10
Table 2
MOROCflO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Internat0onal Sug-ar M'4arket Pri ces-, 1960 to  q973
Export Unit
Wcrld         U.S.A.         Commonwealth   . Value -
(ISA daily) Preferential/2 Sugar Agreement/3 Developing
Countries/à
(U.S. cents per pound of raw sugar)
1960         3,14           5.35              5.44             n.a.
1961         2.70           5.34              5.52             4.75
1962         2.78           5.56              5.61             4.95
1963         8.29           7.28               5.64            6.45
1964         5.77           5.98               5.64            6.55
1965         2.08           5.80               5.82            4.71
1966         1.8i           6.04               5.94             4.88
1967         1.92           6,32               5.94            5.10
1968         1.90           6,54               5.10            5.20
1969         3.20           6.75               5.10             5.67
1970         3.68           6.94               5.10            5.81
1971         4.50           7.40               5.10            6.11
1972         7.27           7.99               6.0/5           6.S6
1973         9.49           8.91               5.56 76         n.a.
n.a. = not available.
/1  Fas or fob Caribbean or Brazilian ports,
7   Price for export under U.S. Sugar Act.
73  Starting in 1965 the figures include the special payments to developing
countries introduced in that year. The decline in 1968 reflects the
devaluation of t'ne pound in 1967.
/4  Excluding Cuba.
77 Weighted average of contract prices received by developing countries,
members of the Comr.onwealth Sugar Agreement; excnange rate used:
1E = $2.502.
/6 Exchange rate used: 1i = $2.452.
Source:  International Sugar Organization, Sugar Year Book and
Statistical Bulletin (various issues);
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Sugar Reports (varicus issues);
FAO, Trade Yearbook 1972.
April 17, 1974



e
ANNEX 10
Table 3
MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
World Production, Consumption and Stocks of Sugar (Raw Value)
between 1964/65 ard 1972/73 *
Year       World Sugar       World Sugar    World Sugar Stocks   Stocks as % of
Consumption       Production     at the end of the        Consumption
Season (8/31)
-  m1±±1on m. tons>
1964/1965         59.3              66.8             18.9                    31.9
1965/1966         62.8              63.1             19.2                    30.6
1966/1967         65.5              65.6             19.3                    29.5
1967/1968         65.6              66.4             20.1                    30.6
1968/1969         68.2              67.8             19.7                    28.9
1969/1970          72.2             74.3             21.8                    30.2
1970/1971          74.6             72.8             20.0                    26.8
1971/1972          76.2             73.2             17.0                    22.3
1972/1973          78.8              77.3            15.5                    19.7
Source: F. 0. Licht,  International Sugar Report, various issues.
April 17, 1974
e



a                              O



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Il DEVELOPMENT PROJzCT
Farm Incoms on a 5 ha farm for Four C-op Rotations
-or  s9 Ft   Y.L9                                                                           rot ce                                          Sagare 8ne,
rotarion---                                  rotationS                                     rotation                                        rotation
Initial                Year 10                 Initial               Year 10                 Initial                 Year 10                            Year 10
Basic estioates                                                                                                                                                                                  Cool zone               Watm aone
------------------------------------------------  ------pH      ------------------_____  -----------___________-
Gros-  in-ose                            7,015                   11,065                 7,555                  12,370                 6,125                   1C,755                  17,700                  15,856
less, variable production cost                5,075                    5,750                  5,460                  7,120                  4,600                    5,270                  13,680                   9,696
RentLZ                                     750                    1,250                   750                   1,250                    750                   1,250                    *                      *
Irrigation water             L           - -                        435                 -                         348                 -                        1,500                    *                      *
Interest on working Capital                 80                      120                   105                     200                     60                      lO0                   *                      *
equal  Wet incone                              1,110                   3,750                  1,240                  3,452                    715                    2,635                   4,020                   6,610
add, imputed labor income                      3,750                   3,750                  3,700                  3,700                  3,630                    3,630                   3,184                   3,184
Net Cash income/family                         4,860                    7,500                 4,940                  7,152                  4,345                   6,265                    7,204                   9,344
Net income/Capita   (US$)                      (200)                   (305)                   (200)                 (290)                 (175)                     (255)                   (295)                   (380)
As s, tp ion
Farm gate                                      Crop Yield                                    Variable
Pric-                                         Tons/ha                                     Production
Cnet 19H/ha
Crop s
DH/ton                                Initial            Final           I          Initi al          Final
Sugar beet                                76                                       25               40                          1,150            1,250
Wheat                                    630                                        1                 2                           460              500
Seed Cotton                            1,400                                        1.2               2                         1,250            1,450
Vegetables                               280                                       12                12                         1,795            1,795
Bersin   (green)                          35                                       20                25                           600              750
Rire                                     650                                        2.5               5                         1,150            1,300
Maize (forage)                            45                                       40                75                           605              625
*   Included in variable  -osts.
L   Includes sugarbeet, wheat, bersit  and cotton operated at a cropping intensity of 125%
2  Inclodes sugarbeet, wheat, cotton, vegetables, bersin and neize with a cropping inteùsity of 140%
3 Includes rice, cotton and bersim et 100% intensity
4  Includes 100% sugarcane with no intercropping
For irrigated lajd DH 250,/ha;  for rainfed land DH 150/ha
L At DII 29/1000 m
L   50%, of variable costo excluding family labor at 6% per year
/8 Assuming a family of six
April 17, 1974



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugarcane Costs and Returns
/1                                         Cool Zone                           Warm Zone
Production Costs at November 1973 Prices-                   Labor Input         Plant Crop    Ratoon                 Plant Crop    Ratoon
(nan-days)        ------------------  DH/ha --------------------------
Land Preparation                                                                    250                                  250
Fertilization: Labor                                          5/ha                   50           50                      50           50
: Fertilizer                                                         485          485                     485           485
Planting                                                      17/ha                 285                                  285          960
Irrigation                                                    30/year              960           480                     960          960
Pesticide Treatment                                           4/ha                  130          130                     130          130
Interum Cultivation                                           30/ha                300          300                      300          300
Harvesting                                                    1/ton cane         1,000           700                   1,000        1,100
3,460        2,145                   3,460        3,025
Rent                                                                               500           250                     500          500
Other Costs                                                                         190          190                     190          190
Total Cost                                                                       4,150         2,585                   4,150        3,715
Total Cost Per Cycle                                                                   9,320/                                 15,295 /3
Total Revenue Per Cycle                                                               14,160                                 25,370
Net Revenue Per Cycle                                                                  4,840                                  10,075
Average Annual Net Revenue                                                             1,210                                   1,259
Average Annual Net Revenue
for a 5 ha Holding      D OH                                                          (6,050)                               (6,295)
US$ equivalent                                               (1,483)                               (1 543)
/1  January 1974 prices increase mainly in the cost of fertilizer would increase production costs by DH 485/ha for both
plant and ratoon crops in each zone.
/2  One plant crop (2 years) and two ratoons (1 year each).
/3  One plant crop (2 years) and three ratoons (2 years each).
/4  At DH 59/ton for sugarcane.
May 30, 1974



.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Labor Requirements for(5 haiholdings Under the Sebou I Crop Rotations
Four Year Rotation            Five Year Rotation                 Rice Rotation                    Sugarcane
Labor Input    Area    Labor Requirement   Area   Labor Requirement    Area    Labor Requirement              Area       Labor Requirements
(man-days/ha)   (ha)        (man-days)         (ha)      (man-days)           (ha)       (man-days)            (ha)         (man-days)
Sugarcane                                                                                                                                     Warm Zone   Cool Zone
Warm Zone                105                                                                                                       5           525          600
Cool Zone                120
Wheat                      45        1.25          56             1.00           45
Cotton                    150        1.25         188             2.00          300               l            150
Sugar Beet                 80        1.25         100             1.00           80
Rice                       46                                                                     4            184
Vegetables                115        0.625         72             0.50            58
Forage                     56        1.875        105             1.50            84              4            224
TOTAL                                             521                            567                           558                               525          600
Imputed Labor Income>
DH/year                                          (3387)                         (3686)                         (3630)                           (3412)       (3900)
US$ equivalent/year                               (830)                          (903)                          (890)                            (836)        (955)        w
May 29, 1974



MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Patterns in the Project Area
/1
1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981      1982                 Total
----------------------------------------- h-----ha-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 Year rotation         1,760     2,460     3,410     5,460      5,460     5,460     5,460     5,460     5,460      5,460     5,46o                5,46o
5 Year rotation           490     2,540     4,190     4,990      5,640     5,640     5,640     5,640     5,640     5,640      5,640               5,460
Sugar cane rotation       _         800     2,000     3,200      4,400     5,600     7,100     8,600    10,100    11,100    12,100               12,100
Rice rotation             -         -        -        2,700      4,400     5,700     5,700     5,700     5,700     5,700      5,700               5,700
citrus                    650       650     1,850     6,300      6,300     6,300     6,300     6,300     6,300     6,300      6,300               6,300
'lOTAL        2,900     6,450    11,450    20,150    26,200    28,700    30,200    31,700    33,200    34,200    35,200                35,200
/1   Constraints from Sebou I report adjusted for total area of 35,200. Assuming 8,100 ha to supply the present sugar cane factory and the rest
of the area for supporting a second factory.
May 29, 1974
l                                                                                                                                              e



ANNEX 12
le                                                                  Page 1
KINGDOM 03 MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economîc Analysi-s
1.        The development comprises a factory for processing sugar cane, con-
struct:ion of flood protection works for the area to be irrigated under the
first Sebou project and development of roads to facilitate movement of agri-
cultural produce in the project area. Roads are essential to ensure that
full benefits are derived from the agricultural development in the area. The
main part of the road network developed under the project would be necessary
to meet the rnormal increase in traffic, and with the step wise development
inherent in road investments, this project has essentially accelerated the
investment program. About half of the investment is for main roads (94 km)
and a sridge and so would have a wide range of beneficiaries. The first year
retur  on this portion of this investment is estimated at 10% (Table 10), and
rei.nifrces the assumption that investmenti3 in roads would be necessary in a
few years.  The remainder of the investment would be necessary for facilitating
the mc;ement of agricultural production from and withîn the project area and
is isllocated to the project. A separate economic analysis for the investment
is not attempted, and in the aggregate analysis the quantitative benefit from
roads (road user savings. etc.) are understated. The economic evaluation of
the sugar factory and the flood control is discussed in detail hereunder.
Su2ar Fac2r
2.        The suigar factory is an investment of the import substitution cate-
garv, and economic benefits from the investments are defined as savings on
sugar tnports. Table 1 compares the cost of importing and domestically pro-
ducin? oane pound of raw sugar. At full development, the domestic production
cost Is estimated at USÎ11/lb while the ex-factory.price is USJ13/lb. The
cost of ïriporting sugar is also evaluated both on the basis of the Bank's
Economîc Analysis and Projections Division's (EAPD) forecast and on an alter-
native forecast of US015/lb as the likely import cost. Given present trends,
the higher alternative cost of USe15/lb appears a more reaiîstic forecast.
3.        Fconomlc Analysis.  Tables 2 and 3 evaluate the rates of return on
tImq  fractory for the following alternatives:
.   IAPD forecast price for  import cost, and domestic production
cost assuming a public sector operation;
IL   Al.ternative importes coet of USe15/lb, and assuming a public
seator operation;
*       Iî.   The returne on the investment in the sugar factory as a
financial operation.



ALNEX 12
Page 2
The results are summarized together with sensitivity analysis showing the
effects of varying costs and benefits for each alternative as follows:
Alternatives
I          II            III.
Rate of Return Z
Basic Rate of Return                              15.8*       28.8*         Io*
Sensitivity Analysis
Capital cost increased         15%                11.9       22.8             5
O & M Cost increased          25%                 10         23.8            -
Gross Benefits increased      25%                 22.9        37.3          26
Gross Benefits decreased      25%                  6.1        18.8
*    The main decision variables.
4.        The basic ROR for all alternatives equals or exceeds-10%, although
the production of sugar in the private sector appears to be least attractive.
The private sector return on equity (Table 3) is just barely adequate.
5.        In the public sector, the investment is attractive under both price
assumptions. Since the EAPD forecast price may prove low the ROR for alternative
Il may be taken as our best estimate of the returns from the sugar factory;
however, for consistency the rest of the analysis is based on the EAPD forecast.
On this basis, domestic sugar production is amply justified on purely economic
grounds. The sugar factory would be a self-financing as well as an economically
viable investment. Table 4 gives a tentative cash flow for the sugar factory
indicating the ability of the factory to repay the investments over twelve
years at 7.25% with two years' grace.
Flood Control
6.        The benefits from flood protection are defîned as the reduction
in the costs which would result fron flooding in the absence of protection.
When floods occur, the physical assets in the flood plain are damaged and
economic activity in the plain, as well as related activity outside the
plain, is interrupted.  The costs of flooding include damage to physical
assets, losses in income and costs of adjustment such as the expense of
compensating for dislocation. The extent of these losses depends on the
intensity and timing of the flood. The cumulative damage depends on the
frequency.
7.        Flood protection measures may:
(i) alter the distribution of flood losses - that is, protection
of one area may leave unchanged or aggravate damage in other
areas and/or;



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(ii) alter the stream flow by structural transformation (dams,
reservoîrs) so as to change the distribution function asso-
ciated with flood losses, thus eliminating the smaller, more
frequent floods leading usually, tu, a significant reduction
in losses;
(îii)  flood proofing investments, which do not alter the streamflow,
but reduce the damage associated with each level of a flood;
and
(iv) mandatory flood insurance 1/.
The insurance premiun for flood protection would usually include a safety
loading charge and so may significantly exceed the expected value of losses.
The premium may be unbearably large for the flood înhabitants and government
participation may be required. In considering the cost of flooding the mean
(expected) value of losses is usually employed, but it is inadequate as the
potential beneficiary in the flood plain may be more interested in the upper
extreme value of damage rather than the mean. Furthermore, his concern with
the extreme value would be inversely related to the proportion of extreme
damage to his net worth. If the extreme damage is a significant proportion
(say, larger than 50%) or a multiple of his net worth he would be entirely
concerned wîth the extreme values and not with the long-term mean.
Conventional Rate of Return Analysis of Flood Protection
8.        The flood control measures proposed under the project are of the
flood proofing variety. The proposed dykes would essentially protect the
irrigated area from flood damage without any effect on the distribution of
the river flows and the related floods. Measurements over the past thirty
seven years (1933-1970) indicate that a flood has occurred almost every year,
and occasionally a number of times in any one year. The protection dykes
would prevent damage from these recurrent floods.  One of the crudest ways
of evaluating these investnents would be to use the expected value of damage
from all floods as the annual benefits and to compute the resultant rate of
return. This method has two shortcomings:
(a)  it ignores the effect of extreme values of damage on the
incomes/net worths of potential beneficiaries; and
(b)  it discounts the expected value of damage in computing the
ROR implying that that sequence of floods is irrelevant and
that expected benefits in the remote future are less valuable
than benefits in the nearer future.
Under (a) above this method underestimates benefits by ignoring the very high
value that the poorer potential beneficiaries place on the prevention of
*l     high rîsk events 1/ (see para 7).  Under (b) the method underatates benefits
t/   Defined in terms of "extreme damage" as a proportion ot multiple of the
beneficiary's net worth.



ANNEX 1 2
Page 4
by failing to distinguish between L .ocd sequences.  For example, the rate of
return would be higher if a 100 yeaa  f'Lood occurs in year 1 than in year 10.
In order to use the discounting process, it is necessary to develop a prob-
ability distribution of B'the sequence of floods"; the use of the expected
value is an inappropriate surrogate îor the "sequence" and leads to artl-
ficial understatement of benefLîts.
9.        However, Ln order to provîde a reference point the rate of return
frotm f .ood control investments was est-imated using damage estîmates developed
by NEDECO 1/.  These estimates are given în Table 5 for the years 1976, 1985
and 1999. The damages in the intervenîng years were linearly înterpolated.
Table 6 estimates the rate of returun as 11%, Given the significant uncer-
tainties in estimation of damage the above rate of return may be defined as
conservative or as the minimum rathar than the expected ROR (conventionally
defined).
An Alternative Evaluation Procedure for Flood Protection
10.       Working on the assumption that forecasting a flood sequence is in-
trinsically difficult, the problem was translated into an equivalent insur-
ance problem. The main issue to resolve lay în defining the available flood
data in terms of a probability distribution. Given a probability distribution,
the economic evaluation could be stated as a comparison between the cost of
flood protection (X) (insurance pretniLum) and the expected cost of the avoided
flood damage (Y) over a 20 year period. The selection criterion could be de-
fined as "Accept if Y    X. "8
11.       In flood control literature there is mention of the "Poisson func-
tion" as an acceptable probability distribution for est&mating flooding prob-
abilities. Since flooding is a discrete event on the time scale an alterna-
tive equivalent, distribution is the "Binomial distribution". The binomial
distribution may be used to estimate the probability of one or more floods
provided the following two conditions are true:
(a)  there is absolutely no `2jLSern` to the occurrence of different
floods. That îs, a large flood may follow a small flood and
vice versa with the occurrence of one providing no information
about the other; and
(b)  the long run frequency of a flood îs known or can be defined
i.e. 100 year flood or a 10 year flood, etc.
12.       In order to establish "a" above the 39 available flood observations
were analyzed for significant autocorrelation. The main result from the analy-
sis was the existence of a lag-seven autocorrelation coefficient of about 0.4,
1/   After adjusting them for vrice and other changes.



ANNEX 12
le                                                                      Page 5
a significant relationship, but considered weak for predîction. Since it was
not possible to establish a physical basis for this statistical relationship
it was felt that the alternative assumption of serial independence was appro-
prîate. Given this the binominal distribution could be used to estimate the
probability of number of floods within a defined time period without reference
to the time of occurrence.
13.       Two estimates of the expected benefits from flood control are given
in Table 7.
(a)  prevention of damage against the 100 year flood, and
(b) prevention of damage against the much more frequent 5 year floods.
A binomîal distribution îs completely defined by two parameters, the total
number of trials, 1/ (N) and the long run probability (P) of this event 2/.
Given (N) and (P) one can estimate, from published tables, the probability of
getting 1, 2, ---, or, N floods over N years.  For example, with N = 20 and
P   0,01 tiue probability of gettîng 1 or more floods is 0.1821; the probabil-
ity of getting exactly 1 flood is 0.1652. As another example the probability
of getting exactly four floods (for N = 20, P = 0.2) is 0,2182, and the prob-
ability of getting one or more floods is 0.9885.
14,       For the two estimates given in Table 7, the values of N and P in
each case are:
(ï) N - 20, P = 0.01; and
(iï) N = 20, P - 0.20.
Column 1 in the Table gives the probability of "r" -/ or more floods in 20
years.  Column 2 gives the probability of exactly  r"' floods in 20 years.
It is then necessary to estimate a "damage" corresponding to the flood cf
frequency "P". Usîng the consultants estimates of damages done to the
equipment and infrastructure in the project area during the weak 4/ (1965)
and strong 5/ (1970) floods the per hectare damages were estimated at DH
2,700 and DH 5,000 in 1974 prices. Including the additional infrastructure
investments to be made in the project area, and including expected crop damage,
the reference damage/ha in the project for the two flood frequencies are es-
timated at DH 4,000 and DH 8,000 respectîvely.
1/   Generic term to be translated to mean "number of years" in this context.
2/   The design criterion - 100 year flood (P  - 1    0.01) or 5 year flood
(P - 0.20).                                     100
3/   "r" is a random variable defined as "number of floods".
4/   Essentîally a f£ve-year flood.
5/   Essentially a hundred year flood.



ANNEX 12
Page 6                  @
15,       In order to estimate the expected benefit from flood control we
defined a random variable D (r) as the damage corresponding to the damage
from "r"-floods r=   -,   M, when M        N.  The expected benefit is then:
L (uenefit)                 ( D <r) x Pb, r (N, P) where Pb, r (N,P) is
r-i
the probability of getting eaxactiy r   floods in N years.  That is9 the prob-
ability of getting one  two, --, M floods.  Since these are mutually exclu-
sive events the expected value is the probabiiîty weighted sum as defined
above,  The economic comparison 4s between the investments for f bood controi
C (F) and the expected value of damages         E (benefit) prevented.  If
E (benefit)    G (P) thle f lood controi investments would be economically
worthwhile.
16,       Using results of Table 7 , tne following values of E (benefit)
are derived.
E (Benefit)
DH million
I.   100 year floods only                                  56
N   20
P = 0.01
Il.   5 year floods onl                                    524
N = 20
P = 0.20
Since protection against 100 year floods would involve protection against 5
year floods l/ as well, the total benefits for protecting against the 100
year floods are DH 580 million; and for the 5 year floods alone these are
DH 524 million. The benefits are seen to be many times (about 12) larger
than the costs and the flood controi measures appear to be overwhelmingly
viable.
17.       Instead of ennunciating an exhaustive list of alternative events,
one could have compared a subset of the total benefits with the costs. Con-
sider the 5 year frequency floods and the probability 2/ of getting exactly
4 f loods.
1/   For logical rigor we must assume that only these two types of floods
occur; or else derive E (benefits) for all possible flood frequencies.
2/   From Table 8.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
Pb (r=4 / n = 20, P = 0.2) = 0.2182
D (r=4) = DU 560 _/ million
E (benefit) =   D (r=4)   x Pb (r=4/20,0.2)
-   560   X  0.2i82
DH 122 million
That is, even for four floods the expected damage is 2.5 tîmes larger than
the expected cost.
18.       The method gives the analyst tremendous leeway to adjust for un-
certainties in damage estimates. For example, even if the damage per ha
from a 5 year flood were DH 400 (i.e. one tenth of the damage assumed) the
expected benefit from flood protection would be DH 52 million or just equal
to the cost. Now, it is possible to say with complete assurance that DU 400/
ha îs almost certain to be exceeded. That is, there îs virtually no chance
that E (benefits) would be less than expected cost.
19.       It is these broad orders of magnitude which are important to es-
tablish in evaluating projects whlch have inherent uncertainties in the data
base. The flood probabilities generated may also be used to estimate the
annual insurance premium that would be charged to provide a similar level
of protection. For the 5 year floods, this is estimated at a minimum of
D1i 61 million per year at 10% interest over 20 years. A private lnsurer,
unless he were attempting to break even, would add a safety loading factor
to the premium. For all these reasons, it is clear that the flood protec-
tion is an economically viable investment.
Aggregate Economîc Return
20,       The aggregate economic return for the three project components,
using the conventional benefit estimates for flood control, is estimated
at 15%. The rate of return of Sebou I and II, using the EAPD price fore-
casts, is about 8%. Since, under presently foreseen conditions, costs and
benefits are expected to inflate at different rates, the usual procedure of
excluding price contingencies from the "coste" and valuation of benefits in
base year units of value was not applicable. This expected change in the
relative prices of these two aggregates (cost and benefits) vas incorporated
in the economic analysis by using the following procedure:
(a) express costs and benefits în current prices; and
(b) deflate the two series by a single index of inflation - either
the GNP deflator or the index of international prices.
*         1/   (4,000 x 35,000) x (4) - DH 560 million.



A.NNEX 12
Page 8
For this analysis the deflator used was 6%. The details are given in Tables
9 and 10 where the rates of return are estimated on deflated series. Table 8
gives the economic prices used in the analysis.
21.       Employment.  The direct employment effect of this project would be
confined to the construction perîod and is estimated as 2,000 man-years over
the next five years. This calculation assumes that each DH 100,000 investment
in civil works creates oue job. In addition, the sugar factory would provide
permanent employment for 85 and seasonal employment for 200 men (Estimates
based on data in the contract for the sugar factory). The employment effect
of the Sebou I project, concerned with agrizultural production, is estimated
at 17,000 man years per year - based on the per hectare estimate for employ-
ment given in Annex 11, Table 3.
April 25, 1974
.



*                                                                                                              _         _
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugar Factory Comparative Costs
Unit              1975               1976            1977              1978             1979              1980       1985
Domestie Production
Sugarcane Produced                                     103  tons                80               169              214              319               394              427
Sugar Produced                                         10   tons                 8.4              17.7             22.4             33.4              41.3             44.9
Cost of production/'                                   103  DH                 16,278           23,124            26,737          34,845            40,778            43,603
Cost per ton of sugar                                       DE/ton              1,938             1,306            1,194           1,043             987              971
/3                         USc/lb'2            22                14.8             13.5             11.8              11.2              11.0
Sale price of sugar ex-factory    (X)                       USç/lb              13                13               13               13                13               13
Freight,etc. to refinery/4           (Y)                    US¢/lb               0.60              0.60             0.60             0.60              0.60              0.60
Cost of domestically produced sugar (X+Y)                   uS/lb              13.60             13.6             13.6             13.6              13.6             13.6
Imported Sugar - Alternative I
FOB  Csribbean/5                                             USA/lb              8.5               9.0              9.5             10.5              11.0             12.0    16
Freight 6 Brazil - Casablanca                                US//1b              1.8                1.9             2.0              2.1               2.2               2.3     2.5
Local handling charges and transport to
refinery/7'                                                  US¢/lb              0.5               0.5              0.5              0.5               0.5              0.5      0.5
Cost of sugar CIF refinery                                   US¢/1b             10.8              11.4             12.0             13.1              13.7             14.8    19.0
Imported Sugar-Alternative II L                             FOB  US¢/lb              15                 15.8            16.5              17.4             18.2              19.1    23
CIF  USe/lb             17.23              18.2            19.0              20.0             20.9              21.9    26
More than 95% of this cost is domestic including the use of bagasse as an energy source.
/2    At US$ 1 = DH 4.08
Present fixed price is DH 1,150/ton ex factory.  Includes factory profit.  If this is redistributed,the cost would be less by the amount of the reduction.
/4    Freight and other costs estimated at DH 50/ton..
j     World ISA daily price FOB  Caribbean.  Forecast by the IBRD Economic Analysis and Projections Division (EAPD)
/6    Until 1973 cost of transportation was a minlor factor and ranged between US$15 to 25 per ton of sugar for most important routes.  More recent estimate  of
freight cost from Brazil to Casablanca is US$40/ton. Tliis te assumed to increase by US.0.1/lb/year.
7   Estimated at DH 40/ton.
/8    Recent movement of sugar price suggest that the EAPD                may be too low.  The price of sugar in March 1974 was US0l9/lb;  the price increase since
January 1, 1974 was 771%.  If the import cost alternative is assumed at USc15/lb and assumed to increase at 5% p.a., the option is much more clearly towards
domestic production.
April 17, 1974



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU Il DEVELOPMENT PROJEC0
Rate of Rature as DoaestiC Sugar Production
Benefits E.tinstiîn As-nmptive
Ctet af Domestir PCrdartioe                                                           Grass Benefits2                             Net Benefits                 Sg-             CF
Year                Capital          0 & M           Tatal                                           Alternative I            Alternative II               I               I            Tlh ....ucd P r ice
Ceai           eost LÀ                              (DR 10   )    _        _____________________                                                                    huad           D/o 
X                                                   Y                         Z                   (Y-X)           (Z-X)           Ton        Alternative I 3/  Aiternativa  II
1974                67,079            1,735          68,814                                             -                         -                   (68,814)        (68,814)            -               908               1,481
1975                19,545           13,253          32,798                                              7,627                    12,440              (25,171)        (20,358)             8.4            961                1,560
1976                 3,060           20,089          23,149                                             17,010                    27,612              ( 6,139)          4,463             17.7          1,014                1,631
1977                -                23,712          23,712                                             22,713                    36,534              (   999)         12,822             22.4          1,111                1,719
1978                -                31,820          31,820                                             37,107                    57,414                5,287          25,594             33.4          1,164               1,798
1979                -                37,753          37,753                                             48,073                    72,192               1D,320          34,439            41.3           1,261                1,887
1980                -                40,578          40,578                                             56,619                    84,726               16,041          44,148             44.9          1,631                2,292
1981-2000                            40,578          40,578                                             73,232                   102,910               32,654          62,332             44.9
Rate af Returs-                                 15.8           28.8%
es ..itivi ty Analysis
I. Capita  lst Over-run 15%                   11.9           22.8
II.  O & M Cat up 25%                          10.0           23.8
III.  BRefit I1-reased by 25%                   22.9           37.3
IV.  Benefit Dccrcasad by 25%                   6.1           18.8
Li Excluding freight ta the retfiery.  It is aassed that this rast-aba,t DII 50/tas - raughly caceels the rost af bringing the imported auget frac tha part ta the refiiery.
r2 8avings as import af ra-  sugar defi-ed as be-efits.
3 Usieg th. EAPD Forecast fer impart price af sagar.
L  Assuming  vast pf iportig -g-  -    be  US  15/lb ie 1975 und ledrease by 5% p.a.  (Based a  table I ).
April 17, 1974
Ira
*                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e



ICINGDOMO0F MOGROCCG
SEBOU II DEVILOPMIRNT FROJECT
Fiac 1Race ai Rature an tise Geetetel  the Factes-v
Alterntive Case I                                                    Gr.ss Renfiln                                         Net Reneflas                                         Alterntive Cent Il
Cap ital             Fredeetien               Tteta                                      (Y)                                                                                        Caie- rd-rtian                            Tatal
Yeat                           tet                     es          t         aRet                                                                                 Atra iv 2            Alternative il                taet                 tes t             Case
x  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ (-)(Y-GI_____
1974                          67,0175               1,735                   68,814                                                                                    (68,814)             (17,096)                15,361                1,735              17,096
1975                          19,545 ~2            13,253                   32,798                                       9,660                                        (23,138>             (11,959)                 8,366               13,253              21,619
1976                           3,060               20,099                   23,159                                      20,355                                        (2,8045              (12,786)               13,042                20,099              33,141
1977                          -                    23,712                   23,712                                      25,760                                          2,048              (7,934)                  9,982               23,712              33,694
1978                                               31,820                   31,820                                      38,525                                          6,705              (3,277)                  9,982               31,820              41,802
1979                          -37.753                                       37,753                                      47,495                                          5,742              ( 240)                   9,982               37,753              47,735
1980                          -40,578                                       40,578                                      51,635                                         11,057                1,075                  9,982               40,578              50,560
1581-85                                            40,578                   40,578                                      51,635                                         11,057                1,075                  9,982               40,578              50,560
1986-2000                                          40,578                   40,578                                     51,635                                          11,057               11,075                -40,578                                   40,578
Rate ai retert8.                                     10.0
I.  Capital test  p 25%                            5%
Il1.  B-eestît  ap 25%                               26%
IV.   e-aiiie dass  257,
Nase: - The rata e8 reter  (COR) estineeed by -et be...fit (Y-X) glas  th.  easa t.               tatal instaslss                 ..I - aeutleg far fii....eial leverge    Th. COR esiag (Y-Z) is rater-a  eqîty.
É     -spiy  eteibatias plus th  rpase -    ttea    f aihîl  1-g te-n lae.  Thie  -aald glas th. -ettr  va eqvity
Ass-sd 100% equlty fer thie tarlatîv 
3 Retuen ve tataliv1       tes
ApeiJ 17, 1974



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugar Factory - Cash Flow
1974            1975             1976             1977          1978             1979             1980
Cross Income                                                         9,660           20,355           25,760        38,525           47,495           51,635
O & M Expenditures                                  1,735           13,253           20,089           23,712        31,820           37,753           40,578
SOURCES
Net Income                                         (1,735)          (3,583)             256            2,048         6,705            9,742           11,057
Depreciation                                        4,000            4,000            4,000            4,000         4,000            4,000            4,000
From Internal Sources                               2,265              407            4,256            6,048        10,705           13,742           15,057
Equity/                                            22,000           13,000           -       -                      -                -                -
IBRD Loan /2                                       53,663           15,636           .2,448           -             -                -                -
From Reserves                                      _                 8,904           13,945            7,225         2,939              310              218
Total Sources                             77,928           37,947           20,649           13,273       13,644           14,052            15,275
USES
Factory Investments 3                              67,079           19,545            3,060           -
Repayment of Principal & Interest4                  1,945            4,457           10,334           10,334        10,334           10,334           10,334
Replacement Investment                             --                                -                -              3,000            3,500            4,000
To Reserves                                         8,904           13,945            7,255            2,939           310              218               941
Total Uses                                77,928           37,947            Q,64^           13,273        13,644           i4,0i            15,2-T
/1 Government contribution of DH 35 million.
/2 80.% of capital investment.
/3 Including physical and price contingencies.
/4 Interest payments at 7.25% on average loan outstanding for first two years;
the total loan of DH 10,334 at 7.24%.
May 29, 1974
I D



ANNEI 12
Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Damage from Floods
1976           1985               1999
-DI-- DH '   -------_
Damage to Crops         2,322           2,836             3,189
Damage to Equipment    3,h84            4,255             4,784
5,806           7,091             7,973
Note:  Damage to irrigation eqtipment was stud½ed for two floods - one
m.inor (March 1965) and one severe (January 1970). NEECO distinguished
seven damage zones based on the period cf submission and then
evaluated the damage that March 1965 and January 1970 floods would
produce in each sector.  The above table i.s an ageregate  ,f damage
for the five protected zones. The mathematical expectation of damage
for the above three years was based on the probability of different
floods.
May 20, 1974
e



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU Il DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flood Control- Rate of Return
Repair
Capital      Maintenance    Total          Gross Benefits /3                     Net
Cost Li        of            cost                                             Benefits
Year                 Flood Works
Crops      Equipment      Total
and Other
Basic Analysis               -        ------------------  (DH '000) ----------------------------------------------
1974     5070            -            5070       -             -            -            ( 5070)
75    28960            -           28960       -             -            -            (28960)
76    15940           101          16041      2322          3484         5806          (10235)
77     4276          681            4957      2379          3569         5948             991
78     2000          999            2999      2436          3655         6091            3092
79       -          1084            1084      2494          3740         6234            5150
80                  1125            1125      2551          3826         6377            5252
85                  1125            1125      2836          4255         7091            5966
90                  1125            1125      3009          4514         7523            6398
2010                   1125           1125      3189          4784         7973            6848
Rate of return =   10.6%
Sensitivity Analysis
I.  Capital cost over-run 15%                                                                             8.6
II.  Maintenance  most increased by 25%                                                                   10.1                 ` >4
III.  Benefits increased by 25%                                                                            13.8                   c r
/l 2%o of capital Cost starting two years after construction.  To be interpreted as an average cost, since,r-epair and
maintenance would be a function of frequency and intensity of floods.
/2 Defined as prevention of damage. See assumptions in Table5.
April 17, 1974
e                                                                                                                                      e



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEbOU IL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Flood Control
Alternacive
Damage s
1/6          1/7
I-            I I-
Pb r(20,.01)        Pb,r (20,.01)              D(r)/4                D(r) * Pb,r                D(r) * Pb
I.  Expected Cost of Damage From                r                  -         -- ---------------------- ----- DH  000 -----------------------------------------------
100 Year Frequency Floods
Over a 20 Year Period                        I                0.1821            0.1652                    280,000                 46,256
N - 20 /                                  2                 0.0169            0.0159                   560,000                   8,904
P = 0.01                                  3                 0.0010            0.0010                   840,000                     840
E(D(r)/5                56.000             42.000         70.000
Prob (D(r))                                         0.5              0.2            0.3
weighted value of E(D(r))   =  DH 57 million
Il.  Expected Cost of Damage From                r =            P  r(20,.2)             Pb  (20,.2)             D(r)/8               D(r) * Pb,r
5 Year Frequency Floods Over                              bb r0b'r
a 20 Year Period
1                0.9885                 0.0577               140,000                  8,078
2                0.9308                 0.1369              280,000                   3,833
Legend                                            3                 0.7939                 0.2053              420,000                  86,226
r  /2                 4                0.5886                 0.2182               560,000                 122,192
b,r     Pb( > r/N,P)/2                                          0.3704                 0.1746              700,000                 122,220             I.  E(D(r)    DH 524 million
-,r   P (' = r/N,P)L3                         6                0.1958                 0.1091               840,000                 91,644
b,r     b                                    7                0.0867                 0.0546               980,000                 53,508            II.  Even if D(1) were equal to DH 400  rather
8                0.0321                 0.0220            1,120,000                  24,640                 than DH 4000 the E(D(r)) would be DH 52.4
million
9                0.0100                 0.0074            1,260,000                   9,324
10                0.0026                 0.0020            1,400,000                   2,800           III.  E((r)) = DH 524 million is equal to an annuity
of DH 61 million at 10% interest; or DH 42
million at 5% interest.
/1 A binomial distribution with parameters N(=20) and p(=0.0l) is assumed. See text for details.
/2 Denotes the probability of getting r or more p year tlood over an N year period
/3 Denotes the probability of getting exactly "r' P year floods over an N year period
/4 Denotes damage associated with "r" P year floods over an N year period. In 1970, there were two floods close together
(January 3 and 12) which together had an overflow volume af a 100 year flood.  NEDECO estimated the damage corresponding
to this flood at DH 4975/ha.  Given the additional investments in the Project area on irrigation works of about DH 250
million or DH 7102/ha, the cost of a future 100 year flood could range up to DH 7102/ha, Adding to this the damage to
agricultural crops and other costs related to floods,the future damage is estimated (on average) at DH 8000/ha.
So, D(r) = (r)x(35,000 x 8,000).
/5              3
E(D(r)) =  1 (Pb r(20,.01))(D(r))-
K6  Assumes damage per ha at DH 6000.
7 Assumes damage per ha at DO 10,000.
/8  NEI)ECO estimate of a 1965 flood at DH 2675.  For the future this is adjusted ta OH 4000/ha.  The damage curve is
sigmoid and marginal increases ia damage from larger floods decrease over flood Size.
Anril 17, 1974



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU Il DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices For Economic Analysis
Sugarcane       Sugar Beet        Wheat        Rice        Cotton /        Maize/
-------- --------------~----~-------- DH/ton --------_----____________________
1.  Average /  price, FOB                               885             885/2            595/       I,060/
2.  Freight to Casablanca -                             180             180              140          140
CIF price, Casablanca                             1,065          1,065              735         1,200
/6             /6                            /7
3.  Port handling and internal transport                +50-            +50/             -35          -50/7
4.  Transport to Rharb                                   -50            -50              -20          -40
5.  Storage, Insurance, etc.                                                             -15
6.  Milling Cost                                                                                      -80
7.  Ex-mill price (using 677. extraction rate)                                                       715
8.  Costs for local transport and breakage                                                            -50
/10
9.  By-products                                         +35             +70-
10.  Variable costs                                     -300/9          -430/
11.  Transport to farm                                  -125/9          -105
12.  Farm gate price                                    = 71            = 75              665         = 665      1,400            45
/8
13.  Present fixed government price                        59             76              630           650-    1,400             45
*    Except for sugarcane, the econoeuic prices for the remaining products are close to governament fixed prices. Consequently,
the prices used in the economic analysis are modified only for cane,which constitutes about 34% of the project area.
/1   Based on price projections made by the EAPD of the Bank.  The price used is the average of their 1985 and 1974
prices expressed in 1974 value.
/2   FOB Carribbean port.
/3   FOB New York
/4   FOB Bangkok
/5   Freight rates have exponentially increased during 1974.  Present freight from Brazil to Cuba for sugar is about US$ 40/ni ton.
The freight for cereals is about US$ 32/m ton.  For this analysis, it is assumed that by 1985 freight rates would increase
to US$ 50/ton for sugar and about US$ 38/ton for cereals.  The average of the 1974 and 1985 prices are used in this analysis.
/6   To the sugar refinery.
/7   To the milling point.
/8   Market price; price not fixed by Government.
/9   Using a conversion of 9.5 tons of sugarcane per ton of sugar and DH 13/ton for transport of sugarcane.
/10  Based on experience of sugar beet factories in the country at extraction rate of 12.5%.
/11  An average price of US¢ 45/lb for the long staple cotton to be produced in the area.
/12  Farm gate price.  Mainly for use as feed.
March 11, 1974



ÂNNIM 12
le                                                                   Table  9
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return for Sebou II
Net Benefits
Flood Control/l  Sugar Factêi-L   Sebou I and II    Sebou II /3
-_____________________ DH Million ---------------------------
1973                         _                              (123.65)
1974                    ( 5.07)           (68.81)           (172.01)         (80.5)
1975                   (28.96)            (25.17)           (158.38)         (61.1)
1976                   (10.23)           ( 6.14)            (121.26)         (21.1)
1977                     0.99             ( 0.99)            (71.61)          (4.3)
1978                     3.09              5.29              (44.10)           1.2
1979                     5.15             10.32               25.64          15.5
1980                     5.25             16.04              50.99            21.2
1981                     5.97             32.65              65.87           38.6
1982                     6.hO             32.65              65.85           39.1
1983                     6.85             32.65              66.00            39.5
1984 - 2013                 6.85              32.65              67.97           39.5
Rate of ReturnL4
1969 - 2013                   -                 -                 7.6%
1974 - 2013                 11%                16%                9.7%            15%
/1 From Table 6, Annex 12
:2  From Table 2, Annex 12, Alternative I
3  Includes Roads, Flood Control and Sugar Factory
tÉ After adjusting costs and benefits for inflation of 6%f/year
between Sebou I appraisal (1969) and 1974.
April 24, 197h



ANNEX 12
Table 10
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
First Year Return - Main Roads
Unit          Light Traffic        Trucks       Total
Traiffic Density      vehicles/day       480                 320         800
Road User Savings     DH/vehicle/km      0.05                0.15
Unit Sav4ng           DH/km/day          24.0               48.00        72.0
Length of Road        km                                                 9h.0
Annuial Benef'it /    DH million                                          2.03
Costs Including Contingency DH Million                                   20.90
First Year Return:       2.03  x  100 = 9.7%
20.90
a Assuming 300 traffic days per year.
Mav 29, 1974
.



MOROCCO
SEBOU II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Progressive Taxes and Charges as Affected by Holding Size at Full Development
Holding Size
5 ha                 10 ha                   20 ha                     50 ha
Cropping System               S/_   _      /2           S         A            S           A             S         A
Gross Income                 15,865     11,065        31,730    22,130       63,460    44,260         158,650    110,650
Lecs production costs         9,559      7,120        19,118    14,240        38,236    28,480         95,590     71,200
excluding m2-nter charges    _
6,306      3,945        12,612    7,B90         25,224    15,780         63,060     39,450
Add back cost of family       3,1.84     3,750          2,500     2,500        1,500     1,500              -           _
la.bor_ _                                 _ __          _ ___      _ ___       _ ___      _ ___          _ ___     _  _ _
9abo0      7,695        15,112    10,390        26,724    17,280         63,060     39,h5o
Less Deductions
Water charges               1,320        616          2,640     1,232       5,280      2,464         13,200      6,160
Betterment levy                 -          -            794       794        2.382     2,382          7,941      7,9Ll
Net income before tax         8,170      7,079         11,678     8,364       19,062    12,434         U1,949     25,349
Tax liability                   585        476            936       604       1,815      1,020          5,669      2,692
Net income per capita          (333)      (289)          (477)     (342)        (779)     (508)         (1713)      (1035)
(us$ equivalent)
Water charges and better-       (14)         (9)          (23)       (20)        (29)       (28)          (33)        (36)
ment levy as a % of
income before deduction                                                                                                       HH
Tax liahil..ity as a % of        (7)        (7)            (8)       (7)         (10)        (8)          (14)        (11)
net income
/1 Sugarcane - Warm Zone
7   Four-year rotation.
'M   1O?. ,.9 



.
.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SEBOU Il DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1971                 1972                 1973                 1974                 1975                 1976                 1977                  1978
CALENDAR YEAR                                                                                            r1V11T111 J|F|M|A|M| J S J | | | |   OM A   | J S J A J   |           |T
EMM   JSND MDJJAODI                        I Tjjf.NDJ1                      AOOJ    
SEBOU I DEVELOPMENT
.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
EOUIPMENT OF IRRIGATION                                                  S -13
SECTORS                                                                                       Sl          S
S7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
SEBOU Il OEVELOPMENT
FLOOD PROTECTIONPl                                                                                                                                  1
WORKS                                                                                                                                     _              3
Sil ~ ~    ~    s 111i É|1  S73
SUGAR CANE FACTORY
CONSTRUCTION
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
MECHRA BEL KSIRI BRIDGE                                                                           F_            ___
PRIMARY & SECONDARY                                                                                          ________
ROADS
ACCESS ROADS
WorId BaEk-8609



a
.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
SEBOU il DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
OFFICE 0F THE PRIME MINISTER
- - - -   -- - --- -  - - -- POLICY COORDINATION._________                                                                                _ -  -----_------_--
I                                                                                                                                                                                 I
i~~~~~~~ I
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS  |MNSTRY OF ...ICUL                                                                                                                                       MINES E MERCEANT MARINE I
ANS COMMUjNICATIONS                                                                                                                                                               IE &MRRNTMRN
AUIE                                  NATIONAL TRASPOAT      CORON1 ATINSEE     COMEEA TANPO
DEPARTMENT I        ROAD DEPATNT                 OFFICE               COORDINATION OF       DEVELOMENT DEPARTMENT |ARICULURAL RESEARCH I                                                          | DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRY|
DEPARTMENT                           (~~~~~~~ONT)       PRJC                                                          RTECETNT
---- ------ -l --   -- - --                                                                     ------
REGIONAL ARCLTUFFIL                                                                                    SEB0U NATIONAL SUGAR
STUDIE               RARA  AREA                                                                                                                                      LOCALOPMNNTBFFICE AÊ  K  TA  I  CANE FACTDRY COMPANY
SERVICE                OFFICE                                                                                                                        DIVISION              ENTA                          (SUNACAS)
IIDGET      TRANSPORT OF SUGAR                  SUGAR CANE
CANE FROM TRANSFER                  PROCESSINO
CENT RAL TO FACTORY
TSTRUCTUOC      &
AN  MAINANAENE                                 ADMINISTRATION P
LSIRRIDATUDIE N               ISION                      _
I MAIN ROAD                                                  RIGTO  NETWORK    LEA&PRETY|ROUIN
A CONS'TRUCTION                                                                                                       PLANNING
I AND MAINTENANCE                                        _DMAINANE
_ACCESS ROAD~S                                         _LIVESTDC
FLOOD PROTECTION                                       _RP
LIFRRIGATION_
MAINTENANCE                                                  I 
COTTON &   CEREAL &  SUGAR BEET
OIL SEEDS   MISC      & SUGAR CANE
L-FILD TIAILS
ÉXTENSION
Wortd B -k &310



.



.,                        lu---Iternsut<JFr,utlul    j i o u:t:: ler.§iSj\; :                                    ....... MQROCCO
.    i               . ^  ~~~~~~~~beutrieturt :ee           ~
Suk el Arbu du Rharb                                                        ut     Prclocotion        -' î'                   SEBOU   Il  PROJECT
:At/a'an>c               RABAT  031 t Kuteui               >Improvements to
^/  \tr         o ceatr n   soiiX                                             s   Prolect Area Communications
.Mur.rkech                                -         Primury a secondury rouds not requiring improvement
-   |  O --Primury a secondary roads requiring improvement
c                      -                Tertiury couds est requiring improvement
S/oendscyary    r tiory raet ods to be strengtheued
\                                               and surfaced with ter
-)            ......... 3 . Unclassified reudu to be strengthened sund
uurfuced with tar
Cussified reodui te be surfclced wltb grcovel
.Uueclssified rodsd te be suurfuced with gravel
SAARA                               5                                *-- Trucks te bu graveled uus Jink reudu lu uetwork
SOc bouttdo,tet toot on tuit otop do ) (    New coud bridge
MECHRA BEL KSIRI                         otp1y onotoct, o-oPto-c uy fte    (5    Iriguin development uectionsu:
Wotddeonuodtttofflioteo  ~       Irriigutien wucks completed
Icrigution works le progress
________ Irrigation worku uot beguu
Sidi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m Floed escape ebunnels
Sidi  R    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~tS"~~~~~~~f'-Rivers
Allail-- Railwuys
T34t30                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MILES              / A    r-1      3
t;                                        ~~~~~~~~R/VER OL/ERRU 
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2642
s-CON 2634
6   /  SiEiSlimone                                                      X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sidi KacemI_
-i    te-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



.



SEBOU II PROJECT                                                                                                                        -                         M'Jro                               M ° ° N T \
Flood Protection Works                                                                                                   R                                      R -N0 L,
STAGE I FLOOD PROTECTION MEASURES°                                                                                                                      R. Oonu-
'Irrigation development sectisns                                                                          o            -
--Droins                                                                           \O--   --- 5e' --  ,   R~                                                                             Af
e s;ood ecape chinnels                                                                                             Kenitra                                                        'R g                  .    -      Tazo
FUTURE FLOOP PROTECTION ALTERNATIVES:
=====Left bank diversion channel                             -                                                                                                                                        i-Res I
___Right bank evacuation chonnel                                                                          34° IjABAT                                El Konsr= .e
v-AÂARîght bonk divereioî chonOuel                        ,
A-F  Protected zones                                                                                                         sO                           Melr-e-
-       Flood protection embonkments                                                                                             b                                                                                        5
-=-,Rivers -o,<p
I     Dams                                                                                                                                                                                                  -p
SEBOU RIVER BASIN                                     -         .
0      2       40 3 6 0          0    .0                    *\     -
4              6-      MILES
v                                              Souk Tleta du Rharb,        4444                                                                                                   M JAA
O  44                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAM SITE
Vi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.444                                                                    u                                                      -)
oc     yhra bel Ksiri   -           R
34'30    '                                   L%                                                                                              -34' 30
\~~~~~~o                                                                                           8, _                                                      0rr -deHo=: - ~'_ - >!
,                                                           Su .                                                          ROUa ` =                      -.
,   "   \  OMagnmne  ""'   Dor Gseddori t                    Sidi Abdel
0MOgh,OraE                      Du GFd
5ebo-                                                                zat1^`x< 
,Sidî ;Yuhya =  ~ -  ~                         \       \                                                    L    Azib es Soltane
la.----, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.'
-                                   Bi J; oSidi                                                                   Y-ahya  ,   \ \cx idb Y'a-h
-   -   f;;,/   t-y                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Sidi Slimune ! !`\                                                        ''
KENITRA                                                                          (          -                       \                                         l0o              ToaierOa 5
( i                          a \Sidi Kacem                                                          a    '-         i,     -
a)                    ~~~~~~~~A t/a nt,          RA5Ai'            Kce,
i                               'i                                                                                       eK
0                0
oo                          2~2           30             40              0                               EL KANSERA                      \                        ,EO
O51.0   1M5           20 25 30re, ,,
M IiEs                                                               y;»z  z ,   .shIC                                         SAA i          



