                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR 2655


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IBRD-7476; IDA-4349; TF-90794)

                      ON AN IBRD IN THE AMOUNT OF
                             US$24.5 MILLION

                                     AND

                    AN IDA CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
            SDR 40.33 MILLION (US$61.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND

                         GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                             US$52 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    FOR A

     BETTER EDUCATION THROUGH REFORMED MANAGEMENT AND
        UNIVERSAL TEACHER UPGRADING (BERMUTU) PROJECT



                                 June 30, 2014




Human Development Sector Unit/Education
South East Asia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2013)

                       Currency Unit = IDR
                       IDR11,494.30 = US$1
                      IDR 1.00 = US$0.00009

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACAP         Anti-Corruption Action Plan
ACDP         Analytical and Capacity Development
ADB          Asian Development Bank
AIG          Accreditation incentive grant
APBD         Local Budget
AusAID       Government of Australia Agency for International Development
Balitbang    Office of Research and Development within the Ministry of
             National Education
BAN-PT       National Board of Accreditation for Higher Education
BERMUTU      Better Education through Reformed Management and Universal
             Teacher Upgrading Project
BPSDMP-PMP   Board of Education, Human Resource Development and Education
             Quality Assurance (HRD & QA Board)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPD          Continuing Professional Development
DAPODIK      Educational Core Data
DFAT         Department of Foreign and Trade of the Australian Government
DGBE         Directorate General of Basic Education
DGQITEP      Directorate General of the Quality Improvement of Teachers and
             Education Personnel
DGSE         Directorate General of Secondary Education
DIA          Dana Insentif Akreditasi (Accreditation Incentive Grant)
DIKTI        Directorate General of Higher Education
DIPA         Daftar Isian Pelaksanaan Anggaran (Budget Implementation
             Registration Form)
FM           Financial Management
FY           Financial Year
HYLITE       Hybrid Learning for Indonesian Teachers
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA          International Development Association

                                 ii
IDR           Indonesian Rupiah
ISR           Implementation Status and Results Report
IVPF          Isolated Vulnerable People’s Framework
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoI           Government of Indonesia
GPO           Guru Pintar Online
KKG/MGMP      Teacher Working Groups
KKKS/MKKS     School Principal Working Groups
KKPS/MKPS     Supervisor Working Groups
LPMP          Educational Quality Assurance Institution
LPTK          Teacher Training Institutions
M&E           Monitoring and evaluation
MenPAN        Minister of State Apparatus
MoEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
MoNE          Ministry of National Education
NUPTK         Teacher Database
P2TK DIKDAS   Education Personnel Management of Basic Education
P4TK          Center for Development and Empowerment of Teachers and Ed. Personnel
              (in-service)
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PDO           Project Development Objectives
PDSP          Center for Education Data and Statistics
PGSD          Pendidikan Guru Sekolah Dasar (Basic Education Teacher
              Training)
PIGP          Program Induksi Guru Pemula (Teacher Induction Program for
              Beginners)
PISA          Program for International Student Assessment
PKG           Teachers Annual Performance Appraisal
POM           Project operational manual
PMPTK         Directorate General Quality Improvement of Teacher and
              Education Personnel
PUSBANGPRODIK Center for Teaching Profession Development
PUSBANGTENDIK Center for Teaching Personnel Development
PUSLITJAK     Center for Policy Research
PUSPENDIK     Center for Educational Assessment
QER           Quality enhancement review
RENSTRA       Medium-Term Education Strategic Plan
RF            Results framework
RPL           Recognizing the prior learning
SATKER        Implementing unit
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SSQ           School System and Quality program
TF            Trust Fund
TIMSS         Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
TPM           Teacher Performance Management

                                    iii
TTL           Task team leader
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
USD           United States Dollar
UKG           Uji Kompetensi Guru (Teacher Competency Test)
WB            World Bank



                  Vice President:   Axel van Trotsenburg
                Country Director:   Rodrigo A. Chavez
                 Sector Manager:    Luis Benveniste
            Project Team Leader:    Susiana Iskandar
               ICR Team Leader:     Susiana Iskandar
             ICR Primary Author:    Juan Prawda
        Sector Quality Reviewers:   Franco Russo/Sandra Beemer




                                    iv
                              Republic of Indonesia
      Better Education Through Reformed Management and Universal Teacher
                                   Upgrading



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome ....................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 38
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 47
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 50
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 51
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 52
  Annex 8. Comments of the Royal Netherlands Government ....................................... 58
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 59
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 63




                                                                 v
A. Basic Information
                                                                                       BERMUTU-Better
                                                                                       Education through
Country:                     Indonesia                    Project Name:                Reformed Management
                                                                                       and Universal Teacher
                                                                                       Upgrading
                                                                                       IBRD-74760, IDA-
Project ID:                  P097104                      L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                                       43490, TF-90794
ICR Date:                    06/30/2014                   ICR Type:                    Core ICR
                                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:          SIL                          Borrower:
                                                                                       INDONESIA
Original Total
                             USD 138.00M                  Disbursed Amount:            USD 128.41M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:              USD 138.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education and Culture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation
Note: Due to a system’s glitch, the Dutch TF commitment (of total US$ 52 million) and disbursement (of total US$
50.87 million) were not captured in the Portal version of this table.



B. Key Dates
                                                                                              Revised / Actual
      Process                  Date                  Process             Original Date
                                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:            08/24/2006         Effectiveness:              02/05/2008             02/05/2008
                                                                                                 11/22/2011
Appraisal:                 04/11/2007         Restructuring(s):
                                                                                                 10/05/2012
Approval:                  07/05/2007         Mid-term Review:            07/05/2011             10/18/2011
                                              Closing:                    12/31/2013             12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                 Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                              Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                         Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                     Moderately Satisfactory




                                                         vi
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     19                   15
Primary education                                                                          47
Secondary education                                                                        20
Sub-national government administration                                 3                    3
Tertiary education                                                    78                   15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     100                100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Rodrigo A. Chaves                    Joel Hellman
Sector Manager:            Luis Benveniste                      Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:       Susiana Iskandar                     Mae Chu Chang
ICR Team Leader:           Susiana Iskandar
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Prawda




                                               vii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective is to contribute to the improvement of the overall quality and
performance of teachers through enhancing teachers' knowledge of subject matter and
pedagogical skills in the classroom. Improvement of teacher quality and performance is
to be measured by: (i) the increased number of teachers meeting academic qualifications
mandated by the Teacher Law; (ii) the increased number of primary and junior secondary
teachers in BERMUTU Districts using classroom instruction with specific subject and
age appropriate pedagogy; and (iii) the reduction in absenteeism of teachers in
BERMUTU Districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)        Values         Target Years
                Increased number of teachers meeting academic qualifications mandated by the
Indicator 1 :
                Teacher Law
Value
quantitative or 900,000                     1,400,000                            1,713,163
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/30/2007                    12/31/2013                           12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded by 22.4 percent
achievement)
                Increased number of primary and junior secondary teachers in BERMUTU
Indicator 2 : Districts using classroom instruction with specific subject and age appropriate
                pedagogy
Value
quantitative or 17,000                      190,000                              214,380
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/30/2007                    12/31/2013                           12/31/2013
                Target exceeded by 12.8 percent. Findings of a study commissioned to assess the
Comments
                impact of this indicator reveals that teacher’s participation in working groups
(incl. %
                improved their abilities in teaching preparation, delivery and formative
achievement)
                assessment of their students.




                                              viii
Indicator 3 :   Reduction in absenteeism of teachers in BERMUTU Districts
                                                                              In BERMUTU
Value                                                                         Districts: 6.6%
quantitative or 19%                       15%                                 primary schools;
Qualitative)                                                                  6.3% junior
                                                                              secondary schools
Date achieved 05/30/2007                  12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
                Target achieved. Study by MoEC in BERMUTU districts had the rate decreased
Comments
                from 8.4% in 2010 to 6.6 % in 2012 in primary school and from 12.8% to 6.3%
(incl. %
                in junior secondary school. National representative study by SMERU in primary
achievement)
                schools found 19% in 2003 and 15% in 2008.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                  Increased number of pre-service programs accredited (initially secondary
Indicator 1 :
                  programs only)
Value
(quantitative     0                         75                                81
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/30/2007                12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments          Target exceeded by 8%. The 81 primary teacher education PGSD pre-service
(incl. %          programs have been accredited at the S1 level (bachelor degree), including 26
achievement)      PGSD participating in the BERMUTU Accreditation Incentive Grants.
                  Increased number of new graduates from accredited programs meeting the
Indicator 2 :
                  mandated competency standards
Value
(quantitative     0                         15,000                            13,179
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/30/2007                 12/31/2013                           12/31/2013
Comments          Data not yet complete, as the first S1-level accreditation for PGSD was awarded
(incl. %          in 2010 and the 1st cohort of graduates could only be identified in 2013, i.e.
achievement)      13,179 from 18 accredited S1-PGSD.
                  Increased numbers of teachers gaining recognition for prior learning (RPL) from
Indicator 3 :
                  accredited universities.
Value
(quantitative     0                         700,000                           879,832
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/30/2007                12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments
                  Target exceeded by 25.7%. About 87,501 have been granted RPL in 81 Teacher
(incl. %
                  Training universities (LPTKs) and 792,331 in the Open University.
achievement)




                                                 ix
Indicator 4 :     Increased numbers of active KKG/MGMPs in BERMUTU Districts
Value
(quantitative     1,200                      4,500                              6,107
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/30/2007                 12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments
                  Target exceeded by 35.7%. There are 6,107 active professional working groups
(incl. %
                  of primary and junior secondary school teachers, principals and supervisors.
achievement)
                  Increased numbers of beginning teachers being provided with school induction
Indicator 5 :
                  programs in BERMUTU Districts.
Value
(quantitative     0                          3,000                              1,429
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/30/2007                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments          Data currently being updated by Pusbangtendik. The Ministerial regulation and
(incl. %          its operational manuals are in place and the socialization and training of trainers
achievement)      in both BERMUTU and a non-BERMUTU has been completed.
                  Revised policies, plans and procedures for continuing education and career
Indicator 6 :     development of certified teachers developed and piloted for implementation by
                  the government in 2011
Value                                          Available and
                                                                                 Available and being
(quantitative     Limited policies in place implemented by
                                                                                 implemented
or Qualitative)                                GoI
Date achieved     05/30/2007                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                  Target achieved. MenPAN Decree 16/2009 on Functional Credits for Teachers,
Comments
                  the instruments for teacher performance assessment and teacher continuous
(incl. %
                  professional development and manuals have been developed, trialed and ready to
achievement)
                  be implemented.
                  A teacher database established to track progress in teacher placement, academic
Indicator 7 :
                  qualifications, certification, and payment of professional allowances.
Value             Management information Available and
                                                                                 Teacher database
(quantitative     system does not allow        implemented by
                                                                                 completed
or Qualitative)   complete analysis            GoI
Date achieved     05/30/2007                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments
                Target achieved. A teacher relational database, overlaying databases of teachers,
(incl. %
                schools data base and student performance has been established.
achievement)




                                                  x
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                           Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                             IP                 Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                       (USD millions)
                                Moderately                     Moderately
  1      04/09/2008                                                                                 8.00
                               Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
   2     09/16/2008             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                  8.00
   3     02/04/2009             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                  9.66
   4     09/09/2009             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 13.05
   5     03/03/2010             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 23.03
   6     12/20/2010             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 49.88
   7     10/09/2011             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 56.96
   8     04/21/2012             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 70.87
   9     12/19/2012             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 69.80
  10     06/30/2013             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 81.68
  11     12/25/2013             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        81.68

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                                         Reallocation of funds across
                                                                         categories needed to
                                                                         accommodate the larger than
      11/22/11            N             S       MS             91.28     originally anticipated number
                                                                         of teachers participating in
                                                                         the working group program
                                                                         (under Category 4) estimates
      10/05/12            N             S       MS            121.29     Reallocation of funds
Note: Due to a system’s glitch, the Portal version of this table does not capture the Dutch TF disbursements
at the time of restructuring.




                                                     xi
I. Disbursement Profile




Note: The project also benefitted from a US$52 million grant from the Dutch government. Amount
disbursed is US$50.87. Due to a system glitch, this amount is not reflected in the disbursement graph.




                                                    xii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.     On July 5, 2007, the Bank approved Loan number 7476-IND in the amount of
US$24.5 million and Credit number 4349-IND in the amount of Special Drawing Rights
(SDR) 40.33 million (US$61.50 million equivalent to support the Indonesia “Better
Education Through Reformed Management and Universal Teacher Upgrading Project
(BERMUTU), which became effective on February 5, 2008. Further financial support in
the amount of US$52 million was provided by the Dutch government through its
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation in the form of a Bank-
administered trust fund to help finance project activities. The trust fund was approved on
November 7, 2007 and became effective the same day. Furthermore, the Bank was
engaged in Indonesia through a number of Bank-executed trust funds which often
complemented and informed ongoing project implementation.

1.1    Context at Appraisal.

2.     Background. At the time of project preparation in 2006, Indonesia ranked as a
lower-middle income country, with a gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of
US$4,248. Indonesia had restored its macroeconomic and financial stability and
economic growth had increased from 3.8 percent in 2001 to 5.6 percent in 2005 while the
percentage of the population living in poverty in the period 1999-2007 had fallen from 27
to below 16 percent in 2007.

3.      Despite all of these achievements, Indonesia continued to under-perform
compared with its neighboring countries in terms of access to quality health, education
and other basic services, as reflected in the millennium development goals’ (MDG)
indicators. Indonesia’s centralized development planning and service delivery systems
had increased overall access to basic services but had fallen short in ensuring quality.

4.      Main issues in the education sector. The quality of education in Indonesia, as
measured by learning outcomes, was of serious concern. In the standardized tests of the
Trends in International Mathematics Science Study (TIMSS 2003), assessing
mathematics and science knowledge of 4th and 8th graders (loosely, ages 9/10 and 13/14,
respectively), Indonesian students ranked 34th out of 45 countries. In the 2003 Program
for International Student Assessment (PISA), assessing scholastic performance on
mathematics, science, and reading of 15 year-old students (regardless of their school
grade), Indonesia was ranked below its major economic competitors.

5.      On a proficiency scale from zero to six for mathematics, over five percent of
Indonesian students did not reach level one, and none reached level five or above. In
reading, only 31 percent could complete more than the most basic reading tasks. Even
after taking family socioeconomic status into account, student outcomes in Indonesia
were lower than those of neighboring countries, which suggested that there were
deficiencies in the classroom experiences that teachers were providing for their students.



                                            1
6.      A groundswell of public support in favor of improving educational quality led to
revisions to Indonesia’s constitution in 2003 requiring that 20 percent of government
spending be directed to education. In the period 2004-05, there was mounting pressure
through Parliament to increase education spending substantially.

7.      In 2006, an average Indonesian primary school teacher salary ranged between
US$1,002 to US$3,022 per annum, a mere 50 percent of GDP per capita, half of the
annual earnings of primary school teachers in the Philippines and Thailand. The
Government of Indonesia (GoI) agreed that holding teachers accountable for a high
standard of professional conduct required a professional level of remuneration and that
quality improvement would be possible only if the teaching force earned a living wage.

8.       In 2000, the GoI decentralized teacher management responsibilities to the local
governments through a general allocation of funds to finance, among others, teacher
salaries. This decentralization scheme created some issues, such as: (i) limited teacher
mobility across districts; (ii) restricted career advancement for certain levels/rank as this
decision was taken by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC) 1; and, (iii)
uncontrolled growth in the number of teachers contracted by either the provincial or
district governments and hired by schools as “honorary” teachers.

9.      Government’s strategy. In December 2005, the GoI passed a teacher law (UU
14/2005) requiring teachers to: (i) have a minimum academic qualification of at least four
years of post-secondary education; (ii) obtain practical experience as a classroom teacher;
and (iii) pass a certification examination assessing their proficiency in four competency
domains (as defined by the National Education Standards Agency in the pedagogical,
professional, personal, and social domains) before being certified as a teacher. Once
certified, teachers would double their salary and receive an additional functional
allowance of approximately 20 to 30 percent of their base salary depending on their civil
service grade. Teachers assigned to disadvantaged areas would also get a special
allowance equivalent to 100 percent of their base civil service salary to help incentivize
being posted in hard-to-staff locations. The challenge for the GoI was to manage this
transformation of the incumbent workforce of some 2.7 million teachers, 65 percent of
whom did not have the newly prescribed minimum four-year qualification.

10.     Rationale for Bank’s assistance. There were four reasons underpinning the
Bank’s assistance. First, service delivery was one of the two main pillars of the FY04-07
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia and accordingly, the GoI requested the
Bank’s support in the area of civil service reform. The 2.7 million teachers constituted
more than 70 percent of the core civil service workforce in Indonesia at the time of
project identification.

11.    Second, the extensive analytical work undertaken by the Bank in 2005 (mostly
financed by Dutch and the Government of Australia Agency for International

1
 The ministry was restructured in 2011, which included (amongst other things) changing its name from
Ministry of National Education (MoNE) to Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC). For simplicity’s
sake, the ICR will use MoEC when referring to both the pre- and post-restructured ministry.

                                                   2
Development [AusAID] trust funds) concerning managing the transition to
decentralization, employment and deployment and teacher certification contributed to the
enactment of the Teacher Law approved by the Indonesian Parliament in 2005. These
analytical activities cemented a strong relationship of the Bank with the MoEC. The GoI
was interested in the Bank’s international expertise in teacher management and education
quality assurance to mitigate possible implementation risks.

12.     Third, against the backdrop of the decentralized education service delivery in
Indonesia, the Bank was seen as an effective facilitator to ensure required close cross-
sector collaborations and the sharing of lessons of experience from other sectors that had
also managed policy reforms in a decentralized system. Fourth, the proposed project
financing along with the Bank-executed Trust Funds, were considered as complementary,
rather than substitute financial resources to the GoI’s funding of certification,
scholarships and incentive allowances to teachers.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators.

13.     The project’s PDO was to contribute to the improvement of the overall quality
and performance of the teachers in the Republic of Indonesia through enhancing their
knowledge of subject matter and pedagogical skills in the classroom. Progress towards
achieving the PDOs were to be measured against the following three outcome indicators:
(i) Increased number of teachers meeting academic qualifications mandated by the
Teachers Law; (ii) Increased number of primary and junior secondary teachers in
BERMUTU Districts using classroom instruction with specific subject and age
appropriate pedagogy; and (iii) Reduction in absenteeism of teachers in BERMUTU
Districts.

14.     Agreement was reached with the GoI that the intermediate outcome indicators for
the end of the project were: Component 1: (i) pre-service programs accredited (initially
secondary programs only); and (ii) new graduates from accredited programs who would
meet the mandated competency standards; Component 2: (i) teachers gaining recognition
for prior learning (RPL) from accredited universities; (ii) active teacher working groups
(KKG) in BERMUTU Districts; and (iii) beginning teachers being provided with school
induction programs in BERMUTU districts; Component 3: revised policies, plans, and
procedures for the continuing education and career development of certified teachers
developed and pilot tested in time for implementation by the GoI in 2011; and
Component 4: a teacher database to track progress in teacher placement, academic
qualifications, certification, and payment of professional allowances.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by the original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

15.    The PDO was not modified during the project implementation period.




                                            3
1.4    Main Beneficiaries

16.     The proposed regulatory framework aimed at benefiting in the longer-term a
teaching workforce of about 2.7 million kindergarten, basic (primary and junior
secondary) and secondary teachers (including vocational education teachers), 65 percent
of them lacking the newly prescribed minimum four-year qualification. In addition, the
working groups aimed at targeting teachers, principals and supervisors of public and
private basic education schools (primary and junior secondary) in 75 Districts (selected
from a total of 441 according to agreed criteria) of 16 Provinces in the country (out of
34). Finally, all public and private teacher-training institutes would benefit from the
strengthened accreditation system and 40 of them, from accreditation grants.

1.5    Original Components

17.         Component 1: Reforming University-based Teacher Education (US$20.5
million), through the following three sub-components: (i) Providing assistance to the
National Board of Accreditation for Higher Education (BAN-PT); (ii) Grants and
scholarships; and (iii) Overseas scholarship and non-degree training program to improve
the quality of university teaching and coursework.

18.         Component 2: Strengthening Structures for Teacher Improvement at
the Local Level (US$134.2 million). This component was to be implemented in 75 of
Indonesia’s 441 districts in 16 out of 34 provinces and was comprised of the following
sub-components: (i) Providing technical assistance to establish agreed mechanisms for
RPL of teachers; (ii) Providing technical assistance to the Directorate General for Quality
Improvement of Teacher and Education Personnel (PMPTK) to develop subject-based
modules and modules on management; (iii) Teacher Working Groups (KKG); and (iv)
School Principal Working Groups (KKKS/MKKS) and Supervisor Working Groups
(KKPS/MKPS).

19.         Component 3: Reforming teacher accountability and incentives systems
for performance appraisal and career advancement (US$5.3 million) through two
sub-components providing funds for technical assistance, studies, workshops, and
operational costs for the development and piloting of these policies, processes, and
instruments.

20. Component 4: Improving program coordination, monitoring and evaluation
(US$33.8 million) through the following three sub-components: (i) Monitoring of project
activities and teacher certification; (ii) Evaluation and assessment; and (iii) Project
coordination and monitoring.

1.6    Revised Components

21.     The original components remained unchanged throughout the implementation
period.



                                            4
1.7    Other significant changes

22.    The first Loan Amendment of November 23, 2011 reflected reallocations needed
to accommodate the larger than originally anticipated number of teachers participating in
the working group program (under Category 4) estimates, while the second Loan
Amendment of October 5, 2012 was made in response to GoI’s official exchange rate
change, which affected the already agreed upon disbursement plans and relevant fund
availability.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23.    Weighing the following achievements and shortcomings, the ICR rates the
BERMUTU preparation, design and quality at entry as substantial for the reasons
explain below.

24.     Project preparation. BERMUTU’s strategic relevance and approach was
appropriate to support MoEC's core agenda concerning the implementation of the
Teacher Law, as a first required step to improve teacher professionalism, performance,
and accountability and improve education quality. The preparation of BERMUTU
benefited from a rich analytical foundation including studies on teacher management,
accountability and incentive systems, pre- and in-service teacher training institutions and
classroom processes. Specifically, the Bank’s 2005 analytical work “Managing the
Transition to Decentralization” and papers on teacher employment, deployment and
certification identified key issues and proposed policy measures, which ultimately
contributed to the development of the Teacher Law in 2005. Therefore, the Bank was
well positioned to continue to draw from that analytical work (amongst other sources)
and inform project preparation to be relevant to the country and the education sector
needs.

25.     Preparation activities also included a pilot of teacher employment-deployment in
five districts and a survey of ongoing teacher support groups, both financed by Dutch and
AusAID trust funds managed by the Bank. The project was also in line with the FY04-07
CAS’ Objective II “Making Service Delivery Responsive to the Needs of the Poor”. The
Bank preparation team anchored in the Bank office in Jakarta worked very closely, and in
a continuous harmonious fashion with the MoEC, providing technical support and
analytical inputs for informed decision-making, including the conceptualization and
operationalization of the Teacher Law. The interaction with other donors, in particular the
Dutch Embassy and AusAID providing support to BERMUTU’s preparation activities
through trust funds managed by the Bank, was satisfactory. In addition, the Bank
preparation team kept close coordination with other donors, like USAID and New
Zealand, financing related projects in the education sector.

26.     The project design and quality at entry. The project benefitted from three
quality reviews, of which one was a Quality Enhancement Review (QER). The QER

                                            5
panel report acknowledged the QER’s strong support for the project because it
represented the Bank’s largest and most innovative global initiative aimed at teacher
skills upgrading 2. It also endorsed the project’s design and approach to teacher skills
upgrading and noted the project’s significantly simplified design and evidence of
government ownership to implement the different components. The QER panel report
also suggested that it was important to: (i) pay particular attention to sequencing of
activities and propose mitigation measures to safeguard PDO achievement against
possible delays; (ii) clarify the district and training institution selection process to receive
grants; (iii) evaluate the government’s existing grants program: (iv) assess GoI’s own
implementation arrangements as to avoid creating parallel implementation and oversight
functions; and (v) clarify responsibility for the different sub-components/activities,
including the types of certification standards to be adopted. The preparation team
incorporated the QER’s suggestions and expanded the discussion in the relevant sections
of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), such as the risk matrix, institutional
arrangements and financial management sections and detailed project description.

27.     The QER and decision meeting also acknowledged the importance of the
proposed project’s support to GoI’s efforts in implementing the law and capitalizing on
the opportunities it presented. As confirmed by the Decision Meeting, the project’s focus
on the new Teacher Law provided “an imperative for reform that has not been previously
present for education projects” 3. Quality at entry also benefitted from the “Readiness
Filter Agreement” established between the Bank and GoI to facilitate project readiness
and start-up and which entailed the existence of a draft Project Operations Manual
(POM) and a co-financing agreement. The 2008 procurement plan and request for
consultancy proposals was also in place, along with the following manuals: (i) the
Accreditation Incentive Grants; (ii) the Distance Education Modules; and (iii) the ones
for Teacher, Principal and School Supervisor Working Groups.

28.     Although the initial project design was thought to be somewhat complex and
required a shared vision by the many implementing actors, the QER panel also felt that
the final design had been substantially simplified and that the complexity and
implementation risks were mitigated in the final design. In addition, the QER suggested
that the PAD specify who would be in charge of implementation of each activity, which
the PAD tried to address in Annex 4 “Detailed Project Description” and Annex 6
“Institutional and Implementation Arrangements”. Lastly, there was an acknowledgement
by the decision meeting that some risks should be highlighted even though they may be
outside of the project’s control, providing the project with a more holistic approach to
identifying and mitigating (whenever possible) potential risks. The PAD also identified
decentralized funds management and potential for corruption as possible risks and
appropriate mitigation measures were proposed at the time. Although these mitigation
measures were not always sufficient to address the project’s decentralized institutional
arrangements and capacity constraints, these challenges were largely overcome by mid-
term and ultimately led to all key project activities being implemented by project closing.


2
    QER panel report, March 5, 2007
3
    Decision meeting minutes, April 19, 2007

                                               6
2.2    Implementation

29.     The project was able to implement all envisaged activities and meet (and in some
cases exceeded) most output targets: (i) 81 pre-service programs were accredited,
exceeding the end-target of 75; (ii) the target of 15,000 new graduates from accredited
programs meeting mandated competency standards 13,179, missing the end target by
1,821. Due to the sequenced nature of this activity and the fact that each PGSD was
allowed three to four years to become accredited, the number of actual graduates was
affected by the pace of PGSD accreditation. It is expected, however, that the end target
will be exceeded in 2014; (iii) 879,832 teachers gaining recognition for prior learning
(RPL) from accredited universities, exceeding the 700,000 end target; (iv) 6,107
KKG/MGMPs (teacher working groups) are active in BERMUTU districts, exceeding the
4,500 final target; (v) 1,429 beginning teachers were provided with school induction
programs in BERMUTU districts, falling short of the 3,000 end target; (vi) revised
policies, plans and procedures for continuing education and career development of
certified teachers are being implemented through MenPAN Decree 16/2009, meeting the
end target; and (vii) a teacher database has been established, meeting the end target. In
addition, the new regulatory system for teacher accountability and performance
incentives is in place, functional coordination among key units within MoEC has
markedly improved and the regulatory framework amongst teachers is in full execution.

30.      By doing that, BERMUTU: (i) started changing the way basic education teachers-
to-be are prepared (LPTK); (ii) improved the curriculum-subject knowledge and teaching
skills of all in-service teachers (KKG; MGMP); (iii) set up standards (Teacher
Performance Management (TPM) scheme) and targets to manage the teaching labor
force; (iv) accompanied these changes with financial incentives to improve teachers'
welfare based on teachers’ performance results (TPM scheme designed for the
professional career allowance including all the assessment instruments). The project also
helped focus on basic education teachers, principals and supervisors from disadvantaged
districts first as a feasible way to get the process started in a more equitable fashion.

31.      Initial implementation was not without its challenges: (i) there were significant
delays in the government budget document (DIPA) for fiscal year 2008, limiting
implementation activities to three key Satkers that year. Budget allocation levels did
steadily improve in subsequent years to finance 60 percent of agreed project activities in
2009 and by 2010, 24 Satkers received their DIPA allocation. The 2008 and 2009 periods
were also marked by partial allocation of counterpart funds, which combined with the
DIPA delays, slowed implementation during that period. This was partially mitigated by
intensive consultations between the Bank and MoEC to speed up the budget exercise and
ensure adequate funding, with counterpart funding reaching a satisfactory level by 2010;
(ii) it took time for Satkers to become familiar with donor-financed processes and
implementation procedures. Although appropriate capacity building and technical
assistance support was included as part of the project, delays in getting consultants on
board and the quality of some selected consultants to support Satkers slowed initial
project implementation; (iii) limited coordination, communication and shared vision
among Satkers at the beginning also affected their ability to set short and medium term

                                            7
goals and translating these into a proposed DIPA. This issue was resolved by 2010 to a
large extent as Satkers became more and more familiar with this new approach; and (iv)
the extensive restructuring of the ministry in 2011 which required mapping each project
component and sub-component to the new structure and therefore delayed government
budget allocation and required staff to establish new working relationships across the
restructured ministry units.

32.      The restructuring was seen by the Bank as a welcomed move for the project to
further strengthen the integration between teacher management and basic education
management. Furthermore, MoEC and the Bank were actively engaged in day-to-day
activities which facilitated implementation through these earlier challenges. The project
teams were proactive in updating the relevant implementation plans based on budget
availability to maintain proper sequencing. As a matter of fact, the initial implementation
and budget challenges were satisfactorily resolved by the 2011 mid-term review (MTR)
and the project was largely on track to achieving its development objectives. The project
was cited in the Bank publication “Teacher Reform in Indonesia – the role of politics and
evidence in policy making” 4 as having had a significant impact on teacher working
groups and being effective in increasing teacher knowledge levels. Finally, and
mentioned previously, the project had carried out all envisaged activities and disbursed
the majority of funds 5 from the three sources of financing by project closing without the
need for a closing date extension. This is an impressive achievement given the project’s
initial delays, perceived complexity and extensive ministry restructuring.

33.      Therefore, overall project implementation is rated as satisfactory.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.     The M&E design was appropriate. The M&E design had two aspects: (i) the
MoEC was to continue to collect data through its existing teacher and school monitoring
system to report on results framework and project output achievements; and (ii) through a
series of impact evaluation studies. The project was also supporting the improvement and
subsequent integration of the teacher database with the school and teachers working
group databases. The PDOs were stated with sufficient operational precision allowing for
gauging their attainment through the observation and measurement of a metric
comprising three outcome and seven intermediate outcome indicators. Baseline data was
included at the onset of project implementation and end-of-project outcome and
intermediate targets were deemed achievable at the time of project design. The results
framework was not modified during the entire implementation period and there were no
issues of attribution as there was connectivity between the indicators, the PDOs and the
key interventions included in the project design. The Bank’s regional operational service
department praised the project’s M&E framework as a good practice example that was
being used in Bank training programs.


4
 The World Bank, ISBN: 978-0-8213-9960-6, 2014
5
 At the time of ICR writing, 73.96 percent of loan, 96.6 percent of credit and 97.82 percent trust fund
proceeds had been disbursed, reaching a combined disbursement rate of 93.1 percent.

                                                     8
35.     M&E implementation and utilization was moderately satisfactory. MoEC
regularly provided the Bank with data and information that allowed the teams to make
judgments on progress toward achieving the PDO and the project’s overall
implementation. This information was consistently reported on by the Bank in aide-
memoires and Implementation Status and Results (ISR) reports. MoEC also used budget
information to adjust implementation and procurement plans, especially during the
budget challenges that occurred at the beginning of the project. This was critical to ensure
the sequencing was maintained and all envisaged activities could be completed by project
closing. Three impact evaluations on pre-service teacher training, teacher certification
and teacher working groups were successfully carried out, as well as a teacher
absenteeism study in BERMUTU districts. These reports provided the government and
MoEC in particular with relevant insight into overall impact of BERMUTU interventions
and (in the case of teacher working groups) led to a shift in focus of the KKG/MGMP
reporting from administrative matters to classroom teaching impact. A video study was
conducted to observe classroom teaching of eight-grade mathematics to students who
participated in the 2007 and 2011 TIMSS, which also provided valuable insights into
teaching practices 6.

36.     Several monitoring instruments were also developed to assess progress of the five
areas of expected district-support to BERMUTU: (i) financial allocation of at least 18
percent of the district’s annual budget to the working groups; (ii) provision of equipment
to the schools for the delivery of pedagogical activities learned in the working groups;
(iii) BERMUTU-related data entry at the district level; (iv) on-sight monitoring and
supervision; and (v) ensuring consistency of BERMUTU with other related donor-
financed education projects in the district. Finally, a complaint handling mechanism
concerning teacher professional allowance payment delays which was established but not
functioning is now operational. The teacher database was successfully integrated with the
core education data (Dapodik) and the Center for Education Data and Statistics (PDSP)
by project closing after encountering some delays 7.

37.     Going forward, there exists an opportunity to further strengthen the institutional
capacity at the central and district levels to produce, collect, analyze and update progress
on teacher placement, academic qualifications, certification and payment of professional
allowance. There were also a few activities not directly financed by the project but
related to its activities that could not be completed by project closing, which include: (i)
improvements in navigating MoEC’s main information portal (Gerai Informasi) as part of
the ACAP Complaint Handling aspect; (ii) the analysis of the teacher working group data
profiles as part of overall M&E functions; and (iii) improvements in the coordination of
all of the M&E functions and deliveries carried out by all the Satkers as part of overall

6
  The PAD envisaged project support for Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS),
the Program of International Student Assessment (PISA) and Progress in International Reading Literacy
Study (PIRLS). While the government funded the participation in those three internatioal studies, the WB supported
the TIMSS video study which would provide useful insights into teaching practices than conducting more
rounds of assessment. In addition MoEC also conduct the Early Grade Reading Assessment, supported by
USAid.
7
  One of the main reasons for the delay was the restructuring of MoNE, which initially affected staffing and
budget allocation of the restructured departments in charge of this activity.

                                                        9
project coordination.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38.     Financial management. Financial management faced challenges at different
times since the beginning of the project due to the time it took to put in place the
necessary FM support and set up appropriate financial control procedures and guidelines
related to training and workshop expenditure documentation 8. The main challenges
included: (i) initial concerns regarding the verification process for cluster block grants
and delays in following up on external audit report recommendations regarding sub-
national PIU and block grant recipients; (ii) differences between the financial report from
the accreditation incentive grant recipients and the actual cost incurred; (iii) delays in
following up on Bank observations on travel expenditures, submitting the Inspector
General’s 2013 intra-audit report and socializing the financial management manual with
district education authorities; and (iv) delays in following up on the external audit
findings.

39.     Despite these challenges, the PCU submitted all the interim un-audited quarterly
financial management reports (some delayed), and all the annual audit reports were
unqualified (clean) and on time. Furthermore, the agreed action plans that were put in
place to address the external audit and the Bank FM review findings have been followed
up. In fact, MOEC has resolved almost 100 percent of audit findings for period 2009-
2012 by project closing. The remaining 0.04 percent is still being finalized, and will be
covered in the 2013 audit report that is being prepared for submission to the Bank by
June 30, 2014.

40.     The project disbursed 73.96 percent of loan, 96.6 percent of credit and 97.82
percent trust fund proceeds. There were IDR:US$ exchange rate gains, which increased
the funds available particularly in terms of the loan and the trust fund (since they were in
US dollars). The Dutch government had expressed its preference to utilize trust fund
money first to cover eligible expenditures. Lastly, certain activities were less costly than
originally planned. The combination of these factors led to an overall disbursement rate
of 93.1 percent, which is a considerable achievement given the financial management
challenges that the project faced during implementation.

41.     Procurement. The procurement under BERMUTU was limited to the selection of
consultants, as it did not finance the purchase of goods, supplies and works. Procurement
ratings ranged from moderately unsatisfactory at the onset of the implementation period
to moderately satisfactory towards the second half of the implementation period.

42.    The recommendations made by the Bank procurement assessment during
preparation included: (i) provision of targeted technical assistance through employment

8
 It took approximately one year for the FM support and guidelines to be established. Given that Satkers
were not familiar with this type of project implementation, documentation/record keeping for eligible
expenditures was weak at that time. Record-keeping significantly improved once the necessary guidelines
and support were in place.

                                                  10
of procurement advisors to enhance capacity for managing procurement in respective
MoEC units; (ii) use of a web-based tool to increase public disclosure of procurement
process and results; and (iii) enhancement of control of procurement process by putting in
place the detailed procurement plan, an operational manual and a reporting mechanism
and implementation of the agreed Anti-corruption Action Plan. As with financial
management, there were delays at project start-up in incorporating these
recommendations specifically in regards to hiring the procurement advisor and
establishing the procurement selection committees.

43.     By MTR, however, these recommendations were incorporated so that
procurement performance was rated satisfactory: MoEC prepared its annual procurement
plans and submitted them for Bank review on a timely basis. Issues related to weaknesses
in record keeping and hiring of four consultants that were not included in the approved
procurement plan led to a downgrading of procurement performance to moderately
satisfactory. However, these issues were identified by the Bank’s procurement review
and flagged to MoEC. While the record-keeping recommendations were not addressed by
the end of the project, overall project procurement was carried out in line with Bank
procedures and rated moderately satisfactory at the time of project closing.

44.     Anti-corruption Plan. During the preparation phase, agreement was reached with
the GoI, that in order to mitigate potential fiduciary risks during the implementation
period, the GoI, through the MoEC would develop a comprehensive Anti-Corruption
Action Plan (ACAP), satisfactory to the Bank. The ACAP was included as an Annex of
the BERMUTU PAD. The different Bank supervision missions rated the implementation
of the ACAP as moderately satisfactory because, whilst no systematized complaints were
ever handled, the BERMUTU website had limited access to the public for filing a
complaint.

45.     The project was given a C environmental rating because it did not finance any
civil works. It did however trigger Operational Policy 4.10 (Indigenous People) and thus
an Isolated Vulnerable Peoples’ Framework (IVPF) was developed during the preparation
phase, satisfactory to the Bank. The IVPF aimed at ensuring that both teachers and
communities who or which were Isolated Vulnerable People would benefit from
BERMUTU, including developing screening and implementation criteria for Grants and a
grievance mechanism in accordance with IVPF.

46.     A social safeguard specialist was included in various supervision missions
attesting to the fact that the IVPF for teachers working in geographically remote and
difficult areas was being implemented well by: (i) developing a screening procedure and
a set of criteria for selection of teacher working groups, thus ensuring that a significant
number of functional working groups in remote areas participated in BERMUTU; (ii)
providing modules to strengthen teacher professional development and also ensuring
"reconciliation" between teachers with differences in understanding, view, religion and
local conditions to teach; and (iii) providing a larger block grant. For example,
BERMUTU has successfully trained teachers in remote areas with a significant
percentage of indigenous students through 92 primary school teacher-working groups and

                                            11
71 junior secondary teacher-working groups. The grievance mechanism required by the
IVPF was not implemented.

47.    Early in project implementation, safeguards was rated moderately satisfactory due
to the: (i) absence of implementation of the grievance mechanism; and (ii) limited
implementation of the IVPF and attention to the social safeguard requirements. Based on
recommendations made during the MTR, the PCU hired a social safeguard consultant to
help follow up the mid-term review recommendations and compliance with the IVPF
moved forward with no grievances reported during project implementation.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

48.     BERMUTU is only the first (completed) stage of a longer process needed before
expected improvements in student learning outcomes could be observed and measured in
a standardized fashion across the country and education levels. The legal framework,
processes, instruments, manuals, training materials and modules required to
professionalize Indonesia’s teachers have been developed, trialed and are just started to
be implemented. The pieces are in place and there exist opportunities to expand and
further improve the achievements made under BERMUTU.

49.     The teacher reform supported by BERMUTU continues as mandated by the
Teacher Law with strong political support. Accordingly, after the closing date,
BERMUTU-related policy outcomes are continued to being implemented nation-wide.
This stage includes, for example, the accreditation of LPTKs, the RPL, the induction for
new teachers, and the teacher performance management (TPM) system designed for the
four-level professional career structure progression.

50.    BERMUTU’s important achievements have, in turn generated new challenges,
some of which are being addressed by the government as it continues the reform process,
such as: (i) the fine-tuning and simplification of processes; (ii) the alignment of the
regulatory framework to the new 2013 Curriculum under implementation and the 2014
Civil Service Law requiring, inter-alia, all civil servants to enter a performance-based
contract; and (iii) the dissemination and expansion of BERMUTU-related interventions to
new districts and provinces and to a new “clientele” comprising early-childhood,
secondary education (including vocational education) and special education teachers.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

51.    Relevance of Objectives. The project development objectives were highly
relevant to the country’s sectoral needs at the time of project development. They fit
squarely into the government’s objectives to improve quality of education as spelled out
by the 2003 Education Law and 2005 Teacher Law, while supporting the Bank’s FY04-
07 CAS Objective II “Making Service Delivery Responsive to the Needs of the Poor”.
The objectives continue to fit within the FY09-12 and current Country Partnership

                                           12
Strategy (FY13-15) 9: The FY09-12 continued the support to increase the number of
teachers meeting mandated academic qualifications and system accreditation, while the
FY13-15 includes as one of its engagement areas in the Pro-Jobs pillar the continued
support for enhancing skills and technology. Bank engagement therefore continues to
support development results that will improve the performance of teachers, strengthen
institutions and service delivery and increase human resource capacity in research and
development.

52.     Relevance of Design. The project design is judged to be high. It was
appropriately aligned with the relevant government and Bank strategies and designed to
enhance the quality of the teaching force through upgrading pre- and in-service teacher
training as defined by the Teacher Law and on standards defined by the National
Education Standards Agency. The PDOs were stated with sufficient operational precision
allowing for gauging their attainment through the observation and measurement of a
metric comprising three outcome and seven intermediate outcome indicators. Baseline
data was included at the onset of project implementation and end-of-project outcome and
intermediate targets were deemed achievable at the time of project design. However, the
design proved to be more complex than initially assessed, especially for Satkers, which
had to become familiar with donor-financed implementation approaches. Although this
led to initial delays, the majority of challenges were resolved by MTR when the project
was back on track to meeting its PDOs. By project closing, all envisaged key activities
were completed.

53.    Relevance of Implementation. The relevance of implementation is judged to be
substantial. As mentioned previously, all activities were completed by end-of-project
and were very successful. In addition to completing all activities, meeting (or exceeding)
almost all targets and reaching a combined disbursement rate of 93.1 percent,
implementation of the different impact studies provided valuable insights, which were
(and remain) highly relevant 10. Despite Satkers’ unfamiliarity with donor-financed
implementation approaches, they were able to overcome this challenge to a large extend
and help carry out project activities and manage funds. Furthermore, as part of
government’s decision to restructure MoEC, it also made a firm commitment to ensure
BERMUTU implementation would not be adversely affected. Finally, all audit reports
were submitted and received a qualified (clean) opinion and procurement was carried out
in accordance with Bank guidelines. There were, however, challenges relate to initial
capacity of Satkers, DIPA allocations,procurement record keeping, and financial
management but these challenges did not undermine overall project implementation and
relevance.




9
  Report No. 752906-ID, December 13, 2012
10
   Findings on teacher working group effectiveness showed increased support for teachers in terms of
training and professional development activities. Findings on improved cognitive and pedagogical ability of
teachers as a result of the teacher working groups is mixed but has laid the foundation for further, more
rigorous analysis. Lastly, teacher absenteeism in BERMUTU districts has dropped from 19 percent in 2003
to 6.6 percent in primary schools and 6.3 percent in junior secondary schools.

                                                    13
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

54.    The ICR rates the achievement of the PDOs as satisfactory for the reasons
explained below and documented in the ICR Data Sheet:

55.    With respect to the first outcome indicator (Increased number of teachers meeting
academic qualifications mandated by the Teacher Law), the end-of-project target of 1.4
million teachers was exceeded by 22.4 percent. BERMUTU developed some instruments
supporting the effort by which over 1.71 million teachers acquired the mandated four-
year college degree (S1 certificate) by the closing date of December 31, 2013. In
addition, the government has decided to fine tune the existing distance learning program
and the RPL to further enhance upgrading the remaining one million teachers, some of
them working in hard-to-reach locations, to meet the 2.7 million 2015 target.

56.      With respect to the second outcome indicator (Increased number of primary and
junior secondary teachers in BERMUTU Districts using classroom instruction with
specific subject and age appropriate pedagogy), the end-of-project target of 190,000
teachers was exceeded by 12.8 percent. BERMUTU was the instrument by which over
214,000 teachers benefited from the professional working group (KKG/MGMP) activities
for the adoption of improved instructional practice. Findings of a study commissioned to
assess the impact of this indicator reveals that teacher’s participation in these working
groups improved their pedagogical skills as indicated by their abilities in teaching
preparation, delivery and formative assessment of their students, as compared to
equivalent teachers that did not participate in similar groups. MoEC has notified that it
would conduct additional performance appraisals in 2015 on a random sample of
BERMUTU teachers using the Teacher Annual Performance Appraisal (PKG) instrument
developed and validated under Component 3 in 2013. At the time of the ICR mission, the
PKG was being fine-tuned to align it with the new 2013 Curriculum (under
implementation) and the 2014 Civil Service Law. The MoEC is expected to carry out a
nation-wide administration of the revised PKG in January 2016. In the meantime, some
districts, such as Karawang, are implementing the current non-revised PKG.

57.    With respect to the third outcome indicator (Reduction in absenteeism of teachers
in BERMUTU Districts), the target was achieved: two studies conducted by Puslitjak
(MoEC) in BERMUTU districts found that absenteeism rates decreased from 8.4 percent
in 2010 to 6.6 percent in 2012 in primary school and from 12.8 percent to 6.3 percent in
junior secondary school. The SMERU study (funded by the Bank) on a national
representative random sample of public primary schools in 2003 and 2008 found the
teacher absenteeism rates to be 19 and 14 percent respectively. Another national
representative study by Puslitjak in collaboration with the Analytical and Capacity
Development Partnership (AC DP , ADB program jointly funded by the European
Commission and the AusAid) is underway.

58.    In addition to exceeding PDO-level indicator targets, the project contributed to the
following long-term activities: (i) changing the way basic education teachers-to-be are
prepared (LPTK); (ii) improvement in the curriculum-subject knowledge and teaching

                                            14
skills of all in-service teachers (KKG; MGMP); (iii) setting up standards (Teacher
Performance Management - TPM scheme) and targets to manage the teaching labor
force; (iv) accompanied these changes with financial incentives to improve teachers'
welfare based on teachers’ performance results (TPM scheme designed for the
professional career allowance including all the assessment instruments). Furthermore,
BERMUTU focused on basic education teachers, principals and supervisors from
disadvantaged districts first as a feasible way to get the process started in a more
equitable fashion. Therefore, the project is judged to have achieved its stated PDOs of
improving the overall quality and performance of the teachers in the Republic of
Indonesia through enhancing their knowledge of subject matter and pedagogical skills in
the classroom.

59.    Preliminary findings of three studies commissioned by MoEC that support the
ICR’s PDO ratings can be found in Annex 2.

60.     With respect to the intermediate outcome indicators: (i) Indicator 1 (Increased
number of pre-service programs accredited), the end-of-project target of 75 was exceeded
by 8 percent; (ii) Indicator 2: (Increased number of new graduates from accredited
programs meeting the mandated competency standards) reached 13,179 graduates,
missing the 15,000 graduates end-target due to the sequenced nature of the activity and
three to four year period allowed for PGSD’s to become accredited; (iii) Indicator 3
(Increased numbers of teachers gaining recognition for prior learning (RPL) from
accredited universities), the end-of-project target of 700,000 was exceeded by 25.7
percent, reaching almost 880,000 teachers; (iv) Indicator 4 (Increased numbers of active
KKG/MGMPs in BERMUTU Districts), the end-of-project target of 4,500 was exceeded
by 35.7 percent (there are 6,135 active professional working groups); (v) Indicator 5
(Increased numbers of beginning teachers being provided with school induction programs
in BERMUTU Districts), reached 1,429 new teachers, missing the end-target of 3,000 but
all mechanisms are in place to complete induction for all remaining teachers in both
BERMUTU and non-BERMUTU districts; (vi) Indicator 6 (Revised policies, plans and
procedures for continuing education and career development of certified teachers
developed and piloted for implementation by the government in 2011) was met; and (vii)
Indicator 7 (A teacher database established to track progress in teacher placement,
academic qualifications, certification, and payment of professional allowances) was also
met.

3.3    Efficiency

61.    The BERMUTU program was efficient from both an operations and expenditure
perspective. A good indication of its overall efficiency is the fact that the project
achieved all of the PDO and intermediate outcome indicators with less financial resources
than the original projection at the appraisal stage. At the same time the project had
commendable disbursement of 93.1 percent of project loan, credit and grant funds. The
bulk of these funds (US$91.46 million or 66.3 percent) was allocated for component 2,
“Strengthening structures for teacher improvement at the local level”. This component
reached a 95.6 percent expenditure rate with respect to the appraised estimates (as shown

                                           15
in Annex 2).

62.     The emphasis on component 2 is justifiable given the significant size of the target
groups and its contribution in the form of improvements in teacher pedagogical skills.
The latter is achieved through project support for the working group program of primary
and junior secondary teachers (KKG and MGMP) in 75 participating districts. This
program benefited 214,380 primary and junior secondary school teachers, principals and
supervisors from 6,107 working groups.

63.    While teacher working groups existed prior to BERMUTU, many were inactive or
not operating effectively. The project provided a stimulus to revive and strengthen more
than 6,000 KKG/MGMP by introducing a well-structured program. There were four
important characteristics of BERMUTU support: (i) provision of grants for each
KKG/MGMP for three consecutive years to ensure sufficient time for the working groups
to become well-established and fully functional; (ii) development of a strong support
system to ensure quality and sustainability (as described in Annex 2); (iii) formation of an
M&E system; and (iv) a special model of support for teachers in difficult and remote
areas. BERMUTU granted each of the working groups a total US$4,800 for KKG and
US$6,300 for MGMP, for three consecutive years. While some non-BERMUTU working
groups also received support, it tended to be much less comprehensive. For instance,
there was a separate grant program to non-BERMUTU KKG/MGMP in 2007-2009 that
provided US$1,000 to KKG and US$1,500 to MGMP per year with no guarantee for
continuous funding for the following year and without a support system as provided
under BERMUTU.

64.     BERMUTU also introduced a different focus of grant spending. A survey
conducted in 2007 of the non-BERMUTU grant program showed that most of the
expenditure was on meals (31 percent), transportation (22 percent), and honorarium (20
percent); very little was spent on items that would support the session activities (e.g.
supplies to create learning aids, bringing in expert resource personnel and classroom
action research). The BERMUTU grant was specifically designed to ensure the funds
would go mainly toward supporting high quality session activities and could not be used
for meals and teacher transport (with the exception of teachers in remote KKG/MGMP),
In this regard, BERMUTU improved efficiency of the system by focusing the use of
grant financing to enhance the quality of working group activities.

65.    While the cost of supporting teacher working groups through BERMUTU was
more expensive, the project was arguably more cost-effective given that the BERMUTU-
supported teacher working groups met more frequently, operated more effectively, and
were more focused on improving teaching and learning. KKG/MGMP program became
an integral part of the performance management system developed under component 3.
As a result, the KKG/MGMP program will be sustainable as it is the most accessible
option for teachers to do the required Continuing Professional Development (CPD). An
impact evaluation study commissioned by MoEC examined a sample of KKG/MGMP in
20 BERMUTU districts and another 20 non-BERMUTU districts. The study found that
working groups under BERMUTU were more effective, better organized, held more

                                            16
accountable and that activities involved more participation from the individual teachers
compared to the non-BERMUTU counterparts. In addition, BERMUTU also had an
interesting spillover effect to non-BERMUTU groups through the adoption BERMUTU
modules and guidelines. The widespread use of BERMUTU modules and guidelines
among non-BERMUTU working groups provides additional evidence of BERMUTU
impact on overall system efficiency.

66.     The study also found a positive impact of BERMUTU on teachers’ competencies.
Teachers in working groups receiving a direct grant under the BERMUTU program were
tested at the baseline (2010) and midline (2011) of a three-stage study and showed a
significant improvement in cognitive and pedagogical ability.

67.      Component 2 also financed the development of a system to recognize teachers’
working experience and prior learning (RPL). In collaboration with selected teacher
training colleges (LPTK), MoEC designed the application of the RPL system for
programs tailored for teachers who have to upgrade to the 4-year college degree. This
RPL has benefited 879,832 teachers by reducing the number of credits they had to take in
order to earn an S1 degree. With the RPL system, in-service teachers can complete their
study in a shorter period and they do not have to leave their teaching responsibilities. In
addition to support for the accreditation of LPTK, BERMUTU, under component 1, also
provided support for the development of distance learning materials for upgrading
channel (HY-LITE) organized by the Consortium of LPTKs. This program, along with
the distance learning by the Open University, have contributed to improved academic
qualifications of 879,832 teachers, thus to the achievement of the first PDO indicator,
“Increased number of teachers meeting academic qualifications mandated by the Teacher
Law”. The distance learning channel was the most accessible route for incumbent
teachers to upgrade their academic credentials. This upgrading channel allows teacher to
fulfill their classroom tasks while pursuing their four-year college degree.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

68.     The relevance of project design was high as it was appropriately aligned with the
relevant government and Bank strategies and designed to enhance the quality of the
teaching force through upgrading pre- and in-service teacher training as defined by the
2005 Teacher Law and on standards defined by the National Education Standards
Agency. Furthermore, the PDOs were stated with sufficient operational precision
allowing for gauging their attainment through the observation and measurement of a
metric comprising three outcome and seven intermediate outcome indicators. The design
also recognized the potential complexities associated with project implementation and
included appropriate mitigation measure. The relevance of implementation is judged to
be high since all key activities were successfully completed by end-of-project, meeting
(or exceeding) almost all targets and reaching a combined disbursement rate of 93.1
percent. Furthermore, implementation of the different impact studies provided valuable
insights for decision-making purposes and which were (and remain) highly relevant.
Implementation challenges, especially those that arose during the initial phases of the life

                                            17
of the project, was addressed so that the pace picked up and progress towards PDO
achievement was on track by MTR. Efficacy is rated satisfactory as the PDOs were
achieved as supported by exceeding two of the outcome indicators and meeting the third
indicator. Specifically, the project supported improved quality of teachers by supporting
1,713,163 teachers meeting the mandated qualifications, improved teacher performance
as a result of their active participation in working groups and a significant drop in
primary school teacher absenteeism from 8.4 percent in 2010 to 6.6 percent in 2012 and
junior secondary school teacher absenteeism from 12.8 percent in 2010 to 6.3 percent in
2012. These are substantial achievements especially in the context of an ambition
government reform.

      Project         Achievement of PDO         Efficiency          Overall Rating
     Relevance             (Efficacy)
       High               Satisfactory           Substantial           Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

69.     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. BERMUTU did
not include gender-specific interventions targeting instead basic education teachers,
principals and supervisors in 75 districts regardless of gender. BERMUTU was
implemented in 75 poor and educational disadvantaged districts providing special
attention to teachers working in rural and hard to reach schools by: (i) introducing a
different design for the teacher working group grant (KKG/MGMP-remote); and (ii)
providing the distance learning modality to those teachers that were in their upgrading
process in order for them to meet the required academic qualifications. BERMUTU
targeted districts with the highest numbers of teachers who were not meeting the required
academic qualifications.

70.    Institutional Change/Strengthening. The major institutional accomplishment of
BERMUTU is the establishment of a regulatory framework and an assortment of
instruments and processes to implement the Teacher Law. As per Decree of the Ministry
of State Apparatus and Bureaucratic Reform (MenPAN &RB) 16/2009 on Functional
Credits for Teachers, and five MOEC’s regulations on recognition of prior learning, new
teacher induction, and teacher credit points are in place. The TPM scheme including
manuals and instruments were developed, trialed and implemented towards the end of the
BERMUTU period and it is currently under review to align it to the 2013 Curriculum
(under implementation) and the Civil Service Law of January 2014. Accordingly, the
nation-wide implementation of the revised TPM has been scheduled to start in January
2016. There is some initial capacity buildup at the districts to manage large amounts of
funds and continue participating in the government’s continued roll out of the Teacher
Law, using many of the mechanisms and approaches put in place by the project.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative).
None.




                                           18
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome

71.     There is a low to negligible risk for changes to occur that might be detrimental to
the achieved PDOs because there is ample evidence of the financial, institutional and
technical sustainability of the key activities financed under BERMUTU. As mentioned
before, the BERMUTU programs are continued to be implemented by the GoI and there
are some programs financed by other donors, such as the school principal and supervisor
quality improvement funded by the Australian Department of Foreign and Trade (DFAT)
grant

72.      With respect to the financial sustainability, the district governments and teachers
are automatically bound to implement the regulations under Component 3 of BERMUTU
as these are to be implemented nationally. As BERMUTU is an integral part of the
continuous teacher reform, its annual budget is guaranteed, as there are units within the
MoEC officially mandated to manage the teacher quality and performance as stipulated
by the Teacher Law, including implementing the regulations and policies developed
under BERMUTU’s financial and technical support. As an early indication, the ICR
team was informed that: (i) the Directorate of Education Personnel Management (P2TK
Dikdas) of DGBE allocated funds in 2014 to disseminate and expand the Teacher
Working Group Grant program to 50 districts; and (ii) 40 out of the 75 BERMUTU
districts have signed Memorandums of Understanding with the MoEC to continue the
BERMUTU-related programs, including providing teacher working group grants in their
districts using their own funds.

73.     With respect to the institutional sustainability, BERMUTU-related activities
continue to be housed within the different units of the MoEC at the national and district
level and supported by an existing regulatory framework and instruments. Some districts
are enacting their own regulations to complement and synergize MoEC’s current
BERMUTU undertaking. With respect to the technical sustainability, the internal
capacity built during BERMUTU’s implementation period at both the national, provincial
and district level mainstream institutions in terms of trained staff and procedures. This is
expected to remain in place and expand nation-wide as this mandated by the Teacher Law
and would be reflected in the MOEC Strategic Plan 2015-2019.

74.     There is however a moderate risk to dilute the TPM associated with the teacher
professional career and transforms it to an entitlement for every certified teacher
regardless of the relevance and quality of the actions taken by the teachers to access
credits in the performance progression scheme. The continuing administration of
appropriate competency assessment instruments by third qualifying parties could
significantly mitigate this perceived risk during the BERMUTU dissemination and
expansion process, currently under implementation.



                                            19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

75.     The preparation period started in 2005 by the Bank commissioning analytical
work in the various areas (already mentioned in section 2.1) financed by the Dutch and
AusAID TFs (managed by the Bank). It was informed, amongst others, by the Bank’s
analytical work which contributed to the development of the 2005 Teacher Law, the
FY04-07 CAS and responded fully to the government’s request for assistance in teacher
management and education quality improvement. There were 4 field missions from
identification in August 2006 to appraisal in April 2007 including a preparation mission
in November 2006 and a pre-appraisal mission in February 2007.

76.     Only one task team leader (TTL) and one Co-TTL were responsible for the entire
project preparation period. The preparation period also benefited from three quality
review meetings, of which one was a QER, carried out in September 2006. As mentioned
in Section 2.1., the QER panel endorsed the project design while mainly recommending:
(i) a simplified project design; (ii) further clarification on: (a) the management of
implementation and sequencing of activities in order to get clearer understanding on
which institutions were accountable for what and to whom; (b) risks and mitigating
measures; (c) the accreditation and certification standards being proposed; and (d) the
competitive and targeted grants for teacher training institutions and the criteria and
procedures to be used; and (iii) the inclusion of baseline data. All of these
recommendations were accommodated into the project design. The Bank’s regional
operational service department praised the project’s M&E framework as a good practice
example that was being used in Bank training programs. The Bank also worked with
government to ensure project implementation capacity building of the Satker would be
carried out through training and technical assistance.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

77.    There was only one TTL during the entire implementation period (different from
the one during the preparation period), whose tenure covered the period March 2008
(immediately after effectiveness) until December 2013 (closing date).

78.     This operation benefited from a continuous on-sight and close communication
from the TTL, World Bank staff in the Jakarta office and technical experts (consultants)
with the key counterpart players on an ongoing basis. This helped resolve budget
administration issues, provided timely technical inputs on the development of policies
and operational instruments (including several impact evaluation studies), and address
Satkers’ capacity constraints/quality of technical assistance. Specifically, the Bank team:
(i) advised MoEC in 2008 to focus on three Satkers first when GoI was only able to
allocated US$6.9 million compared to the expected US$21 million; (ii) proactively

                                            20
facilitated the restructuring of the project in response to MoEC organizational changes
and more realistic project needs; and (iii) encouraged MoEC to fully follow up on audit
and FM recommendations, which were almost completely resolved. The external audit
report due June 30, 2014 is expected to confirm complete resolution of all previously-
made recommendations. The project files attest to the carrying out of 9 field supervision
missions during the entire implementation period. A total of 11 ISRs were filed in the
Bank system, implying that in the 71 month span implementation period these reporting
documents were updated, on average, twice a year.

79.      Overall, the supervision missions included the appropriate skill-mix to carry out
their envisaged terms of reference as shown in Annex 4 of the ICR, including
procurement, financial management and the social safeguards. The findings of each
supervision mission were conveyed to Bank management and to the GoI clearly and
straightforward, including accomplishments and implementation shortcomings, potential
risks and implementation flags. The Bank team intensified its support during the project’s
initial phase to address the challenges that began to surface, and actively contributed to
their resolution by MTR. This allowed the team to then shift its focus to using the
preliminary findings of the various impact evaluation studies in policy dialogues with
MoEC. Although financial management was rated moderately unsatisfactory and
procurement moderately satisfactory (see Section 2.4. for details), it was meant to send a
strong message to the government while recognizing the considerable efforts made the
project management unit, which was rated satisfactory.

80.     Weighing the many supervision strengths with one detected shortcoming, the ICR
rates the Bank supervision performance as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

81.     The ICR team rates the overall Bank performance as satisfactory because the
rating at the preparation stage was rated satisfactory and during implementation as
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

82.     GoI and MoEC displayed full ownership of the project design. This ownership
will be again reflected by the full commitment, support and engagement provided by the
MoEC in: (i) addressing the challenges during the first two years of the implementation
period; and (ii) then, supporting all the BERMUTU-related processes and studies in order
to attain the stated PDOs mid-implementation period onwards. As mentioned before, the
“Readiness Filter Agreement” reached between the Bank and the GoI/MoEC in the early
2000s requiring completion of a POM and funding arrangements as a condition for
negotiations and applicable to all projects in Indonesia further highlighted the
government’s commitment to the project’s objectives. This commitment is confirmed by

                                           21
the 2014 Civil Service Law which includes, inter-alia, the requirement that all public
teachers (as civil servants) enter a performance-based contract with the MoEC (with
observable and measurable teaching performance an professional progression credit
targets) including incentives (monetary) if these targets are met or penalties if they are
not.

83.     Challenges facing MoEC during 2008-2010 included: (i) unpredictability of
education funding from the national budget (DIPA); and (ii) delays in MoEC timely
releasing BERMUTU approved budget funds. To partially address these issues, the
Director of Teacher Development and Training under the then director general in his
capacity as the PCU Manager, was able to secure some funds in the DIPA of his
Directorate to recruit technical assistance needed by certain Satkers, like those working
on teacher training accreditation, development of new teacher induction and principal and
supervisor learning materials. In addition, the PCU, jointly with the Bank team, diligently
alerted the respective Satkers to support them in preparing for the next DIPA, resulting in
a much improved situation starting 2010.

84.     Rating: Given the above-mentioned strengths and challenges, and the fact that the
latter were satisfactorily resolved mid-implementation period onwards, the ICR rates the
GoI performance satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

85.    MoEC was entrusted with the overall responsibility of implementing and
managing BERMUTU. The Directorate General of the Quality Improvement of Teachers
and Education Personnel (DGQITEP) became the BERMUTU’s PCU until the end of
2010. The proposed implementation arrangements were ambitious involving 8 central
and 20 district project implementation units with different levels of institutional capacity.
In addition, in early 2011, the ministry was restructured as previously mentioned, which
required remapping of departments and budget allocations, and leading to some delays in
the short-term.

86.     Implementation strengths: (i) almost all challenges during project start-up were
satisfactorily addressed by MTR; (ii) despite these initial challenges, the project was on
track to achieving its PDOs by MTR; (iii) PCU’s attention to addressing those initial
challenges allowed it to focus on results and actively engage with the Bank on the
findings of the various impact evaluations; (iv) social safeguards and adherence to the
RVPF is judged satisfactory; and (v) the PCU’s continued efforts to resolve the external
audit and Bank FM review findings even beyond the project implementation period (the
external audit due June 30, 2014 is expected to confirm that all findings have been
addressed). In terms of ownership and commitment to project implementation, it is
important to highlight efforts made by the PCU in providing the necessary technical
assistance during the early stages, resulting in more reliance on mainstreamed institution
staff and less dependency on technical assistance. Furthermore, the PCU (along with the
Pusbangprodik Satker) was able to display some initial, capacity to undertake: (i) with

                                             22
district support, on-sight monitoring of BERMUTU’s activities especially the ones
concerning the working groups of teachers, principals and supervisors; (ii) the fine-tuning
of some of BERMUTU’s processes and instruments; and (iii) the following up on the
several commissioned evaluation studies including the analysis of their preliminary
findings.

87.     Implementation weaknesses: (i) delays in fully addressing the previously-
mentioned start-up challenges, which affected physical and financial project execution;
(ii) delays in fully addressing all audit and FM findings prior to project closing despite
continued follow-up by the Bank team; (iii) weaknesses in procurement filing; and (iv)
the time it took to complete the ministry restructuring, leading to slowed implementation
during 2011, picking up again in 2012 once the restructuring was completed.

88.     Weighing the strengths with the weaknesses described above, the ICR rates the
overall implementing agency performance as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

89.     Despite the fact that the achievement of the PDOs was rated satisfactory, all
outcome and most of the intermediate outcome indicators were achieved or exceeded, all
BERMUTU sub-components implemented and documented disbursements reached 88.9
percent of the total financing (93.1 percent of the total international financing), the ICR
rates the overall Borrower performance as moderately satisfactory because the ratings
of the borrower performance at the preparation was rated satisfactory and the government
and implementing agency performances at the implementation stage were both rated
moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

90.    Improving teaching quality and performance requires an articulated,
focused and holistic approach, just like the one included in BERMUTU. The holistic
approach of the BERMUTU design stems from including interventions supporting: (i)
changes in the way basic education teachers-to-be are prepared (LPTK); (ii)
improvements in the curriculum-subject knowledge and teaching skills of all practicing
teachers (KKG; MGMP); (iii) the appropriate managing of teachers by setting targets and
standards (TPM scheme); (iv) financial incentives and improving teachers welfare based
on teachers’ performance results (TPM scheme designed for the professional career
allowance including all the assessment instruments); and (v) changes in the recruitment
procedures and regulations to only employ the best candidates and set standards for their
performance. BERMUTU focused on basic education teachers, principals and supervisors
from disadvantaged districts first as a feasible way to get the process started. With the
experienced gained during the period 2008-2013, the GoI/MoEC is now in a position to
disseminate and extend BERMUTU to other districts and provinces including more hard-
to-reach communities and to a “new clientele of teachers”. All the 12 sub-components of
the BERMUTU design nicely articulated between themselves generating a welcoming

                                            23
synergy that contributed to the attainment of the PDOs.

91.    MoEC being in the driver seat owning and implementing the program
without the need of parallel structures greatly contributed to the satisfactory
achievement of the stated PDOs and ensured technical, institutional and financial
sustainability of BERMUTU’s key interventions after the closing date. Ensuring and
maintaining “client ownership” from the early stages is a key to success. This
empowerment has been down streamed to the provinces, districts and cluster of working
groups showing cohesion and initiative.

92.     BERMUTU-follow up programs currently implemented by MoEC and some
districts, largely navigating in new and unchartered territory would greatly benefit
from a continued technical support from international and multilateral donors
providing sound technical advice and linkages with worldwide best practices.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies.
No issues were raised. Please see Annex 7 for an excerpt of the Borrower’s ICR.

(b) Co-financiers, the Royal Netherlands Government
No issues were raised. Please see Annex 8 for the Dutch government’s contribution to the
ICR.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders.
Not applicable.




                                           24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                       Appraisal     Actual / Latest
                                                     Percentage of
Components             Estimate      Estimate (US$
                                                     Appraisal
                       (US$ million) million)
Component 1                  20.45            15.08            73.7
Component 2                 134.20          127.84             95.3
Component 3                   5.28             8.37          158.5
Component 4                  33.83            21.98            65.0
Unallocated                   1.24              0.0             NA
Fee                           0.06             0.06          100.0
Total financing             195.06          173.34             88.9
Note: Amounts shown by component are inclusive of counterpart funding.

(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal          Actual / Latest
                         Type of Co-                                                 Percentage of
Source of Funds                                 Estimate             Estimate
                          financing                                                   Appraisal
                                              (US$ million)        (US$ million)
       IBRD                   Loan                 24.50                 18.12           73.9
        IDA                  Credit                61.50                 59.42           96.6
         TF                  Grant                 52.00                 50.87           97.8
 Inter. financing                                 138.00                 128.41          93.1
   Government
     National             Counterpart              39.00                 26.62            68.3
   Government             Counterpart              18.06                 18.31           101.4
     District
    Total GoI            Counterpart               57.06                 44.93           78.7
       Total                                      195.06                 173.34          88.8




                                                      25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

93.     BERMUTU aimed at supporting GoI/MoEC's core agenda concerning the
implementation of the Teacher Law to improve teacher professionalism, performance,
accountability and welfare. Specifically, the Teacher Law aimed at: (i) improving teachers’
welfare by doubling their salary contingent on compliance with the criteria set for in the
Law 11; and (ii) ensuring that teachers participating in BERMUTU certified their four year
pre-service teacher training, improved their content knowledge and pedagogy competencies
as well as their personal and social teaching-related skills and participated in further
continuous professional development.

94.      The BERMUTU goals, as reflected in the stated PDOs, were not only achieved but
also exceeded as shown by the corresponding outcome and intermediate outcome indicators
in the ICR Data Sheet and fully detailed in section 3.2. Accordingly, MoEC has successfully
put in place the regulatory framework and assortment of instruments for teacher certification,
teacher performance appraisal and incentives as well as career progression. The expectation
is that this new system will play a key role in ensuring that all Indonesian students are taught
by highly qualified teachers and thus, learning outcomes will also likely improve.

95.     Despite these commendable achievements, BERMUTU - a first, completed, stage of a
longer process to improve the quality of basic education in Indonesia – has, in turn, generated
new challenges that need to be addressed in the second post-BERMUTU (currently under
implementation) and further future stages. Some of these challenges are summarized in the
section of lessons learned.

96.      Teacher reforms take a long time to mature as reflected mainly by the most important
outcome of a reform – improved students’ learning outcomes as compared to a baseline.
BERMUTU’s short life-span of about 78 months since effectiveness has not yet allowed for
the: (i) coverage of the entire universe of basic and secondary teachers in Indonesia; and (ii)
gathering of hard evidence through standardized testing of changes in students’ learning
outcomes from a random sample of teachers benefited by BERMUTU as contrasted with a
comparable set of students from random teachers not benefited by BERMUTU and a
baseline. This is a big challenge for the MoEC given that there are 2.7 million teachers
working in a very diverse society, one million of which had not yet benefited from some of
BERMUTU’s interventions. Whilst a very sound start has begun, the waves of change will
take some time to impact on every teacher in the system and will take yet more government
funding and extension of the impact from 75 districts to the current existing 515 districts.


11
   The Teacher Law requires teachers, including primary school teachers, to have a bachelor (S1)
degree/Diploma 4 certificate. Accordingly, the teacher training universities have to upgrade their Diploma 2
program for primary school teachers to become S1 PGSD and get them accredited.”




                                                    26
97.     This section describes the outputs of the four components. The assessment is
primarily based on the Aide-Memoires, ISRs and the April 2014 ICR mission which included
visits to project sites in the BERMUTU District of Solok and held discussions with the
BERMUTU Director, the PCU Director, the Coordinators of the 4 components and the Bank
fiduciary and social safeguards team.

98.     Two cost tables are presented to substantiate this Annex: (a) the documented
expenditure by component and by source of financing at appraisal of BERMUTU and at the
time of writing this ICR (table A2.1); and (b) the documented expenditure by category and
by source of financing at appraisal and at the time of writing of this ICR (table A2.2).

99.     Component 1 – Reforming University-based Teacher Education. This component
aimed at: (i) supporting teacher quality through institutional accreditation to ensure that
teacher training reflected international best practices; and (ii) expanding existing teachers’
access to upgrading opportunities. This component included the following 3 sub-
components:

a.         Sub-component 1.1: Providing assistance to the National Board of Accreditation
           for Higher Education (BAN-PT) to: (i) facilitate the development of accreditation
           instruments and a strategic plan for the accreditation process; and (ii) provide
           training, workshops and support for incremental operating costs associated with
           the accreditation of teachers training providers;

b.         Sub-component 1.2: Grants and scholarships providing: (i) technical assistance
           to the Directorate General of Higher Education (DIKTI); and (ii) accreditation
           incentive grants (AIG) to selected public and private universities and teacher
           training institutes (about 40 out of 303 in the country) to improve curriculum and
           teacher preparation programs in line with international best practices and teacher
           accreditation standards. Three types of AIG were included under this sub-
           component:

                   i. Tier A grants targeted to large teacher education institutions offering
                      many good-quality study programs covering primary, junior, and
                      senior secondary teacher programs;
                  ii. Tier B grants targeted to small or medium-sized teacher education
                      institutions offering a limited number of good-quality study programs
                      with at least primary and junior secondary programs; and
                 iii. Distance Learning Development Grants opened to the 10 Teacher
                      Training Institutions (LPTK) mandated by the DIKTI to offer in-
                      service distance education to teachers.

c.          Sub-component 1.3: Overseas scholarship and non-degree training program to
            improve the quality of university teaching and coursework providing about 30
            PhD scholarships and about 90 three-month overseas, non-degree training
            opportunities to teachers who were assigned to teach and carry out research in
            the new D4/S1 Primary programs. Eligibility and selection criteria were to be

                                             27
            detailed in the project operation manual.

100. This component estimated at appraisal to cost US$20.45 million (10.5 percent of the
total cost), 14.2 percent to be financed by IBRD, 50.3 percent by IDA, 16 percent by the
TF090794 and 19.5 percent by the GoI, ended up documenting expenditures amounting to
US$15.08 million, 73.7 percent of the total appraised amount.

101. The significant under-spending is mainly explained by two factors. First, there were
some gains due to the exchange rates fluctuation. The appraised cost of this component was
estimated at a US dollar equivalent to 9,000 IDR/US$. During the implementation period the
IDR exchange rate fluctuated up and down reaching a high of about 12,400 in early 2009 and
about 12,100 during the second semester of 2013 to a low of about 8,500 in 2011. Second,
sub-component 1.3 was appraised for 30 candidates while the real number was only 19.

102. This Component supported: (i) the establishment of the S1-PGSD (four-year
education of primary school teachers which used to be a two-year program until 2006) in
participating pre-service teacher education universities/faculties (LPTKs) through the issuing
of Accreditation Incentive Grants; (ii) the continuing timely accreditation by the National
Board of Accreditation for Higher Education (BAN-PT); and (iii) the strengthening of the
distance learning programs for teachers.

103. The Accreditation Incentive Grant was competitively provided on a performance-
based fashion (tranches were released as per attainment of agreed intermediate targets), to 26
teacher training universities to support their efforts to get accredited status for their newly
established S1-PGSD study programs and to improve the accreditation status of up to two
other priority study programs for secondary school teachers.

104. This component supported the development and validation of accreditation
instruments and procedures to measure institutional baselines scores and changes towards the
required accreditation scores. From zero S1-PGSD institutions accredited in 2006,
BERMUTU supported the accreditation of 81. It also supported BAN-PT’s staff
(accreditation assessors) capacity improvements through immersion programs in similar
institutions in United States, India, Japan and New Zealand.

105. In order to facilitate teachers getting their bachelor degree as mandated by the new
Teacher’s Law, this Component strengthened distance learning programs for in-service
teachers through different options; (i) the HYLITE (organized by members of public LPTK
Consortium); (ii) the teacher learning portal; and (iii) the Guru Pintar On-line (organized by
the Open University) providing video-streaming to improve their subject knowledge and
teaching skills.

106. This Component provided three-month overseas, non-degree training scholarships to
90 LPTK’s teachers for them to enhance their teaching and research in the new D4/S1
Primary programs. In addition, 20 lecturers in the primary education teacher program (S1-
PGSD) of teacher education universities (LPTKs) were provided scholarships to get their
doctoral degree in basic education in various universities in the United States, Australia,

                                              28
Netherlands and the People Republic of China in the period 2008-2012. These participants
were selected competitively based on agreed criteria. To date, one candidate dropped out of
the program, while only 3 participants have successfully completed their study (1 from USA
and 2 from Australia) and have returned to Indonesia. Problems associated with getting the
appropriate visas on time for 10 students explain why the original target of 30 was not met.

107. The shortcoming with this component is that most of the degree scholarship (PhD)
recipients had not completed their studies and/or obtained their envisaged PhD degree by
December 31, 2013. This is mainly because the scholarship recipients did not start their
studies at the same time, but in three batches: 2009, 2010 and 2012. MoEC is currently
financing the cost associated with allowing the remaining 16 candidates complete their
degrees.

108. Rating of Component 1. Weighing the above achievements with the one
shortcoming, the ICR rates the implementation of this component as satisfactory.

109.    Component 2 – Strengthening Structure of Teacher Improvement at Local
Level. This component aimed at supporting initiatives taken by the MoEC to improve the
quality of teachers through the implementation of teacher classroom assessment and
professional development elements of the certification process. This component included the
following four sub-components implemented in 75 of Indonesia’s 441 districts 12 in 16 of
Indonesia’s 34 provinces:

a.           Sub-component 2.1: Providing technical assistance to establish agreed
             mechanisms for RPL of teachers, including the development of an eligibility
             examination;

b.           Sub-component 2.2: Providing technical assistance to the Directorate General for
             Quality Improvement of Teacher and Education Personnel (PMPTK) to develop
             subject-based modules and modules on management, which would be available in
             teacher training facilities (P4TK) to support the learning activities of teachers,
             core-teachers, and principals at the school cluster level. This sub-component was
             to be carried out in parallel with the AusAID-funded Basic Education Project for
             grades 1 to 9, providing capacity building support to P4TKs;

c.           Sub-component 2.3: Teacher Working Groups (KKG), a window aimed at
             financing a range of teacher training activities, including teacher classroom inter-
             visitation, use of the centrally developed training modules and other innovative
             approaches; and

12
   The BERMUTU provinces and districts were selected according to the following criteria: (i) percentage of
unqualified basic education teachers; (ii) percentage of basic education teachers working in rural, remote and
hard to access schools; (iii) areas belonging to the lower-income decile (a proxy for poverty); (iv) percentage of
the total provincial (district) budget spent on education in the province (district); and (v) districts with the
lowest score of the Indonesian Education Development Index (a function of net enrollemnt rates and outcomes
of the national (non-standardized) tests). Currently there are about 515 districts in the country.


                                                       29
d.         Sub-component 2.4: School Principal Working Groups (KKKS/MKKS) and
           Supervisor Working Groups (KKPS/MKPS), a window aimed at financing school
           principals and supervisors to enable them to: (i) establish school-based teacher
           induction programs for beginning teachers; (ii) be trained in assessing the
           performance of classroom teachers; (iii) implement the teacher induction
           program; and (iv) implement a performance assessment reporting process by the
           principal at the end of the probationary year.

110. This component estimated at appraisal to cost US$134.2 million (68.8 percent of the
total cost), 12.4 percent to be financed by the IBRD, 30 percent by IDA, 25 percent by the TF
and 32.6 percent by the GoI, ended up documenting expenditures amounting to US$127.84
million, 95.3 percent of the total appraised amount, a commendable disbursement
achievement.

111. This component supported the strengthening of the regulatory framework-governing
teachers. As a consequence, a regulation for Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) is now in
place and a substantial number of teachers have benefited through teacher training
universities (LPTK) and the Open University (UT) as further detailed below. The component
financed the development of guidelines and instruments for the carrying out of RPL.

112. In addition, this component supported the development of regulations on induction
and continuing professional development along developing corresponding learning packages
(12 induction modules), which are currently also in place benefitting teachers participating in
about 6,107 working groups. It also developed manuals for masters and key teachers for
their facilitation of these working groups.

113. Several field observations in the second half of the implementation period conducted
by MoEC’s M&E team as well as the social safeguard consultant working noted that: (i)
classroom processes had started to reflect teachers’ knowledge, both in the curriculum
subject content as well as in the pedagogical process to deliver this content, gained in the
working groups’ activities; and (ii) teachers have started to migrate from spending most of
their working group activities completing the reports/deliverables to fully comprehend the
learning materials and synergizing this acquired learning with the schools’ principals and
supervisors’ working groups. While quantitative data showed that teachers benefited from
participating in the working groups, especially the opportunity to participate in learning
activities, which is not common, to improve their content knowledge and pedagogical skills.

114. This component has been instrumental in granting RPL to 879,832 teachers pursuing
their S1 degree (four-year college), 87,501 of them in LPTKs institutions, and the rest,
792,331, through the Open University thus exceeding the end-of-project target of 700,000.
Even though RPL does not reduce the period to the S1 degree, it does reduce the load of
studies and, more important, prevents teachers of abandoning their classroom task while
pursuing their degree. This RPL option is being currently utilized by the MoEC to reach
about 2.7 million teachers to acquire their mandated S1 college degree. The ICR team was
informed that the RPL option would cease to operate in 2016, assuming that all of the

                                              30
existing teachers will have been upgraded to the required minimum 4 years training.

115. In August 2013 a joint Bank and MoEC team visited two universities in Bandung to
review the progress of the implementation of RPL and the quality of the procedures used in
determining RPL. The team found that the sampled universities had adopted the processes
and procedures for determining RPL as recommended in the Regulation.

116. Rating of Component 2. Weighing the achievements mentioned above, the ICR rates
the implementation of this component as satisfactory.

117.    Component 3 – Reforming Teacher Accountability and Incentive Systems for
Performance Appraisal and Career Advancement. This component aimed at developing
an integrated framework designed to sustain and continually enhance the quality and
accountability of teachers after they have been certified. The goals of this component were to
be achieved by: (i) reviewing and, to the extent possible, reforming existing policies,
procedures, and instruments used by the Ministry of Administrative Reform for performance
appraisal for progression and promotion; (ii) linking incentives created under the Teacher
Law to career advancement; and (iii) improving lines of accountability between managers
(principals/supervisors) and teachers. The above activities to be financed by BERMUTU
were packaged into the following two sub-components:

a.      Sub-component 3.1: Providing funds for technical assistance, studies, workshops,
        and operational costs to: (i) establish and support a taskforce, under the PMPTK
        Project Coordination Unit (PCU), to coordinate and oversee activities within
        Component 3; (ii) develop a career-oriented teacher profile for progression and
        promotion; (iii) develop an approach to a performance-based appraisal; and (iv)
        develop an approach to addressing the under-performance of certified teachers; and

b.      Sub-component 3.2: Providing funds for technical assistance, workshops, and
        operational costs to: (i) pilot test and refine policies, processes, and instruments
        developed under Sub-component 3.1; (ii) print and distribute manuals and related
        documentation for training and the trial; (iii) develop a plan and strategies for
        providing continuing education to certified teachers; and (iv) prepare an integrated
        framework for sustaining and enhancing teacher quality, based on the findings of the
        trials in selected districts.

118. This component estimated at appraisal to cost US$5.28 million (5.6 percent of the
total cost), 15.7 percent to be financed by the IBRD, 39.6 percent by IDA, 41.3 percent by
the TF and 3.4 percent by the GoI, ended up documenting expenditures amounting to
US$8.37 million, 158.5 percent of the total appraised amount. The over-spending is mainly
explained by the fact that the appraised cost assumed a two-year implementation period for
this component, taking in reality six years.

119. This Component supported the legislation and systems to assist the professional
strengthening and accountability of teachers. Accordingly, the Regulation 16/2009 issued by
the Ministry of State Apparatus and Bureaucratic Reform concerning teacher credit points

                                             31
became operational in January 2013. Based on this, teachers are financially compensated
based on their observable teacher’s competencies and knowledge. This performance-based
teacher credit system is being managed by the TPM scheme. Credits are granted based on
the results of administering the UKG, PKG and CPD assessment instruments. Possibilities to
get credits include the RPL and a series of CPD options (including the KKG).

120. The TPM system was designed for the four-level professional career structure
progression including the administration of: (i) the UKG (to test minimum standards in
professional [what to teach] and pedagogic [how to teach it] competencies); (ii) the PKG (to
assess minimum standards in key tasks in all legislated competency domains [pedagogic,
professional, personal and social]); and (iii) the CPD (to assess proficiency gains in the
professional career progression through the continuing professional development options as
compared to the minimum professional standards). MoEC is currently financing the
dissemination and expansion of KKG-MGPM in 50 districts – 16 BERMUTU districts for
dissemination purposes and 34 new, non-BERMUTU districts, for expansion purposes – in
25 provinces (8 BERMUTU provinces and 17 non-BERMUTU provinces, each one with 2
districts per province).

121. PKG has been integrated with a system of on-line reporting (e-kinerja), either directly
from the school or via the District Education Office, enabling the MoEC to: (i) monitor
standards of operation from the national down to the school level; and (ii) facilitate follow-up
in terms of supporting areas in most need and enable teachers with internet access to link
directly to on-line versions for professional support. PKG has also provided the MoEC with
valuable insights into the complexity of combining the management of professional
development with financial incentives. In addition, by MoEC fine tuning the PKG with the
2013 Curriculum and the 2014 Civil Service Law, it will ensure that the linking of
professional performance to income increases is carried out in consistency with the general
administrative and reporting requirements for all civil service personnel management, which
at times might enter into conflict with managing needs-based professional development.

122. However, having just recently started the implementation of the TPM scheme in
2013, there exist opportunities for improvement in terms of the effectiveness and timeliness
of the ongoing performance-based teacher career professional progression, which MoEC will
take into consideration as it moves forward.

123. Rating of Component 3. The rating for this component is based on the success in the
ratification of key policies and regulation on teacher accountability and incentive systems for
performance appraisal and career advancement detailed above (the Functional Credits for
Teachers (in place), Academic Upgrading for In-service Teachers (in place), instruments for
continuous professional development and teacher performance appraisal (developed but now
under revision to concur with the 2013 Curriculum and the 2014 Civil Service Law) and
issuance of the MoEC decree on new teacher induction program. Accordingly, the ICR rates
the implementation of this component as highly satisfactory.

124. Component 4 – Improving Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation.
This component aimed at: (i) monitoring project activities and teacher certification to be

                                              32
carried out by the Office of Research and Development within the Ministry of National
Education (Balitbang) in an integrated fashion along existing monitoring systems functioning
in the MoEC (school database and teachers’ working- groups database); (ii) developing of an
improved teacher database (mostly financed by the GoI); (iii) assessing and evaluating the
impact of BERMUTU; and (iv) supporting the management and coordination of
BERMUTU’s activities. This component included the following three sub-components:

a.      Sub-component 4.1: Monitoring of project activities and teacher certification to be
        carried out by the Office of Research and Development within the Ministry of
        National Education (Balitbang) in an integrated fashion using existing monitoring
        systems. This sub-component aimed at financing the: (i) incremental operating costs
        associated with establishing a monitoring system for the certification of teachers and
        the grants programs under Components 1 and 2; (ii) the strengthening of the GoI’s
        system for the routine monitoring of teachers in order to increase its response rate,
        timeliness, and ability to monitor the teacher certification process as well as time
        spent on each on task and the teaching methods applied in classrooms;

b.      Sub-component 4.2: Evaluation and assessment aimed at financing: (i) a series of
        evaluation studies to measure the effect of BERMUTU-financed activities on teacher
        behavior and learning outcomes; and (ii) a series of Rapid Assessments to provide
        in-time feedback regarding the process of teacher certification and BERMUTU
        implementation; and

c.      Sub-component 4.3 aimed at financing project coordination and monitoring.

125. This component estimated at appraisal to cost US$33.83 million (17.3 percent of the
total cost), 10.1 percent to be financed by the IBRD, 25 percent by the IDA, 38.3 percent by
the TF and 26.6 percent by the GoI, ended up documenting expenditures amounting to
US$21.98 million, 65 percent of the total appraised amount.

126. The under-spending is largely explained by the following 3 factors: (i) gains from
fluctuations of the IDR exchange rate; (ii) the different impact evaluation studies were
appraised under an assumed sample size of 600 schools while the real sample was in reality
only 360 schools as per refined study design; and (iii) as mentioned further down,
BERMUTU’s implementation was an efficient one (achieved more [see PDOs] with less).

127. The implementation of this component was also delayed by the restructuring of the
MoEC, budget allocation challenges and capacity constraints as explained under Section 2,
which slowed initial project implementation especially activities such as the envisaged
integration of the teachers’ database with the school database and teachers’ working groups
database. As mentioned before, however, most activities were completed by project closing.


128. As a result of the organizational restructuring of the MoEC, the unit responsible for
integrating the teachers’ database with the school database and teachers’ working- groups
database - the Center for Education Data and Statistics (PDSP) - was moved from the

                                             33
Research and Development Board to the Secretary General with changes of roles and
responsibilities of the PDSP, changes of leadership, and unavailability of fully dedicated
staff. Despite these changes, the envisaged integration was accomplished few weeks before
project closing. Although it too early to ascertain the effectiveness and degree of utilization
of this integrated teacher database, it represents an important tool for MoEC’s decision-
making process.

129. This component financed the establishment of a baseline and mid-term data for the
impact evaluation of the teacher certification and trend analysis of student and teacher
performance in selected schools participating in BERMUTU. This effort was successfully
completed.

130. This component also supported the carrying out of the following studies which were
satisfactorily completed and whose preliminary findings are explained below:

a.     LPTK (Pre-service Teacher Training) impact evaluation study aimed at evaluating
       longer term effects of the Teacher Law by analyzing whether certification and the
       prospect of a higher salary attracted better high school graduates to the teacher
       training universities;

b.     KKG/MGMP impact evaluation study (Puspendik Baseline, 2010; Puslitjak, 2013
       final report) aimed at evaluating the impact of teacher working groups introduced
       under BERMUTU on student learning. At the design stage, it was planned that the
       study would rely on a randomized evaluation design to induce exogenous variation in
       the in-service training of teachers. This could not take place however, since the
       control groups received the same treatments. The analysis approach is shifted to
       trend evaluation of the teachers and the student performances;

c.     Teacher certification impact evaluation study (Puslitjak, 2013). This joint study by
       the WB and MoEC evaluates the impact of the Law on Teachers and Lecturers
       (14/2005) and the associated increase in teacher salaries on student learning. The
       study specifically analyses the effects of the law through its impact on in-service
       teachers. The study relies on a randomized evaluation design to induce exogenous
       variation in the certification process; and

d.     Absenteeism Study in BERMUTU districts. Studies by SMERU (funded by the WB)
       of teacher absenteeism on randomly selected public primary schools in 2003 and
       2008 using nationally representative samples of primary schools. BERMUTU
       supported a similar study in project districts in 2010 and again in 2012.

131. Findings of the above-mentioned studies attesting to some welcoming noticeable
changes due to BERMUTU and supporting the ICR’s PDOs rating:

a.     Accredited LPTKs tend to attract a better quality intake of students (basic teachers-to-
       be) than non-accredited LPTK (compared also against a baseline) and the intake of
       the former set of LPTKs is larger than the one of the latter set;

                                              34
b.     Quality of accredited LPTKs in terms of number of certified lecturers, number of
       lectures doing research and number of graduates becoming certified basic education
       teachers is better than non-accredited LPTKs (also compared against a baseline);

c.     The Puspendik Baseline, 2010 report found that the test results of basic education
       teachers in BERMUTU districts that received a grant were slightly better than the
       results of teachers in BERMUTU districts that did not receive grants in terms of
       teacher professional competencies but did not have an impact on the pedagogy,
       personal and social aspects of the teacher. The Puslitjak, 2013 final report found that
       the grants had positive impact in the: (a) teacher working groups’ profile and
       activities; (b) teacher subject knowledge competency; and (c) student learning
       outcomes. However, during 2010-2012, teacher-working groups in non-BERMUTU
       districts improved their profile and activities as well, leading to conclude that the
       grant and working groups were not the only way to improve teacher performance; and

d.     The Puslitjak 2013 final report of the third study found that: (a) teacher competencies
       acquired under his/her certification process and/or participation in working groups
       was positively correlated with his/her education background; (b) teachers certification
       program decreased number of teachers with second jobs; (c) the professional
       competencies between teachers with and without second jobs were almost the same;
       (d) the end-line study showed that, regrettably, the teacher professional scores were
       very low, indicating limited teacher professional competencies’ gains, opposite to the
       expectation of the BERMUTU design; and (e) students under certified teachers
       showed better learning outcomes than similar students under non-certified teachers.

132. Rating of Component 4. Cognizant on the completion of all of the above-mentioned
studies and the development of a teachers’ database counterweighted by the delay in
finalizing the integration of the above database with the school and teachers’ working-groups
databases, the ICR rates the implementation of this component as moderately satisfactory.

133. The information in Table A2.1 corresponding to Component 4, the one associated
with BEMUTU’s monitoring, impact evaluation studies and management, reflects a sign of
efficient implementation, as spending was 64.3 percentage of the estimated at appraisal, the
PDOs were achieved and even surpassed, all the subcomponents were implemented and most
of their corresponding intermediate outcome also achieved or exceeded.

134. Table A2.2 reflects a significant under-spending of category 2 – distance learning
development grants – which is partially explained by the combination of the fluctuations of
the exchange rate (as explained above) and that the average amount of the grant estimated at
appraisal was about 42 percent greater than the one actually provided.




                                             35
         Table A2.2: Documented expenditures by component and by source at appraisal and closing of BERMUTU (in US$ millions)
 Component              At the time of appraisal                     At the time of BERMUTu’s closing            Percentages with respect to the appraised estimates
                                                                              December 31, 2013
              IBRD    IDA         TF        Govt    Total    IBRD       IDA        TF        Govt       Total    IBRD        IDA         TF        Govt       Total
               (1)     (2)        (3)        (4)     (5)      (6)        (7)       (8)        (9)       (10)     (6)/(1)    (7)/(2)    (8)/(3)    (9)/(4)    (10)/(5)

Component 1   2.90    10.28     3.27        4.00    20.45    3.42      10.66      0.34      0.66        15.08    117.7      103.7      10.4        16.5       73.7
Component 2   16.63   40.09     33.60       43.88   134.20   11.71     41.26      38.49     36.39       127.84   70.4       102.9      114.6       82.9       95.3
Component 3   0.83    2.09      2.18        0.18     5.28    0.70      3.81       1.08      2.78         8.37    84.7       182.0      49.6       1543.3      158.5
Component 4   3.42    8.47      12.95       9.00    33.83    2.23      3.70       10.96     5.10        21.98    65.4       43.7       84.6        56.7       65.0
Unallocated   0.66    0.58                           1.24
Fee           0.06                                   0.06    0.06                                        0.06    100.0                                        100.0
Total         24.50   61.50     52.00       57.06   195.06   18.12     59.42      50.87     44.93       173.34   74.0       96.6        97.8       78.7       88.8




                                                                                36
 Table A2.3: Documented expenditures by category and by source at appraisal and at the closing of BERMUTU (in US$ millions)
Category of expenditure               At the time of appraisal                     At the time of BERMUTu’s closing            Percentages with respect to the appraised estimates
                                                                                            December 31, 2013
                            IBRD    IDA        TF         Govt    Total    IBRD         IDA      TF        Govt       Total    IBRD        IDA         TF        Govt       Total
                             (1)     (2)        (3)        (4)     (5)      (6)          (7)     (8)        (9)       (10)     (6)/(1)    (7)/(2)    (8)/(3)    (9)/(4)    (10)/(5)
Category 1:                 0.88    5.93       0.89                7.70    0.99         4.89                           5.89    113.02     82.5                              76.4
Accreditation incentive
grants

Category 2:                 1.24    2.37       0.59                4.20    0.00          0.6                           0.60     0.0       25.1                              14.2
Distance learning
development grants
Category 3:                 4.88    12.75      9.87       22.50   50.00    7.61         15.13   8.86      17.06       48.67    155.9      118.7       89.8       75.8       97.3
Training workshops and
incremental operating
costs under sub-comp
2.2 in the provinces
Category 4:                 11.10   25.56     20.24       18.00   74.90    3.74         24.03   29.47     18.31       75.55     33.7      94.0      145.63      101.7       100.9
Working groups grants
Category 5:                 0.20    0.50      10.00               10.70    0.93         0.35    5.51                   6.79    464.0      70.7        55.1                  63.4
Consultants’ services
Category 6:                 5.48    13.81     10.41       16.56   46.26    4.79         14.42   7.02       9.55       35.79     87.4      104.4       67.5       57.7       77.4
Training workshops,
fellowships and
incremental operating
costs under sub-comp
2.2 at the national level
Unallocated                 0.66    0.58                           1.24
Fee                         0.06                                   0.06    0.06                                        0.06    100.0                                        100.0
Total                       24.50   61.50     52.00       57.06   195.06   18.12        59.42   50.87     44.93       173.34   74.0       96.6        97.8       78.7       88.8




                                                                                   37
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Background

135. The economic rationale for the BERMUTU program is based on the expected gains
from supporting teacher skills development and qualification upgrading, with improved
competency of teachers eventually contributing to better learning outcomes for students in
the long term. In the economic analysis of the PAD, it was shown that teacher qualifications
had a significant effect on teachers’ competency scores, i.e. teachers with a four year college
degree (S1) scored higher than teachers without a degree. In addition, it showed a positive
relationship between teacher qualifications and student achievement. Using grade 8 students’
math scores in TIMSS 2003, it showed that after controlling for students’ family
backgrounds and other teacher characteristics such as the number of years that they have
been teaching, students taught by teachers with an S1 degree scored higher than students
taught by teachers with only a teaching diploma (one or two year diploma program)13.
Considering these potential gains, BERMUTU program had a sound economic rationale to
support the government’s teacher reform and activities related to the certification program
that attempts to upgrade teacher academic qualification to a four-year degree through teacher
training courses.

136. The economic analysis in the PAD did not include any calculation of economic rate
of return for project components. However, it has some analysis of cost effectiveness of
upgrading teachers’ qualifications compared with the alternative way of reducing class size
to improve student learning achievement in Indonesia. Although at the time of preparation, it
was assumed that improvements in student-teacher ratios (STR) would lead to potential
efficiency gains, a Bank study (2013) showed that due to chronic inefficiency of education
spending, the already low STRs continued to decline in both primary and secondary
education 14. Given that BERMUTU was not designed to tackle that issue, the ICR will not
measure efficiency of the BERMUTU program based on the STR indicator. As stated before,
BERMUTU’s key contribution was to support the teacher reform activities related to the
teacher certification program, which was the cornerstone feature of the reform. It contributed
to the system as a whole by strengthening the accreditation system for teacher training
colleges, developing distance learning materials for upgrading channel, improving the
policies and regulations on teacher accountability and incentive systems for performance
appraisal and career advancement (recognition of prior learning for in service teachers),
supporting the development of new regulations on a teacher induction program, and
strengthening the role of teacher working groups (KKG/MGMP). Thus, most if not all of

13
     See Annex Table 10.3, BERMUTU PAD, p. 97
14
     World Bank (2013). Spending more or spending better: Improving education financing in Indonesia. p. 45


                                                       38
BERMUTU’s contributions are difficult to quantify due to its very nature of reforming the
system through better policies and regulations.

137. The economic analysis of the BERMUTU program refers to several preliminary
research findings and the Bank sector study (Teacher Reform in Indonesia: The Role of
Politics and Evidence in Policy Making, 2014), which provides detailed analysis of the
process of teacher reform in Indonesia. The next sections are organized as follows: (i)
contribution to the PDO; (ii) program efficiency; and (iii) program sustainability

Contribution to PDO

138. Increased number of teachers meeting academic qualifications mandated by
teacher law. The proportion of teachers with a four-year college degree (S1) degree has
increased steadily during the period of 2006-2012 (see Figure 1). BERMUTU played an
instrumental role to support teachers to acquire the mandated S1 degree. When BERMUTU
was started in 2008, there were only around 900,000 teachers with an S1 degree. By the time
of BERMUTU’s closing, it had nearly doubled to over 1.7 million teachers. BERMUTU’s
contribution for this outcome is focused on support for accreditation of pre-service teacher
training colleges and other support to pre-service and in-service teachers (component 1). In
addition, BERMUTU also contributed to the improvement of policies and regulations
supporting the teacher certification program through, for instance, recognition of prior
learning (component 2), which affected 879,832 teachers.

139. BERMUTU support for teacher academic upgrading has been instrumental in terms
of the accreditation of 81 pre-service teacher training colleges (LPTK). Component 1 of the
BERMUTU program supported the development and validation of accreditation instruments
and procedures to measure institutional baseline scores and changes towards the required
accreditation scores. The program provided competitive accreditation incentive grants to 26
teacher training universities to support their efforts in obtaining accreditation and/or
improving their accreditation status. In turn, improved accreditation of the LPTK is
correlated positively with the quality of high school graduates entering teacher training
institutions. A three-round survey on LPTK commissioned by MoEC found that accredited
LPTKs tend to attract an intake of more and better quality students than non-accredited
LPTKs 15. In this regard, accreditation status seems to act as a signal of quality to prospective
students. And BERMUTU contribution can be linked to component 1 that supports the
accreditation process to LPTKs. In addition, the LPTK study also showed that the quality of
accredited LPTKs in terms of number of certified lecturers, number of lectures doing
research and number of graduates becoming certified as basic education teachers is better

15
     Puslitjak-MoEC (2009, 2011, 2012). LPTK (Pre-service Teacher Training) survey. Unpublished reports.


                                                      39
than non-accredited LPTKs. While these indicators do not capture the full extent of quality,
they do provide some evidence that accredited LPTK has made some progress in a positive
direction.

140. In addition to support for the accreditation of LPTK, BERMUTU also provided
support for the development of distance learning materials for the Open University upgrading
channel. The latter has greatly contributed to improved academic qualifications of 879,832
teachers. The Open University channel was the most accessible route for incumbent teachers
to upgrade their academic courses. This upgrading channel allows teachers to fulfill their
classroom tasks while pursuing their S1 degree. In this regard, the Open University
upgrading channel has also contributed to efficiency of the certification program by
minimizing the likelihood of teachers abandoning their teaching duties while pursuing their
S1 degree.

Figure 1: The proportion of primary and secondary school teachers holding a four year
university degree, 2006-2012




Source: NUPTK (2006,2008,2010,2012)

141. Increased number of primary and junior secondary teachers using appropriate
classroom instruction. BERMUTU was a key instrument by which over 214,000 teachers in
the treatment areas benefited from the professional working group (KKG/MGMP) activities
for the adoption of improved instructional practice. Arguably, the most important economic
impact of the BERMUTU program is to activate previously inactive and low-functioning
teacher working groups and to leverage working group activities more effectively for skills
development and teachers’ upgrading. Teacher working groups (KKGs and MGMPs) have
played an integral role in supporting teachers in training and professional development
activities. They also provided a forum for teachers to discuss teaching problems and work

                                            40
cooperatively to undertake common tasks such as curriculum development, the creation of
teaching aids, and the design of test items as well as more advanced activities such as lesson
study and classroom action research.

142. All regular primary and junior secondary school working groups in the BERMUTU
program received a direct grant through the provincial quality assurance agency (LPMP).
Primary working groups received US$4,800 over three years, while for junior secondary
school working groups the annual amount was US$6,300. This funding was conditional on
adhering to the program guidelines, which meant expenditures were to be directed toward the
purchase of learning materials and activities associated with modules of work provided by
the program. These modules predominantly focused on classroom action research, lesson
study, active learning, group work, and other effective classroom methodologies. A further
requirement was that each working group would meet 16 times each year (fortnightly) to
conduct activities—a more intensive pattern than in the past.

143. An impact evaluation study commissioned by MoEC examined a sample of
KKG/MGMP in 20 BERMUTU districts and another 20 non-BERMUTU districts. The study
found that working groups under BERMUTU were more effective, better organized, held
more accountable and that activities involved more participation from the individual teachers
compared to the non-BERMUTU counterparts. In addition, BERMUTU also had an
interesting spillover effect to non-BERMUTU groups through the adoption BERMUTU
modules and guidelines. The widespread use of BERMUTU modules and guidelines among
non-BERMUTU working groups provides additional evidence of BERMUTU impact on
overall system efficiency.

144. The study also found a positive impact of BERMUTU on teachers’ competencies.
Teachers in working groups receiving a direct grant under the BERMUTU program were
tested at the baseline (2010) and midline (2011) and showed a significant improvement in
cognitive and pedagogical ability, as shown in Figure 2 below. (Puslitjak-MoEC 2011)




                                             41
Figure 2: Standardized Gains in Abilities of Primary School Teachers Attending
Working Groups in BERMUTU Districts, 2010–11




                   Baseline (2010) standard deviations




        Source: Rahmawati (2011) “BERMUTU KKG/MGMP Study report”. Background paper, Education
        Assessment Center, Jakarta, Indonesia.
        Note: Teachers tested were drawn from teacher working groups in districts participating in
        BERMUTU program.

145. As mentioned before, there were some weaknesses in the KKG/MGMP study. To re-
confirm the extent of the positive impact of direct grants on teachers’ subject knowledge
competencies, another analysis is expected to be conducted. However, the KKG/MGMP
study already highlights areas of initial efficiency gains and therefore provides the
government with the opportunity to further analyze and fine-tune the direct grants to teachers
approach.

146. Reduction in teacher absenteeism. Teacher absenteeism was a serious problem
before the BERMUTU program was implemented. Two studies commissioned by the Bank
on randomly selected public primary schools in 2003 and 2008 using nationally
representative samples of primary schools found teacher absenteeism rates to be 19 percent
and 14 percent respectively16. These studies were conducted during BERMUTU preparation
for program implementation to inform policy on the need to seriously tackle the high
absenteeism problem. A government teacher absenteeism study conducted by Puslitjak-
MOEC (2012) in 20 BERMUTU districts found the percentages have reduced to 6.6 percent
for primary school teachers and 6.3 percent for junior secondary school teachers. There are at
least three hypothetical explanations to this reduction in absenteeism. First, the teacher
certification program, which effectively doubled the salaries of teachers, makes teachers less
likely to have extra jobs. It was anticipated that absenteeism (as a natural consequence of

16
  SMERU (2010). “Teacher Absenteeism and Remote Area Allowance Baseline Survey”. Jakarta. Available
online: http://www.smeru.or.id/report/research/absenteeism/absenteeism_eng.pdf


                                                         42
teachers being less occupied with making extra money outside school hours) would decline
and teachers would spend more time to teach in school. Second, the teacher certification
program has been implemented with a supporting regulation requiring teachers to have 24
hours classroom time per week in order to receive the certification allowance. Third, the
improved monitoring and evaluation system (through LPMP and District Education Office)
for teacher performance may have a significant impact on the reduction of absenteeism.
BERMUTU’s key contribution in this area is through the capacity improvement of LPMP
and District Education Office to establish an effective M&E system.

147. A World Bank commissioned Randomized Control Trial (RCT) impact evaluation
study on teacher certification reveals that because of the certification program, teachers rely
less on second jobs and have fewer difficulties financially supporting their households (De
Ree et al. 2012). Figure 3 presents the effects of certification on teacher characteristics.
Overall, the livelihoods of teachers have improved. Certification is related to a 27 percentage
point decrease in the likelihood of teachers holding a second job because the professional
allowance decreases the need to rely on such jobs to supplement income. This income effect
is also reflected in a decrease in the number of teachers who report problems financially
supporting their households.

Figure 3: Effects of certification on selected teacher characteristics in Indonesia, 2009-
11




       Source: De Ree et al. 2012.

148. To achieve the most important outcomes of the teacher reform, i.e. teachers’
improved knowledge and ultimately improved student learning outcomes, a long-term
perspective needs to be applied, to which the project lifespan of six years contributed. To
date, there is inconclusive evidence to show that Indonesia’s teacher reform has reached its
ultimate outcomes of teachers improved knowledge and ultimately student’s learning
outcomes. Figure 3 indicates that the certification process and the payment of the
professional allowance alone does not make teachers more knowledgeable (measured by the
insignificant t-stat in the first two bars). This finding indicates that the 90-hour training,
                                              43
which was part of the certification procedure for many teachers, is perhaps not yet as
sufficient given the short time span to bring the competence of teachers to the next level.
Given that there has been a system weakness in terms of school instruction time deficit, the
90-hour training program is only the first step to improve teacher competences and improve
instructional time. As a result of this study, the GOI decided to redesign the way teacher were
certified, including making a teacher competency test compulsory; improving the
accreditation system for LPTKs; and improving training programs for teachers failing the
competency test. This new design of the teacher certification program, together with better
quality inputs to teacher training colleges, will arguably bring a positive impact on the
quality of the overall system.

Efficiency analysis

149. First, to put the costs of BERMUTU into perspective, the investment is relatively
small compared to the total education budget, or even compared to the total GOI budget (less
than one percent of total GOI budget) and most importantly it achieved all of its PDOs.

150. The BERMUTU program was efficient from both an operations and expenditure
perspective. A good indication of its overall efficiency is the fact that the project achieved all
of the PDOs and the intermediate outcome indicators with less financial resources than the
original projection at the appraisal stage. At the same time the project had commendable
disbursement of 93.1 percent of program loan, credit and grant funds. The bulk of these funds
(US$91.46 million or 66.3 percent of the total) was allocated to component 2 for
“strengthening structures for teacher improvement at the local level”. This component
reached a 95.6 percent expenditure rate with respect to the appraised estimates (as shown in
Annex 2).

151. The emphasis on component 2 is justified given the significant size of the target
groups and its contribution in the form of improvements in teacher pedagogical skills. The
latter is achieved through project support for the working group program of primary and
junior secondary teachers (KKG and MGMP) in 75 participating districts. The support aimed
at providing teachers the opportunity to conduct a wide range of professional development
activities, continuously learn from their peers and identify methods to improve the quality of
teaching and learning. This program benefited 214,380 primary and junior secondary school
teachers, principals and supervisors from 6,107 working groups.

152. While teacher working groups existed prior to BERMUTU, many were inactive or
not operating effectively. The project provided a stimulus to revive and strengthen these
KKG/MGMP by introducing a well-structured program. There were four important
characteristics of BERMUTU support: (i) provision of grants for each KKG/MGMP for three
consecutive years to ensure sufficient time for the working groups to become well-

                                               44
established and fully functional; (ii) development of a strong support system to ensure quality
and sustainability (as described in Annex 2); (iii) formation of an M&E system; and (iv) a
special model of support for teachers in difficult and remote areas. BERMUTU granted each
of the working groups a total US$4,800 for KKG and US$6,300 for MGMP, for three
consecutive years. While some non-BERMUTU working groups also received support, it
tended to be much less comprehensive. For instance, there was a separate grant program to
non-BERMUTU KKG/MGMP in 2007-2009 that provided US$1,000 to KKG and US$1,500
to MGMP per year with no guarantee for continuous funding for the following year and
without a support system as provided under BERMUTU. This undermined non-BERMUTU
KKG/MGMPs effectiveness and commitment to carry out their mandate.

153. BERMUTU also introduced a different focus of grant spending. A survey conducted
in 2007 of the non-BERMUTU grant program showed that most of the expenditure was on
meals (31 percent), transportion (22 percent), and honorarium (20 percent); very little was
spent on items that would support the session activities (e.g. supplies to create learning aids,
bringing in expert resource personnel and classroom action research). The BERMUTU grant
was specifically designed to ensure the funds would go mainly toward supporting high
quality session activities and could not be used for meals and teacher transport (with the
exception of teachers in remote KKG/MGMP), In this regard, BERMUTU improved
efficiency of the system by focusing the use of grant financing to enhance the quality of
working group activities.

154. While the cost of supporting teacher working groups through BERMUTU was more
expensive, the project was arguably more cost-effective given that the BERMUTU-
supported teacher working groups met more frequently, operated more effectively, and were
more focused on improving teaching and learning. An impact evaluation study commissioned
by MoEC examined a sample of KKG/MGMP in 20 BERMUTU districts and another 20
non-BERMUTU districts. The study found that working groups under BERMUTU were
more effective, better organized, held more accountable and that activities involved more
participation from the individual teachers compared to the non-BERMUTU counterparts.
Learning from BERMUTU experience, in the 2012-2013 school year MOEC decided to
adopt the BERMUTU approach to provide direct, proposal-based grants to KKG/MGMP
amounting to US$3,000. However, this is not a multi-year grant program since the
Indonesian financing system does not allow for this type of financing mechanism and is
arguably undermining the program’s effectiveness given the uncertainty of funding.

155. Component 2 also financed the development of a system to recognize teachers’
working experience and prior learning (RPL). In collaboration with selected teacher training
colleges (LPTK), MoEC designed the application of the RPL system for programs tailored
for teachers who have to upgrade to the 4-year college degree. This RPL has benefited
879,832 teachers by reducing the number of credits they had to take in order to earn an S1

                                              45
degree. With the RPL system, in-service teachers can complete their study in a shorter period
and they do not have to leave their teaching responsibilities. In addition to support for the
accreditation of LPTK, BERMUTU, under component 1, also provided support for the
development of distance learning materials for upgrading channel (HY-LITE) organized by
the Consortium of LPTKs. This program, along with the distance learning by the Open
University, have contributed to the academic upgrading of 879,832 teachers, thus to the
achievement of the first PDO indicator, i.e. “Increased number of teachers meeting academic
qualifications mandated by the Teacher Law”. The distance learning channel was the most
accessible route for incumbent teachers to upgrade their academic credentials. This
upgrading channel allows teachers to fulfill their classroom tasks while pursuing their four-
year college degree.

Sustainability analysis

156. Given what BERMUTU has achieved, there is a clear need to sustain the reforms it has
supported, especially in terms of teacher working group activities. There are some evidences
that program activities under BERMUTU have been continued with financial support from
the central and local government. MoEC has allocated funds in 2014 to disseminate and
expand the teacher working group grant program to 50 new districts. Another positive sign is
that more than half of BERMUTU districts have signed a MoU with the MoEC to continue
the BERMUTU-related programs in their districts using their own funds. More importantly,
the teacher working group program will be sustainable as it is the most accessible option for
teachers to do the required CPD and has been recognized by GoI as such. The spending to
strengthen teacher working groups is fairly small compared to the education budget and the
budget for the certification program. BERMUTU has therefore shown that investing in
teacher working groups was cost effective and it brought significant impact on teachers’
motivation and pedagogical knowledge




                                             46
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

        Names                            Title                      Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
At the preparation stage

Mae Chu Chang                 Lead Education specialist              EASHD   Task Team Leadership
Susiana Iskandar              Senior Education Specialist            EASHD   Co-Task Team Leadership
Steen Andersen                Consultant.                            EASHD   Teacher Reforms
Niel L. Baumgart              Teacher Quality Specialist             EASHD   Peer Reviewer
Steven Burgess                Sr. Social Development Specialist      EASHD   Governance
Dandan Chen                   Senior Economist                       EASHD   Economic analysis
Helen J Craig                 Senior Education Specialist            EASHD   Peer Reviewer
Muhammad Firdaus              Consultant                             EASHD   Civil Service Policy
Titie Hadiyati                Consultant                             EASHD   Operations Manual
Robin Horn                    Education Sector Manager               ECSHD   Peer reviewer
Dingyong Hou                  Senior Education Specialist            EASHD   Project Preparation
Ratna Kesuma                  Education Specialist                   EASHD   Teacher Working Group Grant
Jups Kluyskens                Consultant                             EASHD   Civil Service Policy
Richard Kraft                 Consultant                             EASHD   Teacher Reforms
Juan Martinez                 Sr. Social Development Specialist      EASIS   Social Safeguards
Sulistiowati Nainggolan       Social Development Specialist          EASHD   Social Safeguard
Vicente B Paqueo              Country Sector Coordinator             EASHD   Quality Control
Natasha Beschorner            Senior ICT Policy Specialist           TWICT   Information Technology
Menno Pradhan                 Senior Economist                       DECRG   Economic analysis
Yogana Prasta                 Senior Disbursement Officer            EACIF   Disbursement
Andrew Ragatz                 Senior Education Specialist            EASHD   Teacher Reforms
Ralph Rawlison                Consultant                             EASHD   Employment Compensation
Rizal H Rivai                 Senior Procurement Specialist          EAPCO   Procurement
Rosfita Roesli                Operation Officer                      EASHD   Project Preparation
F. Halsey Rogers              Senior Economist                       DECRG   Economic Analysis
Imad Saleh                    Lead Procurement Specialist            EAPCO   Procurement
Christopher Smith             Consultant                             EASHD   Institutional Accreditation
Rajiv Sondhi                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO   Financial Management
Ritchie Stevenson             Consultant                             EASHD   Teacher Reforms
Unggul Suprayitno             Financial Management Specialist        EAPCO   Financial Management
Erly Carina Tatontos          Team Assistant                         EASHD   Mission Support
Christopher J. Thomas         Sector Manager                         EASHD   Quality Control


At the implementation stage
Susiana Iskandar              Senior education specialist            EASHE   Task Team leadership
Khadrian Adrima               Program Assistant                      EASHE   Project Implementation Support
Hafid Inunuh Alatas           Consultant                             EASHE   Operations Analysis
Dayu Nirman Amurwanti         Operation Officer                      EACIF   Governance
Novira Asra                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EASFM   Financial management
Amanda Beatty                 Consultant                             EASHE   Impact Evaluation Studies
Irene E. Bouwmeester          Program Assistant                      EACIF   Implementation Support
Mae Chu Chang                 Sector Leader                          EASHE   Quality Assurance
Siwage Dharma Negara          Operation Officer                      EASHE   Teacher Data System
Enda Ginting                  Public Sector Specialist               EASHE   Financial Management
Titie Hadiyati                Operation Officer                      EASHE   Project Supervision

                                                    47
David Harding                Consultant                            EASHE   Teacher Training
William Hardy                Consultant                            EASHE   Procurement
Djoko Hartono                Consultant                            EASHE   Monitoring and Evaluation
Joppe Jaitze De Ree          Consultant                            EASHE   Impact Evaluation Studies
Megha Kapoor                 Research Analyst                      EASHE   Project Implementation
Sulistiowati Nainggolan      Consultant                            EASHE   Social Safeguards
Siwage Dharma Negara         Operation Officer                     EASIS   Operation
Dyah Kelasworo Nugraheni     Program Assistant                     EASHE   Supervision Support
Ade Sonya Oktaviane          Team assistant                        EACIF   Supervision Support
Budi Permana                 Procurement Analyst                   EACIF   Procurement
Tatong Permana Anggrimulja   Consultant                            EASFM   Financial Management
Concepcion V Pijano          Consultant                            EASHE   Higher Edu. Accreditation System
Rima Prama Artha             Consultant                            EASHE   Research Assistant
Shahnaz Natasya Arina        Consultant                            EASHE   Research Assitant
Andreas Priyono              Consultant                            EASHE   Learning Module Review
Rizal H Rivai                Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPCO   Procurement
Rivandra Royono              Research Assistant                    EASHE   Operation Assistant/Analyst
Isono Sadoko                 Consultant                            EASID   Social Safeguard
Imad Saleh                   Lead Procurement Specialist           EAPCO   Procurement Quality Assurance
Ahsan Ali                    Lead Procurement Specialist           EAPCO   Procurement Quality Assurance
GB Surya Ningnagara          Team Assistant                        EACIF   Supervision Support
Christopher Smith            Consultant                            EASHE   Higher Education /Grants
Ritchie Stevenson            Consultant                            EASHE   Teacher Quality Management
Susie Sugiarti               Research Analyst                      EASHE   Studies
Unggul Suprayitno            Financial Management Specialist       EASFM   Financial Management
Erly Carina Tatontos         Team Assistant                        EACIF   Supervision Support
Anna Coronado                Program Assistant                     EASHD   Supervision Support
Paulus Bagus Tjahjanto       Procurement Officer                   EAPCO   Procurement
Franco Russo                 Operation Officer                     EASHE   Sector Quality Review
Eduardo Velez Bustillo       Sector Manager                        EASHE   Quality Assurance - overall
Luis Benveniste              Sector Manager                        EASHE   Quality Assurance- overall

At the completion stage

Juan Prawda                  Consultant                            EASHE   ICR Primary Author
Samer Al-Samarrai            Senior Education economist            EASHE   ICR- Economic Analysis
Siwage Dharma Negara         Operation Officer                     EASHE   ICR-Economic Analysis
Angela Demas                 Senior Education Specialist           EASHE   ICR Peer Reviewer
Helen J. Craig               Lead HD Specialist                    EASHE   ICR Peer Reviewer
Franco Russo                 Operation Officer                     EASHE   Sector Quality Reviewer
Sandra Beemer                Sr. Operations Officer - Consultant   EASHE   Sector Quality Reviewer
Andrew Ragatz                Senior Education Specialist           EASHE   ICR Mission Member
Susie Sugiarti               Research Assistant                    EASHE   ICR Mission Member
Titie Hadiyati               Operation Officer                     EASHE   ICR Mission Member/Disbursement
Dyah K. Nugraheni            Program Assistant                     EASHE   ICR Mission Support
Anna Coronado                Program Assistant                     EASHD   ICR Mission Support
Susiana Iskandar             Senior Education Specialist           EASHE   ICR Mission Leader




                                                    48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes (cont.)

                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                        USD Thousands (including
     Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     travel and consultant
                                                                  costs)
Lending
      FY 2006                            13.98                     55.176
      FY 2007                             84.62                   450.763
      FY 2008                              7.05                    36.6
                          Total:         105.65                   545.54

Supervision/ICR
  FY 2009                                 27.62                    73.85
  FY 2010                                 46.71                   195.16
  FY 2011                                 24.17                    94.67
  FY 2012                                 22.11                    95.60
  FY 2013                                 13.60                    81.77
  FY 2014                                 20.17                    94.69
                          Total:         149.49                   635,75




                                        49
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                       51
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

157. The World Bank requested each of the BERMUTU Satkers at the central and
provincial levels to answer questions with regard to the implementation of the program. The
response from the PCU and Satker Pusbangprodik are presented below. The responses from
other Satkers are available in the project file due the size of the documents.

A.      Project Coordinating Unit (Satker P2TK Dikdas)

     What worked well in the program and why?
     1) The number of teachers meeting academic qualification mandated by the Teacher
        Law No. 14/2005 was achieved surpassing the target expected, mainly as a result of
        the implementation of RPL (Recognition of Prior Learning) carried out mostly
        through distant education at the Open University (UT) as well as implemented
        through the teacher training programmes at LPTKs in certain universities as they
        were officially appointed for this purpose by the Directorate General of Higher
        Education.

     2) The number of primary and junior secondary teachers using the pedagogic skills with
        specific subject and age appropriate pedagogy was achieved surpassing the target
        expected. The improvement in the pedagogic skills of teachers participating in the
        6,107 teacher, principal and supervisor professional working groups with the primary
        aim to improve their pedagogic competency. The appraisal of a random sample of
        classroom performance at 900 schools in 75 districts and municipalities (Gintings,
        2013), has validated that improvement was occurring. According to the monitoring
        and evaluation findings, the achievement was on account on, among others, the joint
        efforts and functions among LPTK (teacher training programs at the university) in
        developing pre-service programs accredited at the S1 level BERMUTU Accreditation
        Incentive Grants, P4TK (Teacher Training Center), LPMP (quality assurance
        agency), and the Office of Education (at district and municipalities) in effectively
        implementing CPD (Continues Professional Development).

     3) The outcomes of the joint efforts among LPTKs, P4TKs and LPMPs in implementing
        CPD are by far very effective, because each institution, especially P4TK and LPMP
        as a companion activity in the working group. The role of lecturers and LPMP P4TK
        becomes very important, because they are compiled into a module and the
        development team (NCT). Both of these institutions, can play an optimal role in
        describing each function in ensuring the quality of teachers / principals / school
        supervisor who will then have an impact on the improvement of student achievement
        (component 2). With the increasing ability of educators that will enhance the quality
        of learning, thus increasing the quality of learning will have an impact on the quality
        of student learning and achievement.

     4) The absenteeism rate of teachers at primary and junior high were dropped far lower
        than expected (6.6% of 15% for primary and 63% of 15% for junior high) was

                                              52
   achieved, among others, due to good cooperation between supervisors and principals,
   which leads supervisory learning processes better in schools at BERMUTU region,
   which in turn, improving the rate of teacher absenteeism far lower than it was
   anticipated. In addition, the liability rules that every teacher has to teach 24 hours per
   week also encouraged them to be more diligent in teaching.

5) The entity of active professional working groups consist of primary and junior
   secondary school teachers, principals and supervisors, in 3,295 KKG, 1,383 MGMP,
   931 KKKS, 220 MKKS, 178 KKPS and 100 MKPS in 75 BERMUTU districts. In
   addition, there are total of 193 forums for KKG, MGMP, MKKS and MKPS, made
   up of 6,107 active professional working groups of primary and junior secondary
   school teachers, principals and supervisors in total. It means that the number of active
   teacher working groups and forums for primary and junior secondary school was
   achieved surpassing the target expected (6,107 of 4,500) in the Project Development
   Objectives. The exceeding output of the objective is due to, partly, the fact that there
   were a number of grants for remote areas of Java left unused because there were no
   longer KKGs/MGMPs which met that classification in Java. The unused budget was
   then reallocated for KKG/MGMP as regular local grants which have a far lower unit
   cost compared to the remote ones; each grant for a remote area can be reallocated to
   about approximately 5 regular local grants. The effort of empowering the 6,107
   professional working groups of school teachers, principals and supervisors at the local
   level was so fundamental, since the teacher professional management system had
   already been established and operationalized as the main agency to deliver continuous
   professional development activities.

6) The tremendous efforts have been dedicated by MoEC to bring about policies and
   regulations to improve teacher welfare, professional abilities, and career development
   brought into being. There were remarkable outputs achieved in designating and
   developing a great deal of regulations in support of teacher quality improvement and
   career development at the post issuance of the Teacher Law no.14/2005. There were
   more than a dozen teacher regulations delivered; among others: career structure,
   teacher certification, teacher induction, teacher performance appraisal and career
   development, and teacher, principal, supervisor performance assessment, which,
   among others: MenPAN Decree 16/2009 on Functional Credits for Teachers, the
   instruments for teacher performance assessment (PKG) and Teacher Continuous
   Professional Development (CPD), and legalized by the issuance of, among others, the
   joint decree between the MoEC and the National Education Board No:
   03/V/PB/2010; No:14 in 2010 about the implementation guidelines; the Education
   Ministerial Decree No: 35 and No 38 in 2010 about the technical guidelines for
   PKG); and its equivalently for private teachers on the Functional Credits.

7) Adjacent to the provision of policies and regulations by MoEC, of the “inter-
   government-coordination” between central and district level defined, the joint
   cooperation between the two parties in delivering a local regulation of teacher quality
   improvement in education development was overwhelming. This was evidenced by
   the enactment of local regulations in 41 districts /cities of BERMUTU partners on

                                          53
    teacher quality improvement programs and its implications of funding from the local
    budget (APBD). This is the first time this happened in the history of post-government
    autonomy at districts and municipalities during the period of 14 years (since 2000),
    that the presence of central government policies are fully supported simultaneously
    by the 41 local governments including funding in a form of local regulation, due to
    the common interests of both parties in implementing teacher quality improvement
    program in three principal programs i.e, induction, teacher performance assessment
    and continues professional development.

8) The impacts of the BERMUTU project, which are deemed of great magnitude, are the
   best practices at district and municipalities in forms of, among others, program
   replication implementing the BERMUTU model. For example, the local District and
   municipality Governments of Gorontalo have officially declared the continuation of
   the teacher quality improvement program in the region beyond the life of the
   BERMUTU project. In addition, the City Government of Bogor has extended the
   CPD Program, not only for KKG and MGMPs at basic education, but also for the
   secondary level. More encouragingly, the significant number of KKGs and MGMPs
   in Sumedang, Pekalongan, and districts and municipalities have been able to continue
   the CPD activities independently with their own budget, which indicates the
   assurance of the sustainability of BERMUTU program in the future.

9) The coordination between central government and district/city governments had been
   conspicuously successful for the reason that: (i) since the beginning, both parties
   realized their own rights and obligations agreed upon in implementing BERMUTU
   Program, as they were suggested in the MoU; (ii) there were national coordination
   meeting regularly carried out by central government during the period of BERMUTU
   implementation in 2008-2013, at least twice a year, as the forum of communication
   among central and local governments to assess the progress of current activities,
   problems faced, solutions made, and follow-up agreed upon, to bring about the
   quality improvement of program milestones as well as program outputs.
What did not work so well in the program and why?

1) Shortfall of achievement in induction program (1,400 of 3,000), among others caused
   by: (i) at the time of induction program carried out there was no local regulations
   supported the implementation of the program; in addition, the program was more
   focused on the beginner teacher candidates for public servants and very few take into
   account as a private teacher program participants; (ii) although according to the
   Decree of the Minister of State Apparatus, Induction program implemented starting in
   2013, there were no special programs at the time conducted by the Center for
   Teaching Personnel Development (Pusbang Tendik) to support achieving the number
   of participants having completed the induction program. Instead, the Teacher
   Induction Program for Beginners (PIGP) was carried out mostly by the Office of
   Education at districts and municipalities on their own, without any companion
   activities and coordination with Pusbang Tendik.



                                         54
  2) It took time for all participating teacher training colleges (LPTK) to support the
     Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) Program as suggested by the Director General
     of Higher Education. This was mainly due to their unfamiliarity with the management
     process, particularly in terms of planning and implementation process which would
     provide academic funding.

  What would be done differently going forward?
   1) Given the importance of empowering MGMPs/KKG as part of the development of
      quality teachers in carrying out their duties and careers, the program coordination
      functions should exist at the level of the Directorate General of Primary Education. If
      the coverage of the program will be extended to secondary education, of course, the
      Directorate General of Secondary Education will also be given the same task.
   2) To increase motivation to participation in the managing program activities, it is
      recommended to apply reward systems; for those whose district/city of education
      offices perform well, management should reward them by increasing the number of
      block-grants on the basis of the KKG/MGMP involved.
   3) Scholarship funds should not be given to lecturers, but to the colleges whose
      authorized in implementing the program; it is to increase the responsibility of the
      implementing agencies and to improve support for higher education in the
      implementation of the CPD. Notice that some LPTKs were not fully supporting the
      CPD mainly because they were not given the opportunity to perform program
      management.
   4) Special attention given in coordinating the regulation-making about teacher quality
      improvement at district/city local government, to alleviate the fiscal burden of the
      central government in improving the quality of education through improving the
      teacher quality in the future.


  How can the WB as well as the Royal Netherlands support be improved?
   1) The World Bank expedite the process of issuance of NOL (No Objection Letter) on
      various proposed use of funds without violating applicable regulations, that
      established the program more effective and efficient. Some activities cannot be
      carried out because the delay of NOL issuances.
   2) The success of the central government organizes the government of districts and
      municipalities in developing regulations on teacher professional quality improvement
      indicates the growing importance to support efforts in developing governance
      network with local governments, allows for the bank to be financially involved.


B.    Center for Teaching Profession Development (Pusbangprodik) – Satker in
charge of component 2 and 3 implementation



                                            55
What worked well?

158. In implementing Component 2 and 3 of BERMUTU, there are six areas that worked
well: (a) Comprehensive project requirements, e.g. not merely professional development but
underlying legislation plus field trialing; (b) Mutually supporting components within a
comprehensive project design, e.g. KKG/MGMP strengthening was concurrent with
development of the in-service CPD) system (Component 2 and 3); (c) Rapid build-up of
KKG/MGMP activity linked to study modules, coordinated with the CPD system and
requirements; (d) Wide acceptability during trialing of the performance appraisal based on
direct observation of teacher performance, resulting in increased willingness of principals to
undertake regular teacher observation as well as increased willingness of teachers to question
and reflect on their own experience; (e) Management of Components 2 and 3 by a single
manager, permitting coordinated development of components; and (f) Regular and effective
liaising between MOEC and Bank team leader and consultants, which allowed timely
intervention to keep the components on target.

159. Supporting block grants from BERMUTU for the teachers working group have good
impact on the teachers and for continuity for the program, it is in line with the regulation for
teachers career development that every single teachers have the obligation doing Continuous
Professional Development for teachers credit earning at least in teachers working group.
Lesson learnt from BERMUTU activities are that teachers will have standard programs that
can be developed based on teachers need, that teachers will not have any difficulty, and that
the activities of teachers working group will be sustained because teachers need the activities
in teacher working group for supporting their career development.

What did not work well, and why?

160. Preparation of all stakeholders to implement the project took longer than anticipated,
resulting in uncertainties at the school level (with subsequent weak implementation of
objective appraisal and needs-based in-service support). In addition to that, there were
conflicting messages between different departmental and ministerial initiatives and no clear
and timely public statements. The reason of this situation included: (i) low operational
priority in MOEC during and after the re-structuring, which involved the establishment of
Board of Education, Human Resource Development and Education Quality Assurance (HRD
& QA) Board, changes in key personnel as well as unexpected introduction of changes that
required retrospective legislation (i.e. teacher competency testing system (UKG) and the
2013 Curriculum); and (ii) initial weak perception of BERMUTU within MoEC as
preparation for enduring change in teacher performance management, resulting in poor inter-
departmental and inter-ministerial coordination and public profile. Only State Ministry of
National Development Planning appeared to understand the link with economic development
planning and with wider change in civil service practice.

161. There were initial delay in finalizing designs for the CPD system as well as
performance appraisal, in-service support, quality assurance of performance management,
integration of management of professional performance with management of the career
structure for all educational professionals. Some delays were also experienced in finalizing

                                              56
revision of regulations related to annual teachers’ performance appraisal and CPD, as well as
the teacher competencies test.

162. Implementation of RPL could be strengthened. The program study availabilities
within the universities, which were selected to conduct the RPL program did not always fully
meet teachers’ needs, i.e., where the local university may not offer the program study the
teacher seeks. Supporting such local universities expand the program studies they offer is
being considered now as government continues the implementation of the Teacher Law.




                                             57
Annex 8. Comments of the Royal Netherlands Government

163. BERMUTU project is jointly financed by the Royal Netherlands Government (Trust
Fund US$52 million) and GoI (US$57.06 million equivalent); the World Bank. The project is
implemented by 28 working units of Ministry of Education and Culture with the Directorate
of Teacher and Education Personnel Development as the secretariat of Project Coordinating
Unit. Project Period is from 2007 to 2013. BERMUTU was designed to support the MoEC in
operationalizing the Law.

To what extent have the objectives been met / results achieved

Main impact/success of the project
164. The achieving of the Project Development Objective is solid as evidenced by
significant achievement of the project’s Key Performance Indicators.

   Increased number of teachers meeting academic qualifications mandated by the Teacher
    Law. At the time of this report over 1.7 million (of total 2.9 million teachers) teachers
    have acquired the mandated 4-year college degree. This exceeds the final target of 1.4
    million.

   Improvement in the pedagogic skills of teachers: 214,380 teachers are participating in the
    6,107 teacher, principal and supervisor professional working groups with the primary
    aim to improve their pedagogic competency. The appraisal of a random sample of
    classroom performance has validated that improvement is occurring.

   Reduction in Teacher Absenteeism in BERMUTU Districts. Studies (by SMERU) of
    teacher absenteeism on randomly selected public primary schools in 2003 and 2008 using
    nationally representative samples of primary schools found the rates to be 19% and 14%
    respectively. Another national representative study is being conducted in collaboration
    with the ACDP, a program jointly funded by the European Union and AusAid. In the
    BERMUTU districts, MoEC conducted a study on selected schools in 20 districts in 2013
    and found absenteeism rates of 6.6 percent in primary schools and 6.3 percent in junior
    secondary schools.

What follow-up will be given and by whom (GoI, WB, other partners) to sustain the
results of the project / TF after its ending.

165. As the Project was designed to help implementing the Teacher Law, all of the
projects outputs are institutionalized/continued to be used by the Government. To mention
some: the teacher relational data base; the policies of Recognition of Prior Learning to be
used for teacher portfolio; induction of new teachers; teacher performance assessment and
continuous professional development as a part of teacher professional career support system.




                                             58
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Bjork, Christopher (2006). “Indonesian Teaching Culture, Classroom Realities, and the
Potential for Reform.” Background Paper, August.

Chen D., Willeneberg T., Prasad M., Bjork C., Gallos F., Kesuma R., and Grintings A.
(2006), Momitoring and evaluation and student learning, August.

Gallos F., Kraft R., Stevenson R., Bjork C., Iskandar S., Rochsantiningsih D., and Rosyidi U.
(2006), Certification, professional development support, in-service training and upgrading,
pilto studies design, distance learning, August.

Gallos, Florenda (with many government counterparts) (2006). “A Report on the Pilot Video
Study on Mathematics Teaching in Junior Secondary Education in Indonesia.” August.

Kluyskens, Jups and Muhammad Firdaus (2006). “Teacher Management in the Context of
the Civil Service.” Background Paper, December.

Kraft R., Smith C., Rawlinson R. and Wibowo U.H, Policy and standard in teaching quality,
August 2006.

Kraft, Richard J. (2006). “Preparing Pre- and In-Service Teachers for Indonesian Schools.”
Background Paper, August.

Kraft, Richard J. (2006). “University-Based Teacher Education Reform: Accreditation,
Program Improvement, Open and Distance Education, and Scholarships.” Background paper,
December.

Joni, T. Raka and Udik Budi Wibowo (2006). “Teacher Management: A Review of
Regulations, Policies and Practices” Background Paper, May.

Leung, Frederick (2006). “Design of the Classroom Video Study” October.

McMahon, Walter W. (2005). “Improving the Quality of Education: Financing Improved
Teacher Quality and Efficient Deployment.” Background Paper, December.

Rawlinson R., Rogers H., Chen D., Paqueo V., Prasad M., Ragatz A., and Suharwoto G.,
Incentives structure/economic analysis, August 2006.

Peck, Frank (2005). “Report on Study of Teacher Employment and Deployment:
Organization and Management Component.” Background Paper, December.

Ragatz, Andy (2006) Teacher Working Groups in Indonesia: A Study of the Current
Situation and Opportunities for Increased Effectiveness, (Note: Initial study results for design

                                              59
inputs were available December 2006; final paper published later)

Rawlinson, Ralph (2006). “Reforming Teacher Accountability and Incentive Systems for
Performance and Career Advancement.” Background Paper, August

Samani, Muchlas (2006). “The Implementation of Teachers Certification in Indonesia:
Issues, Risks and Alternative Solutions.” Background Paper, February.

Stevenson, Ritchie (2006a). “A Model for Teacher Certification under the New Teacher
Law.” Background Paper, February.

Stevenson, Ritchie (2006b). “Pilot Study for Teacher Certification and Upgrading:
Development of Model and Plan for Implementation, Background Paper.” March.

Stevenson, Ritchie (2006c). “Pilot Study for Teacher Employment and Deployment, and
Teacher Certification and Quality Improvement: Progress and Plans for Implementation of
Teacher Certification Using the Teacher Law Regulations of May 2006.” Background Paper,
June.

Stevenson, Ritchie (2006d). “Teacher Certification and Assessment in Indonesia,
Background Paper.” August 2006

Stevenson, Ritchie (2005). “Report on Study of Teacher Employment and Deployment:
Teacher Competency Component.” Background Paper, December.

UNESCO-UIS/OECD 2205 Education Trends in Perspective and World Bank staff
estimates.

Willenberg, Tony (2006). “Systems Analysis of the Teacher Management Information
Systems of the Directorate General of Quality Improvement of Teacher and Education
Personnel.” Background Paper, August.

World Bank. Country Assistant Strategy (Indonesia), 2003 (Report No. 27108- IND, 29
October 2003)

Chaudhury, Nazmul; Hammer, Jeffrey; Kremer, Michael; Muralidharan, Karthik; Rogers, F.
Halsey. 2006. “Missing in Action: Teacher and Health Worker Absence in Developing
Countries”. The Journal of Economic Perspectives, Volume 20 , Number 1, Winter 2006, pp.
91-116(26)

World Bank. Statements of mission objectives, Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
from the identification mission carried out in August 2006 up to the appraisal mission carried
out April 2007.

World Bank. Project Concept Note and Minutes of the Review Meeting dated August 24,
2006.

                                             60
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Indonesia Better Education
Through Reformed Management and Universal Teacher Upgrading Project (BERMUTU)
Report No. 39299, May 30, 2007.

World Bank. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations dated May 23, 2007.

Bank project implementation documents

World Bank (IDA). Indonesia BERMUTU Financial Agreement Project No Cr.43490-IND,
November 7, 2007

World Bank (IBRD). Indonesia BERMUTU Loan Agreement Project Ln-No7476 dated
November 7, 2007.

Grant Agreement TF090794 dated November 7, 2007.

Trust Fund Administration Agreement between the Government of Netherlands and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development
Association concerning the Netherlands Trust Fund for Indonesia (Trust Fund No TF070812)
August 27, 2007.

Amendments to the Loan and/or Credit Agreements dated November 23, 2011 and October
5, 2012.

World Bank. Statements of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports,
Financial Management Reports, Procurement Review Reports, Implementation Status and
Results Reports (ISRs) and Audit Reports of all the supervision missions recorded in the
Data Sheet of this ICR and in the Project’s electronic files from March 2008 to December
2013.


Bank and Borrower other project implementation and post-implementation-related
documents

Chang, Mae Chu, Sheldon Shaeffer, Samer Al-Samarrai, Andrew B. Ragatz, Joppe de Ree,
and Ritchie Stevenson. (2014). Teacher Reform in Indonesia: The Role of Politics and
Evidence in Policy Making. Directions in Development. Washington, DC: World Bank.

Hanushek, Eric A., (2011). "The economic value of higher teacher quality," Economics of
Education Review, Elsevier, vol. 30(3), pages 466-479, June.

Joppe de Ree, Samer Al-Samarrai and Susiana Iskandar (2012). Teacher Certification in
Indonesia: a Doubling of Pay or a Way to Improve Learning? Policy Brief, World Bank,
Jakarta.



                                          61
OECD (2014) “How much are teachers paid and how much does it matter?”, Education
Indicators in Focus. April.

Puslitjak (2013). Analysis of Teacher Absenteeism Study. Study Report, Research and
Development Board, MoEC, Jakarta

Puslitjak (2013) LPTK (Pre-service Teacher Training) impact evaluation study. Study
Report, Research and Development Board, MoEC, Jakarta

Rahmawati, Puspendik (2011). “BERMUTU KKG/MGMP Study report”. Background
paper, Education Assessment Center, Jakarta, Indonesia.

World Bank, Country Partnership Strategy (Report No. 752906-ID dated December 13,
2012).

World Bank. 2013. “Spending More or Spending Better: Improving Education Financing in
Indonesia”, World Bank, Jakarta, Indonesia




                                         62
MAP




      63
