                   Document of
                The World Bank


                                       Report No: 62355-UA




             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                     ON A

        PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                       OF
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                      LOAN

               NOVEMBER 17, 2005


                    TO THE

           GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE


                 JUNE 24, 2011
Acting Regional Vice President:       Theodore Ahlers
             Country Director:        Martin Raiser
              Sector Manager:         Kathy A. Lindert
            Task Team Leader:         Katerina Petrina




                                  2
     UKRAINE - SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT

                                 P075231, LOAN 4807-UA


            RESTRUCTURING PAPER - EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE



1.     The closing date for the UKRAINE, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
MODERNIZATION PROJECT, Loan No 4807-UA, P075231 will be extended from July
1, 2011 until January 1, 2013.

2.      The Borrower has requested this extension in order to:

        •    complete the construction, installation, training and roll-out of the new
             Management Information System (MIS) and so improve the targeting
             accuracy of the social assistance system;
        •    extend the MIS such that it also incorporates privileges for certain groups of
             the population such as pensioners, veterans, Chernobyl catastrophe victims
             etc.;
        •    roll out new business processes piloted under the project in two regions;
        •    roll out of new Hybrid means-testing piloted under the project in five regions;
        •    undertake feasibility studies that will help Ukraine to improve its social
             protection policies further.

3.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) consists of two parts: “The Project
seeks significant improvement of the effectiveness of Ukraine’s social assistance system
by: (i) better targeting the benefits; and (ii) reducing the burden on beneficiaries". The
first part of the PDO – (i) better targeting the benefits - involves Information and
Communication Technology (ICT) that supports development of a new MIS for social
safety nets in Ukraine. All the main inputs for MIS development have been either
provided or their delivery is underway. Software for the new MIS was designed,
developed, and tested under the project; however, the national rollout has not yet been
undertaken. The project extension will allow completion and roll-out of the MIS. A
great deal of progress has been made in the second part of the PDO - (ii) reducing the
burden on beneficiaries - through implementation of a “One-Stop-Shop” business model
for administration of social assistance benefits in almost all local welfare offices. This
has reduced the time it takes to process benefit applications from 4.5 to 1.4 hours and so
has contained the growth of administrative unit costs of social assistance programs.

4.     The project has been rated moderately satisfactory since 2009. Disbursements
under the project were slower than desirable due to initial delays in renovating Local
Welfare Offices, the need to strengthen capacity to procure a complex information
technology system, and changes in Government counterparts. However, in 2009 and
2010, the Project made significant progress in implementing all three project components
and commitments rose to 86 percent (as of May 1, 2011) and disbursements reached 64

                                              3
percent of IBRD Loan proceeds. The Project became the fastest disbursing project in
Ukrainian portfolio.

5.      The proposed extension is necessary to: undertake the national roll-out of
software for a MIS that was designed, developed and tested under the project; migrate
data from the old system to the new one; create main and back-up server offices for the
registry; and undertake some training sessions and studies. The Project’s implementation
schedule and procurement plan have been revised and an action plan prepared to allow
for completion of all activities by the proposed new closing date. With the proposed
extension, it is fully expected that the project can be completed and meet its original
objectives. There are no outstanding audit reports for this Project.

6.     This will be the third extension of the project and will bring the cumulative
extensions                     to                     48                    months.




                                           4
