                                                                        54194 v1
            UKRAINE - Social Assistance System Modernization Project
                                    P075231
                                Loan #4807-UA

                                 Restructuring Memo

1.    The closing date for Ukraine, Social Assistance System Modernization Project,
Loan No. 4807-UA (P075231) will be extended from May 30, 2010 until July 1, 2011.

2.      Summary of the Project implementation progress. The Project's IP and DO are
currently rated as moderately satisfactory but these ratings have varied during the
implementation. Since becoming effective on April 4, 2006, the ratings moved from
Satisfactory to Unsatisfactory (March 2007) and since August 2007 to Moderately
Unsatisfactory. In anticipation of the adoption of a new and improved procurement law,
the Project was designed to procure small civil works under the national rules. However,
instead of improvements, the national procurement rules became completely
unacceptable for the World Bank and, as a result, the Bank procurement rules were
followed even for small civil works. This caused significant delays in completing
renovations in 750 local welfare offices. In addition, the Project has a complex
component on IT technology and equipment, and it took a few years for the Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy to strengthen their capacity in the IT department to be able to
handle this procurement. After that, the Project performance improved significantly.
Project implementation was also slow due to the frequent changes in the Government.

3.      The Project has made noteworthy progress in 2008, which continued in 2009. The
last supervision mission recorded significant progress in all three project components and
the rating was upgraded. The Project is now at a phase when different activities under the
three components start fitting together, allowing the Project to achieve its overall
objective. Given the extension, end of Project target dates for achieving final results
would be adjusted accordingly.

4.      The proposed extension is necessary to complete ongoing MIS related activities,
which are a key to attaining the PDO. The key milestones established as conditions for
considering project extension have been met, particularly in terms of completion of civil
works and development of the MIS. The Project's implementation schedule has been
revised to allow completing it by the proposed closing date. This revised schedule puts
project activities into a tight timeframe and leaves no room for delays. Recent payment
delays by the National Treasury affected IT contracts execution. Therefore, the team
agreed to reduce the minimum application size for payments directly from the Loan
Account from USD1.8 million to USD200, 000 for a six (6) month period and already
communicated this decision to the Borrower. This reduction will accelerate payments
under large IT contracts.

5.     This will be the second extension for the Project. The first extension was for 17
month reflecting far too short implementation period for the project that covers
introduction of the new client intake model in more than 750 local welfare offices all
over Ukraine. The second extension would bring the Project's cumulative extensions to
30 months and the overall Project implementation period to 5 years.
