                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR2672



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-48070 TF-56178)



                                  ON A LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 99.40 MILLION

                                      TO

                                   UKRAINE

                                     FOR A

             SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT



                                  June 27, 2013




Human Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective May 6, 2013)

                      Currency Unit = Hryvnia
                         1.00 = US$ 0.123
                       US$ 1.00 = UAH 8.14

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 – December 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASSAP   Information Analytical System for Social Assistance
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ECA     Eastern Europe and Central Asia
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HBS     Household Budget Survey
HMT     Hybrid Means Testing
IBRD    International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
INT     Department of Institutional Integrity
IT      Information and Technology
LWO     Local Welfare Office
ME      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
MOSP    Ministry of Social Policy
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDI     Project Development Indicator
PDO     Project Development Objective
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SIDA    Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
Swap    Sector Wide Approach
TTL     Task Team Leader
WB      World Bank


                    Vice President:       Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director:       Qimiao Fan
                   Sector Manager:        Andrew D. Mason
              Project Team Leader:        Katerina Petrina
                 ICR Team Leader:         Anastassia Alexandrova


                                      2
                                    UKRAINE
                SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT



                                                             Contents

A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................... 4 
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... 4 
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... 4 
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ 5 
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 5 
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... 5 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... 9 
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. 9 
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. 11

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 12 
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 14 
3.  Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................... 22 
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 25 
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 25 
6.  Lessons Learned....................................................................................................... 27 
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.......... 29

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 30 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 30 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................. 34 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 35 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 38 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 39 
Annex 7.1. Summary of the Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR .............................. 51 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 56 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57 


 Map: IBRD 33505




                                                                    3
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Social Assistance System
Country:                Ukraine                    Project Name:
                                                                             Modernization Project
Project ID:             P075231                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48070,TF056178
ICR Date:               06/24/2013                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                        Borrower:
                                                                             UKRAINE
Original Total
                        USD 99.40M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 92.55M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 92.55M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Social Policy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised/Actual
      Process             Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         10/10/2002     Effectiveness:              04/04/2006           04/04/2006
                                                                                        12/05/2008
                                                                                        04/16/2010
Appraisal:              06/10/2005     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                        06/24/2011
                                                                                        10/26/2012
Approval:               11/17/2005     Mid-term Review:            04/30/2007           02/10/2009
                                       Closing:                    12/31/2008           01/01/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       High
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                 Ratings                Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                   4
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                   Rating
      Performance                                      any)
Potential Problem Project at                            Quality at Entry
                                         No                                                  None
any time (Yes/No):                                      (QEA):
Problem Project at any time                             Quality of Supervision
                                        Yes                                                  None
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
DO rating before                    Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:           Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                           Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                           15                      15
Other social services                                                       70                      70
Sub-national government administration                                      15                      15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social development                                                     25                     25
Other social protection and risk management                                  25                     25
Social safety nets                                                           50                     50

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:                Philippe H. Le Houerou                 Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:              Qimiao Fan                             Paul G. Bermingham
Sector Manager:                Andrew D. Mason                        Hermann A. von Gersdorff
Project Team Leader:           Katerina Petrina                       Anush Bezhanyan
ICR Team Leader:               Anastassia Alexandrova
ICR Primary Author:            Jennica Larrison

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project seeks significant improvement of the effectiveness of Ukraine's social assistance system by
better targeting the benefits and reducing the burden on beneficiaries.




                                                       5
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                 Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                   approval                            Completion or
                                                                    Target Values
                                                 documents)                             Target Years
                  Outcome 1: Increase in percentage of social assistance cash benefits received by poor
Indicator 1 :
                  families from 43% in 2005 to 60% in 2008
Value
quantitative or   43%                         60%                                   42.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2005                  12/30/2008                            12/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Outcome 2: Reduction in application processing time from 4.5 hours in 2005 to 1.5
Indicator 2 :
                  hours in 2008
Value
quantitative or   4.5 hours                   1.5 hours                             1 hour
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2005                  12/30/2008                            12/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Outcome 3: Increase in number of benefits that are processed per month per staff of the
Indicator 3 :
                  social assistance office from 260 per month in 2005 to 528 in 2008
Value
quantitative or   260                         528                                   540
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2005                  12/30/2008                            12/30/2011
Comments
                  The 2012 estimate is preliminary. In 2011, the indicator value was 498 benefits per
(incl. %
                  staff per month
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                 Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised Target
                                                   approval                            Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                  documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Standard office model is developed, piloted, evaluated and formally approved
                                                                                    The 'one-stop-shop'
Value
                  No standard office model in                                       model is developed,
(quantitative
                  place                                                             piloted, assessed and
or Qualitative)
                                                                                    approved.
Date achieved     12/30/2005                                                        04/15/2013

                                                    6
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  In 2006, 180 rayon/city welfare offices implemented new "single window" service
Indicator 2 :
                  model; in 2007 - 474 offices; and in 2008 - 100 offices
                                                                                  752 offices followed
Value
                                                                                  the 'single window'
(quantitative     180 LWOs
                                                                                  model for the front
or Qualitative)
                                                                                  office part.
Date achieved     12/30/2005                                                      04/15/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  In 2006, 2 oblast social welfare offices capable of carrying out analyses and monitoring
Indicator 3 :
                  of the benefit payments. In 2007 – 20 oblast offices; and in 2008 - five oblast offices
Value             Two oblast offices capable
(quantitative     of monitoring and analysis                                          No data available
or Qualitative)   of benefit payments
Date achieved     12/30/2006                                                          04/15/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Functional review of DSDS completed and business plan prepared in 2006
Value
                                                                                    Functional review
(quantitative
                                                                                    completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                       12/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Annual Social reports published in 2006,2007 and 2008
Value                                                                               Annual social reports
(quantitative                                                                       published, starting in
or Qualitative)                                                                     2006
Date achieved                                                                       04/15/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Social Development Database improved (monitoring indicators etc.)
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                    7
Indicator 7 :     Two program impact evaluation studies completed in 2006 and 2008
Value                                                                           Two studies
(quantitative                                                                   completed in 2008
or Qualitative)                                                                 and 2009
Date achieved                                                                   12/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Public information and education strategy developed and approved in 2006
                                                                                  One-year and three-
Value                                                                             year public
(quantitative     No strategy                                                     information and
or Qualitative)                                                                   education strategies
                                                                                  were approved
Date achieved     12/30/2005                                                      04/15/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  20% of population aware of eligibility criteria for social assistance benefits - 2006, 50%
Indicator 9 :
                  by 2007 and 60% by 2008
                                                                                       56% of the
                                                                                       population informed
Value                                                                                  about the eligibility
(quantitative                                                                          criteria for 4 benefits,
or Qualitative)                                                                        72% informed about
                                                                                       eligibility criteria for
                                                                                       3 benefits.
Date achieved                                                                          04/15/2013
Comments
(incl. %          According to the MOSP, referring to HBS data
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    POM developed
Value                                                                                   POM developed and
(quantitative     No POM                                                                maintained up-to-
or Qualitative)                                                                         date
Date achieved     12/30/2005                                                            12/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Project effectively implemented
                                                                                        Project
Value
                                                                                        implementation
(quantitative
                                                                                        completed, majority
or Qualitative)
                                                                                        of funds disbursed
Date achieved                                                                           12/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                      8
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                            Actual Disbursements
 No.                            DO                           IP
         Archived                                                               (USD millions)
  1     02/08/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/26/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.25
  3     01/23/2007        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                     3.64
  4     07/12/2007     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               4.28
  5     01/04/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               4.84
  6     07/29/2008    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory              6.62
  7     02/10/2009    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory             13.53
  8     08/31/2009    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               15.28
  9     02/18/2010     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              19.70
 10     11/10/2010     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              32.43
 11     08/10/2011          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              68.30
 12     05/09/2012          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    89.00
 13     12/25/2012    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory             90.21

H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           First extension of the closing date
                                                           by 17 months. Reason:
                                                           'Reflecting far too short
                                                           implementation period for the
  12/05/2008        N        MU      MU           7.08
                                                           project that covers introduction of
                                                           the new client intake model in
                                                           more than 750 local welfare
                                                           offices all over Ukraine'.
                                                                  Closing date extended from May
                                                                  30, 2010 until July 1, 2011. The
  04/16/2010          N          MS      MS          22.39        reason: to complete ongoing MIS
                                                                  related activities, which are key to
                                                                  attaining the PDO.
                                                                  Project was extended for the third
                                                                  time from July 1, 2011 to January
                                                                  1, 2013. Reasons: To complete
                                                                  the construction, installation,
                                                                  training and roll-out of the new
  06/24/2011          N          MS      MS          65.48
                                                                  Management Information System
                                                                  (MIS) and so improve the
                                                                  targeting accuracy of the social
                                                                  assistance system. Reasons
                                                                  specified in greater detail were:


                                              9
                           ISR Ratings at     Amount
                 Board
Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
              Approved PDO
   Date(s)                                 Restructuring             Changes Made
                 Change     DO      IP
                                          in USD millions
                                                          • to extend the MIS such that it
                                                            also incorporates the MIS such
                                                            that it also incorporates
                                                            privileges for certain groups of
                                                            the population such as
                                                            pensioners, veterans, Chernobyl
                                                            catastrophe victims, etc.;

                                                             • to roll out new business
                                                               processes piloted under the
                                                               project in two regions;

                                                             • to roll out of new Hybrid
                                                               means-testing piloted under the
                                                               project in five regions;

                                                             • to undertake feasibility studies
                                                               that will help Ukraine to
                                                               improve it social protection
                                                               policies further.
                                                             Restructuring reallocated proceeds
                                                             of the loan from the Category 2
                                                             “Subvention for Modernization of
                                                             local social welfare services? to
                                                             the Category 1

                                                             “Goods, works and services (other
 10/26/2012                      S      S          89.83     than consultants’ services),
                                                             consultants’ services, training,
                                                             study tours and operational costs?.

                                                             The reason was significant saving
                                                             of funds under Category 2
                                                             coupled with the need to increase
                                                             funding under Category 1.




                                            10
I. Disbursement Profile




                          11
                                  UKRAINE
              SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT


1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.      The Social Assistance Modernization Project was approved on November 17, 2005. The Loan
Agreement was signed November 28, 2005 and became effective April 4, 2006. The Project closed on
January 1, 2013.

1.1     Context at Appraisal

2.       At the turn of the 21st century, the Government of Ukraine sought to consolidate benefits targeted
to the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of society, to provide cash benefits and to streamline delivery
of social assistance. To this end, the Government undertook a number of policy and institutional reforms
in social security between 1999 and 2005. These included reducing the number of programs for families
with children, transforming solid and liquid fuel subsidies into cash grants, preparing targeting
methodologies for various programs, transferring the payment of family benefits to local welfare offices
(from enterprises), and piloting a one-stop-shop in local welfare offices (LWO).

3.       By 2003, the Government spent approximately 15 percent of GDP on pensions and social
protection transfers to individuals. The significant fiscal effort helped about 76 percent of the population;
however, the program’s ability to reach the poor varied. While social programs in Ukraine reduced
poverty in the aggregate, many were not targeted or poorly targeted and they had the potential to be
significantly more effective. The World Bank and the Government simulated the proposed parametric
reform of the social safety net, which aimed at improving targeting by increasing child allowances,
reducing housing benefits, and limiting privileges.

4.       In 2005 at the time of project appraisal, Ukraine had one of the most complicated social
assistance systems in the region. The social safety net consisted of five basic program types: categorical
social privileges; Chernobyl benefits; housing and utilities allowances; family benefits (11 different types
of benefits); and social assistance for low-income families. Benefits were based on different eligibility
criteria, had different eligibility thresholds, and were given in the form of cash, in-kind benefits, or
transfers directed towards providers. Moreover, benefits were calculated and paid by different
organizations, including LWOs, municipal housing subsidies offices, local branches of the pension fund,
the social insurance fund, the Chernobyl fund, and the fund for social protection of the disabled.

5.       Moreover, the Ministry of Social Policy (MOSP) 1 and LWOs lacked capacity to administer
effectively and monitor regularly the performance of all social protection programs. Existing
administrative mechanisms were ineffective and lacked efficiency due to the uncoordinated and
fragmented distribution of functions, cumbersome and overlapping administrative procedures, and weak
and ad hoc exchange of information among functional units. In addition, the LWOs were poorly
equipped in terms of both staffing and technology, and complex, cumbersome administrative procedures
hampered the ability of staff to deliver quality services swiftly and to monitor programs effectively. In
order to address these institutional and policy issues, the Government requested the World Bank’s support


1
    The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy was renamed the Ministry of Social Policy in 2010. For the sake of
consistency within this report, the Ministry is referred to throughout as the Ministry of Social Policy.


                                                     12
to invest in improving social welfare offices, management information systems, and overall benefits
administration.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to significantly improve the effectiveness of
Ukraine’s social assistance system by better targeting cash benefits and reducing the burden faced by
beneficiaries. Progress towards achieving the Project’s outcomes was to be determined by the following
three project outcome indicators (POIs).

7.      Project Outcome Indicators:

       Increase in percentage of social assistance cash benefits received by poor families (from 42.6
        percent to 60 percent);
       Reduction in time for client in-take in local welfare office (from 4.5 hours to 1.5 hours); and
       Increase in number of benefits that are processed per month per staff of local welfare office (from
        260 to 528).

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
        and reasons/justification

8.      The PDO was not revised during the life of the Project.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

9.       Overall, the actual primary beneficiaries were the MOSP, regional and local welfare offices, and
social assistance beneficiaries. The provision of equipment and training largely benefited the staff at the
MOSP, regional and local welfare offices. The eligible poor and vulnerable households, as well as staff
of welfare offices, were the main beneficiaries of institutional improvements strengthening the
operational efficiency of the social welfare offices at the regional and local levels.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

10.     The Project consisted of three components: (i) administrative modernization; (ii) social
protection policy development, monitoring, evaluation and public information; and (iii) institutional
development.

Component 1. Administrative Modernization (US$84.21 million) focused on modernization and
improvement of the capacity of the local and regional social welfare offices to enable delivery of better
quality services to clients. The component was designed to support organizational and operational
reforms, transformation of social assistance from a disjointed set of program-specific arrangements to a
unified, function-based and client-oriented structure. The component was to further develop capacities
that would enable effective implementation of the ongoing social assistance reform program.

Component 2. Social Protection Policy Development, Monitoring, Evaluation and Public Information
(US$4.40 million) aimed to build the MOSP capacity for development of social assistance policies, with
the systemic approach to monitoring program outcomes and policy impacts. Component 2 also sought to
develop capacity of local and regional welfare offices to assist in including the poorest parts of the
population in Government-financed social assistance programs.

                                                    13
Component 3. Institutional Development (US$0.62 million) strengthened institutional capacity of the
MOSP for efficient and effective implementation of the program.

1.6     Revised Components

11.     The components were not revised during the life of the Project.

1.7     Other significant changes

12.     By mid-2012, all renovation works under Category 2 “Subvention for Modernization of local
social welfare services? were completed under budget. On the other hand, more funds were needed in
Category 1 “Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services), consultants’ services training,
study tours, and operational costs? to cover remaining contractual obligations. Per the Borrower’s request,
changes were made on October 26, 2012, to reallocate proceeds in the amount of US$2.55 million from
Category 2 to Category 1.

13.     The Project was extended three times to accommodate delays in implementation and changes in
the Ministry's top management. The first extension (from December 31, 2008 to May 30, 2010) was
granted to effectively correct an artificial contraction in the Project duration introduced during
negotiations. The second extension (from May 30, 2010 to July 1, 2011) was granted to complete civil
works and ongoing Management Information System (MIS) related activities in order to ensure the PDO
accomplishment. The final extension (from July 1, 2011 to January 1, 2013) was granted to complete the
MIS rollout and to further institutional and capacity building that could feed into the preparation of the
next project. The changes did not affect the PDO.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     Preparation. The Project was prepared with strong ownership and built on a previously defined
sector strategy. In particular, between 2000 and 2002, a United Kingdom Department for International
Development (DFID) project piloted a one-stop-shop client servicing model in six LWOs. Building on
this work, the World Bank team used a project preparation facility (PPF) to pilot service integration and
modernization in 20 local welfare offices. The success of the pilot projects created interest in rolling out
the results of the pilot nationwide with the support of a World Bank financed project. The Project took
four years to prepare. The scope of the Project and its relation to other poverty exercises in the country
were key deliberating points.

15.     Design. The Project was initially envisaged as a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp). However,
given the complexities of introducing a new instrument, the Project was designed as a Specific Investment
Loan (SIL). In particular, using a pre-existing instrument ensured swift Government approval of the
Project. A SWAp required approval by the Government before Project negotiations could take place.
The Ministry of Social Policy and the World Bank were concerned that a new Government could be in
place by the time approvals were achieved, which could potentially slow down or stop the Project. The
World Bank project team and Government worked closely together at the preparation stage, with the
Deputy Minister of Finance championing the Project.

16.     The Project team learned lessons from similar operations, specifically that: (i) commitment to the
Project is necessary at the highest levels; (ii) clear linkages between operational reforms and investment
in information systems are necessary; (iii) software should support changes in social assistance processes

                                                    14
and not just be a tool in itself; (iv) software application development should occur prior to any hardware
purchases; and (v) policy objectives should be coordinated across the Government and agencies involved
in the Project. As a significant portion of the Project funds were devoted to information technology,
experts were included in the World Bank and Government’s project teams. The design of new software
was contracted to address the needs of a one-stop-shop model and the design process was scheduled to
begin before any hardware was purchased. The need for information technology experts in the project
management processes was also recognized and included in the Project design. However, the IT
consultants were not social assistance professionals, and therefore unfamiliar with how the technology
could best complement the social assistance administration. Finally, the team obtained a Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant, which, among other objectives, aided the Government in
developing the policy reform agenda supported by the Project.

17.     The Project was originally designed to be five years; however, the duration was reduced to 2.5
years during negotiations. All parties incorrectly assumed that implementing the Project at the central,
regional, and local level simultaneously would dramatically reduce implementation time. However, this
assumption was highly erroneous and led to significant delays in the Project, as timelines were redesigned
on a number of occasions, including revisions to Project Operations Manuals, Procurement Plans, and
contracts. The assumption during preparation that regional and local level staff would readily learn and
implement new procedures was overly optimistic. This assumption caused further delays in timing and
an increased workload for staff at the central level.

18.      The Project Development Objective (PDO), as identified, did not fully reflect the Project’s
activities. While the Project could have (and did have) a significant impact on lessening administrative
bureaucracy for beneficiaries and improving accessibility of LWOs, it had little to no control over the
actual implementation of targeted benefits and no activities to support this part of the PDO. Despite some
support for improved targeting at the high levels of the Government, the overall political environment
made implementation of social safety nets reform unfeasible. Transformation of privileges into means-
tested benefits remains a contentious political issue, and attempts to downscale categorical benefits in
2011 were strongly opposed by the public. The Government’s proposal to transform privileges to means-
tested benefits was ultimately rejected by Parliament in 2011, and reforms have not taken place.

19.       The Project identified the risks and mitigation measures as follows:


                            Risk                                            Risk Mitigation Measure
      Legal framework not in place                             2006 Budget Law was to be approved prior to
                                                               effectiveness.
      Premises reconfiguration is not completed on a           The refurbishment costs are included in the project
      timely basis                                             cost and the 2006 draft budget law included
                                                               subvention and was expected to be approved prior
                                                               to effectiveness.
      Experience of carrying out procurement using             Specific training by MOSP staff will be carried out.
      competitive procedures at regional and local level is    MOSP and Bank staff will closely monitor
      minimal                                                  procurement activities (through ex-post review).
      Financial management systems including internal          Annual operation review by external firm coupled
      controls are weak                                        with rigorous Bank financial management
                                                               supervision.




                                                              15
20.     While the primary risks were successfully identified, the mitigation measures were not adequate.
The 2006 Budget Law allocated funding for the Project, including regional authorities, for one year only.
Ukraine’s annual budgeting system could not guarantee funds for subsequent years in the Project’s
timeline of 2.5 years. The Project design also did not take into account the unique features of the
Ukrainian budget system and the need to coordinate budget approvals at all levels of government.
Specialized budget resolutions were needed at two of three levels, and had to be renewed annually. This
was complicated further by introducing payments via the Treasury as a pilot for Ukraine. Moreover,
while setting the policy, MOSP did not have direct influence over the municipalities that actually run the
welfare offices and had to convince the municipalities to restructure LWO offices, simplify work
processes, and adopt a new social assistance delivery model. The assumption that offices could be
appropriated across the country for use as one-stop-shops local welfare offices and that all civil works
could be funded and completed in a single year so that reconfiguration could be completed in a timely
fashion was unfounded. The PIU was not equipped to deal with all of the municipalities at once; this was
particularly the case with procurement, which included local level contracting and over 1,000 separate
contracts. Training was insufficient to address the gaps in knowledge of procurement procedures at the
regional and local level. Beyond training in the actual procedures, explanation of why these procedures
were beneficial to the Project would have been useful. The introduction of a new financial management
system through which to operate the Project provided initial confusion, and at times, significant delays in
disbursement due to parallel signature requirements of various ministers. I n effect, the project was
overdesigned for the available implementation period and implementation was not properly phased over
time.

21.      Several risk factors were not identified at the appraisal, but ultimately affected implementation
and outcomes. The transition of data from four previously existing databases into a Management
Information System (MIS) designed by the Project was performed manually, was time consuming and
required restoration of large amounts of missing data from paper archives; no time was allocated in the
Project for this activity. Lack of staff and expertise within the MOSP to oversee implementation of the
MIS country-wide was an early risk factor and remains so, even after Project completion. High variance
of local starting conditions (quality of the buildings, support from regional and local administration to
welfare authorities, experienced and motivated staff) led to high variance in the quality and speed of
implementation of the Project activities and related reforms. Double subordination of local welfare
authorities (who report to the MOSP and regional governments) weakened the Ministry’s ability to
control quality and ensure uniform implementation of any program. Finally, adherence of the entire
Government to the policy of improved targeting has been rather declarative not supported by policy
formation, which increased risks for the policy component.

22.    Quality at Entry. The team did not perform a Quality at Entry Review (QER) for the Project. A
QER could have aided the team in identifying some of the above-mentioned preparation weaknesses. The
team could have then altered the Project design and reduced risks.

2.2     Implementation

23.     The Project became effective on April 4, 2006. In the first six months of the Project, progress
was limited, as many buildings for renovation of LWOs were not yet identified. Significant delays
occurred in civil works as well as in preparation of LWOs for the one-stop-shop business model, as local
and regional authorities were not accustomed to World Bank procurement regulations, and contracting
was slow. In addition, the software development was delayed for over a year. At risk of not meeting the
Project objectives and to correct for the contracted 2.5 year project timeline, a 17-month extension was
granted in 2007, pushing back the mid-term review to 2008.



                                                    16
24.      By the mid-term review, the Project commitments had reached US$18.3 million (or 20 percent of
total available project funds), but disbursement remained low at US$4.5 million (or less than five percent
of total project funds). Contracts for technical design of renovation were signed in 525 (90 percent)
LWOs.2 Approximately, 80 percent of LWOs had adjusted their business processes to operate under a
one-stop-shop concept. The World Bank team discussed with MOSP options for improving the pro-poor
orientation of social assistance spending, and the MOSP endorsed an agenda to improve targeting of
social assistance programs.

25.     At the end of 2009, the Government requested and was granted a second extension of the Project
through July 2011. By the end of 2009, contracts for renovations had been signed for 473 LWOs (81
percent) and renovations were complete in 319 offices (55 percent). The first versions of the software
application were being reviewed and tested. Policy evaluation and development and piloting of Hybrid
Means Testing (HMT) mechanisms were underway at this point. The MOSP planned to implement a
strategy of limiting access to privileges but, given the political environment, this was not accomplished.

26.      Disbursement increased dramatically in 2010, with the Project becoming the second best
performer in the Ukrainian portfolio. By mid-2011, renovations were complete in the majority of LWOs
(720). The Government requested and was granted an 18-month extension of the closing date to complete
the final procurements related to the national rollout of the MIS and a series of capacity building efforts.

27.     Over the life of the Project, implementation progress and progress toward the PDOs have varied
from Unsatisfactory to Satisfactory. At closing, the Project had successfully implemented a one-stop-
shop business model almost nationwide 3 but the MIS, to ensure the sustainability of this model, both for
beneficiaries and the administration, had yet to be completed. While the software was developed and the
hardware was available in all offices at the close of the Project, Project failed to accomplish MIS
implementation countrywide and the MIS system was completely operational in only one region. In
addition, although the Social Protection Policy Development Component made significant progress in
developing policy, it appears to have had little ultimate impact on policy reform.

28.     The major issues affecting implementation were capacity and timing, MIS development and
adaptation, and the general political environment.

29.      Capacity and Timing. The issues of capacity and timing overestimated in the design carried over
into implementation. The rehabilitation of LWOs was significantly more difficult and time consuming
than initially perceived. Many buildings had to be appropriated for use as LWOs before being
rehabilitated. Others were newly constructed. As previously mentioned, the procurement of civil works
was also complicated by lack of familiarity with World Bank procedures at regional and local levels of
government. Renovations were not completed until September 2011. Thus, hardware could not be placed
in these offices until this point.

30.      MIS Development and Adaptation. The Project developed a sophisticated information system
entitled Information Analytical System for Social Assistance Programs (ASSAP). While a supplier was
chosen to develop the software in December 2007, a government delay in advance payment created an
initial six-month delay in the beginning of work. Much of the contractor’s time was then spent re-
negotiating the timeline for delivery. By December 2009, an expert quality control consultant company


2
    The Project expected to fund renovation of 584 local welfare offices out of the 757 at the time. The rest were
financed through local budgets.
3
    The welfare authorities in a few areas including the city of Kyiv do not follow the one-stop shop model
implemented by the Project and work according to their own procedures.

                                                       17
had tested the first two versions of the software alongside the MOSP. Required and desired improvements,
including increasing the functionality and coverage of benefit programs, were developed.

31.     The purpose of the ASSAP system is automation of business processes in local offices based on a
one-stop-shop model for citizens and provision of a database for analyses and forecasting for officials.
The system automates processes related to targeted financial assistance, housing subsidies and
compensations, and health resort vouchers. The software of the first phase of ASSAP provides closed
loop registration, processing, document review, calculation, payment of certain types of social benefits,
and control of provision to an individual (household, family) at the local level, as well as data processing
of summary reports for policy-making on social assistance at the regional and central levels. The system
can support work of staff members of the welfare offices of district, city, and city district administrations,
heads of welfare departments of regional state administrations, information centers (pay centers) at the
head welfare departments, as well as staff members of the MOSP.

32.     By 2012, all hardware was procured and offices were theoretically prepared to accept the
software. The software was to be implemented in one pilot region before nationwide implementation.
However, the rollout of the software to LWOs in the pilot region was significantly delayed, as the
developer did not make requested and necessary revisions to the software in a timely fashion. Greater
communication and supervision between the contractor and the Ministry, and the Ministry and World
Bank, may have helped resolve this situation in a more timely fashion. The software was eventually
implemented in all LWOs within the pilot region at the close of the Project. However, by then a national
rollout was impossible even within the extended Project timeframe.

33.     From a functional point of view, the system is well designed and assessed as acceptable by the
intended users (LWO and MOSP staff). However, the system cannot be used due to the lack of budget
for operations, maintenance, and further development. Thus, even though most of the outputs have been
delivered, the intended outcome has not been achieved – the ASSAP is not currently supporting “the
administration of social welfare offices to implement further policy reforms,? nor providing “technical
assistance and information technology support to the MOSP, so that policy makers can evaluate and
monitor outcomes in social benefit programs to complete the ongoing process of reform,? as stated in the
PAD. This was a key sustainability risk not identified in the original Project design.

34.     The lack of a coherent IT strategy by the MOSP may also hinder implementation of the ASSAP
in the future. While the current top management of MOSP believes that automation of operations in
social assistance is a key priority, there appears to be no medium to long-term vision of what goals it
should be achieving, by what technological means, and most importantly, at what cost. At the same time,
the Ministry is engaged in rather ambitious projects aimed at creating on-line inter-agency data exchange
covering the entire spectrum of public services. A related concern is whether the MOSP will be able to
fully implement the ASSAP, expand it to cover other social assistance programs and services, and to
move on to its more ambitious plans given the remaining capacity restrictions and lack of funding.

35.      Political Environment. The Project was implemented during a particularly tumultuous time in
Ukraine. The Minister of Social Policy changed eight times during the lifespan of the Project. While the
Project was largely favored within the Ministry throughout its life, the varying political environment
affected day-to-day operations (e.g. requisition of changing signatures for payments and approvals) and
overall supervision relationships (e.g. access to Ministers). Moreover, the Project operated during an
economic financial crisis not foreseen at the beginning of the Project. During the 2009-2010 crisis, the
Government did not leverage targeted last resort social assistance programs, but instead, expanded
pension benefits and categorical child benefits in response to the crisis. The crisis may have contributed
to the lack of political buy-in for social assistance reform over the life of the Project.


                                                     18
2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

36.     Design. The Project was designed to build capacity within the Department of Social
Development Strategy (DSDS) in the MOSP to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of social
assistance programs. The Project was to aid in creating a Social Protection Database, including baseline
and follow-up data allowing for the monitoring of project outcomes and results. Source data includes the
Household Budget Survey (HBS) and the ASSAP developed within the Project.

37.      The Results Framework (Annex 3 of PAD) identified three project outcome indicators (POIs) and
11 intermediary results indicators. The first POI, to increase the percentage of benefits received by poor
families, is directly related to the PDO, but was largely beyond the scope of the Project and was not
supported by any Project activities; thus, the Project could not fully meet the PDO from the outset. The
second POI, a reduction in time for client in-take, directly addresses the part of the PDO related to the
reduction of administrative bureaucracy for beneficiaries. The final POI, which addressed increasing the
number of benefits processed per month, tangentially supports the part of the PDO concerning reducing
the bureaucracy for beneficiaries. The assumptions underlying this POI are that by processing more
benefits, staff will have more time to interact with beneficiaries and benefits will be received more
quickly. These assumptions, however, are not overtly linked to the POI and therefore the POI cannot be
shown to “reduce the burden on beneficiaries.? The PAD did not provide a thorough account of what
burden the beneficiaries had to bear, such as the time of waiting in line to submit an application, the
number of documents to be provided, costs of collecting the documents, or distance to and accessibility of
local welfare offices. This lack of baseline information makes an assessment of what burden was
alleviated to what extent (and what could have been done as a more optimistic or pessimistic scenario)
nearly impossible.

38.     Implementation. Monitoring and evaluation of the Project was carried out in a timely fashion,
with data for tracking indicators available as needed. The Social Protection Database was created and
improved throughout the life of the Project; however, MIS (ASSAP) data is yet to feed into this database.
The Project helped to develop a methodological and technological system of evaluation within the
Ministry of Social Policy, as well as provided assistance with implementing monitoring and evaluation
techniques. Additionally, a module was created within the HBS to determine the perceived efficiency of
welfare programs.

39.      Utilization and Impact. The Ministry of Social Policy has used analysis on social assistance
programs, developed by the Project in social reports, and in thinking about and developing future reforms
regarding social assistance and privileges. The State Statistics Committee implemented the HBS welfare
program module, allowing the monitoring of one of the intermediate results indicators. By end-2012, the
Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree institutionalizing and regularizing the monitoring and evaluation of
social assistance programs. The methodology is based mostly on outputs of the Project. Annual analysis
based on HBS data will be complemented by a special additional survey of programs’ efficiency, and is to
be conducted every five years starting in 2014. This is a positive contribution of the Project to the
national culture of policy making. However, a concern of sustainability remains: the decree per se does
not allocate funds for the surveys or data analysis; all of the work is to be conducted “within the available
means,? which means that the Government has to ensure adequate and timely funding.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

40.     The environmental impact of the Project was rated C. Given the small size and rehabilitation
nature of the civil works for refurbishment of local social welfare offices, no major environmental issues
were anticipated and none arose.

                                                     19
41.      Procurement is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Throughout the life of the project, the
procurement rating oscillated between Moderately Satisfactory and Satisfactory, however the
procurement was not as smooth as the ratings suggest. Procurement under the Project included: (i) civil
works, (ii) goods (hardware and software, office equipment), and (iii) consultant services hired under
various types of procurement methods. The Procurement Plan was updated in 2008 and again in 2010,
but no fundamental changes occurred. While the majority of procurement was handled at the central level
of the MOSP, regional directorates and local offices were also responsible for procurement. Procurement
at the regional level included consultants for technology coordination, development of documents, and
supervision of engineering. Procurement at the local level included civil works of local welfare offices.

42.      The Procurement Specialists in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) were trained in World
Bank procurement in Turin and at other workshops and seminars organized by the World Bank.
Consultants were appointed by MOSP to provide advice and training on working with World Bank
procedures. In the middle of the Project, national procurement rules, which were to be followed for civil
works procurement, were altered and did not meet World Bank standards. The World Bank procurement
procedures were thus implemented at all levels. However, they proved onerous for local and regional
level staff, and in the middle of the Project, the PIU hired two technical advisors to advise local staff
regarding their procurement needs and supervision of contracts. While the PIU managed procurement
relatively well, procurement was commonly delayed due to weak capacity at lower levels and lack of
familiarity of bidding companies with the World Bank procedures. In addition, the World Bank’s
Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) has investigated and substantiated allegations of fraud and
corruption.

43.     Financial Management (FM) is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The MOSP was responsible for
financial management of the Project. The Project was the first in Ukraine to channel Bank funds through
the State Treasury Service, allowing for disbursement at the central, regional and local level
simultaneously. The piloting of this system created a steep learning curve for regional and local levels,
which created delays in disbursement. Even now, not all of the World Bank projects in Ukraine are using
the Treasury, as its mechanisms have not been perfected and do not perform all of the required technical
functions.

44.      Disbursements lagged behind initial projections during the first years of implementation. While
realistic expectations were never set, the ICR team believes that disbursements were also significantly
slower than realistic expectations could assume early in the Project.4 The majority of Project funds were
designed for hardware and software installation; however, before this could occur, local welfare offices
were to be rehabilitated and/or constructed to accommodate the one-stop-shop model. Financing to the
regional and local offices experienced significant delays, slowing the entire Project. In 2008, the project
financial management system was improved to enable the electronic generation of monthly financial
reports and requests for financing from the regions to limit financing delays at the regional and local
levels.

45.     Auditing of financial management procedures were performed by Ukraine’s Auditing Chamber.
This process ensured that funds were not used from the Project for auditing, while simultaneously
building domestic capacity, which is why the Auditing Chamber was an asset to the Project.




4
    For specific details on disbursement delays, see Annex 7.

                                                        20
46.     Concerns regarding the rate of disbursement were raised on a number of occasions. In the final
extension of the Project, disbursement increased significantly, and by the end of the grace period for
payments, the project disbursed US$92.6 million of the US$99.4 million loan (93.1 percent).

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

47.      Continued Steps. Now that the one-stop-shop is operating in most municipalities, the next step is
to ensure that the MIS is fully operational. The MOSP will need to complete the rollout of the system
nationwide through its own budget. In addition, maintenance of the systems should be budgeted annually.
Currently, funds have not been designated for the upkeep of the hardware and software at national,
regional and local levels. A related problem concerns human resources, as further delays in
implementation of the ASSAP would mean not only loss of the value of the equipment procured by the
Project, but also erosion of human capacity and the ability of welfare office staff to use the system when it
is ready. This is paramount to the success of the Project’s inputs and activities.

48.      Next Project. A Quality Assurance Group (QAG) portfolio review5 recommended to ‘design or
restructure projects for a better match with implementation capacity following a rigorous assessment of
the latter’. In accordance with this recommendation, a second project is currently being developed to
build on the investments made in the Project and on the implementation lessons learned from it. The
team applied for and received an ECA Development Trust Fund to provide bridge funding between the
two projects. The second project is slated for World Bank Board consideration in the fourth quarter of the
2014 fiscal year.

49.      The new project plans to build on this Project by: (i) extending the functionality of the MIS
(ASSAP) system, which the new project assumes will be completely rolled out before effectiveness; (ii)
modernizing administration of benefits and to some extent, services; and (iii) supporting de-
institutionalization of children’s services by providing children deprived of care with a family-like
environment through foster care, adoption and placement in small family-type homes in selected regions.

50.      The Government once again confirmed its intentions to advance the agenda of targeting. As
stated in Annex 7.1, the MOSP intends to prepare a draft law on targeting as soon as in 2013. This task is
included in the National Action Plan for 2013 to Implement the Economic Reform Program for 2010-14
"Prosperous Society, Competitive Economy, Effective State", approved by Decree of the President of
Ukraine dated March 12, 2013 # 128/2013. Additionally, the President of Ukraine in his recent address to
the Council for Economic Reforms called for the immediate completion of the ASSAP’s roll-out. This is
likely to result in the Government allocating the required funding in the next few months.

51.      The ICR team further encourages the World Bank and the Government to consider the lessons
learned from this Project in developing the second project (see Section 6 for more details on the lessons
learned). Specifically in: (i) creating a realistic timeline for implementation; (ii) devising Project
Development Objectives that reflect the activities of the Project and can be achieved; (iii) defining
specific reforms that can be promoted by and attributed to the Project; and (iv) taking into consideration
available systems and capacity as opposed to optimistic projections of future systems and capacity.
Sustainability of the results to be achieved by the new project needs to be assessed from the very




5
      “ECA Disbursement: QAG Learning Review,? January 28, 2010.


                                                    21
beginning to avoid repeating the mistakes of the first project. A thorough cost-benefit analysis, which the
first project lacked, could play an essential role in ensuring sustainable results.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

52.      The Project, with the main component of modernizing administration of the social assistance
system, was and remains highly relevant to the country. At the time of project preparation and
effectiveness, the Government of Ukraine was challenged with delivering social assistance within a
relatively new decentralized system. The Project sought to aid the Government in their quest to
effectively deliver social services throughout the country.

53.     The objectives of addressing better targeting of cash benefits and reducing the burden on
beneficiaries were moderately relevant to the Government’s 2005 Action Plan. The Government Action
Plan sought to ensure the inclusion of all citizens within social service delivery, which could be
considered contradictory to the idea of targeting supported by the Project, as targeting of benefits is
exclusionary by nature. While setting out an action plan that highlighted assistance for all, the
Government also endorsed a targeting agenda.

54.      The Project’s objectives were highly relevant to the 2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
which specifically called for improved targeting of social assistance. The Project helped in this manner
by promoting a nationwide approach to social assistance, administered at the local level. Moreover,
specific poverty, policy and evaluation analysis and training added to the discussion of targeting benefits
within the country. At the time of writing, the PDO remains relevant to the current Country Partnership
Strategy for 2012-2016, the first pillar of which focuses on enhancing sustainability and efficiency of
public services and public finances.

55.      Overall, the design of the Project was relevant in terms of scope, but not as relevant in terms of
timing and some elements of the chosen implementation strategy (e.g. the link between the objectives and
activities, especially in the policy component, reliance on local implementation of renovations etc.). The
choice of a SIL as the instrument appears to have been optimal. Such instruments allow for a range of
issues to be addressed within the investment and within policy reform that should then affect the
productivity of the investment. Flexibility of the chosen instrument may be viewed as a positive factor in
the Project producing outputs in rather turbulent political and economic circumstances.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

56.      Achievement of Project Development Objectives is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory based on the
fact that the Project facilitated the improvement of effectiveness of the social assistance system (through
reducing the burden on beneficiaries), but failed to improve targeting of cash benefits.

57.     The first POI called for an increase in the percentage of social assistance cash benefits received
by poor families from 43 percent in 2005 to 60 percent in 2008. Throughout the life of the Project, the
percentage of benefits received by poor families actually decreased, as Parliamentary measures increased
the number of categorical benefits in 2006-2007. In 2009, the percentage of benefits received by poor
families fell to 37 percent, but rebounded to 42.3 percent by 2011. At a technical level, the Project
provided extensive poverty assessment workshops, training and knowledge sharing of benefit targeting
tools. The MOSP approved a medium-term agenda to improve targeting. The World Bank and the
MOSP developed a reform implementation strategy with gradual implementation over time, across

                                                    22
categories of beneficiaries and stages of reform in order to smooth potential popular opposition to reforms
that would reduce leakage and make benefits work for social protection. Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA) grant funding was used to develop and implement a strong public education
and communication campaign. Although, the component has allowed for continued dialogue between the
Government and the World Bank regarding policy reforms, the Project did not affect political decisions
on reform.

58.      The second POI was the reduction in application processing time from 4.5 hours in 2005 to 1.5
hours in 2008. With the implementation of the one-stop-shop model, whereby beneficiaries apply for all
eligible benefits in one location through one application form, the average application processing time
decreased to 1.4 hours in 2010, 1.2 hours in 2011, and one hour in 2012. By January 2013, 752 (of 756)
local offices met at least six of the seven criteria for a single point of contact process. A major
achievement of the Project is that implementation of the one-stop-shop model throughout the majority of
the country has reduced the burden to beneficiaries by reducing the number of application forms,
documents and service entry points for benefit applicants. However, the one-stop-shop as currently
implemented does not cover the back office functions of processing applications and is therefore
incomplete. While beneficiaries complete one application, local welfare offices are still using systems
that divide the processing of benefits, as the ASSAP MIS system designed under the Project is not yet
operational.

59.     The third and final POI monitored the number of benefits processed per month per staff, seeking
an increase from 260 benefits per month in 2005 to 528 in 2008. On average in 2010, 370 benefits were
processed per month per staff at local welfare offices. This figure increased to 498 benefits per staff per
month in 2011. Preliminary administrative data indicates that the number of benefits processed per staff
per month increased further in 2012 to 540 benefits. Thus, at the close of the Project the number of
benefits processed per staff member exceeded the target.

60.     While the overall PDO was not achieved, some elements were accomplished. A significant step
in ensuring that beneficiaries are not overburdened by the social assistance process is the access to local
welfare offices across the country and the ability to process applications in a direct and simple manner.
However, the one-stop-shop has not been integrated into the processing of benefits, which could reduce
the burden on beneficiaries further if benefits were received in a more timely fashion. While significant
progress was made on capacity building and knowledge sharing that would allow officials to design a
good targeting reform program, the political decisions to support targeting were not taken. As previously
mentioned, this is more a reflection on the choice of PDO than on the Project itself.

3.3     Efficiency

61.      The economic analysis performed in the PAD attributed estimated savings to improvements in
social assistance program administration via the national implementation of the one-stop-shop model. The
savings were credited directly to increased efficiency in program administration and externalities
generated by project activities. The internal rate of return on the project investment was estimated to be
24.6 percent. However, the analysis did not provide information on how the costing was determined, and
the perceived benefits are therefore difficult to verify.

62.      The analysis in the PAD assumes that benefits accrue gradually through 2016 as the one-stop-
shop and integrated software package are used to perform daily business procedures at all local welfare
offices. The people of Ukraine are benefitting from increased efficiency provided through the
establishment of the one-stop-shop. However, efficiency gains attributable to streamlined business
processes and functional reorganization can only provide some – perhaps half – of the projected


                                                    23
efficiency gains. Reliance on old software applications and the lack of an operational MIS system
throughout the country impedes further improvements in effectiveness. Thus, based on the original
analysis, the Project has achieved approximately half of its potential efficiency gains.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

63.     Overall, modernizing the administration of social assistance benefits and better targeting poor
families remain key issues for the social protection system in Ukraine. The Project greatly facilitated
beneficiary access to local welfare offices and the adoption of the one-stop-shop model across the nation.
However, the Project was unable to fully implement an integral part of the modernization component, the
MIS, which would further improve efficiency and decrease the burden on beneficiaries. Moreover, the
policy development, monitoring, evaluation and public information component had success at the margins
by increasing capacity for monitoring and evaluating policies, piloting HMT methods, and increasing
public awareness of the benefit system, but the political will for reforms that would address better
targeting the poor remained largely elusive.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

64.      The Project was designed to have a significant impact on poverty through altering targeting of
social assistance benefits in a pro-poor manner and providing access to local welfare offices, particularly
in impoverished areas where access was previously limited. As discussed above, while access to local
welfare offices improved, the impact on poverty through targeting appears minimal. The percentage of
cash benefits received by poor families declined during the Project, and in 2012 is back at the Project’s
baseline level.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

65.      The Project was designed and implemented in a manner that aided in strengthening the
connections between the various levels within the ministries, as the local, regional and central levels
worked closely together to accomplish the goals of the Project. A variety of issues, including the
establishment of local welfare offices and operation of financial management systems required
collaboration within and across ministries.

66.     Renovations of many local welfare offices were financed or co-financed by local budgets.
Collaboration between the Ministry of Social Policy, regional and local offices, and local authorities was
essential to the success of the renovations and therefore ultimate implementation of the one-stop-shop
model.

67.     The implementation of the one-stop-shop model not only improved delivery of social assistance
but also had wider implications for public perception of government services. The success of the one-
stop-shop model has created demand within the country for efficient public services. Innovations within
the LWOs could potentially be replicated in other sectors.

68.     The piloting of a new financial management system through the State Treasury of Ukraine took
advantage of in-country institutions. As with any new system, the transition was initially difficult and led
to delays of the Project’s progress, but the system allowed various institutions at all levels to access funds


                                                     24
through a formal process. The key to such an endeavor is to ensure that all involved parties are aware of
the procedures and expected benefits, so that usage and ultimate ownership are achieved quickly.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

69.     None identified.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

70.     No survey or workshop identified.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

71.     The risk to the development outcome is high due to a lack of budget financing for complete
implementation of the one-stop-shop, which includes integrated processing, and maintenance of project
investments. The Project implemented massive IT infrastructure and developed relatively complex and
expensive application software (ASSAP). This investment is currently not used as intended for a number
of reasons: (i) the ASSAP software development was completed virtually at the end of the project, which
did not allow sufficient time for planned implementation and testing in conditions of full exploitation; (ii)
the human resources for system operations, maintenance and further development were not secured; (iii)
the budget for operations, maintenance and further development of the ASSAP was not secured by the
end of the Project; (iv) normative documents regulating the use of the system do not exist; and (v) data
migration from legacy programs has not occurred.

72.     While the MIS system was implemented in one region, the national rollout has yet to be
completed. The MOSP has requested the necessary financing from the Ministry of Finance; however, the
funds are not forthcoming in the foreseeable future. In addition, the equipment loses value daily; within a
year, the equipment is estimated to lose one-third of its value. The contract with the software company
provided a one-year guarantee on the product. After the year period, every change that needs to be made
will incur an additional cost. Maintenance for the hardware and software procured under the Project
should also be included in the Government budget, but funds to ensure the longevity of the equipment
have not been secured. Even if unused, the system’s infrastructure must be maintained (electricity cost,
space use cost, heating/cooling cost, etc). Also, minimal communications must be maintained, including
the costs for system re-connection due to long periods of not maintaining communications. Changes to
the software and MIS rollout will therefore be more expensive as time passes, and could act as a
hindrance to further implementation.

73.      Change management training for local welfare office staff is also important to bolster confidence
in the new system, but is not currently scheduled. Overall, there is tremendous potential to achieve
further efficiency gains from the Project, but without continued support and financing from the highest
levels, the efficiency gains made are at risk of deteriorating.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


                                                     25
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.      As previously mentioned, the Project design was relevant to the CAS and built on existing work
within the country on social assistance. Preparation was characterized by intense discourse between all
parties, and the World Bank and Government should be acknowledged for the high level of
communication. The World Bank team attempted to adapt lessons learned into the design of the Project,
ensuring close collaboration with and within the MOSP, attempting to organize the design of software
prior to hardware installation to align with operational reforms.

75.     The main issues negatively affecting Bank performance at this juncture were timing and
underestimation of risks and mitigation measures. The overambitious timing of the Project eventually led
to several delays, some of which may have been avoided if the original timeline (five years instead of 2.5
years) had been maintained. Mitigation efforts to address identified risks were also limited in scope.
Assumptions that capacity would be dramatically improved and that national laws would facilitate efforts
were overestimated. Capacity building efforts were included in the scope of the Project as an additional
component, but a greater emphasis on the connection of capacity between local, regional, and national
levels was important given the relatively recent decentralization of processes (at that time).

(b)     Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.     The World Bank team remained largely consistent throughout the duration of the Project. The
task team leader (TTL) who prepared the Project remained in place until the mid-term review. At which
point, a team member involved from the outset became TTL, and remained until closing. This stability
within the team was particularly helpful as political situations changed within the country.

77.      The team included a broad mix of specialists, and experts were added as needed. However, due to
the extensive technical component, the Project would have benefited from a social protection information
system specialist, who had a critical understanding of information technology (IT) within the social
assistance framework. An IT procurement specialist played this role most of the time, but IT procurement
specialists often have limited knowledge of proper utilization of IT in specific sector contexts, and limited
experience advising on proper development models and supervising the work of the Borrower’s technical
teams.

78.      Throughout the six-year period, the majority of the team was located in Ukraine, allowing for
close collaboration with the PIU and Ministry officials. This proximity and relationship helped the team
to address concerns quickly through telephone conversations, email, and personal meetings. In 2010, the
team established weekly meetings with the Deputy Minister of the MOSP, the Head of Department of
Social Assistance, and top management responsible for project implementation to ensure issues were
handled in a timely manner. These meetings became monthly once all contracts were signed, and
eventually ceased to occur regularly. During the last six months of the Project, the implementation of the
ASSAP in the pilot region stalled. Persistent follow-up by the team may have accelerated the pace of the
rollout.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.     Overall, the World Bank team worked closely with the Government, investing considerable time
and effort in supervising the Project. The design weaknesses addressed above impeded supervision, as

                                                     26
changes in Project timelines added work for all involved. However, the team demonstrated a high level
of flexibility in altering operation manuals, procedures and timelines. This flexibility and collaboration
did not translate into the successful completion of all components.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.     The Project was prepared and implemented under six Governments. Whereas each Government
supported the operation and maintained an understanding of the goals of the Project, the turnover in
ministerial and agency management caused significant delays.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.      The implementing agency for the Project was the Ministry of Social Policy. While Ministers
changed, the staff overseeing the Project remained stable, and functioned effectively. The Ministry
strengthened its economic and planning department that supervised renovations of the local welfare
offices and strengthened the technological and organizational capacity of its IT department to handle large
and complex IT procurement.

82.     Despite its dedication to the Project and improvements in capacity, the MOSP often had to juggle
more than originally anticipated, and important components of the Project were sometimes temporarily
forgotten. For example, MOSP leadership was key to aligning business processes in regional welfare
offices with the overall design of the administrative reform. With the number of other processes
occurring, this was initially overlooked. Stronger leadership by MOSP could have resulted in stronger
ownership by regional authorities to lead project implementation on the ground, which in turn, would
have increased the pace of the Project.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.      Overall, the Government of Ukraine demonstrated strong ownership of the Project, and the
Ministry of Social Policy effectively coordinated activities. However, largely due to structural
inefficiencies previously described, significant delays in Project implementation occurred, which
ultimately affected the ability of the Project to reach its expected outcomes.

6.      Lessons Learned

Project-Specific Lessons

84.      The implementation of the one-stop shop (the “unified technology?) and the ASSAP information
system was successful in terms of delivering outputs, but the intended outcome was not achieved. Some
of the lessons learned in this case are:




                                                    27
      Financing of ASSAP operations should be secured to ensure sustainability. Multiple contingency
       plans should be made in case primary financing fails to materialize. The MOSP counted on the
       Government financing of the system operations and began development without clear decisions
       from the Government on financing. After development was completed, financing was still not
       provided, and no alternative ways of financing the system were planned. Some of the costs could
       be covered by other budgets, such as funds allocated for the administrative functions of the
       MOSP or the social centers; even external donor funding may be a source for the MOSP to
       explore.
      Procurement methods affect the development process. The chosen procurement method (two-
       stage ICB) slowed down the process. Two-stage ICB is longer than single-stage ICB, and it is
       unclear what benefits were gained from its usage.
      Implementation of any kind of uniform system across a country with great variance in local
       capacity and attitudes requires strong oversight and control mechanisms at the central level. This
       issue was addressed by hiring a large team of consultants to the MOSP, which served the purpose
       during the Project implementation, but leaves no institutional memory behind as the consultants’
       contracts have expired with the completion of the Project. Currently, the Ministry is lacking
       virtually any capacity to coordinate activities with the regions and local welfare offices and to
       oversee their implementation, which needs to be taken into account by any follow-up operations.
      The Project brought highly appreciated tangible assets to LWOs (e.g. renovated offices,
       instruction manuals, IT equipment). Such assets help ensure visibility of the World Bank
       operations and motivate local participation and engagement. At the same time, tangible assets
       need to be balanced by introduction of a comparable institutional change and new knowledge to
       achieve real reforms. This part is currently threatened by the non-operational ASSAP.

General Lessons Learned

      Sustainability of software, hardware, and knowledge to use the equipment must be addressed
       before and during implementation. Arrangements should be made at the outset of the Project to
       ensure financing of equipment maintenance. For example, securing a budget for sustainable
       operations, data migration, testing the system in a full production environment, and securing
       human resources for system maintenance should not be underestimated, and should be seriously
       planned as an integral part of the system development lifecycle.
      Software development methodology should assist rather than hinder the building of the
       information system. Knowing that the development process for the MIS is usually complex, it is
       advisable to start piloting and improving the system early in the Project timeline, showing its
       benefits to justify further investments. In addition, the methodology and specifications should be
       clear and concise.
      A cost/benefit analysis would ease the process of securing funding for system operations,
       maintenance and further development. A cost/benefit analysis should be conducted for system
       implementation. Social protection information system is not a business support system that
       generates profits, but some sort of cost/benefit analysis should be done prior to system
       implementation. Not all costs are justifiable, so the optimization of costs is a legitimate question.
       Benefits could be calculated not only in terms of money potentially saved by improved
       administrative processes, but also in terms of improvement of social protection indicators, in
       better targeting, in better reporting for policy and decision making.
      Using internal country systems where appropriate is a useful cost-saving measure and can help in
       building capacity. The Accounting Chamber, the Supreme Auditing Institution of Ukraine,
       audited financial statements for the Project, saving time, money, and providing the Accounting
       Chamber additional experience.


                                                   28
      Projects involving large IT components should include a sector-specific IT specialist to facilitate
       the incorporation of the hardware and software with overarching sector-related issues.
      The Project Preparation team should attempt to identify and build on the already on-going action
       programs by the Government, which the World Bank projects could support partially or in full.
       Intensive engagement of all relevant Government agencies is crucial for building a consensual
       project design and transitioning to implementation smoothly. Therefore, a project contributing to
       implementation of an earmarked sectoral reform program may have a better chance of succeeding
       in affecting policy development and in implementation.
      The potential impact of any new project on policy reforms has to be addressed during preparation,
       so that all parties can have realistic expectations with regard to what can be achieved.

85.  In summary and as previously addressed in this ICR, the following lessons will assist the
SASMP2 preparation team:

      Create a realistic timeline for implementation.
      Ensure that the Project Development Objectives directly reflect the activities of the Project and
       can be achieved.
      Define specific reforms that can be promoted by and attributed to the Project, if any; assess the
       feasibility of their implementation during the Project’s lifetime and opt for a realistic agenda
       while taking the political environment into account.
      Consider available systems and capacity as opposed to optimistic projections of future systems
       and capacity.
      Assess the sustainability of the results to be achieved by the new project from the beginning to
       avoid repeating the mistakes of previous projects.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

       Borrower/implementing agencies

       Cofinanciers

       Other partners and stakeholders
       (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                  29
                                    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a)      Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                               Percentage of
                       Components                           Estimate             Estimate
                                                                                                Appraisal
                                                          (USD millions)      (USD millions)
 1. Administrative Modernization                                84.21             87.09            103
 2. Social Protection Policy Development, Monitoring,
                                                                  4.4              3.66             83
 Evaluation and Public Information
 3. Institutional Development                                    0.62              1.34            216
                                  Total Baseline Cost           89.23             92.09            103
 Project Preparation Facility                                    2.26              0.22             10
 Physical Contingencies                                          5.39                                --
                                                                                   --
 Price Contingencies                                             4.55              --                --
                                    Total Project Costs        101.53             92.31             91
 Front-end fee IBRD                                              0.25              0.25            100
                            Total Financing Required           101.78             92.35             90



(b)      Financing
                                                                 Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of                                     Percentage of
                Source of Funds                                  Estimate        Estimate
                                               Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                               (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                          2.38            4.94           208
 International Bank of Reconstruction and
                                                                      99.40          92.56                93
 Development

                                                                                  Actual
                                                    Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
              Categories of Expenditure                                        Disbursement
                                                     (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                              (USD millions)
 (1) Goods, Civil Works, Services, Training,
                                                               79.9               85.43
 Study Tours and Operating Costs                                                                    107
 (2) Subvention                                                 9.9                6.66              67
 (3) PPF                                                       2.26                0.22              10
 (4) Designated Account                                        0.00                0.00               -
 (5) FEF                                                        .25                0.25             100

      Total                                                    92.3               92.56             100




                                       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Administrative Modernization



                                                          30
This component was designed to modernize and improve capacity of the local and regional social welfare
offices. As such, the following outputs were achieved:

      Supply of the hardware, local area networks, corporate data network and standard off-the-shelf
       software (106,610 units, 57 types), major types:

       (d)   External telecommunication channels (785 objects);
       (e)   Structured cabling system (44,638 ports);
       (f)   Automatic telephone exchange (783 PBX);
       (g)   Switches, routers, security (1,868 units);
       (h)   Air Conditioners (2,312 units);
       (i)   Terminal Station (10,800 units);
       (j)   Servers (2,296 units);
       (k)   Data warehouse (two data centers – DPC);
       (l)   Peripherals (7,457 units); and
       (m)   Mail system protection system against malicious codes, monitoring and management

      ASSAP was developed, installed and implemented in 32 pilot sites (departments) in the pilot
       region (Vinnytsa Oblast).
      Development of courses and the delivery of full-time and remote training of specialists tasked
       with supporting the ASSAP, and remote training courses in information technologies.
      The ASSAP software was installed in all offices, where provisions had been made to ensure the
       operability of the equipment (27 regional and 525 local offices).
      Delivery, installation, and configuration of the computer hardware and system software for two
       geographically dispersed data centers in the building of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine
       (DC-1 to be used as the main data center) and in the building of Kyiv Government-owned
       Experimental Prosthetics and Orthopedics Enterprise in 4 Vulytsia Frolivska (DC-2 to be used as
       the standby center). The improved infrastructure of DC-1 included the shielding of the DC room,
       the installation of the air conditioning and firefighting systems, and other work. The renovation
       of all rooms needed for the installation of the equipment, the installation of service systems, and
       the configuration of all hardware and system software was completed.

Component 2 Policy Development, Monitoring, Evaluation and Communication

This component focuses on strengthening the MOSP’s capacity to develop social assistance policies and
design and implement a comprehensive information and education campaign on SA policies and
programs. As such, several consultancies were undertaken with following outputs.

Services to pilot improvements in existing benefits and privileges, as well as in their administration
included:

      Documents that served the basis for developing the Government’s strategy to improve the social
       assistance system:

       (a)   Review of international practices in transforming and/or integrating programs of housing
             subsidies into assistance programs designed for low-income families.
       (b)   Report outlining a concept to transform transport, housing, and communication privileges
             into targeted assistance.
       (c)   A concept of introducing public work requirements for SA recipients.



                                                  31
       Formulated, implemented, and tested in five pilot offices a Hybrid Means Testing (HMT) model
        to assess a family’s total income consisting of easy-to-verify and hard-to-verify components;
       Tested the usefulness of HMT for highlighting cases for investigation by social inspectors to
        strengthen the role of social inspector and improve investigation procedures.

Services to strengthen the Social Inspectorate included:

       Developed draft regulation establishing a concept for social inspection in Ukraine.

        (a)   First draft approved by MOSP working group, circulated for comments, and revised based
              on comments by ministries and other agencies.To be submitted to Parliament and approved
              by Government in April 2013.

       Developed draft regulations to support enforcement of law.
       Held seminars in MOSP to present and discuss proposed amendments and new legislation to
        elaborate the role of social inspector and strengthen the agency for social inspection.

Services on improving poverty monitoring techniques and assessing Ukrainian social assistance policies
and developing reforms aimed at improving targeting accuracy of social assistance programs included:

       Developed methodological approaches to the development of statistical models
       Ensuring better quality of measuring poverty at the regional level.
       Developed methodology for Household Budget Survey (HBS) sample design to safeguard
        requirements of poverty measurement reliability at the regional level.
       Developed toolkit for special module-based opinion poll to evaluate the efficiency of welfare
        programs on the basis of the Household Baseline Survey (HBS)
       Developed software to integrate data with the Household Baseline Survey dataset
       Developed outputs for statistical models for measuring poverty ensuring adequate reliability of
        poverty estimates at the regional level.
       Developed proposals for designing prototypes of reliable statistical models for measuring poverty
        at the regional level.
       Trained specialists of the State Statistics Committee and regional state statistics agencies, the
        Ministry of Social Policy and regional welfare offices, and six specialized Ukrainian research
        institutions and non-governmental organizations
       Developed, published and disseminated manuals containing materials on approaches toward
        poverty assessment and welfare program efficiency.

Services on implementation of indirect methods of income testing and modeling of implications for social
included:

       Seminar held November 29, 2012 to present recommendations on the application of indirect
        methods for income testing in two selected social assistance programs, namely, GMI and housing
        subsidy, as well as a proposed format and parameters of such testing calibrated using the data of
        Household Budget Survey of 2010.
       Drafted regulation introducing indirect methods of income testing.
       Report on the results of policy simulations for selected social safety nets and analysis of attitudes
        of GMI beneficiaries and recommendations for activation strategies for various types of GMI
        beneficiaries.

Services for improving social patronage of vulnerable families included:

                                                    32
       Designed three models for social support dependent on type of settlement where delivered (big
        cities, small towns and rural areas) and piloted the models in three municipalities.
       Analyzed feasibility of introducing paid and unpaid public works for activation of benefit
        recipients as well as local government capacity to organize such works.
       Drafted set of laws and regulations to streamline services and social support to vulnerable
        families. Under review by MOSP Department for Families and Children
       Final report including terms of reference for designing computer-based procedures for social
        support management
       Seminar conducted November 15, 2012

Services on improvement of business processes included:

       Intermediate and Final Report revising business processes for welfare offices at the local and
        regional level.

Services on Public Information and Communication included:

       Training on communications, including five 2-day communications trainings for the management
        of MLSP and regional offices, and 24 one-day communications trainings for772 people.

        (a) The training manual and CD were produced and disseminated to the participants of these
            trainings.
        (b) A training internet-portal for employees of LWOs was developed.

       “Social Theme,? the monthly electronic information and analytical bulletin has been launched
        and distributed to 500 local newspapers all over Ukraine.
       24 television programs, “Social Compass,? were produced and broadcast on ERA TV (First
        National TV Channel).
       10 radio programs produced.
       Series of regional press clubs to discuss SSN reforms is completed.
       Printed materials were produced and disseminated to the LWOs.

Component 3 Institutional Development

This component focuses on strengthening the MLSP capacity to adequately perform its responsibilities
vis-à-vis the project, especially coordination of the implementation arrangements with regions,
monitoring implementation of the new standard office model at the local level and fiduciary aspects of the
project. It included the provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment to enable the ministry
staff to manage the project. In addition, the regional level capacity is strengthened by providing regions
with regional project coordinators who facilitate project activities on the ground.




                                                   33
                           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                             (including assumptions in the analysis)

While an economic analysis was performed in the PAD, the groundwork was not laid for a follow-up
analysis. An economic or financial analysis was therefore not performed at the time of the ICR.




                                              34
            Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)      Task Team members

                       Names                                Title                Unit
      Anush Bezhanyan                    Team Leader                            ECSHD
      Daria Goldstein                    Sr. Counsel                            LEGEC
      Claudia Pardina Ocana              Sr. Counsel                            LEGEC
      Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner           Sr. Finance Officer                    LOAG1
      Richard Gargrave                   Sr. Procurement Specialist             ECSPS
      Anna Wielogorska                   Sr. Procurement Specialist             ECSPS
      Vitaly Kazakov                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS
      Sanjay Vani                        Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS
      Galina Kuznetsova                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS
      Craig Neil                         Sr. Public Sector Specialist           ECSPE
      Katerina Petrina                   Social Protection Specialist           ECSHD
      Nadejda A. Mochinova               Program Assistant                      AFTRM
      Oksana Martsenyuk-Kukharuk         Team Assistant                         ECCUA
      Supervision/ICR
      Anush Bezhanyan                    Team Leader                            ECSHD
      Irina Babich                       Financial Management Specialist        ECSO3
      Galina Diakova                     Team Assistant                         ECCUA
      Anna Goodman                       Program Assistant                      ECSHD
      Galina S. Kuznetsova               Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3
      Oksana Martsenyuk-Kukharuk         Consultant                             ECSHD
      Craig R. Neal                      Consultant                             MNSEG
      Katerina Petrina                   Sr. Social Protection Specialist/TTL   ECSH3
      Oksana Sadauskyenye                Program Assistant                      ECCUA
      Yuliya Smolyar                     Social Protection Specialist           ECSH3
      Katerina Timina                    Program Assistant                      ECSHD
      Sanjay N. Vani                     Lead Financial Management Spec         OPSOR
      Anna L Wielogorska                 Sr. Procurement Specialist             EASR1
      Oleksandra Griaznova               Team Assistant                         ECCUA
      Irina Shmeliova                    Procurement Specialist                 ECSO2
      Knut Leipold                       Sr. Procurement Specialist             ECSO2
      Rajeev Kumar Swami                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3




                                              35
(b)       Staff Time and Cost

                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
           Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including travel
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                           and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                            18.50                           60.31
  FY03                                            36.39                          124.32
  FY04                                            34.96                          112.83
  FY05                                            56.08                          158.10
                                    Total:       145.93                          455.56
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                             1.20                           15.70
  FY07                                            44.95                          103.40
  FY08                                            35.31                           84.83
  FY09                                            35.96                           89.79
  FY10                                            37.32                          100.50
  FY11                                            36.13                           93.52
  FY12                                            23.88                          108.00
  FY13                                            18.88                          102.54
                                    Total:       233.63                          826.49




                                                36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
             (if any)




                37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)




                      38
                                Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Summary of Borrower's ICR

The Project objective was to substantially improve the effectiveness of Ukraine's social assistance system
by better targeting and simplifying the procedure of its delivery. This objective was achieved by means
of implementing universal technology for processing applicants in all local welfare offices based upon
administering all forms of social benefits on the basis of a single application package ("one-stop-shop").
The reception rooms for individuals were renovated and the working places of specialists of local welfare
offices ("local offices") were re-equipped in order to support the operation of this model within the scope
of the Project. The technical upgrade should also have included the rollout of new integrated software
and personnel training.

In addition, the Project provided capacity building of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the
Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State Statistics Service of Ukraine in monitoring and evaluating
the results of the implementation of welfare programs. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine obtained
a grant from the Swedish International Development Agency to co-finance this activity.

The responsibility for the implementation of Project activities at a regional level was vested in the
Ministry of Social Policy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, main labor and social protection
directorates of regional state administrations, the Main Labor and Social Protection Directorate of Kyiv
City State Administration, and the Labor and Social Protection Directorate of Sevastopol City State
Administration (hereinafter referred to as the "regional directorates").

From the very beginning of its implementation, this Project assumed a unique place in Ukraine and the
World Bank Co-operation Program due to a number of specific features, including:

       The experimental implementation of a new financial mechanism whereby Project funds were
        integrated into the budget process and the Project relied upon the State Treasury of Ukraine;
       The simultaneous implementation of Project activities (procurement and financing) at three
        country levels— central, regional and local;
       The involvement of a broad range of welfare system offices in the reform of the welfare system
        (756 local directorates and 27 regional directorates);
       About 90 percent of the Project's funds were spent on upgrading the subordinate links in the
        Ministry's network, such as local and regional welfare offices (computer hardware and office
        equipment, software, renovation, training, etc.);
       The Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine carried out annual audits of financial statements and the
        Project implementation efficiency audit.

The experience of Project implementation showed that some important factors were not taken into
account in the course of its planning. As a result, it complicated the Project administration and affected
the implementation results negatively.

The Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) scheduled the Project closure on 30 June 2008, with a total implementation period of 2.5 years.
However, the said period was extended three times: for the first time, by two years (until 30 May 2010) in
2007; for the second time, by one year (until 1 July 2011) in 2010, and for the third time, by a further
eighteen months (until 1 January 2013) in 2011.




                                                    39
The overly optimistic scheduling of deadlines for Project implementation was the major reason affecting
implementation of the Project. The Project implementation period was planned to be five years at the
preparation stage on the basis of substantiated calculations prepared by the Ministry. However, the
Project implementation period was cut to 2.5 years during the Loan Agreement negotiations on demand of
the World Bank. Time savings were expected from the simultaneous Project implementation at three
levels and from the pilot mechanism of the Project activity funding via the State Treasury of Ukraine.

However, halving the Project implementation period disturbed the procurement planning and
implementation system and did not allow for proper implementation of the procurement preparation and
tendering process, or for the process of contract implementation. Terms of reference, tender documents
and contracts covering specific areas were revised or amended a number of times because of several shifts
in the Project deadlines, which contributed to slowing down Project implementation.

The Project planning experience identified the following aspects as most critical:

       The Project implementation period (it should be realistic taking into account the availability of
        resources for its achievement based on the experience of completed projects); and
       The number of goals (it would be appropriate to plan a project with a relatively limited and
        clearly defined range of priority tasks; it would be appropriate to implement the tasks with lower
        priorities as separate projects in order not to meddle with the attainment of the principal project
        objectives).

PROCUREMENT

The following were the major reasons for delays with procurement at the level of regional directorates:

       Limited experience of regional directorates with competitive bidding. For this reason, the review
        of new documents and the development of documents adapted to their operating areas took a lot
        of time and advice from the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine.
       Legislative obstacles. Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 402 dated March 7,
        2007 prescribed the availability of the owned office, or a lease contract or another contract for the
        use of the office space otherwise in accordance with the legislation for at least 10 years as one of
        the essential conditions for the performance of the renovation work in directorates. It took
        considerable time to obtain permitting documents for the office space or to enter into lease
        contracts in a number of municipalities. Local offices were allocated new office space in many
        municipalities.
       Delays due to obtainment of necessary data from local offices to develop bidding documents. The
        main directorates had to obtain preliminary data on office space (physical features and technical
        condition) from local offices in order to develop the adapted bidding documents. The obtainment
        of such information was complicated by the lack of qualified specialists in local offices.
       Lack of experience and knowledge of the World Bank procedures by the bidding companies.
        Most companies, which took part in tenders, had no prior experience of the preparation of
        documents for World Bank bidding procedures. The lack of such bidding experience resulted in
        the submission of low-quality bids. As a result, a number of bidding procedures had to be
        cancelled and re-tendered.

Major reasons for delays with the procurement at the central level were as follows:

       The need to undertake most procurement under the Loan Advance, the Loan, and the Grant
        simultaneously resulted in considerable workload for the Project staff at the central level, and

                                                    40
    brought about delays with the implementation of some Project components, mostly at the initial
    stage.

   The inability of regions to understand procurement procedures forced the Ministry of Social
    Policy of Ukraine to move some procurement procedures from the regional level to the central
    one (the procurement of the furniture and the public information campaign services). As a result,
    the workload on the Project staff dealing with procurement increased and affected the timing of
    other bidding procedures.

   The World Bank opted for, and endorsed, the procurement of the MIS development on the basis
    of the International Competitive Bidding procedure (in two stages). A two-stage bidding is
    almost twice as long as the single-stage bidding. However, it was required in order to cover the
    range of essentially different possible technical solutions. The bidding documents were adopted
    at the meeting of the Tender Committee and endorsed by the World Bank in December 2006.
    The Ministry held conferences with the six bidders as a result of the thorough review of the
    technical proposals and composed exhaustive lists of issues to be addressed by the bidders at the
    second stage. The Ministry invited five bidders to submit their second-stage bids after the
    analysis of all the first-stage bids and the clarification of bids submitted by the bidders. Three
    bidders submitted the second-stage bids. The second-stage bid opening procedure took place in
    October 2007. The bids were analyzed. A contract with the successful bidder for the
    development of versions 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 of the applied software and for its testing in pilot regions
    was concluded on 14 December 2007.

   The development of specifications for the tender for the centralized supply and installation of the
    hardware and software depended on the development and testing of the prototype of the
    Information Analytical System for Social Assistance Programs (ASSAP). The design solutions
    developed at the preparatory phase of the Project had to be updated on an ongoing basis due to the
    extremely rapid development of information technologies.

   The training materials were developed in parallel with the development of the ASSAP applied
    software for training courses in information technologies. For this reason, running a tender for
    training services before the completion of the major work related to the development of the first
    three versions of ASSAP software was found to be inappropriate.

   The initial procurement plan provided for the furniture procurement at the regional level. Since
    the majority of renovation designs were not ready by 2008 and the process of the organizational
    structure adaptation was ongoing, it was impossible to obtain data on the demand for the furniture
    adapted to the new office space configuration. The tender Committee of the Ministry made a
    decision to procure furniture at the central level in view of a number of issues and delays with the
    procurement of the design and cost estimate document development services at the regional level
    due to the need to use international procurement procedures. In the summer of 2009, an expanded
    furniture specification was developed incorporating the experience of the furniture supply to pilot
    offices. The details on the specific furniture demand of each office in accordance with the
    specification were gathered in autumn 2009. Regions added the latest items in January 2010.

   The results of the relevant training in 20 pilot offices were supposed to provide the basis for the
    development of the terms of reference for the provision of the services of training specialists of
    local welfare offices in working under the one-stop-shop technology of the reception of
    individuals. A contract for these training services was signed within the scope of the Loan
    Advance and finalized in November 2007. The recommendations on the training in Ukraine as a

                                                41
       whole were developed after the completion of the work under the contract. Draft bidding
       documents were developed and the bidding procedure was organized on the basis of results of the
       implementation of the contract. However, the Working Group considered the appropriateness of
       the expansion of the range of services and decided that while the contemplated full-time training
       had been efficient within the scope of the Project, it did not lay the foundation for permanent
       training and qualification development. Thus, the issue of the development, testing and
       implementation of a large-scale remote e-training system became topical in the context of the
       long-term prospects of the development of a system of training local welfare office specialists.
       The Tender Committee of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy of Ukraine thus decided to
       suspend the bidding and prepare new bidding documents. The bidding suspension was endorsed
       by the IBRD.

       The operation of the remote training system made it necessary to develop organizational and legal
       principles. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine issued an order calling for the establishment
       of the Management Personnel Qualification Development Center of the Ministry of Social Policy
       of Ukraine on the basis of the Permanent Manager and Specialist Qualification Development
       Courses of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine in order to improve the system of the
       qualification development of specialists. Unfortunately, no support for this was provided from the
       budget. A decision was made in autumn 2010 together with the World Bank mission to revert to
       the full-time training concept because of the organizational and human resource weakness of the
       Center, and the extremely large volume of work to be performed within the limited Project
       implementation period. An association of companies under the leadership of Kyiv Taras
       Shevchenko National University (Ukraine) became the successful bidder in the bidding procedure.
       However, specialists of the World Bank reviewed in detail the provisions of the charter of Kyiv
       Taras Shevchenko National University. Although the university is fully independent in terms of
       the pursuit of commercial activities in accordance with its charter, the World Bank came to a
       conclusion that the funding of the University by the state prevented the contract with the
       University from being concluded within the scope of the Project. This conclusion resulted in the
       cancellation of the bidding procedure.

      Delays with a number of procurement procedures were associated with making decisions on the
       Project extension almost on the eve of its imminent expiry. As a result, bidding procedures were
       postponed pending the Project extension.

International and Ukrainian procurement standards are substantially different. The issue of the
improvement of the public procurement at the expense of foreign investors has to be considered from both
short-term and long-term points of view.

In the short-run, delays with procurement remain one of the major risks for the implementation of
investment projects because of the substantial differences between domestic and international procedures.
The issue of capacity building of institutions involved in project implementation becomes topical in the
short run. The issue of improving public procurement knowledge at the expense of foreign investors must
be dealt with on the basis of the involvement of specialists of all categories. These categories include
institutional specialists, who are directly in charge of project implementation, specialists at the State
Treasury of Ukraine, control agencies, and employees of bidder companies. The implementation of a
number of measures would contribute to this process, including, inter alia:

      Training courses for public officers involved in project implementation and who maintain control
       over project implementation;
      Development of manuals for State Treasury specialists on the financing of investment projects
       implemented with the support from foreign investors;

                                                   42
       Organization of familiarization workshops for specialists of bidder companies; and
       Development of a single official Ukrainian version of standard bidding documents to be kept up-
        to-date on an ongoing basis.

In the long run, the domestic public procurement system has to be improved. The procurement may be
undertaken in accordance with provisions of the domestic legislation in the country, whose public
procurement systems were found by international financial institutions to be in line with principles and
procedures applied by international investors. The development of such a system must become a strategic
area of improvement for the legal regulation of public procurement at the expense of foreign investors.

Attention should be paid to the development of design and procurement documents at the early stages of
product development in order to expedite the procurement of major items, for instance, by concluding the
contracts, whose performance results underlie further project implementation. Also, the Borrower needs
to employ a number of specialists capable of efficiently carrying out the preparatory stage of project
implementation associated with the simultaneous performance of a large number of bidding procedures at
the early stage of project implementation.

Time and facilities have to be allocated for the development of standard bidding documents and the
training of specialists in bidding procedures, and the co-ordination of this work in case of procurement at
the regional and local levels. It is necessary to properly balance strengths and weaknesses of
decentralized procurement. In case of limited human resource potential in procurement, employment of
qualified consultancy companies or individual consultants not only for the development of the basic
design documents and specifications, but also for following up on contracts until the commissioning of
the facilities should be considered. Implementation of pilot mechanisms of the project implementation
requires time for the implementation and the adaptation of stakeholders.

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

The pilot implementation of financial management via the State Treasury Service made disseminating the
new financing mechanism to other projects in the credit portfolio possible. However, introducing new
financial management rules (funds management, accounting and reporting) required considerable effort
from the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. It also took a lot of time for the local welfare offices to
adapt to specific features of obtaining financing under the Project. Almost every office encountered
difficulties, until all parties learned and applied the specific features.

The Project service by the Treasury required systemic co-operation with regional Treasury offices. The
implementation of the regional component of the Project was inhibited by the lack of awareness about
new procedures on the part of specialists of local Treasury offices at the initial stage. This lack of
awareness resulted in refusals of the registration of liabilities (contracts) and payments at the regional
level. On a number of occasions and at various levels, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine discussed
the need to develop domestic procedural mechanisms for the financing of international projects at central
and regional levels, and to provide regions with appropriate instruction manuals. The lack of such
manuals forced the Ministry to solve issues faced by the regions directly.

The financing system affected project implementation substantially. Multiple financing delays were
encountered during Project implementation, for the following reasons:

       The prolonged process of opening the Project account;




                                                    43
       The adoption of procedures for using Project funds (approved with Government resolutions), and
        the extension of procedures for further budget years took a lot of time (in late 2010, changes were
        adopted making annual re-approval unnecessary);
       The overall delays with the financing of the World Bank projects by the Ministry of Finance of
        Ukraine in 2008;
       The delays with payments at all levels due to refusals of the State Treasury Service agencies
        disburse payments because of the non-performance of expenses under non-protected budget items
        (in late 2009 and early 2010, as well as in late 2012);
       Changes in Ministry of Finance and MOSP management resulted in delays due to the need to re-
        obtain signature samples for the Designated Account and the Loan Account, which is a relatively
        time-consuming procedure;
       In some regions, the enforcement service withheld accounts of local welfare offices opened with
        local Treasury agencies for the utilization of the loan proceeds on the basis of court decisions on
        claims not related to the Project.

It is important to note that almost all of the above issues were systemic and affected the financing of the
project portfolio within Ukraine.

Due to multiple delays with payments by the Treasury, the minimum direct payment from the Loan
Account by the World Bank (on request of the Ukrainian counterparty) was decreased from
USD 1,800,000 to USD 200,000 in April 2010 (initially, on a pilot basis for 6 months). This decision
shortened the payment path in the case of contracts with a considerable amount of financing and
contributed to the substantial improvement of drawdowns. This approach was extended throughout the
life of the Project period.

Thus, the following major conclusions can be made on the Project implementation via the Treasury
system:
       Allows for the provision of financing and the control over the use of loan proceeds for designated
        purposes (on the basis of formal criteria) by a large number of budget-funded institutions in all
        regions of the country;
       allows for regular obtainment of standardized treasury reports on the utilization of funds by
        Project participants. However, the information not covered by the standard treasury reports has to
        be obtained from Project participants directly;
       The Project procurement and financing procedures, which do not match the standard procedures
        for budget institutions, result in misunderstanding and/or delays with the financing of Project
        activities;
       Since the loan funds are held on a single treasury account without separation from other budget
        funds, the Treasury's solvency problems affect the financing of the Project activities
        automatically.

The signing of payment documents with the involvement of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine also
complicated the system of the financial management of the Ukraine Social Assistance System
Modernization Project. This process resulted in spending extra time on the endorsement of payment
documents (sometimes up to one month) and the replacement of signature samples (also up to one month).
Thus, it would be appropriate in the next project to insist on obtaining powers for the single signature of
applications both under the Designated Account and under the Loan Account in the context of the
regulation of this issue as of the beginning of the Project.

The use of the existing accounting system of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine (IS-PRO software)
demonstrated the need for a radical revision of the standard software if the accounting and reporting needs

                                                    44
of the Project were to be met. It would be expedient to develop specialized software to this end, perhaps,
using modules from the existing budget accounting software. Ideally, a project information system could
be developed with various modules, such as budget accounting, allocation, register and payment order
preparation, the payment evaluation in alternative currencies, the payment calendar, the procurement plan,
the contract and project correspondence record keeping, etc.

The Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine audited the financial reports and the implementation efficiency of
the Project. This approach permitted not spending the loan funds on the performance of an audit by an
audit company and distracted fewer human resources away from the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine.
Thus, the audit by the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine was a positive experience in the course of the
Project implementation.

PROJECT RESULTS

One of the main objectives of the Project has been to increase the capacity of welfare offices to deliver
better quality services to clients (Component A). This objective was to be achieved by means of the
implementation of a Standard Assistance Provision Model at the local level (the one-stop-shop
technology for the reception of individuals claiming various social benefits).

The accessibility of the benefit administration service as a criterion of assessment of the quality of this
service calls for evaluating the actual ability of a person to apply for the consultation or to submit an
application for a benefit. This criterion includes, first of all, the accessible location criterion. This is an
important issue for the population of rural areas and large cities.

The implementation of the one-stop-shop technology contributed to the substantial improvement of the
timing of administering some benefits, to the considerable contraction of unreasonably long periods of
making decisions on the provision of benefits, and to the enhancement of the control over the benefit
provision lawfulness.

For instance, while merely 29 percent of offices controlled the process of the benefit application review as
of 1 August 2006, all local welfare offices exercised such control as of 1 January 2013. As a result, the
time interval between the application submission date and the date of entry of the applicant's benefits
details into the disbursement rolls declined substantially. In 2008, the time interval was almost 42 days on
average (and 30 days in 2011). The improvement was mainly due to the optimization of the structure of
offices and the more reasonable allocation of duties among specialists involved in the provision of the
welfare benefits.

The following activities were carried out within the scope of the Project to support the functioning of the
one-stop-shop technology of dealing with individuals who apply for all state social benefits:

       563 local welfare offices were renovated (the work was completed on 1 September 2011);
       local area networks were installed (20,745 workstations, 41,490 ports);
       air conditioners were installed (2,312 pieces, 13 models);
       office furniture was supplied (35,002 units, 26 types);
       office equipment was supplied (7,457 units, 13 types);
       the hardware and standardized software were supplied (106,610 units, 57 types) (the details of
        major groups of the supplied goods are provided in Table 1);
       the software of the Information Analytical System for Social Assistance Programs (ASSAP) was
        developed and taken over into operation in the pilot region (Vinnytsia Oblast) at 32 sites.



                                                      45
Contract No. 4807-75 of 1 March 2012 for the "Implementation of the Applied Software and Delivery of the
Information Technologies Training" provided for the development of courses and the delivery of the full-time
and remote training of specialists tasked with supporting the ASSAP, and for the implementation of the
application system at the local, regional and central levels. The full-time training in information technologies
was delivered and training materials were prepared for remote training courses in information
technologies under the contract.

The ASSAP MIS software was installed in all offices, where provisions had been made to ensure the
operability of the equipment. However, some important tasks, such as the implementation of the new
software, the migration of data from legacy systems and the training of specialists in using the new
software under the new technology remained unaccomplished.

Contract No. 4807-55.2 of 29 July 2011 provided for the delivery, installation and configuration of the
computer hardware and system software for two geographically dispersed data centers: in the building of
the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine (DC-1 to be used as the main data center) and in the building of
Kyiv Government-owned Experimental Prosthetics and Orthopedics Enterprise in 4 Vulytsia Frolivska
(DC-2 to be used as the standby center), and for the development of the engineering infrastructure of DC-
1 (the shielding of the DC room, the installation of the air conditioning and firefighting systems, and other
work under the Contract). The renovation of all rooms needed for the installation of the equipment, the
installation of service systems, the configuration of all hardware and software were completed as of
1 January 2013.

Draft regulations on the establishment of a social inspectorate, the introduction of the indirect assessment
of the income of applicants for state benefits, and the improvement of the support to vulnerable families
were developed within the scope of the Project. These measures were called for by the 2012 National
Action Plan of the Implementation of the Economic Reform Program for Years 2010 to 2014 "Prosperous
Society, Competitive Economy, Efficient State."

The annual project effectiveness targets were introduced with the Supplementary Letter to the Loan
Agreement together with the appropriate project result framework table. Since the World Bank decided
not to revise the framework table while extending the Project (see Memo as a result of the review of the
project progress in June to September 2010), the project effectiveness targets for years 2011 and 2012 are
to be treated as final planning indicators of the Project.

PROJECT RESULTS EVALUATION AND PROPOSALS

Lack of direct vertical subordination of regional and local offices to the Ministry (which are subject to the
administrative management by regional and local executive agencies and to the methodological guidance
by the Ministry) inhibited the project implementation process.

Also, absence of a unit in the Ministry responsible for the practical interaction with regions aimed at
finding holistic solutions for issues related to the management of the welfare system contributed to project
implementation obstacles. Lack of such a unit made it necessary to clarify objectives of the state policy
regarding reform at the lowest level of the benefit delivery system, as well as the Project's role and place
in solving these issues. This work was carried out by means of on-site visits, meetings and seminars held
at the central and local levels, and board meetings.

In spite of all of these difficulties, 12 out of 14 effectiveness indicators planned under the Project (see
Table below) were attained in full. The two other targets were met in part.



                                                      46
The indicator of the "increase in the percentage of social benefit disbursed in cash form and received by
poor families" amounted to 42.3 percent in 2011, while the target value was 60 percent. However, if the
"total income" is used for the differentiation of households, the 2011 indicator becomes somewhat higher
and amounts to 49.4 percent. This underachievement was caused by the fact that the total volume of
funds granted for the provision of the social assistance in cash form includes benefits that provided with
or without taking into consideration the income of a family. The target can be attained in case if the use
of the income criterion for determining the amount of the childbirth benefit.

The indicator of the "increase in a number of cases dealt with by the personnel of a labor office within
one month" grew from 397 in 2010 to 498 in 2011 to 94.3 percent of the target (528). In 2012, about 540
files were processed by a single specialist of the decision-making unit per month according to the
preliminary data. Some targets have been exceeded. The important indicator of the "reduction in the time
spent on processing one benefit application" amounted to one hour in 2012, which is better than the target
value of 1.5 hours.

The monitoring of the effectiveness indicators confirms that the Project has been generally successful.
Institutional and administrative changes in local offices and the application of radically novel methods of
the provision of services to the population confirm that the reform of the social assistance system has
become irreversible. There is understanding at the regional and local levels that a comprehensive solution
can be found within the scope of a single program for the upgrade needs of the local welfare offices. For
instance, 752 local welfare offices adhere to major requirements of the one-stop-shop technology of the
reception of individuals; the remaining four offices meet four requirements out of seven.

About 30 percent of local welfare offices were allocated new office space that meets the requirements for
the provision of services under the new technology to the maximum extent possible thanks to efforts of
the Ministry and the management of local and regional offices, and thanks to support from local
authorities. The renovation works in a number of regions were either financed or co-financed by local
budgets in order for the work to be completed.

The technical equipment was provided to local welfare offices all over Ukraine. Offices were provided
with peripherals and air conditioners, hardware and standard software, LANs, furniture and the software
of the Information Analytical System for Social Assistance Programs.

A set of tasks implemented and work performed under contract No. 4807-56 for the monitoring and
evaluation of social policy (Consultant: ECORYS company together with the Ukrainian Social Reform
Center) and ensured the attainment of the objective of the consultancy assistance, such as:

       Approaches toward the monitoring of the social assistance system, the efficiency evaluation, the
        targeting, the outcomes of specific social programs and the social policy as a whole were
        improved by means of developing a methodological and technological system of evaluation,
        enhancing the methodology of required information sources, and the providing assistance with
        the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation of the social assistance system;
       The future obtainment of sustainable results has been ensured by involving Ukrainian specialists
        in performing all contract activities and strengthening their ability to carry out monitoring and
        evaluation in the field of social programs;
       A toolkit was created for the special module-based opinion poll aimed at evaluating the efficiency
        of welfare programs on the basis of the Household Baseline Survey (HBS) carried out by the
        State Statistics Committee on a quarterly basis; software requiring the integration of the poll data
        with the Household Baseline Survey dataset was developed and handed over;



                                                    47
       Models were developed for the improvement of the representativeness of the assessment of
        poverty indicators at the regional level; the relevant procedures were tested taking into
        consideration the agreed principles of the operation of models and the improvement of the HBS
        sample design; the relevant software was developed and handed over;
       Proposals on the improvement of the system of monitoring and evaluation of the social policy in
        Ukraine were developed
       All the scheduled training courses took place, including: (1) the training of specialists of the
        State Statistics Committee and regional state statistics agencies, (2) specialists of the Ministry of
        Social Policy and regional welfare offices; and (3) specialists of six specialized research
        institutions of Ukraine and non-governmental organizations in the application of new approaches
        toward the assessment of poverty and the efficiency of welfare programs; the manuals containing
        consolidated materials on the above issues were published and disseminated.

The results of the implementation of major contract activities are used in the practical work, for instance,
as follows:

       The Methodology and Reporting Documents Improvement Commission of the State Statistics
        Committee approved: (1) the Methodological Provisions for the Assessment of Poverty
        Indicators at the Regional Level Using Statistical and Mathematical Modeling (approved with
        Order of the State Statistics Committee No. 408 of 1 October 2010); and (2) the Methodological
        Recommendations on the Optimization of the HBS Sampling Plan in order to Improve Reliability
        of Poverty Indicators at the Regional Level (developed taking into account the Methodology of
        the Optimization of the HBS Sample Design), to be carried out by the State Statistics agencies to
        meet the requirements for the reliable assessment of the major poverty indicators at the regional
        level from the point of view of the required funding (approved with Order of the State Statistics
        committee No. 153 of 8 April 2010);
       The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine developed the State Special-purpose Social Program of
        Poverty Alleviation and Prevention till Year 2015 in pursuance of Decree of the President of
        Ukraine No. 274/2010 of 26 February 2010 "On Urgent Measures to Alleviate Poverty" (the
        Program was approved with Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 1057 of
        31 August 2011). The Program was developed with the incorporation or the direct use of a
        number of documents developed under the contract, for instance, in respect of: (1) the new
        methodological principles of the assessment of the level of poverty in Ukraine; (2) the
        comprehensive analysis of poverty indicators on the basis of the HBS data and the assessment of
        the efficiency of measures related to the implementation of the Poverty Alleviation Strategy
        during years 2001 to 2010; and (3) the solution of the poverty problem in Ukraine on a mid-term
        basis; (4) the draft regulation on major lines and stages of the implementation of poverty
        alleviation measures on a mid-term basis;
       The results of the basic efficiency analysis of social assistance programs, their targeting and
        effect on the reduction of the poverty scale have been used by the Ministry of Social Policy of
        Ukraine during the preparation of social reports for years 2009 to 2010 and in the course of the
        development of the lines of the further social assistance and privileges system reforms, and the
        related concept of an international project;
       The Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Monitoring and Evaluation of Social
        Support Programs" No. 554 of 20 June 2012 was developed on the basis of the methodology and
        the system of indicators for the monitoring of social support programs authored by the Strategic
        Planning Department with the involvement of other departments of the Ministry of Social Policy
        of Ukraine and other central executive agencies (the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry
        of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, the
        National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine). This

                                                    48
        resolution approved the Procedure of Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Support Programs was
        approved and specified the major monitoring objectives together with objects of monitoring (a list
        of social support programs to be monitored).

Thus, the methodological pre-conditions were established for the improvement of poverty monitoring,
and the implementation of a system of social policy monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis. In
addition, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State
Statistics Service built capacity to assess the impact of social protection programs for the implementation
of the performance-based program management and expense planning. The Project is exceptionally
important for the development of the social protection system of Ukraine. It is coordinated with
initiatives of the Government and aimed at solving pressing issues at the regional and local levels.

PROJECT RESULTS SUPPORT MEASURES

The implementation of the one-stop-shop technology for the reception of individuals applying for all
social benefits in local welfare offices improved efficiency and brought activities to a radically higher
level at the minimum spending of financial and human resources. However, a survey of specialists
carried out within the scope of the Project pointed toward the substantial demand for external training in
various aspects of the social support. Discussions with specialists revealed an insufficient understanding
of strategic priorities of changes in the social assistance and service delivery system and the
implementation of new mechanisms of its administration by the local welfare offices.

In view of the above, the further reform of the social protection system requires that a number of
administrative, legislative and financial issues be solved both at the central level, and at the regional and
local levels.

The following obstacles prevent the objectives from being attained:

       The insufficient level of training and the mobility of human resources making preserving
        institutional memory and accumulating human resource experience impossible;
       The lack of proper logistical support and low labor remuneration of employees of the social
        support system at the regional and local levels;
       The storage of archived pension files in local offices restricts the use of additional areas for the
        organization and operation of new technology processes;
       The centralized disbursement of the benefits prolongs and complicates the process of social
        assistance provision;
       The unresolved issue of funding the ASSAP system development and maintenance from the State
        Budget of Ukraine;
       The lack of a dedicated ASSAP support and development unit in the Ministry.

The development of a comprehensive State Special-Purpose Program should become a logical
continuation of Project activities after completion. The Program must contain, for instance, a list of
logistical, human and other resources needed for the assurance of the uninterrupted operation of processes
and systems developed or upgraded in the course of the Project. The program should allocate appropriate
financial resources for the implementation and operation of the ASSAP at the central and local levels, for
the training of specialists, for the completion of the renovation of the office space of local welfare offices,
and for poverty and social policy outcomes monitoring.

Some work has to be done by the Ministry itself in order to further develop the Project’s results and
outcomes. To this end, it would be appropriate:

                                                      49
       to take measures aimed at the ongoing support to, and the continued development of, the one-
        stop-shop technology of the provision of services to individuals (the improvement of the
        regulatory framework, the ongoing monitoring, the personnel training, the publication of
        appropriate methodological materials);
       to pay special attention to the improvement of business processes in regional directorates;
       to introduce new monitoring procedures in regional welfare offices as one of the most important
        elements of the one-stop-shop technology process within the framework of the ASSAP developed
        under the Project;
       to establish a dedicated unit tasked with supporting and developing the ASSAP MIS software
        within the network of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine;
       to secure the implementation, support and development of the ASSAP at the expense of the State
        Budget of Ukraine;
       to support the reform with a strong awareness campaign;
       to implement a permanent system of employee training within the network of the Ministry of
        Social Policy of Ukraine for the purposes of the ongoing improvement of their professional level.
It would be appropriate to develop draft bidding documents for the implementation of proposals and draft
terms of reference prepared under the Project in areas, such as social services, social inspectorate, the
indirect income assessment, the improvement of the support to vulnerable families, in the course of the
preparation for the second Ukraine Social Assistance System Modernization Project. These bidding
documents could be used at the very early stage of the implementation of the second project.




                                                   50
               Annex 7.1. Summary of the Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR
             Comments provided by the implementing agency, the Ministry of Social Policy
                            (letter to the World Bank of June 12, 2013)

(a)     By the Department for Strategic Planning and Monitoring

We proposed to delete the last sentence in clause 2.3 of paragraph four on page 9: “However, a concern
of sustainability remains: the decree does not allocate funds for the surveys or data analysis; all of the
work is to be conducted `within the available means,`which makes the document rather declarative and
non-binding.?

Implementation of the monitoring of social programs is provided by the Economic Reform Program for
2010-14 “Prosperous Society, Competitive Economy, and Effective State." The monitoring will be in
place in 2014. In addition, Resolution of Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 06.20.2012 # 554, On
Monitoring and Evaluating the Effectiveness of Welfare Programs, provides for annually informing the
Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on monitoring results. T hus, the issue of monitoring is continuously kept
by the Government under control.

In addition, the Department suggested some additional corrections to Annex 7 to the Draft ICR (the
Borrower’s earlier ICR), which are omitted from this summary

(b)     By the IT Department

The review of performance indicators defined show that the Project is generally successful. Due to the
Project, the following results have been achieved:

       the processing time of one application was cut from 4.5 hours in 2005 to an hour in 2012
        (planned value - 1.5 hours in 2010);
       the number of social benefits that a welfare office employee processes within a month, increased
        from 260 in 2005 to 540 in 2012 (planned value - 528 cases in 2010);
       there were developed, tested in pilot projects, evaluated and approved standard office models;
       new model of public services based on the "one-stop-shop" principle was introduced in 752 local
        welfare offices (planned value by year: 2006 - 127 district / city welfare offices introduced a new
        service model on the basis of a single application package ("one-stop-shop"), 2007 - 168 offices,
        2008 - 230 offices, 2009 - 130 offices, 2010 - 97 offices, a total of 752 offices);
       a functional review of the Social Development Strategy Directorate of the Ministry of Labor and
        Social Policy (from 2011 - the Strategic Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Social Policy)
        was completed and measures were prepared to improve Ukraine's potential for social policy
        monitoring and evaluation;
       annual social reports were introduced beginning from 2006;
       database of social development, including monitoring indicators, was improved: Resolution of
        Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated June 20, 2012 # 554 approved the Procedure for
        Monitoring and Evaluating the Effectiveness of Welfare Programs, and Joint Order of the
        Ministry of Social Policy, Ministry of Finance, State Statistics Service, National Academy of
        Sciences and the Ministry of Economic Development dated 03.12.2013 # 114/242/392/85/85
        approved the Methods for Monitoring and Evaluating the Effectiveness of Welfare Programs;
       an analysis was carried out of the efficiency, targeting and impact on poverty reduction of welfare
        programs;
       two studies to assess the effects of Project implementation were conducted in 2008 and 2009;


                                                   51
       the strategy of public information for short-term (1 year) and long-term (3 years) perspective was
        approved;
       56% of the population was informed about the criteria of entitlement to four types of social
        benefits and 72% about entitlement to three types of social benefits (HBS data base);
       a project procedures manual was designed and maintained up to date.

As of 01.01.2013, 12 of the 14 planned project performance indicators were fully achieved. Two more
indicators were achieved partly.

The indicator "percentage increase in welfare benefits in cash received by poor families," with the
planned value of 60%, in 2011 reached 42.3%. However, if the “total income? indicator is used as the
criterion for differentiating households the indicated figure for 2011 will be slightly higher - 49.4%.
Failure to achieve this indicator is due to the fact that the total amount of funds allocated for social
assistance in cash, includes benefits provided both as based on family income and without this criterion.

For the purpose of implementing the principle of targeting in the delivery of all types of social assistance
(except assistance at birth and adoption of a child, assistance to persons disabled from childhood and
disabled children), the Ministry of Social Policy will prepare in 2013 a Draft Law of Ukraine. This task is
included in the National Action Plan for 2013 to Implement the Economic Reform Program for 2010-14
"Prosperous Society, Competitive Economy, Effective State", approved by Decree of the President of
Ukraine dated March 12, 2013 # 128/2013.

Currently, measures are being taken to ensure the funding of operation and further technical support of
the welfare analysis information system (WAIS):

       an interagency working group on the functioning of WAIS was set up to comprise representatives
        of the Ministry of Social Policy, National Bank, Ministry of Finance, Pension Fund, State
        Employment Center, State Labor Inspectorate, the Social Insurance Fund for Temporary
        Disability;
       there was considered the implementation of a national card as the primary document that
        identifies a welfare recipient and as a mechanism for public access to all kinds of social benefits,
        pensions, a student card, a payment instrument to control targeted use of funds on the basis of
        National Bank technology, as well as the implementation of a national card pilot project in two
        regions;
       measures are being taken to include in the State Budget of Ukraine expenditure on the creation of
        a single information environment in the social sphere and the further implementation and keeping
        up to date of the unified welfare analysis information system.




                                                    52
(c)    By the Finance Department

       Number of
         Clause,                          Wording of the ICR                                          Proposals for a New Version of the Document                  Explanation
 ##
       Paragraph
        and Page
 1.   Page 10,     In the final extension of the Project, disbursement increased             In the final extension of the Project, disbursement increased         Final
      second       significantly, and by closing, the project disbursed 92.3 million         significantly, and by the end of the grace period for payments, the   disbursement
      paragraph    USD of the 99.4 million USD loan (92.8 percent).                          project disbursed 92.6 million USD of the 99.4 million USD loan       data
                                                                                             (93.1 percent).
 2.   Page 20,                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage                                       Appraisal                                  Update as
      Table (а)                                                                                                                        Actual/Latest Percentage    given at the
                      Components           Estimate        Estimate        of                                            Estimate
                                                                                                  Components                             Estimate          of      end of the
                                         (USD millions) (USD millions) Appraisal                                          (USD
                                                                                                                                      (USD millions) Appraisal     grace period
                                                                                                                         millions)
                   1. Administrative                                                                                                                               for making
                                               84.21            87.0            103                                                                                payments
                   Modernization                                                             1. Administrative
                                                                                                                           84.21           87.09         103
                   2. Social                                                                 Modernization
                   Protection Policy                                                         2. Social Protection
                   Development,                                                              Policy Development,
                                                 4.4              3.6             82
                   Monitoring,                                                               Monitoring,                     4.4            3.66           83
                   Evaluation and                                                            Evaluation and
                   Public Information                                                        Public Information
                   3. Institutional                                                          3. Institutional
                                                  .62             1.3           210                                          0.62           1.34         216
                   Development                                                               Development
                       Total Baseline                                                               Total Baseline
                                               89.23            91.9            103                                        89.23           92.09         103
                                 Cost                                                                         Cost
                   Project Preparation                                                       Project Preparation
                                                 2.26              .22            10                                         2.26           0.22           10
                   Facility                                                                  Facility
                   Physical                                                                  Physical
                                                 5.39                              --                                        5.39                          --
                   Contingencies                                 --                          Contingencies                                  --
                   Price                                                                     Price Contingencies            4.55            --             --
                                                 4.55            --                --
                   Contingencies                                                             Total Project Costs          101.53           92.31          91
                         Total Project
                                              101.53            92.1              91         Front-end fee IBRD             0.25              0.25       100
                                 Costs
                   Front-end fee
                                                 0.25                 0.25      100
                   IBRD




                                                                                        53
Page 20,                                Appraisal Actual/Latest                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest                  Update as
Table (b)                                                       Percentage                                                          Percentage       given at the
              Source of        Type of Estimate Estimate                          Source of        Type of Estimate Estimate
                                                                    of                                                                  of           end of the
               Funds         Cofinancing (USD        (USD                          Funds         Cofinancing (USD        (USD
                                                                Appraisal                                                           Appraisal        grace period
                                        millions) millions)                                                 millions) millions)
             Borrower                         2.38        0.00         0.00      Borrower                         2.38        4,94         208       for making
             International                                                      International                                                        payments
            Bank of                                                             Bank of
            Reconstruction                    99.40          92.9         93    Reconstruction                    99.40           92.56         93
            and                                                                 and
            Development                                                         Development


                                    Appraisal       Actual    Percentage                                Appraisal    Actual   Percentage of
               Categories of        Estimate     Disbursement     of               Categories of        Estimate Disbursement Appraisal
               Expenditure           (USD            (USD     Appraisal            Expenditure        (USD millions  (USD
                                    millions)      millions)                                                        millions)
            (1) Goods, Civil                                     107             (1) Goods, Civil                                 107
            Works, Services,                                                    Works, Services,
            Training, Study            79.9           85.4                      Training, Study            79.9           85.43
            Tours and Operating                                                 Tours and Operating
            Costs                                                               Costs
            (2) Subvention              9.9            6.2          62           (2) Subvention            9.9            6.66            67
            (3) PPF                    2.26           0.22          10           (3) PPF                   2.26           0.22            10
            (4) Designated                                          890          (4) Designated                                            -
                                       0.00           0.89                                                 0.00           0.00
            Account                                                             Account
            (5) FEF                    0.25           0.25          100         (5) FEF                    0.25           0.25            100

               Total                   92.3           92.9          101         Total                      92.3           92.56           100




                                                                           54
(d)      Comments provided by the Ministry of Finance (letter to the World Bank of June 12, 2013)

The Ministry of Finance has considered the Draft Implementation Completion and Results Report on the
Social Assistance System Modernization Project, sent by the World Bank`s Letter of June 5, 2013 #
2013/6/5-13 and provided a number of additional suggestions to Annex 7 to the Draft ICR (the
Borrower’s earlier ICR), which are omitted from this summary as belonging to the Government’s internal
discussion. Beyond these suggestion, the Ministry made the following comments concerning the
Financial Management:

Currently, the World Bank records positive dynamics of the project portfolio. The rate of disbursement
for fiscal year 2011 reached 25.7%, in 2012 - 24.6% (the average for Europe and Central Asia - 24.6%).
The investment projects portfolio improved and the disbursement rate on 05.01.2013 for Ukraine is
already 27.1% (the average for Europe and Central Asia - 19.5%).

We consider it necessary to point out that, beginning from 09.05.2007, the service of loan funds for IBRD
projects in which beneficiaries are administrators or recipients of budget funds, is carried out through the
treasury system. Since 2008, a simplified procedure for opening designated accounts for joint WB-funded
projects has been in place. Before 2008, a designated account could not be opened until after the
selection of the bank on a competitive basis, which required a considerable time. After the adoption by
the COM of Resolution dated 11.26.2008 # 1027 for investment projects the beneficiaries of which are
off-budget institutions, the designated account is opened in PJSC UkrEXIMBANK. Where a beneficiary
is an administrator or a recipient of budget funds, the service of borrowings is through the treasury system.
After the introduction of this procedure, designated accounts are opened immediately after the entry into
force of the Loan Agreement, without competition. The new project to be implemented by the Ministry
of Social Policy will be financed through the treasury system without MOF involvement.

Separately we want to note that MOF thinks that the main cause of delay in payments is the late
fulfillment by implementing entities and beneficiaries of project procurement plans agreed with the World
Bank. Conventionally, this can be called "no purchase - no payment."

Hoping for accepting the above comments on the Draft Implementation Completion and Results Report
on the Social Assistance System Modernization Project.



Sincerely,
G.D. Pakhachuk
Director of Debt and International Financial Policy




                                                      55
             Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                            56
                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Country Assistance Strategy for Ukraine for 2004 - 2007, September 29, 2003

   Country Partnership Strategy for Ukraine for the period FY12 - FY16, January 20, 2012

   Letter of Agreement, Japanese Grant No. TF051124 for the Preparation of the Social Protection
    Reform Administration Project, October 24, 2002

   Letter of Agreement, Advance for the Preparation of the Proposed Social Assistance Reform
    Administration Project, June 16, 2004

   Project Appraisal Document for the Social Assistance System Modernization Project, October 20,
    2005

   Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between Ukraine (the Borrower) and the International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) regarding the Social Assistance System
    Modernization Project, October 20, 2005

   Loan Agreement for the Social Assistance System Modernization Project between Ukraine and
    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development dated November 28, 2005

   Letter of Agreement, SIDA Grant No. TF056178 for the Co-Financing of the Social Assistance
    System Modernization Project dated April 7, 2006

   Aide Memoires for the Social Assistance System Modernization Project, various dates 2005 -
    2012

   Implementation Status & Results Reports for the Social Assistance System Modernization Project,
    various dates 2005 - 2012

   Restructuring Papers for the Social Assistance System Modernization Project, various dates 2010
    - 2012




                                              57
           This map was produced by                                          25°E                                                                                           30°E                                                                 35°E
           the Map Design Unit of The
           World Bank. The boundaries,
           colors, denominations and
           any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Minsk                                                           USS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R US  S IA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I AN
           on this map do not imply, on
           the part of The World Bank                                                                                       BELA RUS                                                                                                         FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F   D E R AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E DE    ATII ON
           Group, any judgment on the
           legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                    To
           or any endorsement or              To                                                                                                           Zhlobin
           acceptance of such                Warsaw                                                                                                                                                                                              To
           boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bryansk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UKRAINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  na
                                                        North                                                                                                                                                 Des
                                    To                                                                                                                                                            Chernihiv
                                   Warsaw                                Kovel                                      Sarny                                                                                                                                                  To
               POLAND                                                                                                                                                                        CHERNIHIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Orel

                                                                  VOLYN
                                                            Buh


                                                                                                      RIVNE                                         Korosten                                                                SUMY Sumy
                                                                                                                                                                            Kyiv
                                                                      Luts'k                                                                                            Reservoir
                                                                                                        Rivne
                                                                                                                                      ZHYTOMYR
            50°N
                                                                                                                                                                                         KYIV                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Voronezh                           50°N
                        To                                                                                                                                                               (KIEV)                                                                                                                                      To
                      Tarnow                                                                                                          Zhytomyr                                                                                                                                                                                    Voronezh
                                                                                                                                                     D                                                 Dn

                                                                                                           KHMELNYTSKYI
                                                                                                           KHMELNY TSKY I
                                                   L'viv                                                                                                                                                                 PO LTAVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POLTAVA                                            Kharkiv
                                                                                                                                                         ni                      KYIV                       iep
                                                                                                                                                              ep                                                  er




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dniep
                                                  LVIV                                 Ternopil'                                                                       er                                                Low
                                                                                                                                                                            Up                         r                                    Poltava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHAR KIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHARKIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                            Khmel'nyts'kyi                                       lan                                             lan                                                                       LUHANSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LUHA NSK
           SLOVAK                       Ca                            TERNOPIL                                                                                                           d    Cherkasy                                  d
           REPUBLIC                          rp                    Ivano-                                                                         Vinnytsya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kremenchug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sieverodonetsk
                                                  at               Frankivs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Do                         one
                                                       hi                                                                                                                          CHERKA SY
                                                                                                                                                                                   CHERKASY                                                                                                net




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kremenchuk                                                                          ts
                                                            a IVANO-
                                                                                 ni                                                                                                                                                                                                              s B
                                                                             D




                                Uzhhorod                                              es
                                                             n                           te   r                                       VI NNYTSYA
                                                                                                                                      VINNYTSYA                                    Uman'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     asin                        Luhans'k
                                                            FRANKIVSK                                                                                 So
                                ZAKARPAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dnipropetrovs'k
                                                                                                                                                           uth
                                                                                              Chernivtsi                                                                                                                                                                                 DONETSK
                                                                  M




                                              Hora Hoverla                                                                                                    Bu                                              Kirovohrad
                                                                                                                                                                   h
                                                                  tn




                                                 (2061 m)                                                                                                                                    KIROVOHRAD                                 DNIPROPETROVSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DNIPROPET RO VSK                                                 Donets'k
           HUNGARY                                                       CHERNIVTSI
                                                                      s.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kryvyi Rih
                                                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zaporizhzhia
                                                                                                                                      O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nykopol
                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MYKOLA?V
                                                                                                                                       LD




                                 Satu Mare                        25°E                                 To
                                                                                                  Tirgu Mures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kakhov
                                                                                                                                          OV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reservoir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             let
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mariupol
                                                                                                                                                                       OD ESSA
                                                                                                                                                                       ODESSA                                                                           ZAPORIZHZH IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZAPORIZHZHIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hu
                             UKRA I N E                                                                                                                                                       Mykolayiv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Melitopol
                                                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Berdiansk
                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         To                                                                                    Kherson
                                                                                                                             Birlad
                               OBLAST CAPITALS                                                                                                                                            Odessa                         KHERSON                                                   Sea
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CAPITAL
                                                                                                   ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                          of                                R US S I AN
                               MUNICIPALITIES
                               (CITIES WITH SPECIAL STATUS)                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Azov                            F E DE R AT I ON
                                                                                                                             Tecuci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kerch
                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   Izmail               Vilkova
                               RIVERS                                                                                To                                                                                                              CRIMEA                                                                                                  45°N
                                                                                                                  Buzau                                                                                            Yevpatoriia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Teodosiia                                                   To
                               MAIN ROADS                                                           45°N                                                                                                                                                                                                          Armavir
                                                                                                                                                                        Mouths of                                              Simferopol’
                               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                the Danube                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sevastopol                                                                                       Sochi
                               OBLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                                         To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33505R
                                                                                                                                       Medgidia                                                                                                  Yalta            0       50       100       150 Kilometers
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                 Blac k                     Sea
MAY 2009




                               BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0              50              100              150 Miles
                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 30°E                                                                                 35°E
                                                                                                   BULGARIA
