                                           Document of
                                         The World Bank


                                 FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                        ReportNo. T7640-HT




                                     TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                           FOR THE

                        PROPOSEDGRANT INTHE AMOUNT OF

                   SDR 8 MILLION(US$12 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                            FOR AN

       EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                        December 7,2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b y recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate eflective October 2004)
                     Currency Unit: Haitian Gourdes)
                             Exchange Rates
                          US$l.OO = 37 Gourdes

                      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                          1meter (m) = 3.228 feet
                       1kilometer (km) =0.62 miles
                      1hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)

                    FISCALYEAR OF RECIPIENT
                        October 1- September 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CARICOM Caribbean Community and Common Market
CDD     Community-Driven Development
CNGRD   ComitC National de Gestion des Risqueset des DCsastres(National Risk
        and Disaster Management Committee)
CQ      Consultant Qualification
CSME    Caribbean Single Market and Economy
DPC     Direction de la Protection Civile (Directorate of Civil Protection)
ERDMP   Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
EOC     Emergency Operation Center
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
GOH     Government of Haiti
GTE     Groupe ThCmatique Environnement (Thematic Environmental Group)
HAD     Haitian Application Document
IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICC     International Code Council
ICF     Interim Cooperation Framework
IDA     International Development Association
JSDF    Japanese Social Development Fund
LICUS   Low Income Countries under Stress
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OAS     Organization of American States
OFDA    Office for ForeignDisaster Assistance (a United States Agency)
OPDES   Organisation Pre-DCsastre (Haiti's former Agency for Disaster Preparedness)
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PNGRD   Plan National de la Gestion des Risques et des DCsastres (National Risk
        and Disaster Management Plan)
QCBS    Quality Cost Based Selection
REA     Regional Environmental Assessment

SA           Special Account
SPGRD        Secrktariat Permanent pour la Gestion des Risques et des Dksastres
             (Permanent Secretariat for Risk and Disaster Management)
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TOR          Terms of Reference
TSS          Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
W H O        World Health Organization




 Vice President:                                 David de Ferranti
 Country Director:                                Caroline D.Anstey
 Sector Directors (LCSFULCSES):                  John H. Stein/John Redwood
 Team Leaders:                                   Francis Ghesquieremadim Khouri


                     TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR THE PROPOSED
   EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                 FOR THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI


                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS


A. BACKGROUND...........................................................................................................           6

B. IDA RESPONSESTRATEGY....................................................................................                        10

C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES............................................................................................                  11

D. PROJECTDESCRIPTION.......................................................................................... 12

E. INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION.....14

F. FINANCIALMANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENT.........................................                                                    17

G.RISKS........................................................................................................................... 20

H. SAFEGUARDS........................................................................................................... 21

IACTIONPLAN............................................................................................................
.                                                                                                                                  21

Appendices:
  Appendix 1:DetailedProjectComponents andEstimatedCosts..................................                                         22
  Appendix 2: PreliminaryActivity Detail.......................................................................                    27
  Appendix 3: SafeguardPolicy Issues............................................................................                   29
  Appendix 4: Documentsinthe ProjectFile...................................................................                        37
  Appendix 5: Statementof Loans and Credits................................................................                        38
  Appendix 6: Countryat a Glance .................................................................................. 39


                     TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR THE PROPOSED
EMERGENCY RECOVERYAND DISASTERMANAGEMENT PROJECT
                             FOR THE REPUBLICOF HAITI


A. BACKGROUND

1.      Country Background. Political instability in Haiti has been recurrent over the last
two decades. After a return to constitutional order in 1994, an unresolved institutional
crisis, and contested elections in 2000 compounded political uncertainties and led to a
reduction in foreign assistance. Following these events, state institutions weakened and
poor governance practices multiplied. This culminated in another political crisis in early
2004, and on February 29,2004, President Aristide resigned and left the country. In
conformity with the Constitution, Mr.Boniface Alexandre, President of the Supreme
Court of Appeal, took office as the interim president. That evening, the UnitedNations
Security Council approved Resolution 1529 authorizing the immediate deployment of a
Multinational InterimForce to help maintain order inHaiti. Followinga consultative
process, Mr.Latortue was then designated as interim Prime Minister and established a
government on March 17,2004. On April 30,2004, the United Nations Security Council
created the UnitedNations Stabilization Mission in Haiti.

2.      After the creation of the transitional government, an InterimCooperation
Framework (ICF) was preparedunder the leadership o f the government with the support
of the donor community. It represents a conscious effort to break with the past, to frame
external assistance on the basis of ajoint identification of the needs, and to realistically
design programs for the transition period (2004-2006). The structure for the formulation
and coordination of the ICF was based on three pillars: 1) an Inter-Ministerial Committee
comprising four ministries under the coordination o f the Ministry of Planning,
Environment and External Cooperation; 2) a Steering Committee, made up of
representatives from the government and the donors, responsible for the technical aspects
of governance, and 3) ten thematic groups involving national and international experts
from the public and private sectors, civil society, and the international community. One
of these thematic groups oversees the protection and rehabilitation of the environment.

3.      The Thematic Environmental Group (Groupe ThkmatiqueEnvironnement or
GTE) examines environmental issues and proposes strategies to address them. Since its
inception, the GTE has highlighted the catastrophic proportions of environmental
degradation in Haiti and the link to the welfare of the population and poverty reduction
efforts. Three priority interventions involving environmental management have been
outlined: (i) reduction of pressure on wood resources; (ii)  improved environmental
resource management and planning; and (iii)     sustainable and integrateddisaster risk
management through the implementation of the National Risk and Disaster Management
Plan (Plan National de Gestion des Risques et Dkssastres or PNGRD). Given the current
state of institutional preparedness, considerable institutional strengthening and
improvement of Haiti's legal and institutional framework are required to improve risk
reduction efforts, as well as disaster preparedness and emergency response. The proposed



                                               6

project focuses heavily on improving the country's capacity to manage the risk of
disasters.

4.      Natural Hazards and Disasters in Haiti. Haiti is one of the Caribbean countries
most affected by natural disasters (hurricanes, floods, droughts, earthquakes, etc.). The
island of Hispaniola lies inthe middle of the hurricane belt and i s subject to severe storms
from June to October. The effects of tropical storms and hurricanes include wind
damage, flooding, landslides and coastal surges. These effects are exacerbated by
environmental degradation, since only about 3.2% of Haiti's natural forest remains.
Extensive deforestation and the presence of settlements in low areas and infloodplains of
rivers are key factors in the intensity of the destruction. Indeed, under the present
conditions, every segment of the Haitian population i s vulnerable to adverse natural
events. Taking into account the percentage of the population living under the poverty line
and the fact that the poorest groups are always the worst affected, it is evident that the
majority of the Haitian population i s at risk.

5.      Besides the hydro-meteorological hazards, Haitihas suffered from serious
earthquakes inthe past. The country i s located in a seismically active zone and according
to records kept since the 16thcentury, the Island o f Hispaniola has had at least one major
earthquake every century. A major earthquake in 1751destroyed Port-au-Prince,
earthquakes in 1842 and 1904 destroyed Cap Haitien (4,000 fatalities in 1842; 5,000 in
1904), and there was an 8.1 magnitude earthquake in 1946 in the northeastern Dominican
Republic which was followed by a tsunami inthe Nagua area (5,000 fatalities). The very
highpopulation density (upto 40,000 per km2inPort-au-Prince), the largenumber of
informal structures in slum areas, the weak infrastructure and the lack o f response
capabilities suggest that another major earthquake would have disastrous consequences.
The seismological pattern of the faults and studies funded by the UnitedNations
Development Program (UNDP), show that there i s an important energy accumulationthat
could trigger a major earthquake anytime.

6.      Haiti's high vulnerability to natural disasters stems also from highlevels of
poverty, weak infrastructure, a degraded environment, and a history o f ineffective
governments with serious fiscal problems. Given the poor state o f economic
infrastructure and lack of preparedness, disasters of lesser magnitude occurring on a
frequent basis also cause immeasurable impacts on the population and on economic
assets. Vulnerability reduction and disaster management have received very limited
attention from past governments. The proposedproject i s intended to lay the foundation
for improving this situation.

7.      The most recent serious disaster inHaiti occurred on September 18,2004 when
torrential rain coming with the Tropical Storm Jeanne caused flash floods affecting the
entire region between Cap Haitien and Port-de-Paix in the North and Gonaives in the
West. The rain caused not only flash floods but also mudslides cutting the access roads
to many villages for days. These floods affected an estimated population of 300,000,
destroying approximately 4,500 houses and claiming more than 3,000 lives. The impact
of this disaster on Haiti has been especially harsh as the country was still recovering from



                                               7

the floods o f May 2004 when seventeenhours of continuous rain inthe southeastern
province of Haiti caused flash floods and landslides inthe areas of Belle-Anse and Fonds
Verrettes. These floods affected more than 100,000 people with more than 2,000
dwellings destroyed and 1,000 deaths.

8.       Similarities between the floods of May and September are striking. In both cases,
the heavy rainfall drove flash flooding and extensive debris flows over extended regions.
Swollen rivers and debris cut off many of the roads traversing the affected areas along the
base of the mountains. As the floodwaters flowed into the relatively flatter lands and
broader channels of the alluvial plain below, they spread out, wiping out riverside
settlements. The disasters illustrate the continuumbetween severe storms, flooding and
landslides, where debris-laden floodwaters modify the landscape. Major floods of this
type are now near-annual events inHaiti and the Dominican Republic and can be
expected to increase in the future, leading to increased vulnerability.

9.       The UNDP report "Reducing Disaster Risk: A Challenge for Development"
states that, in Haiti, an average of 93.4 people die every year from natural disasters with a
relative average of 13.72 people per million of inhabitants. The following chart better
illustrates Haiti's vulnerability to hurricanes.




10.      Disaster Management Capacity. The national civil protection structure i s in
charge of risk and disaster management activities inHaiti. The system has several
coordination levels and includes the following 10ministries and agencies: the Ministry of
Interior and Local Government; the Ministry of Public Health and Population; the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communication; the Ministry of Agriculture,



                                               8

Natural Resources and Rural Development; the Ministry of Environment; the Ministry of
Planning and External Cooperation; the Ministry of Social Affairs; the Ministry of Justice
and Public Security; the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sport; and, the
Haitian Red Cross. The system i s headedby the National Risk and Disaster
Management Committee (Comite'National de Gestion des Risques et des De'sastres,or
CNGRD), which is composed of the respective ministers and the president of the Haitian
Red Cross and leadb y the Ministry of Interior. The Directorate of Civil Protection
(DPC) supports the Ministry of Interior inthis function.

11.      A second level of coordination i s at the technical and executive level where
executives of ministries and agencies meet to form the Permanent Secretariat o f Riskand
Disaster Management (Secre'tariatPermanent de Gestion des Risques et des De'sastres,or
SPGRD). The SPGRD is ledby the General Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and i s
divided into two branches: a disaster management branch composed of the Emergency
Operation Center (EOC); and a risk management branch, composed of thematic and
sectoral committees, which oversees permanent activities.

12.      To implement on a daily basis the coordination of risk and disaster management
activities, the Pre-Disaster Organization (Organisation Pre-De'sastre,or OPDES) was
established in 1983, first under the Ministry o f Health and later under the Ministry of the
Interior. Since the OPDES focused on preparedness without much attention to risk
reduction, in 1997 the government established the Directorate of Civil Protection, with a
mandate for risk reduction, response andrecovery; and the OPDES ceasedto function.
After Hurricane Georges in 1998, the Ministry of Interior developed the PNGRD to guide
the activities of the DPC and give it a legal framework. Under the transitional
government established inFebruary 2004, disaster management has been assigned
directly to the DPC. The government intends to increase the status and capacity of the
DPC by transforming it into a General Directorate, which would provide it with increased
autonomy and scope for action. The organization's role is expected to reach beyond
providing disaster assistanceby setting up an active program to plan for and mitigate the
impact of adverse natural events. DPC will establish a national risk reduction strategy;
advise and support the Ministry o f Interior and the CNGRDinits coordinating position
and; supervise the risk mitigation and disaster preparedness activities carried through the
different ministries and organizations. Inaddition, the government intends to appoint
Disaster Management Coordinators at the departmental level.

13.      Ongoing efforts. The transitional government has expressed its intentions by
committing to a sound strategy, clear goals, and an implementation time frame,
developed during the ICF. The three main activity components and their goals include:
(i) institutional reinforcement involving: preparation for the upcoming hurricane season, a
functioning operational emergency operation center, a training center, three functional
thematic committees (public awareness, buildingnorms, and land-use planning), risk and
disaster management units within concerned ministries, and a validated legal framework
for the DPC and the SPGRD; (ii)    an information systemfor risk identification and
monitoring involving: an awarenessprogram for the media and decision makers, studies
about the seismic risk, seismic mapping, seismic activity monitoring system, and the



                                                9

development of an operational disaster data base, national communication system, and
detailed risk mapping of three departments, as well as micro zoning of Port-au-Prince;
(iii) riskmanagementincluding:70operationalcivilprotectionlocalcommittees
    local
and early warning systems to be installed inthe South and Artibonite departments,

14.     Riskand disaster management inHaiti also received special interest from the
international community after Hurricane Georges in 1998 with the investment by the
UNDP,UnitedStatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment (USAID), andother agencies.
Their contribution helped develop the National Plan for Risk and Disaster Management
and the National Response Plan, and establish the first EOC. Many Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGO) have also worked on the creation of local civil protectioddisaster
response committees, and some have taken part inbasic risk reduction activities. In
operational support and technical assistance, the UNDPi s the most prominent agency
currently active inHaiti. The UNDPrisk and disaster management unit has been
providing technical assistanceto the DPC since 1998 and focuses on: (i)     capacity
building; (ii)developing response and preparedness plans; (iii)   strengthening
preparedness; and (iv) establishing a national training center. Their presence and
collaboration with the DPC i s a great asset to the project.


B. IDA RESPONSESTRATEGY

15.     The Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project (ERDMP) has been
prepared within the ICF strategy explained above in order to provide assistance for the
rehabilitation of areas affected b y the recent floods and to begin to address deficiencies in
the National System for Disaster Risk Management (SystdmeNational de Gestion des
Risques et des Dkssastres). International Development Association (IDA) missions have
worked with the DPC, inclose collaboration with the UNDP, The Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB), and the Organization of American States (OAS) to help
define the scope of intervention and institutional improvements necessary. They have
also defined the support necessary to enable the DPC to begin to play a more meaningful
role inrisk and disaster management, and to activate and strengthen the national system.

16.     The project will follow two separate initiatives currently being implemented
underthe LICUS (Low Income Countries Under Stress) TrustFundof the World Bank
Group. These initiatives provide support to strengthen the capacity for emergency
recovery as well as risk and disaster management activities until the ERDMPi s fully
operational. The first LICUS initiative, worth US$l million, involves measures to
establish rehabilitation plans and beginemergency interventions (infrastructure and social
support) to help the population recover from the May 23 floods. Support will also be
provided for institutional strengthening in disaster management at the national level, with
a focus on boosting technical, management, and administrative capacity in the DPC. The
LICUS initiative also assesses the need for capacity buildingin risk and disaster
management, which will lead to the development of a training program to assist
government and NGO staff at the national and regional levels.




                                               10

17.     The second LICUS initiative, also for US$1 million, will support short-term,
labor-intensive employment in environmental works, by channeling funds to
communities through NGOs. It will reinforce government capacity at the national and
local levels to use contractual arrangements to manage labor-intensive, small-scale
development projects. This funding will benefit some 40,000 members of poor families
inrural and urban areas. Capacity of the national structure for disaster riskmitigation is
expected to be strengthened by this effort. Depending on the success of this initiative, it
could be expanded to implement part of the small-scale environmental mitigation works
to be carried out under this proposed project.

18.      The proposedproject will build on the LICUS initiatives. It will finance
identified works inFonds Verrettes, Belle-Anse, and the region affectedby the floods of
September 2004, in addition to supporting activities under all three components of the
government's ICF strategy. The project will strengthen the management and
administrative systems inthe DPC and finance technical training for the DPC and other
agencies involved in disaster risk management. It will also support the retrofitting of an
emergency operation center, the establishment of a training center, and will finance the
purchase of equipment for national and regional emergency operation centers. Technical
support will assist inupdating the National Response Plan, establishing emergency funds,
and increasing the national emergency response capacity. The project will also support
technical studies, such as the preparationof an environmental assessment study for
natural disaster vulnerability, public awareness campaigns, and establishing building
norms for public buildings. Finally, almost 50 percent of the fundingwill be used for
local risk management to help communities identify and reduce risks.


C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES

19.      The development objective of the proposed project will be:

     (a)  to support the rehabilitation of the areas affectedby the recent adverse natural
          disasters;
     (b) to strengthen the country's capacity to manage naturaldisaster risks andbetter
          respond to emergencies resulting from adverse natural events; and
     (c) to reduce the vulnerability o f communities through risk identification and risk
          mitigation activities.

20.      These objectives are consistent with one o f the focal points o f the Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) that outlines IDA'Sstrategy for Haiti over the next 24 months
(FY05 and FY06). The TSS explicitly incorporates the activities already submitted to the
LICUS Trust Fund, including the proposed disaster reconstruction and mitigation
initiatives mentioned above (paragraphs 16-17). The TSS, being presented to the Board
together with this proposed operation, also includes in the lending program the proposed
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project for US$12 million equivalent.




                                               11

21.     The objectives are also consistent with the overall priorities on environmental
management within the ICF. The longer term objectives of the Environment Thematic
Group, in which IDA i s an active participant, include the development of sustainable
strategies to reverse resource degradation by introducing sustainable watershed
management, reforestation and measuresto reduce the impact of climatic hazards.

22.     The outcome indicators to be monitored during the course of the project include:

    (a) satisfactory planning and completion of a rehabilitation scheme for affected
        settlements in the regions of Belle-Anse, Fonds Verrettes, and Gonaives;
    (b) capacity established within the DPCto prepare for, and respond to, natural
        disaster events which includes: (i) a validated legal framework;(ii) stronger
        management systems; (iii)  improved technical capacity; and (iv) an operational
        National Response Plan;
    (c) functioning disaster committees in at least 70 communes and the successful
        implementation of riskprevention and reduction measures invulnerable
        communities.


D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

23.     The IDA operation will be implementedover a period of approximately four years
and will finance the following components:

Component 1-Reconstructionand Risk Reduction inthe Areas Recently Affected by
Floods (US$2.5 million equivalent)

24.     The Government of Haiti (GOH) is preparing a recovery plan to support the
reconstructionof the areas affected b y recent floods with the assistance of the UNDP.
The proposed allocation will be used in accordance with the plan and the activities
implementedwith the LICUS funds, and will assist small rehabilitation activities
implemented by the affectedcommunities through the financing of buildingmaterials,
etc.

Component 2 - Institutional Strengthening for the Directorate of Civil Protection (DPC)
and the Permanent Secretariat for Risk and Disaster Management (SPGRD) (US$3.5
million equivalent)

25.     Institutional and Technical Support. The project will support the DPC and the
SPGRD in the implementation of the PNGRD, including: (i) provision of institutional
                                                                the
and technical support for the creation o f a training and documentation center and risk
management units within key ministries; and three thematic committees under the
SPGRD including public awareness, building norms, and land use planning; (ii)      the
revision and validation of the National Response Plan and the development o f related
emergency procedures and protocols; (iii)   the creation, training, and equipping of disaster
assessment and disaster



                                              12

intervention teams within DPC and key ministries; and (iv) the realization of simulation
exercises at local and regional scale.

26.     Technical Studies. The establishment of the SPGRD thematic committees will
leadto the implementation of three main technical studies. First, the public awareness
thematic committee will supervise the design and implementation of a public awareness
program directed towards both the general public, and decision makers, to explain
disaster management efforts to a larger audience. Second, the buildingnorms thematic
committee will coordinate technical studies and workshops to support the establishment
of buildingnorms that take natural hazards into account. The initiative will be
implemented in close collaboration with the Ministry of Public Works and will aim at
establishing norms from the construction of public buildings and donor funded projects.
Finally, the project will finance an environmental assessment study for natural disaster
vulnerability, envisioned to connect the efforts of natural resource management to those
of planning and risk reduction. This study will be implemented incoordination with the
land use planning committee and inclose collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development.

27.     Rehabilitation of the Emergency Operation Center(E0C)of the DPC. To enable
the efficient functioning of the DPC and SPGRD intimes of crisis, the project will assist
the retrofitting of the national Emergency Operations Center and the purchase of the
necessary equipment to make it operational. The project will also support the retrofitting
of regional EOCs ineach department as well as the installation of a national
communication system to coordinate operations between the national and departmental
levels.

28.     Strengthening Management Systems within DPC. To better fulfill its functions,
the DPC i s to become a General Directorate within this calendar year. The project will
strengthen the DPC with a new accounting system to monitor the funds it disburses and
an updated inventory system to track its resources. The project will also reinforce
management, administrative and technical capacity within the DPC and the SPGRD by
training its staff at the national and departmental levels. Finally, the DPC's planning
capacity will be strengthened b y supporting institutional development plans. In
conjunction to the UNDPeffort to define the legal structure of the DPC, the project will
also support the establishment of emergency fundingprocedures.

Component 3 - Local Risk Management (US$5.5 million equivalent)

29.     Almost 50 percent of the project funds will be usedfor development and
mitigation activities at the local level in areas o f highvulnerability to natural disasters.
This component will help DPC create or reactivate local emergency committees and train
them inrisk and disaster management. These committees, incoordination with
community councils, will prepare local risk and vulnerability maps and identify risk
reduction activities (early warning systems, retention walls, terracing, drainage works,
pilot-reforestation projects, shelter retrofitting, etc.) that the project will finance. Some
70 local committees are expected to be created or reactivated, 50 percent of which will be



                                                13

inurban or peri-urban areas. Most activities under this component will be implemented
usingCommunity Driven Development (CDD), which is already beingused on a pilot
basis intwo Bank-supportedactivities inHaiti (CDD Pilot Project in Haiti - TF051116;
and LICUS for Labor IntensiveBasic InfrastructureRehabilitation Pilot Project -
TF053366). A national-level Government agency (PL 480 Management Office) will
coordinate the efforts on behalf of the DPC with the DPC directly involved in strategy
formulation and supervision. Several NGOs selected according to shared criteria between
IDA and the DPC will be responsible for implementation at the local level.


E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

30.     Disaster management inHaiti has receivedincreased attention from the donor
community since about 1998. In2000, a National Risk and Disaster Management Plan
was produced which emphasized two main objectives: (i)      focus on the causes of risk,to
reduce the impact of disasters and (ii) reinforce response capacities at every level: central,
departmental, municipal and community.

31.     In line with the above strategy, the project will work with, and strengthen the
capacities of, actors involved indisaster management at all levels. The second
component of the project will be implementedby the DPC andthe SPGRD under the
Ministryof Interior andLocalGovernment (Minist2rede 1'Znte'rieuret des Collectivite's
Territoriales),with the UNDPworking closely with these institutions to provide the
necessary technical assistance.

32.     A national-level government agency, the PL480 Management Office will
implement the first and third components of the project on behalf of the DPC who will be
directly involved in strategy formulation and supervision. The organization's mission i s
threefold: (i) conversion of in kinddonations to money; (ii) management; and
              the                                                 project
(iii)
    financial management along with technical assistance to the donor's projects. The
P L 480 Management Office has a good record of project implementation with
international donor partners, and it has a qualified administrative and financial
management capacity. The organization i s already implementing one of the LICUS Trust
Fundsof IDA.

33.     The National Committee for Risk and Disaster Management has proven to be a
useful forum for concerned officials to exchange views on the environment. However, its
legal status has not been formalized. The project will work to strengthen its participation
and capacity to draw together various national actors and international partners involved
inrisk and disaster risk management.

34.     NGOs will also play an important role inimplementing sub-projects at the
community level. A strong network of NGOs operates throughout Haiti with a long
history of effective community involvement and disaster risk reduction and preparedness
activities. Two of these NGOs, the Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) and
CECI are already working on a World Bank (Post Conflict Fund) funded initiative. Other



                                              14

organizations with strong experience on the ground include CARE, OXFAM, Catholic
Relief Services (CRS) and World Vision. NGOs will be evaluated according to their
qualifications, such as voluntarism, nonprofit status, local knowledge, scale of operations,
reputation, expertise and past performance. A short list of qualified NGOs will be
prepared (2-3 NGOs) and they will be invited to submit proposals for specific sub-
projects based on their experience. These NGOs will be contracted on a sole source basis
under paragraph 3.10 of the Procurement of Consultants guidelines, and the selection of
these NGOs will be subject to IDA'Sprior review. NGOs will be required to use
competitive bidding procedures for contracts of more than US$lO,OOO. The methods to
be used for other sub-projects are shopping for goods, selection based on consultant
qualifications for firms and Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines for individual
consultants. For contracts below the US$lO,OOO threshold, NGOs may use single source
selection and take advantage of participation in local communities and groups.
Procurement under sub-projects by NGOs will be subject to the provisions of paragraph
5, Appendix Ito the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. NGOs would also be able
to implement works directly through community participation. All subprojects carried out
by NGOs will be reviewed, supervised and monitored duringimplementation by the
PIA80 Management Office.

35.     Because of the importance of disaster risk inHaiti,four donors (UNDP, IADB,
the Office for Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) and SouthCom) in addition to IDA,
have indicated a willingness to contribute to the disaster management effort. Teams from
the various donor agencies have been working in close collaboration to ensure their
efforts are complementary. The table below shows the plannedcontributions of each
donor. These initiatives will be implementedby ajoint Project Coordination Unit to be
established within the DPC.

Agency        Intervention Area                                          Contribution (US$)
IADB          Hydro meteorological monitoring and early warning                5,000,000
              systems, institutional reinforcement of the DPC and
              SNREICNM, and a public awareness program
OFDA          Emergency equipment and training                                   200,000
UNDP          Technical assistancefor the implementation of the                  950,000
              national planfor risk and disaster management.
SouthCom      Construction of a warehouse facility and capacity                      NIA
              building; firefighter and disaster response training;
              school and medical center retrofitting.

36.     Overall project implementation will be coordinated by DPC. Given its limited
experience in project management, the project will finance a Project Coordinator, a
Procurement Specialist, and a Financial Management Specialist to assist DPC with its
new and extended functions. The team i s also preparing a submission to the Japanese
Social Development Fund(JSDF) to strengthen the technical assistance currently
provided b y UNDP.




                                              15

 37.    Thresholds for ProcurementMethods andPrior Review

 Expenditure Category          Contract Value         Procurement       Contract Subject to
                                 (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review/
                                                                          EstimatedTotal
                                                                        Value Subject to Prior
                              (US$ thousands)                                 Review
 Works                             >1,000                 ICB                    All
                                  100-1,000               NCB                    All
                                     4 0 0            3 Quotations         FirstContract
 Goods                               >loo                 ICB                    All
                                   25-100                 NCB                    All
                                     <25               Int.&Nat.           First Contract
                                                        Shopping
              Firms                  >loo                QCBS                    All
 Services                            <loo            Irrespective of         TOR only
                                                        Method
              Individuals      Irrespective of     Comparison of 3          TOR only as
                                   amount                 cv           1 specified inthe PP.
                                          Sub-pro:ects
 Selection of NGOs             Irrespective of       Single source               All
                                   amount
                               Procurementunder Sub-projects
~    ~




 Goods                               >10                Shopping                None
                                     <10                  DC                    None
              Firms                  >10                   CQ                   None
 Services                            <10                   ss                   None
               Individuals           >10           Comparison of 3              None
                                                           cv
I            I             L         <10                   ss
                                                  !                                           I
                                                                                None


 38.    Frequency of Procurement Supervision. The project will need strong support
 during the first six months, particularly to develop procurement capacity inthe Project
 Coordination Unit (PCU) and an understanding of IDA Guidelines. After this initial
 phase, the project will receive at least one supervision mission to carry out post-review of
 procurement actions every six months during the first two years and every 12months
 afterwards, inconjunction with a procurement audit. Basedon the overall risk
 assessment (HIGH), the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than
 1in 5 contracts signed.




                                               16

39.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ equivalent)

Expenditure                         Procurement Method                          Total Cost
Category             ICB             NCB           Other         N.B.F.
Works                     0        991,304          31,304               0      1,022,609
Goods               710317          166,539         73,043               0        950,400
Services
_ . ~                     0               0      1.626.782               0      1.636.782
       ~                                          ,   ,
Subprojects               0       2,347,826      5,008,696               0      7,356,522
Operating                 0               0      1,043,687               0       1,043,687
Expenses
Total               710,817       3,505,670      7,783,513               0    12,000,000


40.      Consultant Selection Arrangements (US$ equivalent)

Consultant Services                       Selection Method                     Total Cost
ExDenditure Category          OCBS     I    co     I   Other   1 N.B.F.
A. Firms                   1,452,000             0          0            0        1,452,000
B. Individuals                       0    174,783           0            0          174,783
Total                      1,452,000      174,783           0            0        1,626,783


F. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT

41.      Financial Management. DPC and the PL480 Management Office will be
responsible for the financial management of the project. DPC will be responsible for the
financial management of component 2, while the financial management o f component 1
and 3 will be the responsibility of PL 480 Management Office. The overall financial
situation of the project will be consolidated by DPC following procedures that will be
documented inthe Operational Manual. The findings of the financial management
capacity assessmentcarried out duringproject preparationb y IDA are taken into account
inthe arrangements proposed below.

42.      DPC does not currently have an accounting unit since its financial management
operations are handledby the accounting unit o f the Ministry of Interior. Due to the
transformation of DPC into a General Directorate and the financial management
responsibilities under the project, the DPC will be required to set up its own financial
management system. The project will support DPC in developing a financial
management system that complies with government accounting rules, satisfies the needs
of the project, and allows the DPC to manage and account for resources that it will
receive from external donors. Because it may take time before DPC has fully developed
its internal financial management capacity, financial management will be handled at
inception by a qualified accountant to be hired under the project. Hisher Terms Of
Reference (TOR) will include buildingDPC staff financial management capacity. An
interimfinancial management systemwill be set upfor the purpose of the project while
the DPC financial management system is being developed as part of project activities.



                                              17

The establishment of this interim system, including the recruitment of the accountant, and
the preparation of an Operational Manual, will be a condition of effectiveness of the
project.

43.     The PL 480 Management Office i s an autonomous government entity. It already
has a financial management system and staffing, and its financial statements are regularly
audited. The PL480 Management Office has solid experience inproject management
and has recently been involved inthe implementation of a Bank-financed grant. It i s also
currently updating its operational manual for the purposes of the Labor-Intensive Basic
Infrastructure RehabilitationPilot Project LICUS TF to reflect the Community-Driven
Development approach, that will also be used for the Local RiskManagement
component. The revised manual will reflect procedures such as (i)    channeling of funds to
NGOs; (ii)  fiduciary control mechanisms; (iii) reporting; and (iv) auditing requirements.
The fiduciary control mechanisms will address the specific risks associated with
channeling resources to NGOs. For example, internal mechanisms will be defined for
monitoring sub-projects, combining both financial and non-financial controls. In
addition, financial management conditions will be defined for inclusion inthe eligibility
criteria subprojects to ensure that the amount of the grants i s commensurate with the
financial management capacity of the recipients. This work will be finalized before
Grant effectiveness and the revisedmanual will therefore be adequate to the needs of the
project.

44.     Disbursement. The flow of funds for this project calls for Grant funds to be
channeled to the project through two Special Accounts (SA) denominated inUS Dollars
to be opened in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Special
Account A will be operated by DPC to finance the activities o f component 2; while
Special Account B will be operated by PL480 Management Office to finance the
activities of components 1and 3. DPC and P L 480 Management Office will also operate
a local currency Special Account, to finance project expenditures in local currency. The
authorized allocation to the Special Accounts A andB will be limitedrespectively to
US$300,000 and US$600,000 equivalent (representing approximately four months of
expenditures.) Disbursements will be made on the basis o f Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs).

45.     Reporting. ConsolidatedFinancial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be prepared
every six months (following the periodicity o f the activity report) reflecting all
components of the project and submitted to IDA no later than 45 days after the closing of
the period. The FMRs will include financial, physical progress, and procurement
information and form part of the project activity report. In addition to the consolidated
FMRs,DPC and PL480 Management Office will prepare separately, annual financial
statements reflecting the financial transactions for the respective special accounts they
manage. The statements will include a statement of sources and uses of funds as well as
the schedule of SOEs, and a reconciliation of the Special Account.

46.     Auditing. The annual financial statements preparedby DPC and P L 480
Management Office will be audited annually, in accordance with International Standards



                                              18

on Auditing, by independent auditors and in accordance with TOR both acceptable to
IDA. The TOR will make a provision for the specific aspects of the Local Risk
Management component to ensure that project funds reach their authorized beneficiaries
and are used for the purpose intended. The auditors will be recruitedno later than six
months after grant effectiveness.

47.      Allocation of Grant Proceeds.

  I Expenditure Category                  1  Amount of the Grant            Financing
                                               Allocated (SDR)             Percentage
     1.Works (Part A & C)                               100.000
    2. Goods (Part A & C)                                20,000        100%of foreign
                                                                       expenditures,
                                                                       100%of local
                                                                       expenditures
                                                                       pursuant to the Note
                                                                       below; and 90%
                                                                       inany other
                                                                       cases




Note: IDA may finance up to 100% all Eligible Categories i f (a) the Recipient has officially
exempted all Eligible Expenditures from internal taxation; or (b) the Association has determined
that the Recipient is eligible for 100% financing inaccordance with Association's policy.

S D W S D = 1.4996

48.      EstimatedDisbursements Schedule (IDA FY/US$ million)

                     FY               2005        2006      2007        2008         2009
                     Annual           1.o          4.0       4.0         2.0          1.o
                     Cumulative       1.O          5.O       9.0        11.0         12.0


      Project Implementation period: 4 years
      Expected Effectiveness date: 2/15/2005             Expected Closing date: 12/31/2008




                                                 19

GdRISKS

                                                     CriticalRisks
                    Risk                           RiskRating                     Risk-MitigationMeasure
FromOutputsto Objective
Delays in Government approval of the change              S          Government i s committed to prepare and
of DPC to a General Directorate.                                    present needed decree. The legal document
                                                                    i s prepared through a consultation of the
                                                                    UNDP. The Ministerof Interior will take
                                                                    the necessary steps to follow-up the
                                                                    approval process at Cabinet level.
Capacity building not implemented in a timely            S          Project preparation will include capacity
manner.                                                             building for key institutions, and propose a
                                                                    program to be carried out within a realistic
                                                                    time frame. The team will seek external
                                                                    funding for additional capacity building
                                                                    from UNDP and OAS.
Project funding and human resources are                  H          Funds will be allocated early to specific project
reallocated to reconstruction in the case of                        activities. Incase of emergency, the project
major disaster during implementation.                               implementation schedule would be amended.
Government allocation of human resources                 H          Government i s committed to early identification of
to the DPC i s inadequate                                           additional human resource needs of the DPC.
Lack of understanding of project on the part             S          Pilots are already underway with one NGO
of implementing NGO's leading to delays in                          that will provide training to the other NGOs
disbursements and progress reports.                                 hired under the project.
FromComponentsto Outputs
Government commitment to disaster risk                   S          Activities in the project are included in the
management i s diverted by other critical                            government investment program and the
issues.                                                              team will seek assurancethat funds have
                                                                     been appropriated for the first year of
                                                                     implementation.
Capacity of the DPC to channel funding for               M           The DPC's institutional capacity will be
riskmanagement remains weak.                                         strengthened. The project team will conduct
                                                                     frequent supervision and support missions,
                                                                     particularly during the initiation stages to
                                                                     train DPC in IDA procedures and project
                                                                     management.
Disparity in NGO procedures and execution                S           Prior training of NGOs and continuous
methods threatens integrity of work through                          evaluation to ensure quality of work and
different regions.                                                   standard approach in project execution.
OverallRiskRating                                        S           Preparation should includeactions
                                                                     mentioned above. Risks will be re-assessed
                                                                     on a regular basis.



Risk Rating:H =High Risk, S = SubstantialRisk, M =Modest Risk, N= Negligible or Low Risk).




                                                   20

H. SAFEGUARDS

There are no major environmental or social issues identified. The classification of the
project i s Category B due to potential adverse environmental impacts of smallmitigation
activities on human populations or environmentally important areas. At the same time,
the environmental impacts of reconstruction and mitigation works to community
infrastructure are likely to be beneficial and to reduce environmental risk.

The project is being processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance).
Consistent with article 13 of OP4.01, the project was exempt from producing a EA report
before appraisal. A Regional Environmental Assessment (REA) i s planned and will
cover a majority of the activities implemented under the project.

I.ACTIONPLAN

49.     Inorder to mitigate the highriskof implementation, the followingaction planis
proposed:

        (i)   As a condition for negotiations the Recipient will provide a draft
              Procurement Plan to cover the first 18 months of the project.
        (ii)As   a condition of effectiveness the Recipient will provide the following:
                  an operational manual satisfactory to IDA including:
                o A Procurement Planto cover the first 18 months of the project.
                o Detail of all the procedures and channels of responsibilities, flow of
                    documentation and accountability system.
                o an implementation plan assigning responsibilities for each activity
                    foreseen under the project to a specific person and with a specific
                    timeline.
                  The Government will also sign an implementation agreement with
                  PL480 satisfactory to IDA.
                  The PL480 Project Unit has been established and properly staffed.
        (iii)AsaconditionfordisbursementofComponent2theRecipientwill
              strengthen the PCU of the DPCby hiring a Project Coordinator, a
              Procurement Specialist, and a Financial Management Specialist with
              experience satisfactory to IDA (Terms of References - TORSto be
              submittedfor IDA'Sprior review by effectiveness) and establish a
              procurement filing system, to be submitted for IDA'Sno objection.
        (iv) Other
                  Selection of auditors no later than six months after effectiveness.

IDA will provide Procurement and FinancialManagement training at project launch.
Furthertraining session will be provided as required duringproject execution.




                                              21

                                  REPUBLICOF H A I T I
               Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project

           Appendix 1:Detailed Project Components and Estimated Costs


Component 1:Reconstructionand Risk Reductioninthe Areas Affected by Floods
(US$2,500,000 equivalent)

This component will finance critical reconstruction and riskreductionworks inFonds
Verrettes, Belle-Anse and the regions of Gonaives recently affectedby floods. The
component will finance technical assistance to organize and design rehabilitation works.
Works will consist mainly of rehabilitation of drainage systems, public buildings
(including schools and clinics), and community centers. The DPC will work in
collaboration with the related ministries and local communities for the identification of
these works to be contracted by PL480 Management Office. Many of the works have
been identified within the framework of the ongoing LICUS funded project.

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening for the Directorate of Civil Protection
(DPC) (US$3,500,000 equivalent)

Institutional and technical support (US$798,000 equivalent): This sub-component will
support the DPC and the SPGRD inthe implementation of the National Plan for Risk and
Disaster Management (PNGRD), including the establishment o f support structures and
unitsfor the DPC and SPGRD. Activities under this sub-component involvethe
establishment of:

    (i)    A NationalTraining and DocumentationCenter to serve as DPC's
           institutional memory. International andnational consultants will draft training
           manuals and provide training on mobilization and organization of resources;
           management of rehabilitation operations; treatment of victims; management of
           debris; dealing with displacedpersons; early warning systems; search and
           rescue; first aid; communication systems; disaster mitigation project planning;
           and private sector involvement. An international consultant will be
           responsible for drafting a national training strategy.

    (ii)   Riskmanagement unitsin selected ministries. Among the ten ministries
           constituting the National Committee of Risk and Disaster Management, a unit
           was established within the Ministry of Public Health and Population in 2001.
           The goal i s to strengthen this unit, and create three new ones inthe Ministry of
           Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development, the Ministry of
           National Education, Youth and Sport, and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The
           SPGRD will conduct joint workshops to bringeach ministry's activities in
           perspective inline with the ICF goals.




                                             22

    (iii)   Three thematic committees within the SPGRD. Three topics have been
            prioritized as the most urgent ones by the SPGRD. These are public
            awareness; buildingnorms; and land-use planning. The SPGRD will establish
            these committees and chair and monitor their activities, including the
            coordination of technical studies described below. The project will finance
            technical assistance and the organization of workshops to support the
            activities of these committees.

This sub-component will also finance technical assistancefor the revision and validation
of the National Response Plan in accordance with the new responsibilities and
organization o f the DPC; the development of emergency procedures and protocols to
allow better operation coordination and resource management; and the drafting of a
national resource mobilization plan to complement the National Response Plan.

The sub-component will also finance the creation, training, and equipment of disaster
assessment and disaster interventionteams within DPC and key ministries. The DPC will
establish new teams for disaster assessment and disaster response and will have the
resources to train and equip them. To reinforce the technical skills of the national and
departmental staff, the DPC will arrange technical training indisaster management
operations; warning systems; communication systems; mitigation project planning;
disaster recovery operations; and business continuity for the public and private sectors.

Finally, the sub-component will support an emergency simulation exercise to assess the
capacities inplace at the end of the project's second year. An international consultant
will be hired to provide technical assistanceto support DPC inthe design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the exercise. The consultant will work in
close collaboration with the DPC andthe SPGRD and will be responsible for providing
the necessary training in exercise simulation techniques, from design to evaluation.

Technical Studies CUS$464,000 equivalent): The establishment of three thematic
committees under the SPGRD will lead to three essential technical initiativeshtudies: a
public awareness program, an initiative for buildingnorms and, an environmental
assessment study for natural disaster vulnerability.

The objective of the public awareness program i s to initiate a national risk and disaster
management culture. For this, the program will be used to inform the general public and
decision makers about the national risk and disaster management system, disseminate
information about how to get involved and what they can do to protect themselves, their
communities, and their businesses. Different campaigns will be designed for the general
public and the decision makers. The essential aspects of the program include the: (a)
prioritization of audiences and design of awareness campaigns; (b) production of
campaign material; and (c) implementation o f the campaigns. The public awareness
thematic committee will supervise the program and, in addition to the international and
national consultants working inthe thematic committee, a national consultant will be
hired to assist in the design and implementation of the campaigns and the development of
the appropriate didactic material.



                                             23

There i s no official buildingcode inHaiti. The DPC and the Ministry of Public Work,
Transportation and Communication have organized two seminars for civil engineers, put
together a compilation of relevant documents and established a thematic committee with
the support of the World Health Organization (WHO) and USAID.To support this effort,
the building norms thematic committee, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport and Communication, will develop a set of building standards for Haiti,
taking into account wind load and seismic activity. These standards will be usedas
guidance documents for government agencies, donors and the general public. The
committee will include Caribbean engineers andprofessionals to develop these technical
documents.
The main issues that the initiative will take into account include: (i)    the recognition that
most buildingsare not built by engineers, (ii) legal responsibilities are divided among
                                                   the
several ministries, and (iii) there i s no legal liability or sentence for no compliance. To
deal with these issues, the initiative will have four deliverables:
        (a) drafting of buildingstandards for use in all engineered buildings. This
            document would be a Haitian Application Document (HAD) based on a
            comprehensive, readily-available set of standards. The ICodes of the
            InternationalCode Council (ICC) would put Hai'ti inline with most Caribbean
            countries and the common standards would further help to integrate Haitias a
            full member of Caribbean Community andCommon Market (CARICOM) and
            the Caribbean Single Market andEconomy (CSME);
        (b) standardsfor one- and two-storey, single-family dwellings of less than 250
            m2.This document would be prescriptive, consistent with the above building
            standards but necessarily more limited and oriented to the use o f non-
            engineers, buildingtechnicians, builders and professionals;
        (c) self-help residential standards that are limitedto single-storey, single-family
            dwellings e75 m2.This document would be graphic, prescriptive, and
            consistent with the above buildingand residential standards but necessarily
            more limitedthan the residential standards. Persons without formal training
            would be able to use them, especially persons buildingtheir own homes with
            the assistance of friends and neighbors;
        (d) a strategy for the dissemination and use of the standards and enforcement. It
            i s foreseen that activity (c) and (d) will require additional financing.

The environmental assessment study for natural disaster vulnerability aims to link
support for disaster management and recovery to the broader aspect of water resources
management, considering that flood i s the greatest natural hazard of Haiti. The study will
focus inparticular on the following aspects: (a) an assessment of the intensity, impact,
frequency and causes of floods inHaiti; (b) an evaluation of existing flood management
infrastructure and institutions; (c) the preparation of an action plan for infrastructure
investments and watershed management such as reforestation and soil erosion control;
and (d) a definition of policies and institutions to promote the sustainability of proposed
investments, including financial sustainability. The land use planning committee and the
Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development will be the




                                                 24

implementing agencies and an internationalconsultant will be hired to provide technical
assistance, and draft the final report and an action plan.

Rehabilitation of the Emergency Operation Center of the DPC (US$408,000 equivalent):
The project will finance the retrofitting of the DPC headquarter into an EOC, and a
training and documentation center. To coordinate the operations at the local level, the
project will also support the rehabilitationof regional emergency centers and satellite
warehouses for emergency staff and equipment. The project will finance the design,
construction, and supervision of works, as well as the conception of a national
communication system to coordinate disaster management operations between the
national and departmental levels.

Procurement of Equipment (US$670,800 equivalent): The project will finance the
purchase of emergency equipment for the national and regional emergency operations
centers, including: power generators; communications equipment (a fixed station,
portable radios, repeaters, installation and training) and; 11vehicles (one for each
departmental EOCs and one for the national). The purchase of vehicles will be
conditional to the appointment of DPC staff inthe various departments.

Strengthening Manayement Systems within DPC (US$159,000 equivalent): To support
the transformation of the DPC into a General Directorate with greater administrative
autonomy, the project will strengthen both its administrative and financial management
capacities and provide resources to develop a computerized inventory system. The
project will also assist DPC inthe establishment of a financial management system that
will enable it to manage both its internalresources and project related resources. This will
involve the: hiringof a consultant to develop a financial management manual (including
internal control mechanisms); purchasing of a financial management software; and
training of DPC staff involved in accounting and procurement. Indeveloping a DPC
accounting system, it i s necessary to consider the public sector accounting rules to ensure
its mainstreamingand sustainability.

The project will provide technical assistance through the financing o f (i)  a national
consultant to establish emergency funds within the national or ministerial budgets; and
(ii)nationalconsultanttodevelopemergencyfundmanagementprotocolsandregional
    a
mutual aid agreement propositions. The DPC and the SPGRD will also have the funds to
strengthen their planning capacities by developing: (i)  a mid-term institutional
development plan, and (ii) inventory o f the risk and disaster management scope and
                              an
activities of all the ministries and agencies.

To reinforce and standardize the administrative management system, the DPC and
SPGRD will offer budgeting, procurement, project management, document management,
and conflict management training to their staff.

Support for Pro-iectImplementation (US$1,000,200 equivalent): The project will finance
a Project Manager, Procurement Specialist, a Financial Specialist for a total of four years
and a driver for the first year. The TOR o f this additional staff will include building



                                               25

capacity of DPC staff in the areas of project management, procurement, and financial
management to ensure that the capacity remains inDPC. The project will also finance
the annual financial audits required.

Component 3: LocalRisk Management (US$5,500,000 equivalent)

Most activities under this component will be implemented under Community-Driven
Development CDD approach, already usedon a pilot basis intwo Bank-supported pilot
activities in Haiti (CDD Pilot Project inHaiti- TF051116; and LICUS for Labor
Intensive Basic Infrastructure Rehabilitation Pilot Project -TF053366). The project will
finance the creation, strengthening, and integration of local civil protectioncommittees in
highriskregions of Haiti. Some 50 committees exist inone form or another inthe 133
communes in Haiti. The project will assist the creation of new committees andor the
strengthening of existing ones to support the designand implementation of vulnerability
reduction activities at the local level. These committees will work incoordination with
community councils (with the assistanceof DPC representatives inthe departments) to
first prepare local risk and vulnerability maps and identify possible risk reduction
activities (early warning systems, retention walls, terracing, drainage works, pilot
reforestationprojects, shelter retrofitting, etc.). These activities will then be presented to
a regional committee for financing. Some 70 local committees are expected to be created
or reactivated, 50 percent of which would be inurban or peri-urban areas.

This program will be contracted to a number of well regarded NGOs, according to
common criteria agreed upon between IDA and the DPC including experience in
community driven activities; previous expertise inrisk mitigation activities; technical and
financial capacities; and an established presence inthe region o f activity. A national-
level Government agency (PL 480 Management Office) will coordinate the contracting
and administrative monitoring of these activities with the DPC involved in strategy
formulation and supervision.

Within a chosen territory, the selected NGOs will form the above mentioned disaster
committees, assist them in identifying and mapping risks, as well as expand and
implement risk prevention or reduction projects. Project proposals above a specified
threshold will be presented to, and approved by, a commission made of representatives
from the various disaster committees of a specific region. When projects are selected,
depending on the size and type of the project and local capacities, the local committee
will either receive fundingdirectly or contracts will be issued directly by the PL480for
implementation of the works. The NGOs will also form local groups to perform social
audits to ensure that the community grants are usedfor their intended purposes,
facilitating activity transparency and accountability at all levels.




                                               26

                                       REPUBLICOF H A I T I
                       Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project

                               Appendix 2: Preliminary Activity Detail


        Component 1:Reconstructionand Risk Reduction inthe Areas Affected by Floods

 Fonds Verrettes (water system, public infrastructure, early warning system, etc.)       750,000
 Belle-Anse (water system, public infrastructure, early warning system, etc.)            750,000
 Gonaives (water system, public infrastructure, early warning system, etc.)              750,000
 Other                                                                                   250,000
 Total (US$)                                                                            2,500,000

        Component 2: Institutional Strengthening for the Directorate of Civil Protection




 Procurement of equipment                                                                 670,800
 National Emergency Operation Center equipment (computers, offices, generator, etc.)       39,600
 Department EOC equipment                                                                 115,200
 Communication system (bases, portable radios, transmitters, and equipment                296,000
 installation)
 fl______
 Transport vehicles                                                                       220,000
                                                                                          159,000
 Strengthening of the inventory system of the DPC (software and training) and               12,000
 assessment of the existing resources
 Strengthening of the accountability system (software and training) and emergency          52,000
 funds management
 Strengthening of planning capacities                                                      25,000
 Training of the DPC and related agencies staff on administrative management               70,000
 Supportfor project implementation                                                       1,000,200
 Project coordinator (Risk and Disaster Management Specialist)                            480,000
 Financial management specialist                                                           168,000
~




 Procurement specialist                                                                   240,000




                                                    27

IFinancial audits                                                                             50.000 1
 Operating Costs                                                                              58,600
 Total (US$)                                                                                3,500,000



 Creation, training and integration of the local committees and execution of risk           5,500,000
 reduction projects
 Total (US$)                                                                                5,500,000



       Unallocated                                                                 US$500,000

       Total Project Costs                                                       us$12,000,000




                                                    28

                                   REPUBLICOF HAITI
                 Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project

                            Appendix 3: Safeguard Policy Issues

                         Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
Section I  -Basic   Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: December 7, 2004                             Rep__
                                                                             ortNo.: AC1035
A. Basic Project Data
A.1. Project Statistics
Country: Haiti                                   Project ID:PO90159
Project: Emergency Recovery And Disaster TTL: Francis Ghesquiere
Management
Total project cost (by component):
Component 1- (US$2.5 million)
Component 2 - (US$3.5 million)
Component 3 - (US$5.5 million)
Appraisal Date:11/08/2004                       IGrant amount($m): 12
                                                 IDA Grant: SDR 8
Board Date:01/06/2005
Other financing amounts by source:                  ($m.>
Managing Unit:LCSFU                              Sector: General finance sector (100%)
Lending Instruments: Emergency Recovery
Loan
I s this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency            Yes? [XI         No? [I
recovery?
Environmental Category: B                       I Safeguard  Classification: S2
A.2. Project Objectives
The first objective is to assist inthe rehabilitation of the areas affectedby the recent
adverse natural events. Satisfactory planning and completion of a rehabilitation scheme
for affected settlements are key outcome indicators.

The second objective of the project i s to strengthen the country's capacity to manage
natural disaster risks and better respond to emergencies resulting from adverse natural
events. The key outcomes for the capacity established within the DPC includes: (i)     a
validated legal framework;(ii) stronger management systems; (iii)      improved technical
capacity; and (iv) an operational, validated National Response Plan

The third objective i s to reduce the vulnerability o f communities through risk
identification andmapping, and risk mitigation activities at the local level. The outcome
are functioning disaster committees in at least 70 communes and the successful
implementation of risk prevention and reduction measures invulnerable communities.




                                               29

A.3. Project Description

Component 1- Reconstruction and Risk Reduction in the Areas Recentlv Affected by
Floods (US$2.5 million)

The GOH i s preparinga recovery planto support the reconstruction of the areas affected
by recent floods with the assistance of the UNDP. The proposed allocation will be used
in accordance with the plan and the activities implementedwith the LICUS funds, and
will assist small rehabilitation activities implemented by the affected communities
through the financing of buildingmaterials, etc.

Component 2 - InstitutionalStrengthening for the Directorate of Civil Protection (DPC)
and the Permanent Secretariat for Risk and Disaster Management (SPGRD) (US$3.5
million)

Institutional and Technical Support. The project will support the DPC and the SPGRD in
the implementationof the National Plan for Risk and Disaster Management (PNGRD),
including (i) provision of institutional and technical support for the creation of a
              the
training and documentation center; o f risk management units within key ministries; and
of three thematic committees under the SPGRD including public awareness, building
norms, and land use planning; (ii) revision and validation of the National Response
                                     the
Plan and the development of related emergency procedures and protocols; (iii)   the
creation, training and equippingof disaster assessment and disaster intervention teams,
within DPC and key ministries; and (iv) the realization of simulation exercises at local
and regional scale.

Technical Studies. The establishment of the SPGRDthematic committees will lead to the
implementation of three main technical studies. First, the public awareness thematic
committee will supervise the design and implementation of a public awareness program
for the general public and decision makers to explain disaster management efforts to a
larger audience. Second, the buildingnorms thematic committee will coordinate
technical studies and workshops to support the establishment of buildingnorms that take
natural hazards into account. The initiative will be implemented inclose collaboration
with the Ministry o f Public Works and will aim at establishing norms from the
construction of public buildingsand donor funded projects. Finally, the project will
finance an environmental assessment study for natural disaster vulnerability, envisioned
to connect the efforts of natural resource management to those o f planning and risk
reduction. This study will be implemented incoordination with the land use planning
committee and inclose collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources
and Rural Development.

Rehabilitation of the Emergency Operation Center (EOC) of the DPC. To enable the
efficient functioning of the DPC and SPGRD in times of crisis, the project will assist the
retrofitting of the national Emergency Operations Center and the purchase of the
necessary equipment to make it operational. The project will also support the retrofitting



                                               30

of regional EOCs ineach department as well as the installation of a national
communication system to coordinate operations between the national and departmental
levels.

Strengthening Management Systems within DPC. To better fulfill its functions, the DPC
i s to become a General Directorate within this calendar year. The project will strengthen
the DPC with a new accounting system to monitor the funds it disburses and an updated
inventory system to track its resources. The project will also reinforce management,
administrative and technical capacity within the DPC and the SPGRD by trainingits staff
at the national and departmental levels. Finally, the DPC's planning capacity will be
strengthened b y supporting institutional development plans. Inconjunction to the UNDP
effort to define the legal structure of the DPC, the project will also support the
establishment of emergency funding procedures.

Component 3 - Local Risk Management (US$5.5 million)

Almost 50 percent of the project funds will be used for development and mitigation
activities at the local level inareas of highvulnerability to natural disasters. This
component will help DPC create or reactivate local emergency committees and train them
inrisk and disaster management. These committees, incoordination with community
councils, will prepare local risk and vulnerability maps and identify risk reduction
activities (early warning systems, retention walls, terracing, drainage works, pilot-
reforestation projects, shelter retrofitting, etc.) that the project will finance. Some 70
local committees are expected to be created or reactivated, 50 percent of which will be in
urbanor peri-urban areas. Most activities under this component will be implemented
usingCommunity DrivenDevelopment (CDD), which i s already being used on a pilot
basis intwo Bank-supportedactivities inHaiti (CDD Pilot Project in Haiti - TF051116;
and LICUS for Labor Intensive Basic Infrastructure Rehabilitation Pilot Project -
TF053366). A national-level Government agency (PL 480 Management Office) will
coordinate the efforts on behalf of the DPC with the DPC directly involved in strategy
formulation and supervision. Several NGOs selected according to shared criteria between
IDA and the DPCwill be responsible for implementation at the local level.

A.4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis:

The project will have impacts at national level through institutional and policy
improvements. Inthe regions of Belle-Anse and Fonds Verrettes and the recently
affected ones where Component Iwill be implementedreconstruction works will be
undertakenreconstructionand mitigation works will be undertaken. Component IV will
finance disaster mitigation works in at least 70 communes throughout the country.

Haiti lies in a hurricane belt and i s subject to severe storms from June to October. The
effects of tropical storms and hurricanes include wind damage, flooding, landslides and
coastal surges. Geological faults also make Haiti vulnerable to earthquakes.




                                                31

B. Check Environmental Category A [ 1, B [XI, C [ 1, FI[ 3

Comments:
There are no major environmental or social issues identified. The classification of the
project i s Category B due to potential adverse environmental impacts on human
populations or environmentally important areas. At the same time, the environmental
impacts o f reconstruction and mitigation works to community infrastructure are likely to
be beneficial and to reduce environmental risk.

The project is being processedunderOP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance).
Consistent with article 13 of OP4.01 the project be exempt from producing a EA report
before appraisal. A regional environmental assessment (REA) i s planned and will cover




 By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'
claim on the disputed areas



                                                        32

Section I1 K e y Safeguard Issues and Their Management
           -
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues.
D.1.Describe any safeguard issuesandimpacts associatedwith the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

B y its nature, the project will have a positive social impact since i s expected to strengthen
the national structure for emergency response and disaster management. This goal will
be accomplishedby identifying hazard vulnerabilities and risks throughout the country,
developing community level awareness and executing small disaster mitigation works to
avoid natural disasters.

The environmental issues will be specific to local areas since this emergency project's
component 3 will focus on Local Risk Management helping DPC to create local
emergency committees and train them inrisk management together with some small
disaster mitigation works. Construction of new infrastructure will be limitedto projects
that are necessary for rapid economic and social recovery. Any major new infrastructure
needs would be left for consideration beyond this project. The small disaster mitigation
works implemented under this project will have their environmental impact assessed
according to usualprocedures (screening and assessments) for community-based
development projects as well as screening for cultural property.


D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipatedfuture
activities inthe project area.

With the possible exception of rehabilitationworks inthe regions of Belle-Anse, Fonds
Verrettes and other regions affected by adverse natural events, indirect or long-term
impacts will be minimal.

D.3.Describethe treatment of alternatives (ifrelevant)


D.4. Describe measures taken by the recipient to address safeguard issues. Provide an
assessment of recipient capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
                                                                                                 I
Local capacities for environmental assessment are very limited. The project will
therefore strengthen local authorities and to them develop and implement some
environmental guidelines.

D.5.Identify the key stakeholders anddescribe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.




                                               33

 Date of "in-country" disclosure                  Not Applicable




 Date of submission to InfoShop                   Not Applicable
 Pest Management Plan:
 Date of receipt by the Bank                      Not Applicable
 Date of "in-country" disclosure                  Not Applicable
 Date of submission to InfoShop                   Not Applicable
 Dam Safety Management Plan:
 Date of receipt by the Bank                      Not Applicable
 Date of "in-country" disclosure                  Not Applicable
 Date of submission to InfoShop                   Not Applicable
 Ifin-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain

11Section - Compliance
           I11                Mon-n-Corporate                         Level  -
  (To be filled inw
  OP/BP4.01 EnvironmentAssessment:
                -                                                        Yes       No
 Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                  N o
  Ifyes, then didthe RegionalEnvironment Unit review and approve
  the EA report?
  Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMPincorporated in
  the grant?
  OP/BP4.04 Natural Habitats:
                -                                                        Yes        No
  Would the project result in any significant conversion or
  degradation of critical natural habitats?                                         N o
  Ifthe project would result insignificant conversion or degradation
  of other (non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include     N/A       N/A
  disaster mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank?
  OP4.09 Pest Management:
            -                                                            Yes        No
  Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?             N/A       N/A
  I s a separate PMP required?                                           N/A       N/A
  If yes, are PMPrequirements included inproject design?                 N/A       N/A




                                                34

  Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) CulturalProperty:
                                -                                          y e s &
  Does the EA include adequate measures?                                    Y
  Does the grant incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential
  adverse impacts on physical cultural resources?                           V
                                                                            I


  OD 4.20 IndigenousPeoples:
           -                                                               & N o
  Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in
  consultation with the Indigenous People?                                 NIA  NIA
  If thendidtheRegionalSocialDevelopmentUnitreviewand
    yes,
  approve the plan?                                                        NIA  NIA
  Ifthe whole project is designedto benefit IP,has the design been
  reviewed and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit?           NIA  NIA
  OP/BP 4.12 InvoluntaryResettlement:
I1             -                                                           & &
  Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process
  been prepared?                                                           NIA  NIA
  If thendidtheRegionalSocialDevelopmentUnitreviewand
    yes,
  approve the plan I policy framework I policy process?
  OP/BP 4.36 Forests:
               -                                                           Y e s &
  Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and
  constraints been carried out?                                            NIA  NIA
  Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome
  these constraints?                                                       NIA   NIA
  Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it
  include provisions for certification system?                             NIA   NIA
  OP/BP 4.37 Safety of Dams:
               -                                                           & N o
  Have dam safety plans been prepared?                                     NIA   NIA
  Have the TORSas well as composition for the independent Panel of
  Experts (POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank?                    NIA   NIA
  Has an Emergency PreparednessPlan (EPP) been prepared and
  arrangements been made for public awareness and training?                NIA   NIA
  OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways:
           -                                                               & s - No
  Have the other riparians been notified of the project?                   NIA   NIA
  Ifthe project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification
  requirement, then has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and   NIA   NIA
  the memo to the RVPprepared and sent?
  What are the reasons for the exception?                                  NIA   NIA
      Please explain:
  Has the RVP approved such an exception?                                  NIA   NIA
  OP 7.60 Projects in DisputedAreas:
           -                                                               Y e s &
  Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international
  aspects of the project, including the procedures to be followed, and the
  recommendations for dealing with the issue, been prepared, cleared       NIA   NIA

I with the Legal Department and sent to the RVP?
  Does the PADMOP include the standard disclaimer referred to inthe
  OP?                                                                      NIA   NIA




                                               35

 BP 17.50 Public Disclosure:
           -                                                            "o
 Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World
 Bank's Infoshop?                                                       N/A    N/A
 Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in
 a form and language that are understandable and accessible to project- N/A    N/A
 affected groups and local NGOs?
 All Safeguard Policies:                                                "o
 Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional
 responsibilities been prepared for the implementation of the safeguard Yes
 measures?
 Have safeguard measures costs been included inproject cost?            Yes
 Will the safeguard measurescosts be funded as part of project
 implementation?                                                         Yes
 Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the
 monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures?                          Yes
 Have satisfactory implementationarrangements been agreed with the
 recipient and the same been adequately reflected inthe project legal    Yes
 documents?                                                                    -
 Signed and submitted by:                        Name
 Task Team Leader:               Francis Ghesquiere
 Project Safeguards Specialist
 1:
 Project Safeguards Specialist
 2:
 Project Safeguards Specialist
 3:
AApproved by:                                     Name                      Date
 Regional Safeguards
 Coordinator:                    Jean Roger Mercier

 Comments:
 Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen




                                              36

                                 REPUBLICOF HAITI
               Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project

                      Appendix 4: Documents in the Project File

1. Cadre de Coope'rationInte'rimaire (CCI);Group ThCmatiqueEnvironnement,
   version finale 24 Mai 2004.
2. Cadre de Coope'rationInte'rimaire (CCI)Group ThCmatiqueAgriculture et SCcuritC
   Alimentaire, version finale 5 Juin 2004.
3. Plan National d'lntervention de la Rkpublique d'Hai'ti, Document de Travail ;
   Direction de la Protection Civile, Dtcembre2001.
4. Cartes et e'tude de risques,de la vulne'rabilite'de re'ponse en Haiti ;Oxfam, Mars
    2002.
5. Flood in the South East of Haiti, Assessment Report; Oxfam, June 2-15 2004.
6. Haiti, CountryAssistance Evaluation; The World Bank Report No. 23637, February
    12,2002.
7. Haiti, Floods May 2004, LessonsLearned; UNCT Meeting, Santo Domingo, July
    2004.
8. Inventaire d'Abris Provisoires duns le Dkpartement du Sud Est. Rapport Final ;
   PADF, Juillet 2002.
9. La Communaute'Face aux Dksastres :Inondations et Cyclones ,- DPC/MI/OPS/OMS,
    1999.
10.Plan d'Action Pour la Protection Civile, Villede Jacmel ;USAID, novembre 2001.
11. Plan d'Actionpour 1'Environnement;Commission InterministCrielle sur
    l'Environnement, Ministkre de 1'IntCrieuret des CollectivitCs Territoriales, juin 1999.
12.Plan National de Gestion de Risques et des De'sastres ;Direction de la Protection
    Civile, Ministkre de 1'IntCrieur et des CollectivitCs Territoriales, FCvrier 2001.
13. Programfor the Reconstruction of the Impact of Disastrous Events, Final Report;
    PADF, December 2002.
14. Projet Pilote de De'veloppementParticipatif (PRODEP)- Rapport Inte'rimaire ,-
    PADF, juillet 2004.
15,Programme de Cre'ationRapide d'opportunite's Economiques et Sociales au Bknkfice
    des Plus Pauvrespar une Approche Axe'e sur le Dkveloppement Participatif ;PADF,
    septembre 2004
16.Status of Hazard Maps, Vulnerability Assessments, and Digital Maps - Haiti Country
    Report; CEDERA, Octobre 2003.
17. Programme Inte'gre'de Rkponse aux Besoins Urgents des Communaute'set des
    Populations Vulne'rables(PIR), Haiti ;Systkme des Nations Unies, Mars 2003.
18.Re'publiqued 'Haiti :Rapport National sur la Pre'vention des Catastrophes ;
    DPCPNUD, Aout 2004.
19.Reducing Disaster Risk A Challengefor Development; UNDP, 2004.




                                             37

                             REPUBLIC OF HAITI
              EmergencyRecoveryand DisasterManagementProject

                   Appendix 5: Statementof Loansand Credits

                CountryLendingSummaryas of September30, 2004

CountryDepartment:Office of the Director
Region: LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

Number of LoandCreditdGrants
                                                         IDA Grant Total
                                                                  1
                                                         d0
                                                               -_I
                                                            0       38

Loans/Credits/GrantsSummary inUSD




 Sold3rdPartv:




                                        38

                                                     REPUBLICOF HAITI
                         EmergencyRecoveryandDisasterManagementProject

                                           Appendix6: Countryat a Glance


                                                                       Latin        LOW
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Harti America       Income      1  Developmentdiamond'
2003                                                                                         1i
Population, midyear (millions)                                8 2       534        2,310
GNIper capita (Aflas method, US$)                             390     3,260         450                        Lifeexpectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                              3 3      1,741       1038

Averaqe annual qrowth, 1997-03
Population(%)                                                 1 9         1 9        2 1                              T
Laborforce (%)                                                1 9         2 1        2 3

Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1997.03)                                                                             ,E;
Poverly (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertvline)               65                                                               enrollment
Urbanppulation (% of totalpopulation)                          37          77         30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                 49          71         59
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000live births)                        79          28         82
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                        23                     42     1        Accessto improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulafion)              46          86         76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation aqe I54                              48          11         36
Net primaryenrollment I%of school-aqepopulation)               56         129         92                    -- Low-incomegroup
    Male                                                       56         131         99      1
    Female                                                     56         126         85

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                     1983    1993      2002         2003         Economic ratios.

GDP (US$ billions)                                    1.6      1 7        3 5        2 9
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                        16.3     6 9       25 0        31 1                            Trade
Exportsof goods and ServicedGDP                      17.5     9 0       122          164
Gross domestic savingdGDP                             5.9     -6 9         1 6       0 2                              T

GrossnationalsavingdGDP                                       -3 5      22 0        28 8

Current account balance/GDP                                   -9 7       -49         -4 8       Domestic                          Investment
Interest paymentdGDP                                  0 4     0 0         0 2         0 3       savings
Total debVGDP                                        37 5     46 9      36 1        45 0
Totaldebt servicdexports                                       4 3         1 8        3 1                             L
Presentvalueof debtlGDP
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                                                                      Indebtedness

                                        1983-93 1993-03      2002      2003      2003-07
(averaqeannualqrowth)                                                                             -
GDP                                        -07        0 7     -0 5         0 4        1 7                Haiti          Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                 ~



GDP percapita                              -2 6       -14     -2 4        -1 8       -04
Exportsof goods and Services                0 8       4 7     -2 2       35 6         4 3


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                     1983    1993       2002        2003        Growthof investmentand GDP(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                  I
Agriculture                                                              28.0        27.9
Industry                                                                  16.9       17.0
    Manufacturing                                                          8.4        8.4
Services                                                                 55.2        55.1

Privateconsumption                                   83.4    100.1       89.2        91.3
General governmentconsumption                        10.7      6.8         9.3        8.4
Importsof goodsandservices                           27.9     22.8       35.6        47.2


                                                  1983-93 1993-03       2002        2003       j Growth of exports and imports (?4)         I
(averageannual.qrowth)
Agnculture                                             1.7    -1.2        -3.7        0.3
Industry                                              -5.2    -3.6         1.3        1.o
    Manufacturing                                     -1.5    -7.0         1.6        0.5
Services                                               1.6     3.0        -0.5        0.4

Privateconsumption                                     2.2
General qovernmentconsumption                         -6.8
Grossdomestic investment                              -6.1    10.1        -3.9       24.9
Imports of goods and services                          3.9     6.3        -2.1       33.4


Note:2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamondsshow four key indicatorsinthe country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. Ifdata are missing,the diamondwill
     be incomplete.



                                                                    39

                                            REPUBLICOF HAITI
                         EmergencyRecoveryand DisasterManagementProject

                                     Appendix 6: Countryat a Glance (Cont.)



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1983  1993   2002   2003     Inflation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                           I9T
Consumerprices                                   20.2     8.7  32.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                        8.9  32.5    10.0  25.4

Government finance
(%Aof GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                   7.4     8.3    9.1              9,     9,      w        01     02      ;
Current budget balance                            -1.5   -1.1   -0.3  lj o '
Overallsumlusldeficit                             -2.4   -3.1   -3.7              "GDP       deflator    -01cpI


TRADE                                                                                                                    I
                                           1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                        Exporiand import levels(US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         166   131    304    361     1.2wT
  Coffee                                            9
  Sisal and sisal strings                           2                   1wO

  Manufactures                                    108    273    330      Bw

Total imports(cif)                                346    983   1,116     603

  Food                                            144                    4M)
  Fueland energy                                   71
                                                                                                                         I
  Capitalgoods                                     22

Export price index (1995=100)                                                   97    98    99      03    01    02

Importprice index (1995=100)                                                            fdExports           Imports
T e n s of trade (1995=100)                                                                                            O3



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$millions)                                                         Furrent account balanceto GDP (%)                   I
Exportsof goodsand services                       180    437    461
importsof goods and sewices                       409   1,239  1,400
Resourcebalance                                  -229    -802  -939
Net income                                        -11     -15    -12
Net currenttransfers                               70     849   811

Current accountbalance                           -169    -168  -140

Financingitems (net)                              200     127    130
Changes in net resewes                            -31     41      10

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ mil/ions)       20     36    228    207
Conversionrate (DEC,loca//US$)              5.0   12.2   27.1  40.5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed         610   817   1,251  1,313
  IBRD                                        0      0      0      0
  IDA                                       122   337     496    491                        245     351

Total debt service                          25       8     19     39
  IBRD                                        0      0      0      0
  IDA                                         1      0      0      0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                            49     72     135     96
  Officialcreditors                         38     -3      -3     -2
  Privatecreditors                           -6     0      41     30
  Foreign directinvestment                    8    -3       5      8
  Portfoiioequity                             0      0      0      0                           1608
World Bankproqram
  Commitments                               49       0      0      0     A    IBRD                           E Bilateral
                                                                                                               -
  Disbursements                             26       0      0      0     B IDA
                                                                            --       D -Other multilateral   F .Private
  Principalrepayments                         0      0      0      0
  Net flows                                 26       0      0      0
  interestpayments                            1      0      0      0
  Net transfers                             26       0      0      0


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                1217104




                                                       40


