Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H353-0-HA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for an Emergency Recovery and  
Disaster Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 23, 2008 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated April 23, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) in the context of the 
Current Emergency.  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in 
Article I of, and Schedule 1.A.2 to, the Original Grant Agreement or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to four 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,700,000)  
(
“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its further commitment to the objective of the Project. To 
this end, the Recipient shall, for purposes of the Current Emergency, continue to: 
 
Page  3
2
(a) 
carry out Part B of the Project through DPC;  
 
(b) 
cause BMPAD (pursuant to the Implementation Agreement) to carry out 
Part A the Project; and 
 
(c) 
cause BMPAD (pursuant to the Implementation Agreement) to, either on 
its own behalf or with the assistance of the NGOs (pursuant to the 
Cooperation Agreements), carry our Part C of the Project;  
 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The agreement, satisfactory to the Association, entered into between the 
Recipient and BMPAD (the Implementation Agreement), shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of BMPAD to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project. 
 
(b) 
BMPAD Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
 
BMPAD to perform any of its obligations under the Implementation 
 Agreement. 
 
(c)  
Any party thereto shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
 
under a Cooperation Agreement or a Sub-grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE V— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that, 
the Subsidiary Agreement entered into between the Recipient and BMPAD for 
purposes of the Project, the Current Operational Manual, including therein the 
environmental management framework prepared for the Project and the Current 
Procurement Plan shall each have been amended and updated, satisfactory to the 
Association, to reflect the implementation arrangements in respect of the Current 
Emergency considered under this Financing .  
Page  4
3
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association
’s approval of the 
Financing which expire on July 31, 2009.  
 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince 
Republic of Haiti 
Facsimile: (509) 299 17 32 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By /s/ Raymond A. Joseph 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jordan Schwartz 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The Project consists entirely of the Original Project, which maintains as its 
objective to support the Recipient in: (a) rehabilitating areas affected by the recent 
adverse natural disasters; (b) strengthening its capacity to manage natural disaster risks 
and better respond to emergencies resulting from adverse natural events; and (c) reducing 
the vulnerability of communities through risk identification and risk mitigation activities. 
 
The Project consists of all the parts previously set forth in the Original Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
The Recipient shall maintain all the institutional arrangements set forth in the 
Original Project.  
 
B. Implementation 
Documents
 
1. The 
Recipient, 
through 
its Ministry’s of Interior’s 
Direction de la Protection 
Civile
 (DPC), has adopted, and shall carry out the Project in accordance with, a 
manual dated June 01, 2005, as amended to date to reflect specifically all scaling 
up of activities immediately relevant to the Current
 
Emergency, satisfactory to 
the Association, which consists of different schedules, setting forth the rules, 
methods, guidelines, specific development plans, standard documents and 
procedures to be maintained for the carrying out of the Project, including the 
environmental management framework prepared for the Project and the Current 
Procurement Plan.  
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Current Operational Manual shall conflict 
with any one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Current Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time
 
in
 
consultation with, and after approval of, the Association. 
 
C
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the agreements (Implementation Agreement and 
Cooperation Agreements) entered into between the Recipient for the one part, 
and BMPAD and selected NGOs respectively, shall be maintained, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the implementation of the Project under this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement and 
the Cooperation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Implementation Agreement and the Cooperation 
Agreements or any of their provisions
.
Page  8
7
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out, and shall cause the 
implementation of the Subprojects to be carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. Subprojects
 
1. 
The Recipient shall continue to cause BMPAD to enter into agreements, (the 
Sub-grant Agreements) satisfactory to the Association, for the preparation and 
implementation by Beneficiaries of the Subprojects, in accordance with 
eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Current Operational Manual 
which include the following; 
 
(a) 
the transfer of financial resources under the Sub-grant Agreement on a 
non reimbursable basis; 
 
(b) 
the carrying out of selected risk reduction activities in the context of the 
Current Emergency and the development of mitigation activities, 
including 
inter alia
,
rehabilitation of infrastructure, early warning 
systems, retention walls, terracing, drainage works, pilot reforestation 
projects and shelter retrofitting; 
 
(c) 
the securing of rights adequate to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and those of the Association, including the right to suspend or terminate 
the right of a Beneficiary to use the proceeds of a Sub-grant or obtain a 
refund of all or any part of it upon the B
eneficiary’s failure to perform 
any of its obligations under the Sub-grant Agreement; 
 
(d) 
the requirement that each Beneficiary: 
 
(i) 
carry out the relevant Subproject  with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, 
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and 
practices satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable 
to recipients of financial  proceeds other than the Recipient;  
 
(ii)  
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the 
purpose;  
 
(iii)  
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
Sub-grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;  
 
Page  9
8
(iv) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the progress of the Subproject and the achievement 
of its objectives; 
 
(v) 
(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a 
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the relevant Subproject; and (B) at the 
Association’s or the Recipient’s request, have such financial 
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, and promptly furnish the 
statements as so audited to the Recipient  and the Association; 
 
(vi)  
enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the relevant 
Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and  
 
(vii)  
prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such 
information as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing. 
 
E. Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain the environmental management framework (EMF) 
prepared for the Project, which contains specific environmental rules and 
procedures for the Project, including in respect of the Current Emergency; said 
EMF
 
may be updated from time to time in prior consultation and agreement with 
the Association.  The Recipient shall comply with the terms of said framework 
and/or cause those terms to be complied with. 
 
2. 
With respect to any proposed civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of 
this Financing: (a) prior to the approval of the relevant works, the Recipient shall 
and shall cause BMPAD to carry out an environmental screening and assessment 
of such proposed civil works and to prepare recommendations for the prevention, 
mitigation and remediation of any potential environmental damage arising from 
the implementation of such proposed civil works; and (b) during the 
implementation of said civil works, the Recipient shall, or shall cause BMPAD 
to, have the recommendations of the environmental screening and assessment 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above carried out. 
 
Page  10
9
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall maintain the same arrangements for Project monitoring, 
reporting and evaluation, including the report on the execution of the Project, as 
are set forth in the Original Grant Agreement. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
The Recipient shall maintain all the arrangements for financial management, 
financial reports and audits of Project execution that are set forth in the Original 
Grant Agreement.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.
 
All goods, works and non-
consultant services
 
required for the Project under this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with Section I of the Procurement Guidelines (as defined in the Appendix 
hereto), and with the provisions of the Original Grant Agreement. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project under 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines (as 
defined in the Appendix hereto), and with the provisions of the Original Grant 
Agreement. 
 
B.
 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Current Procurement Plan reflecting the arrangements under this Financing 
to be updated not later than the Effective Date, satisfactory to the Association, 
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Association’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
Page  11
10
 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated  
(Expressed in SDR equivalent
)
%
of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Parts A and C 
of the Project (other than 
Subprojects) 
 
100%
(2)
Goods under Parts A and C 
of the Project (other than 
Subprojects) 
 
100%
(3
)
Consultants’ services and 
Training under Parts A and 
C
of
the Project 
 
100%
(4
)
Works under Part B of the 
Project 
 
100%
(5
)
Goods under Part B of the 
Project 
 
100%
(6
)
Consultants’ services and 
Training under Part B of the 
Project 
 
100%
(7)
Subprojects  
4,700,000 
100% 
(8)
Fees for audits referred to in 
section 4.10 (b) of the 
Original Grant Agreement 
 100% 
(9)
Operating costs 
 
100% 
(10) Unallocated 
TOTAL  
 4,700,000
Page  12
11
 
3.
 
For purposes of paragraph 2 above, the capitalized terms used in  said 
paragraph 
 
have the meaning ascribed to them in Schedule 1.A.2. of the Original Grant 
 Agreement. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
under Category (7) in the table in paragraph 2 of Part A of Section IV 
above until and unless Sub-grant Agreements for the carrying out of 
Subprojects and including adequate environmental mitigation measures 
in relation with their implementation, shall have been entered into 
between BMPAD and Beneficiaries, in accordance with the criteria, 
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in the Current Operational 
Manual. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  13
12
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. “BMPAD”and 
“
Bureau de Mon
étisation
”
means 
Bureau de Monétisation des 
Programmes d’ Aide au Développement
,
an entity of the Recipient established by 
law dated December 27, 2007, for the administration of foreign aid and the 
management of projects financed through it, and published in the
 Recipient’s 
official gazette “
Le Moniteur
”
on
January 04, 2008. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Current Emergency” means the extraordinary event of limited duration which 
started on October 28, 2007 and which was caused by the occurrence of a natural 
disaster ascribed to the passage,  in the territory of the Recipient, of a tropical 
storm referred to as “Noel” which brought about substantial physical, social and  
economic damage to the Recipient.  
 
6. 
“Current Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project 
dated June 01, 2005 as amended for purposes of the Current Emergency  and as 
referred to in section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Current Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated November 16, 2004 amended for purposes of the Current 
Emergency and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
 
9. 
“Original Grant Agreement” means the Development Grant Agreement for an 
emergency recovery and disaster management  project entered between the 
Recipient and the Association, dated January 06, 2005, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement (IDA Grant No. H143-0-HA). 
Page  14
13
 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Grant Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
 
