Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY
November 2, 2010 
 
H.E. Ronald Baudin 
Minister of Economy and Finance  
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Palais des Ministères 
Rue Oswald Durand 104 
Port-au-Prince 
Republic of Haiti 
 
Re:
 
HAITI: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project (IDA Grant No. 
H143-0-HA) and Additional Financing for an Emergency Recovery and Disaster 
Management Project (Grant No. H353-0-HA)
 
Amendment to the Development Grant and the Financing Agreements
Dear Minister: 
 
We refer to the Development Grant Agreement (the Grant Agreement) between the 
Republic of Haiti (the Recipient) and the International Development Association (the 
Association), IDA Grant No H143-0-HA, dated January 6, 2005, as amended, with regard to the 
above-captioned Project. 
 
We also refer to the Financing Agreement (the Financing Agreement) between the 
Recipient and the Association, Grant No. H353-0-HA, dated April 23, 2008 with regard to the 
above-captioned Project.   
 
Please note that capitalized terms used in this letter (Amendment Letter) and not defined 
herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Grant Agreement and the Financing Agreement. 
 
Pursuant to your communication dated March 17, 2010 to the Association requesting to: 
(a) reallocate the proceeds of the Grant among the disbursement Categories in the Grant 
Agreement for purposes of covering existing and projected category expense overruns related to 
the extension of Closing Date; (b) eliminate a subcomponent under Part B4 of the Project; and 
(c) extend the Closing Date of the Grant Agreement.  We are pleased to inform you that the 
Association hereby agrees to amend the Grant Agreement and the Financing Agreement as 
follows: 
 
Grant Agreement
1. 
Paragraph 2.03 of Article 2 to the Grant Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.” 
 
Page  2
-2- 
 
2. 
The table in Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as set forth in Attachment 1 to this Amendment Letter. 
 
3. 
Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is deleted and replaced to read in its entirety as set 
forth in Attachment 2 to this Amendment Letter. 
 
Financing Agreement
4. 
Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement is deleted and replaced to read in its entirety as 
set forth in Attachment 2 to this Amendment Letter. 
 
5. 
Paragraph B.2 in Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.” 
 
Please note that it is the Association’s policy to make publicly available this Amendment 
Letter and any information related thereto, after this Amendment Letter has become effective and 
the Recipient has given its consent to such disclorure. The Recipient, by countersigining this 
Amendment Letter, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this 
Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below.  Thenceforward, the provisions set forth in this 
Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature and all other 
provisions of the Grant Agreement and the Financing Agreement, except as amended through this 
Amendment Letter shall remain in full force and effect.  This Amendment Letter shall be 
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
 
Director 
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By: /s/ 
Ronald 
Baudin 
Authorized Representative 
 
Name:  _ Ronald Baudin 
Title: Minister 
Date: 
22 November 2010 
Page  3
-3- 
 
Attachment 1
Grant Agreement 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H143-0-HA 
 
Category
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated  
(Expressed in SDR equivalent
)
%
of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Works under Parts A and C 
of the Project (other than 
Subprojects) 
 0 
100% 
(2)
Goods under Parts A and C 
of the Project (other than 
Subprojects) 
 21,116 
100% 
(3
)
Consultants’ services and 
Training under Parts A and 
C
of the Project 
 310,000 
100% 
(4
)
Works under Part B of the 
Project 
 560,000 
100% 
(5
)
Goods under Part B of the 
Project 
 610,000 
100% 
(6
)
Consultants’ services and 
Training under Part B of the 
Project 
 1,300,000 
100% 
(7)
Subprojects  
4,775,884 
100% 
(8)
Fees for audits referred to in 
section 4.10 (b) of the 
Original Grant Agreement 
 78,000 
100% 
(9)
Operating costs 
 
345,000 
100% 
(10) Unallocated 
0
TOTAL  
 _________ 
 8,000,000 
 
Page  4
-4- 
 
Attachment 2
“SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient in: (a) rehabilitating areas affected 
by the recent adverse natural disasters; (b) strengthening its capacity to manage natural disaster 
risks and better respond to emergencies resulting from adverse natural events; and (c) reducing 
the vulnerability of communities through risk identification and risk mitigation activities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective. 
 
Part A
:
Reconstruction and Risk Reduction Works
1
Carrying out of reconstruction and risk reduction works in selected areas of the territory 
of the Recipient, particularly those affected by floods, including rehabilitation of drainage 
systems, public buildings (including schools and clinics), and community centers. 
 
2
Provision of technical assistance to select, organize and design rehabilitation works. 
 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of DPC and SPGRD through the provision of 
technical assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) to: 
 
(a) 
assist the Recipient in the implementation of a national plan for risk and disaster 
management, including: (i) the creation of a training and documentation center; (ii) the 
establishment of at least three thematic committees under SPGRD (public awareness, building 
norms, risk management and land use planning for territorial development); (iii) the revision and 
validation of the Recipient’s national response plan and the development of related emergency 
procedures and protocols; (iv) the creation of disaster assessment and disaster intervention teams 
within DPC and key ministries; and (v) the carrying out of simulation exercises at local and 
regional levels;  
 
(b) 
develop a financial management system and a computerized inventory system; 
 
(c) 
carry out financial audits for the Project.  
 
2. 
Design and implementation of a public awareness program for the general public and 
decision makers to convey the Recipient’s disaster management efforts to a larger audience. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of:  
 
(a) 
studies and workshops to support the establishment of building codes that take 
natural hazards into account; and  
 
(b) 
a comprehensive multi-hazard assessment that will include: (i) consolidated 
hazard maps; (ii) information products; and (iii) hazard scenarios to support decision making for 
contingency planning and development. 
 
Page  5
-5- 
 
4. 
Rehabilitation of the Recipient’s emergency operation centers at the national, 
departmental and community levels, including the provision of equipment. 
 
Part C
:
Local Risk Management
1. 
Preparation of local vulnerability maps and identification of risk reduction activities, 
including early warning systems, retention walls, terracing, drainage works, pilot reforestation 
projects and shelter retrofitting. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of development and mitigation activities at the local level in areas of high 
vulnerability to natural disasters.” 
 
