Page  1
                                                     June 15, 1990
His Excellency
Mr. Carlos Hurtado
Minister of Public Works
Ministry of Public Works
Morande 59
Santiago, Chile
Re:
Loan No. 3120-CH (Second Road Sector Project)
Amendment
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated September 28, 1989, in respect of the 
above referenced project.  We are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend 
the procurement procedures for emergency works so as to allow such works to be 
contracted through shopping procedures up to an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 
equivalent, provided that prior Bank approval is obtained for such procedures when the 
emergency works cost more than $200,000 equivalent.
The Bank, therefore, proposes the following amendments to the Loan Agreement:
A new paragraph 3 is hereby added to Part C of Schedule 4, to read as follows:
"3. Notwithstanding Part A and Part C. I above, civil works under Part a 
(3) of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank, provided, however, that the procedures described in this Part C. 3 shall be 
applied only 
if:
 
(i)
the Borrower furnishes the Bank with such evidence as the Bank 
shall reasonably 
require to the effect that the works in 
question are emergency works, including, 
without limitation, 
a resolution of the Minister of Public Works of the Borrower 
declaring such works to be emergency works; and
(ii)
in case the works in question are estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of 
$200,000, the Bank has given its prior 
approval allowing the Borrower to use such 
procedures for such 
works, except that if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that inability to communicate prevented the Borrower from 
seeking such prior, approval, such approval must be sought from the Bank 
an soon as 
communications are again possible.
 
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the enclosed copy of this letter and returning the same to us.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Pieter P. Botteller
Director
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
July 4, 1994
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Page  2
By /s/ Carlos Hurtado Ruiz-Tagle
Ministro de Obras Publicas
Authorized Representative
